The in vitro generation of uniform populations of neurons from mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs) provides a novel opportunity to study gene function in neurons. This is of particular interest when mutations lead to lethal in vivo phenotypes. Although the amyloid precursor protein (APP) and its proteolysis are regarded as key elements of the pathology of Alzheimer's disease, the physiological function of APP is not well understood and mice lacking App and the related gene Aplp2 die early postnatally without any obvious histopathological abnormalities. Here we show that glutamatergic neurons differentiated from ESCs lacking both genes reveal a decreased expression of the vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (VGLUT2) both at the mRNA and protein level, as well as a reduced uptake and/or release of glutamate. Blocking gamma-secretase cleavage of APP in wild-type neurons resulted in a similar decrease of VGLUT2 expression, whereas VGLUT2 levels could be restored in App-/-Aplp2-/- neurons by a construct encompassing the C-terminal intracellular domain of APP. Electrophysiological recordings of hippocampal organotypic slice cultures prepared from corresponding mutant mice corroborated these observations. Gene expression profiling and pathway analysis of the differentiated App-/-Aplp2-/- neurons identified dysregulation of additional genes involved in synaptic transmission pathways. Our results indicate a significant functional role of APP and amyloid precursor-like protein 2 (APLP2) in the development of synaptic function by the regulation of glutamatergic neurotransmission. Differentiation of ESCs into homogeneous populations thus represents a new opportunity to explore gene function and to dissect signaling pathways in neurons. Disclosure of potential conflicts of interest is found at the end of this article.




Mannosylglycerate (MG) is an intracellular organic solute found in some red algae, and several thermophilic bacteria and hyperthermophilic archaea. Glucosylglycerate (GG) was identified at the reducing end of a polysaccharide from mycobacteria and in a free form in a very few mesophilic bacteria and halophilic archaea. MG has a genuine role in the osmoadaptation and possibly in thermal protection of many hyper/thermophilic bacteria and archaea, but its role in red algae, where it was identified long before hyperthermophiles were even known to exist, remains to be clarified. The GG-containing polysaccharide was initially detected in Mycobacterium phlei and found to regulate fatty acid synthesis. More recently, GG has been found to be a major compatible solute under salt stress and nitrogen starvation in a few microorganisms. This review summarizes the occurrence and physiology of MG accumulation, as well as the distribution of GG, as a free solute or associated with larger macromolecules. We also focus on the recently identified pathways for the synthesis of both molecules, which were elucidated by studying hyper/thermophilic MG-accumulating organisms. The blooming era of genomics has now allowed the detection of these genes in fungi and mosses, opening a research avenue that spans the three domains of life, into the role of these two sugar derivatives.
The effect of methylmercury (MeHg) on reactive oxygen species (ROS) induction in neural cell lines was measured by the fluorescent probe, chloro methyl derivative of di-chloro di-hydro fluoresceindiacetate (CMH2DCFDA). Three different MeHg concentrations (5, 10 and 25 microM) and time periods (30, 50 and 90 min) were studied in C6-glial and B35-neuronal cell lines. In addition, the relationship between MeHg-induced ROS and cell density (day 3 vs. day 4) was also explored. The 14C-labelled MeHg measurements were done to determine the cell associated-MeHg content. At 30 and 50 min exposure, a significant increase (p&lt;0.05) in MeHg-induced ROS was observed at 10 and 25 microM MeHg for C6 cells and at 25 microM MeHg for B35 cells. However, the amount of ROS produced with 25 microM MeHg varied significantly (p&lt;0.001) at different time periods. For both the cell lines, significant cell density dependent differences (p&lt;0.05) were observed at 10 microM MeHg treatment for 50 min. MeHg treatments were associated with a concentration as well as cell-density dependent increase in cell associated-MeHg. These findings provide experimental evidence that special attention should be focused upon concentration, exposure time and cell density when assessing MeHg-induced ROS via fluorescence.
Signal peptides (SP) and transmembrane segments (TMS) ensure proper subcellular targeting and localization of proteins. Thus, understanding the molecular variability of this targeting information is essential. In this study, we functionally analyzed the predicted SP and the TMS of adherens junction protein, shrew-1 (Bharti et al. Novel membrane protein shrew-1 targets to cadherin-mediated junctions in polarized epithelial cells. Mol Biol Cell 2004:15:397). We used human secreted alkaline phosphatase (SEAP) as reporter protein. The SP of shrew-1 was able to functionally substitute for SEAP's intrinsic SP and was cleaved, indicating that it acts as a start-transfer signal and not a signal anchor. In turn, the TMS of shrew-1 functions as stop-transfer signal. Notably, clearly detectable plasma membrane localization is only achieved when the fusion protein contains both the SP and the TMS of shrew-1. In combination with the intrinsic SP from SEAP, the shrew-1 TMS is unable to promote stable plasma membrane localization. Hence, it may be assumed that this synergism between an SP and a TMS to mediate plasma membrane localization is essential for structural and/or functional integrity of shrew-1.
The PSD-95/Discs-large/ZO-1 homology (PDZ) domain protein, protein interacting with C kinase 1 (PICK1) contains a C-terminal Bin/amphiphysin/Rvs (BAR) domain mediating recognition of curved membranes; however, the molecular mechanisms controlling the activity of this domain are poorly understood. In agreement with negative regulation of the BAR domain by the N-terminal PDZ domain, PICK1 distributed evenly in the cytoplasm, whereas truncation of the PDZ domain caused BAR domain-dependent redistribution to clusters colocalizing with markers of recycling endosomal compartments. A similar clustering was observed both upon truncation of a short putative alpha-helical segment in the linker between the PDZ and the BAR domains and upon coexpression of PICK1 with a transmembrane PDZ ligand, including the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor GluR2 subunit, the GluR2 C-terminus transferred to the single transmembrane protein Tac or the dopamine transporter C-terminus transferred to Tac. In contrast, transfer of the GluR2 C-terminus to cyan fluorescent protein, a cytosolic protein, did not elicit BAR domain-dependent clustering. Instead, localizing PICK1 to the membrane by introducing an N-terminal myristoylation site produced BAR domain-dependent, but ligand-independent, PICK1 clustering. The data support that in the absence of PDZ ligand, the PICK1 BAR domain is inhibited through a PDZ domain-dependent and linker-dependent mechanism. Moreover, they suggest that unmasking of the BAR domain's membrane-binding capacity is not a consequence of ligand binding to the PDZ domain per se but results from, and coincides with, recruitment of PICK1 to a membrane compartment.
We have developed a new construct to generate transgenic mice with one plasmid that offers: (1) Cre/loxP-mediated spatial and temporally-controlled tissue-specific transgene expression; (2) A color-switching mechanism that uses spectrum-complementary genetically-encoded red (mRFP) and green (eGFP) fluorescent markers to label the transgene-expressing cells; (3) A bioluminescent marker that turns-on in the transgene-expressing cells; (4) eGFP as a cell surface marker in the transgene-expressing cells that facilitates the isolation and targeting of these cells. This vector was tested in vitro by co-transfection of the transgenic plasmid and a plasmid containing Cre recombinase into cultured cells and by establishing a transgenic mouse line. We show that this method allows versatile transgene expression targeting and color-switching to facilitate fluorescent and bioluminescent imaging both in cultured cells and in vivo. Our strategy provides time-saving features in tissue-specific transgene expression, bioimaging and primary cell isolation and can be used for generation of gene-specific transgenic mice.
The resurgent science of consciousness has been accompanied by a recent emphasis on the problem of measurement. Having dependable measures of consciousness is essential both for mapping experimental evidence to theory and for designing perspicuous experiments. Here, we review a series of behavioural and brain-based measures, assessing their ability to track graded consciousness and clarifying how they relate to each other by showing what theories are presupposed by each. We identify possible and actual conflicts among measures that can stimulate new experiments, and we conclude that measures must prove themselves by iteratively building knowledge in the context of theoretical frameworks. Advances in measuring consciousness have implications for basic cognitive neuroscience, for comparative studies of consciousness and for clinical applications.
Changes in gene expression in brain reward regions are thought to contribute to the pathogenesis and persistence of drug addiction. Recent studies have begun to focus on the molecular mechanisms by which drugs of abuse and related environmental stimuli, such as drug-associated cues or stress, converge on the genome to alter specific gene programs. Increasing evidence suggests that these stable gene expression changes in neurons are mediated in part by epigenetic mechanisms that alter chromatin structure on specific gene promoters. This review discusses recent findings from behavioral, molecular and bioinformatic approaches being used to understand the complex epigenetic regulation of gene expression by drugs of abuse. This novel mechanistic insight might open new avenues for improved treatments of drug addiction.
Spinal cord injury causes devastating loss of function and progressive, potentially life-threatening, secondary complications. Although significant preclinical advances continue to be made in cellular and molecular therapies which promote regeneration, plasticity within remaining circuits and how it can be influenced by physical activity is evolving as a key research area. Understanding what constitutes plasticity, and how activity shapes it, has centred primarily on neurons, but evidence is emerging that activity also influences glial cells. Basic and clinical research continue to advance our knowledge of the quality and quantity of physical exercise required to improve function, while mental exercise is emerging as another avenue. Increased understanding of mechanisms driving activity-dependent plasticity will help develop rehabilitative strategies which optimise functional recovery.
The GDNF family ligands (GFLs) signal through the canonical signaling receptor Ret and a glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol-anchored co-receptor, GFRalpha. In recent years, signaling by GFLs has been shown to be more complex than originally assumed. The discrepant expression between GFRalphas and Ret has suggested the existence of additional signal-transducing GDNF receptors, such as NCAM. Here we summarize novel functions and Ret-independent signaling mechanisms for GDNF and GFRalpha, focusing on developing neurons. Emerging evidence indicates a prominent role of GDNF and GFRalpha in the control of neuroblast migration and chemoattraction and in the formation of neuronal synapses by a new mechanism of ligand-induced cell adhesion. Therefore, these data highlight the importance of this versatile molecular complex for nervous system development, function and regeneration.
Advances in neuroscience have resulted in the development of new diagnostic and therapeutic agents for potential use in the central nervous system (CNS). However, the ability to deliver the majority of these agents to the brain is limited by the blood-brain barrier (BBB), a specialized structure of the blood vessel wall that hampers transport and diffusion from the blood to the brain. Many CNS disorders could be treated with drugs, enzymes, genes, or large-molecule biotechnological products such as recombinant proteins, if they could cross the BBB. This article reviews the problems of the BBB presence in treating the vast majority of CNS diseases and the efforts to circumvent the BBB through the design of new drugs and the development of more sophisticated delivery methods. Recent advances in the development of noninvasive, targeted drug delivery by MRI-guided ultrasound-induced BBB disruption are also summarized.

We previously reported large-scale reorganization of visual processing (i.e., activation of &quot;foveal&quot; cortex by peripheral stimuli) in two individuals with loss of foveal input from macular degeneration [Baker, C.I., Peli, E., Knouf, N., &amp; Kanwisher, N. G. (2005). Reorganization of visual processing in macular degeneration. Journal of Neuroscience, 25(3), 614-618]. Here, we replicate this result in three new individuals. Further, we test the hypothesis that this reorganization is dependent on complete loss of foveal input. In two other individuals with extensive retinal lesions but some foveal sparing we found no evidence for reorganization. We conclude that large-scale reorganization of visual processing in MD occurs only in the complete absence of functional foveal vision.

Microglia and/or astrocytes play a significant role in the creation and maintenance of exaggerated pain states with inflammatory and/or neuropathic etiologies. The chemokine, fractalkine, has several functions, including the newly recognized role of mediating neuropathic pain conditions. Although constitutively expressed and released during inflammation, increased release of fractalkine binds to and activates microglia leading to pathological pain. We review the critical role of fractalkine in neuron-to-glial communication after peripheral nerve injury and inflammation and explore anti-inflammatory cytokines like interleukin-10 as a novel and effective approach for clinical pain control.
Lymphoid chemokines play an essential role in the establishment and maintenance of lymphoid tissue microarchitecture and have been implicated in the formation of tertiary (or ectopic) lymphoid tissue in chronic inflammatory conditions. Here, we review recent advances in lymphoid chemokine research in central nervous system inflammation, focusing on multiple sclerosis and the animal model experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. We also highlight how the study of lymphoid chemokines, particularly CXCL13, has led to the identification of intrameningeal B-cell follicles in the multiple sclerosis brain paving the way to the discovery that these abnormal structures are highly enriched in Epstein-Barr virus-infected B cells and plasma cells.

Previous work suggests there are mechanisms at intermediate levels of visual processing specialized for the detection of radial and circular form. The evidence in favor of specialized global form mechanisms is derived from structure detection experiments that have told us very little about their bandwidth or number. To address these related questions, we examined the effects of configural backward masking on human observers' ability to detect global structure in arrays with different spiral forms. Each array consisted of 100 Gabors randomly positioned within a circular annular window. Observers judged which of two sequentially presented Gabor arrays contained global structure. One array contained Gabors with random orientations; the other contained Gabors with a variable proportion of orientations coherent with a randomly chosen spiral pitch. At its offset, each array was immediately followed by a backward masking Gabor array with a fixed spiral pitch angle. When mask and test had the same spiral pitch, we found an approximately three-fold elevation of structure detection thresholds that was not explained by local orientation masking. The magnitude and breadth of tuning around each masking angle was predicted by a simple model consisting of at least eight detectors broadly tuned for different spiral forms.

Congruent findings from studies of fear learning in animals and humans indicate that research on the circuits mediating fear constitutes our best hope of understanding human anxiety disorders. In mammals, repeated presentations of a conditioned stimulus that was previously paired to a noxious stimulus leads to the gradual disappearance of conditioned fear responses. Although much evidence suggests that this extinction process depends on plastic events in the amygdala, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Intercalated (ITC) amygdala neurons constitute probable mediators of extinction because they receive information about the conditioned stimulus from the basolateral amygdala (BLA), and contribute inhibitory projections to the central nucleus (CEA), the main output station of the amygdala for conditioned fear responses. Thus, after extinction training, ITC cells could reduce the impact of conditioned-stimulus-related BLA inputs to the CEA by means of feed-forward inhibition. Here we test the hypothesis that ITC neurons mediate extinction by lesioning them with a toxin that selectively targets cells expressing micro-opioid receptors (microORs). Electron microscopic observations revealed that the incidence of microOR-immunoreactive synapses is much higher in ITC cell clusters than in the BLA or CEA and that microORs typically have a post-synaptic location in ITC cells. In keeping with this, bilateral infusions of the microOR agonist dermorphin conjugated to the toxin saporin in the vicinity of ITC neurons caused a 34% reduction in the number of ITC cells but no significant cell loss in surrounding nuclei. Moreover, ITC lesions caused a marked deficit in the expression of extinction that correlated negatively with the number of surviving ITC neurons but not CEA cells. Because ITC cells exhibit an unusual pattern of receptor expression, these findings open new avenues for the treatment of anxiety disorders.
Ion channels are modulated by multiple molecular mechanisms. In this issue of Neuron, Pietrzykowski et al. expand the mechanistic repertoire by demonstrating that ethanol-induced microRNA can modulate the pattern of mRNA splice variants from which BK potassium channels are constructed. Because BK channels are important targets of ethanol, this finding has implications for mechanisms of ethanol sensitivity and tolerance.
Ejaculatory-like rhythmic contractions of the bulbospongiosus (BS) muscle and penile erection can be elicited in the urethane-anesthetized rat, following spinal cord transection, upon electrical stimulation (ES) of the dorsal penile nerve (DPN). The aim of this work was to investigate this reflex in anesthetized mice. Adult C57BL6 mice were anesthetized with isoflurane. The BS muscle and corpus cavernosum were instrumented to allow quantification of the BS muscle electromyographic activity (BS EMG) and intracavernosal pressure respectively. The femoral artery and jugular vein were catheterized to allow measurement of blood pressure and compound administration. ES of the DPN, via bipolar silver electrodes, reliably evoked erectile responses in mice with intact spinal cords. The overall amplitude of the erectile response was frequency- and pulse duration-dependent. Erectile responses were abolished by bilateral cut of the sensory branch of the pudendal nerve. Transection of the spinal cord potentiated the erectile responses and increased the area under the curve of the BS EMG when compared with those animals with intact spinal cords. However, no coordinated rhythmic contractions of the BS muscle during or after the ES could be observed, with or without spinal transection. Melanotan-II failed to enhance the erectile response induced by ES of the DPN, in mice with intact spinal cords. ES of the DPN in isoflurane-anesthetized mice could be a useful model in which to study the interplay between brain and spinal cord in the control of reflex penile erection, and could take advantage of knockout mice models. However, the lack of efficacy of Melanotan-II suggests that further experiments are necessary to confirm the future utility of this model. In contrast to rats, the expulsion reflex could not be reliably elicited in mice with or without spinal transection. This latter finding suggests the existence of fundamental differences in the organization of the spinal network controlling sexual reflexes between rats and mice.
Central administration of urotensin II (UII) increases heart rate (HR), cardiac contractility, and plasma levels of epinephrine and glucose. To investigate the mechanisms causing these responses we examined the effects of i.c.v. administration of rat UII (10 microg) on the sympatho-adrenal and pituitary-adrenal axes in conscious rats, and we mapped the brain sites activated by UII by immunohistochemically detecting Fos expression. In six conscious rats i.c.v. UII, but not vehicle, increased HR significantly 60-90 min after treatment and increased plasma glucose at 60 and 90 min, both indicators of increased epinephrine release. Plasma corticosterone levels were significantly elevated 90 min after i.c.v. UII. Conscious rats, given i.c.v. UII (n=12) and killed after 100 or 160 min, showed increased Fos-immunoreactivity (Fos-IR) in the nucleus of the solitary tract and the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) at both time points, compared with vehicle (n=11). In UII-treated rats, Fos-IR in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) was significantly elevated at 160 min, but not 100 min, compared with vehicle. There were no increases in Fos-IR in the rostral ventrolateral medulla or the A5 cell group, areas associated with sympathetic outflow to the adrenal gland. In summary, i.c.v. UII increased HR and plasma glucose and corticosterone in conscious rats. UII increased Fos-IR in the CeA and PVN, but over a longer time course in the latter. These findings indicate that UII acts on specific brain nuclei to stimulate the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis and to stimulate adrenal sympathetic nerve activity.
The rewarding effects of cocaine have been reported to occur within seconds of administration. Extensive evidence suggests that these actions involve the ability of cocaine to inhibit the dopamine (DA) transporter. We recently showed that 1.5 mg/kg i.v. cocaine inhibits DA uptake within 5 s. Despite this evidence, there remains a lack of consensus regarding how quickly i.v. cocaine and other DA uptake inhibitors elicit DA uptake inhibition. The current studies sought to better characterize the onset of cocaine-induced DA uptake inhibition and to compare these effects to those obtained with the high-affinity, long-acting DA transporter inhibitor, GBR-12909 (1-(2-bis(4-fluorphenyl)-methoxy)-ethyl)-4-(3-phenyl-propyl)piperazine). Using in vivo fast scan cyclic voltammetry, we showed that i.v. cocaine (0.75, 1.5, and 3.0 mg/kg) significantly inhibited DA uptake in the nucleus accumbens of anesthetized rats within 5 s. DA uptake inhibition peaked at 30 s and returned to baseline levels in approximately 1 h. The effects of cocaine were dose-dependent, with the 3.0 mg/kg dose producing greater uptake inhibition at the early time points and exhibiting a longer latency to return to baseline. Further, the blood-brain barrier impermeant cocaine-methiodide had no effect on DA uptake or peak height, indicating that the generalized peripheral effects of cocaine do not contribute to the CNS alterations measured here. Finally, we show that GBR-12909 (0.75, 1.5, and 3.0 mg/kg) also significantly inhibited DA uptake within 5 s post-injection, although the peak effect and return to baseline were markedly delayed compared with cocaine, particularly at the highest dose. Combined, these observations indicate that the central effects of dopamine uptake inhibitors occur extremely rapidly following i.v. drug delivery.
The calcium channel CACNA1A gene encodes the pore-forming, voltage-sensitive subunit of the voltage-dependent calcium Ca(v)2.1 type channel. Mutations in this gene have been linked to several human disorders, including familial hemiplegic migraine, episodic ataxia 2 and spinocerebellar ataxia type 6. The mouse homologue, Cacna1a, is associated with the tottering, Cacna1a(tg), mutant series. Here we describe two new missense mutant alleles, Cacna1a(tg-4J) and Cacna1a(Tg-5J). The Cacna1a(tg-4J) mutation is a valine to alanine mutation at amino acid 581, in segment S5 of domain II. The recessive Cacna1a(tg-4J) mutant exhibited the ataxia, paroxysmal dyskinesia and absence seizures reminiscent of the original tottering mouse. The Cacna1a(tg-4J) mutant also showed altered activation and inactivation kinetics of the Ca(v)2.1 channel, not previously reported for other tottering alleles. The semi-dominant Cacna1a(Tg-5J) mutation changed a conserved arginine residue to glutamine at amino acid 1252 within segment S4 of domain III. The heterozygous mouse was ataxic and homozygotes rarely survived. The Cacna1a(Tg-5J) mutation caused a shift in both voltage activation and inactivation to lower voltages, showing that this arginine residue is critical for sensing Ca(v)2.1 voltage changes. These two tottering mouse models illustrate how novel allelic variants can contribute to functional studies of the Ca(v)2.1 calcium channel.
The technique of field potentials (FPs) provides a macroscopic view for exploring brain function, and is supplementary to single-unit recording, a microscopic view that investigates each neuron in great detail. Mapping the rat tail in the ventroposterolateral (VPL) nucleus of the thalamus was carried out by analyzing the current source density (CSD) of the evoked FPs. The results showed a clear somatotopic organization of the tail in the VPL nucleus. Also, to obtain high-fidelity FPs, two recording parameters were determined. Based upon cross-correlation coefficient (rho), the cycles of FPs needed to be averaged should not be less than 50 and the distance between the two recording sites should be no longer than 50 mum in each direction (mediolateral, anteroposterior and ventrodorsal). Under these conditions, the representation (or reproducibility) of an FP can be &gt;95%. The procedures used to determine these parameters can serve as a guide to obtain FPs with high signal-to-noise ratio and without spatial aliasing error.
We investigated the effects of a plantar pressure-based tongue-placed electrotactile biofeedback on postural control during quiet standing under normal and altered vestibular and neck proprioceptive conditions. To achieve this goal, 14 young healthy adults were asked to stand upright as immobile as possible with their eyes closed in two Neutral and Extended head postures and two conditions of No-biofeedback and Biofeedback. The underlying principle of the biofeedback consisted of providing supplementary information related to foot sole pressure distribution through a wireless embedded tongue-placed tactile output device. Center of foot pressure (CoP) displacements were recorded using a plantar pressure data acquisition system. Results showed that (1) the Extended head posture yielded increased CoP displacements relative to the Neutral head posture in the No-biofeedback condition, with a greater effect along the anteroposterior than mediolateral axis, whereas (2) no significant difference between the two Neutral and Extended head postures was observed in the Biofeedback condition. The present findings suggested that the availability of the plantar pressure-based tongue-placed electrotactile biofeedback allowed the subjects to suppress the destabilizing effect induced by the disruption of vestibular and neck proprioceptive inputs associated with the head extended posture. These results are discussed according to the sensory re-weighting hypothesis, whereby the CNS would dynamically and selectively adjust the relative contributions of sensory inputs (i.e. the sensory weights) to maintain upright stance depending on the sensory contexts and the neuromuscular constraints acting on the subject.
Cocaine addicts have a number of cognitive deficits that persist following prolonged abstinence. These include impairments in executive functions dependent on the prefrontal cortex, as well as deficits on learning and memory tasks sensitive to hippocampal function. Recent preclinical studies using non-human animals have demonstrated that cocaine treatment can produce persistent deficits in executive functions, but there is relatively little evidence that treatment with cocaine produces persistent deficits in performance on hippocampal-dependent tasks. We recently demonstrated that extended (but not limited) access to self-administered cocaine is especially effective in producing persistent deficits on a test of cognitive vigilance, and therefore, we used this procedure to examine the effects of limited or extended access to cocaine self-administration on recognition memory performance, which is sensitive to hippocampal function. We found that extended access to cocaine produced deficits in recognition memory in rats that persisted for at least 2 weeks after the cessation of drug use. We conclude that the deficits in learning and memory observed in cocaine addicts may be at least in part due to repeated drug use, rather than just due to a pre-existing condition, and that in studying the neural basis of such deficits procedures involving extended access to self-administered cocaine may be especially useful.
Cell recognition molecules of the L1 family serve important functions in the developing and the mature nervous system. Mutations in genes encoding the L1 family members close homolog of L1 (CHL1) and NgCAM-related cell adhesion molecule (NrCAM) have been found to alter connectivity and morphology of several brain regions. In order to emphasize similarities and differences of these two structurally related molecules, null mutants for CHL1 and NrCAM were directly compared with respect to axonal guidance in the hippocampus and the olfactory bulb and the sizes of the ventricular system and the cerebellar vermis using a combined structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and histological approach. The results demonstrate that the absence of CHL1 leads to aberrant hippocampal mossy fiber projections whereas in both mutants, CHL1 and NrCAM, the guidance of the olfactory nerve projections is disturbed. Both mutations also alter the size of the ventricular system and the vermis with a specific profile of changes and partially opposite effects in each of the mutants. CHL1/NrCAM double-mutant mice do not show any enhancement of the single mutant's phenotype but balance the opposing effects on the ventricular system. In summary, the results show that CHL1 and NrCAM both affect axonal guidance and the anatomy of the ventricular system and the cerebellar vermis but act differently on these processes.
5-HT(1A) modulation within the midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG) is closely associated with anxiety- or panic-like behavior. Several findings have demonstrated that the properties of buspirone (a 5-HT(1A) partial agonist) would function as either anxiolytic or panicolytic in both clinical and laboratory animal research. In this study, we have investigated the neuronal activity occurring within the different regions of the PAG induced by buspirone treatment. Twenty-eight albino Wistar rats (350-400 g) were injected with either acute or chronic saline/buspirone (each, n=7), respectively. Our results show that buspirone treatment reduced locomotor activity, body weight and fecal boli, particularly in the chronic buspirone group. Two-way ANOVA revealed a significant decrease of c-Fos-immunoreactive (ir) cells expression in all regions of the rostral PAG after both acute and chronic buspirone (acute buspirone (AB) and chronic buspirone (CB), respectively) treatment. However, no effects on c-Fos-ir were detected in the caudal lateral periaqueductal gray (lPAG) and ventrolateral periaqueductal gray (vlPAG) in both the AB and CB groups, and in the dorsolateral periaqueductal gray (dlPAG) of the CB group. Interestingly, c-Fos-ir cells in the dorsomedial periaqueductal gray (dmPAG) column were reduced consistently in both the rostral and caudal PAG in both AB and CB groups. Besides, in all regions the number of c-Fos-ir cells was higher in the AB than in the CB group with exception of the rostral lPAG. In conclusion, the main anxiolytic effect of buspirone was specifically localized in all regions of the rostral PAG and in the caudal dmPAG. However, the caudal dlPAG, lPAG and vlPAG were found to be ineffective to buspirone treatment, probably due to their distinctive function in mediating higher level of anxiety in defensive behavior. This indicates that the longitudinal anatomical structure of the PAG possesses a different level of receptor sensitivity of 5-HT(1A) in the pathophysiology of anxiety and panic disorder.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) is a potential drug for Alzheimer's disease treatment, but delivering NGF to the brain is difficult. To increase the content of NGF in brain, we prepared cholera toxin B subunit (CB) -NGF by the improved sodium metaperiodate method and compared its pharmacodynamics with NGF. In vitro, CB-NGF, as well as NGF, could promote neurite outgrowth and increase choline acetyltransferase activities. But the time window of TrkA phosphorylation induced by CB-NGF and NGF was different. In vivo, nasal administration of CB-NGF could increase the stay time and partially improve abilities of space learning and memory in amnesic mice, and protected the cholinergic neurons in basal forebrain against Abeta(25-35). CB-NGF treatment has better curative effects than NGF in Alzheimer's disease model mice.
The clock gene protein Per 1 (PER1) is expressed in several brain structures and oscillates associated with the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). Restricted feeding schedules (RFS) induce anticipatory activity and impose daily oscillations of c-Fos and clock proteins in brain structures. Daily access to a palatable treat (chocolate) also elicits anticipatory activity and induces c-Fos expression mainly in corticolimbic structures. Here the influence of daily access to food or chocolate was explored by the analysis of the oscillatory patterns of PER1 in hypothalamic and corticolimbic structures. Wistar rats were exposed to RFS or to daily access to chocolate for 3 weeks. Persistence of food or chocolate entrained rhythms was determined 8 days after cessation of the feeding protocols. RFS and chocolate induced a phase shift in PER1 rhythmicity in corticolimbic structures with peak values at zeitgeber time 12 and a higher amplitude in the chocolate group. Both RFS and chocolate groups showed an upregulation of PER1 in the SCN. Food and chocolate entrained rhythms persisted for 8 days in behavior and in PER1 expression in the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus, accumbens, prefrontal cortex and central amygdala. The present data demonstrate the existence of different oscillatory systems in the brain that can be activated by entrainment to metabolic stimuli or to reward and suggest the participation of PER1 in both entraining pathways. Persistence and amplification of PER1 oscillations in structures associated with reward suggest that this oscillatory process is fundamental to food addictive behavior.
The depletion of neuronal calcium binding proteins deprives neurons of the capacity to buffer high levels of intracellular Ca(2+) and this leaves them vulnerable to pathological processes, such as those present in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The aim of the present study was to investigate the expression of the calcium binding proteins, calbindin-D28K, calretinin and parvalbumin in the dentate gyrus (DG) of amyloid precursor protein (APP)/presenilin 1 (PS1) transgenic (Tg) mice and their non-Tg littermates, as well as the relation with the deposition of human amyloid beta (Abeta). We measured the expression of these three proteins at seven different rostro-caudal levels, and in the molecular, granular and polymorphic layers of the DG. We found that, except in the most caudal part of the DG, there is a substantial loss of calbindin-D28K immunoreactivity in all three layers of the DG in APP/PS1 mice compared with the non-Tg mice. Significant loss of calretinin immunoreactivity is present in most of the polymorphic layer of the DG of APP/PS1 mice compared with the non-Tg mice, as well as in the rostral and intermediate part of the inner molecular layer. Compared with the non-Tg mice parvalbumin immunoreactivity is significantly reduced throughout the whole polymorphic layer as well as in the rostral and intermediate part of the granular layer of DG in APP/PS1 mice. The relatively preservation of calbindin immunoreactivity in the caudal part of molecular and granular layers as well as calretinin immunoreactivity in the caudal part of polymorphic layer of the DG is likely related to the lower Abeta expression in those parts of DG. The present data suggest an involvement of calcium-dependent pathways in the pathogenesis of AD and indicate that there exists a subfield and layer-specific decrease in immunoreactivity which is related to the type of calcium-binding protein in APP/PS1 mice. Moreover, it seems that APP expression affects more the calbindin expression then parvalbumin and calretinin expression in the DG of APP/PS1 Tg mice.
Tachykinin neurokinin 3 receptor (NK3R) is a G-protein (GTP binding protein) -coupled receptor that is heavily expressed by magnocellular neurons of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN). Osmotic challenge is reported to activate NK3R expressed by magnocellular neurons and cause the NK3R to be internalized to the cytoplasm and perhaps the cell nucleus. In this study we show using immuno-electron microscopy that isolated nuclei from neurons in the PVN of osmotic challenged animals (rats) show a robust labeling for the NK3R. NK3R immunoreactivity was detected by Western blot in isolated nuclei of PVN neurons following the 2 M NaCl injection. No nuclear NK3R immunoreactivity was detected in control animals. NK3R antibody specificity was confirmed by small interfering (SI) RNA technology. This study establishes that the NK3R is trafficked to the nucleus of PVN neurons following a peripheral osmotic challenge.
Application of extracorporeal shockwaves (ESW) to the musculoskeletal system may induce long-term analgesia in the treatment of chronic tendinopathies of the shoulder, heel and elbow. However, the molecular and cellular mechanisms behind this phenomenon are largely unknown. Here we tested the hypothesis that long-term analgesia caused by ESW is due to selective loss of nerve fibers in peripheral nerves. To test this hypothesis in vivo, high-energy ESW were applied to the ventral side of the right distal femur of rabbits. After 6 weeks, the femoral and sciatic nerves were investigated at the light and electron microscopic level. Application of ESW resulted in a selective, substantial loss of unmyelinated nerve fibers within the femoral nerve of the treated hind limb, whereas the sciatic nerve of the treated hind limb remained unaffected. These data might indicate that alleviation of chronic pain by selective partial denervation may play an important role in the effects of clinical ESW application to the musculoskeletal system.
Functional loss after spinal cord injuries is originated by primary and secondary injury phases whose underlying mechanisms include massive release of excitatory amino acids to cytotoxic levels that contribute to neural death. Attenuation of this excitotoxicity is a key point for improving the functional outcome after injury. One of the drugs with potential neuroprotective actions is FK506, a molecule widely used as an immunosuppressant. FK506 may exert neuroprotection via inhibition of calcineurin by binding the FKBP12, or by binding other immunophilins such as FKBP52, leading to modulation of heat shock proteins (Hsp) 90 and 70. In the present study, we used an in vitro model of organotypic culture of rat spinal cord slices to assess whether FK506 is able to protect them against glutamate excitotoxicity. The results showed that FK506 promoted a significant protective effect on the spinal cord tissue at concentrations of 50 and 100 nM. Hsp70 induction was restricted to microglial cells in spinal cord slices treated with either glutamate or FK506. In contrast, the combination of both agents led to a transient reduction in Hsp70 levels in parallel to a marked reduction in IL-1beta precursor production by glial cells. The use of geldanamycin, which promotes persistent induction of Hsp70 in these cells as well as in motoneurons, did not produce tissue neuroprotection. These observations suggest that FK506 might protect spinal cord tissue by targeting on microglial cells and that transient downregulation of Hsp70 on these cells after excitotoxicity is a relevant mechanism of action of FK506.
Overlapped in the tuberal hypothalamic area (THA), melanin-concentrating hormone (MCH) and hypocretin (Hcrt) neurons contribute to the integrated regulation of food intake, energy regulation and sleep. Recently, physiological role in appetite suppression has been defined for a novel hypothalamic molecule, nesfatin-1. Acute i.c.v. infusion of nesfatin-1 (nesf-1) promotes anorexia whereas chronic treatment reduces body weight in rats. This satiety molecule is expressed in neurons from areas prominently involved in appetite regulation including THA. We therefore sought functionally relevant to determine whether nesf-1 might be a reliable signaling marker for a new cell contingent within THA, in addition to MCH and Hcrt neurons. Thus, we completed a detailed topographical mapping of neurons immunostained for nesf-1 (nesf-1+) together with cell quantification in each discrete nucleus from THA in the rat. We further combined the immunodetection of nesf-1 with that of MCH or Hcrt to assess possible co-expression. More than three quarters of the nesf-1+ neurons were encountered in nuclei from the lateral half of THA. By double immunofluorescent staining, we showed that all neurons immunoreactive for melanin concentrating hormone (MCH+) neurons depicted nesf-1 immunoreactivity and approximately 80% of the nesf-1+ neurons were labeled for MCH. Maximal co-expression rates were observed in the lateral THA containing approximately 86% of the double-labeled neurons plotted in THA. The present data suggest that nesf-1 co-expressed in MCH neurons may play a complex role not only in food intake regulation but also in other essential integrative brain functions involving MCH signaling, ranging from autonomic regulation, stress, mood, cognition to sleep.
Demyelination and oligodendroglial cell death accompanied by axonal injury are dominating features of multiple sclerosis (MS) a chronic demyelinating disease of the CNS. Accumulation of extracellular glutamate, observed during MS, is implicated in excitotoxic injury of nerve and oligodendroglial cells as a result of over-activation of glutamate receptors. The appropriate concentration of extracellular glutamate is maintained by glutamate transporters, the most predominant of which is glial transporter GLT-1 (excitatory amino acid transporter (EAAT) 2). The aim of this study is to determine the time-course of GLT-1 and glutamate-aspartate transporter (GLAST) expression in forebrain and cerebellum of rats subjected to experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Our findings revealed that: (1) GLT-1 mRNA and to a lower extent GLAST mRNA are overexpressed in forebrain and cerebellum of EAE rats (2) expression of GLT-1 transporter mRNA shows a similar temporal pattern throughout the course of EAE in both structures examined, and is closely correlated with the appearance of neurological symptoms; and (3) the expression of GLT-1 and GLAST protein does not mirror mRNA changes during EAE and exhibits a differential spatial pattern. The protein levels of GLT-1 in cerebellum and GLAST in both structures are significantly reduced just before the acute phase and later during the recovery. The results imply that transcriptional up-regulation of the GLT-1 gene occurs early in both the forebrain and the cerebellum of the EAE rat model. This up-regulation is associated with the severity of symptoms but tends to precede the onset of maximal neurological deficits. The observations confirm the involvement of glutamate in the pathogenesis of EAE and provide an indication of the protective role of this glutamate transporter. However, changes in protein expression of both transporters suggest the existence of post-translational disturbances or the influence of regulating factors connecting with EAE conditions that may lead to the insufficient protection against glutamate excitotoxicity.
The natriuretic peptide receptor type C (NPR-C) binds all natriuretic peptides. It is thought to be involved in the clearance of natriuretic peptides and more recently has been defined as essential for the neuromodulatory effects of natriuretic peptides. Although the distribution of NPR-C mRNA has been reported in the rat forebrain, there are no data on the distribution of NPR-C in the brainstem. We report an immunofluorescence study on the distribution of NPR-C immunoreactivity in the rat brainstem, and its presence in cholinergic and catecholaminergic neurons. NPR-C immunoreactivity was detected in several regions, including the periaqueductal gray, oculomotor nucleus, red nucleus and trochlear nucleus of the midbrain; the pontine nucleus, dorsal tegmental nucleus, vestibular nucleus, locus coeruleus, trigeminal motor nucleus, nucleus of the trapezoid body, abducens nucleus and facial nucleus of the pons; and the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus, hypoglossal nucleus, lateral reticular nucleus, nucleus ambiguus and inferior olivary nucleus of the medulla oblongata. Interestingly, NPR-C immunoreactivity was detected in the cholinergic neurons of the oculomotor nucleus, trochlear nucleus, dorsal tegmental nucleus, motor trigeminal nucleus, facial nucleus, dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus, nucleus ambiguus and hypoglossal nucleus. Furthermore, NPR-C immunoreactivity was detected in several catecholaminergic neuronal groups including the A6, A5, A1, C3 and C1 cell groups. These results are consistent with an important role for natriuretic peptides in neuroendocrine regulation and central cardiovascular integration. The extensive distribution of NPR-C in the brainstem supports the hypothesis that NPR-C is involved in the neuromodulatory effect of natriuretic peptides.
Pyramidal neurons of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) exhibit dopamine-dependent prolonged depolarization, which may lead to persistent activity. Persistent activation of prefrontal cortex neurons has been proposed to underlie the working memory process. The purpose of our study was to test the hypothesis that activation of D(1) dopamine receptors leads to inhibition of G protein-dependent inward rectifier K(+) (GIRK) channels, thereby supporting the prolonged depolarization of mPFC pyramidal neurons. Experiments were performed on 3-week-old rats. GIRK-like channel currents recorded from pyramidal neurons showed the following properties at -75 mV: open probability (NPo), 2.5+/-0.3 x 10(-3); mean open time, 0.53+/-0.05 ms; and conductance, 29.9+/-1.6 pS (n=60). The channel currents were strongly inward-rectified. GIRK channel currents were reversibly inhibited by the D(1) agonists SKF 38393 (10 microM) and SKF 81297 (10 microM). This inhibition was abolished by prior application of a dopamine receptor antagonist and by application of the membrane-permeable protein kinase C inhibitors chelerythrine chloride (3 microM) and calphostin C (10 microM). It was also found that the application of D(1) dopamine receptor agonists or GIRK channel inhibitors evoked depolarization of mPFC pyramidal neurons in rats. Moreover, prior application of a GIRK channel blocker eliminated the depolarizing effect of D(1) agonists. We conclude that activation of D(1) dopamine receptors may lead to inhibition of GIRK channel currents that may, in turn, lead to the prolonged depolarization of mPFC pyramidal neurons in juvenile rats.
Following transection of the spinal cord, severed axonal ends retract from the lesion site and attempt regeneration within 24 h of injury. Molecular mechanisms underlying such rapid axonal reactions after severance are not fully characterized so far. To better understand the early axonal degenerating and regenerating processes, we examined the immunohistological expression of axonal cytoskeletal proteins from 5 min to 48 h after scalpel-transection of adult rat spinal cord white matter. Within 30 min of transection, expression of neurofilament (NF)- and peripherin-like immunoreactivity (-IR) was enhanced in severed axonal ends, which conversely lost beta-III-tubulin-IR expression, indicating differential expression of beta-III-tubulin-IR and NF/peripherin-IR. During the next few hours, the strongly-NF/peripherin-IR-positive severed axonal ends adhered to each other and these cytoskeletal alterations expanded bi-directionally (rostro-caudally) 100-300 microm away from the transection point. Within 6 h of transection, secondary axotomy occurred at about 300 microm-rostral and -caudal to the primary transection point, which finally formed strongly-NF/peripherin-IR-positive zipper-like axon segments at the transection site. Notably, sprouting of secondarily severed axons was observed within 6 h of injury. The regenerative axons, which extended toward the transection site, could not traverse the transection site where the zipper-like axon segments resided. The zipper-like axon segments showed abnormal axolemmal permeability through the leakage of an axonal tracer. Western blot analysis revealed a slight increase in peripherin content in transected spinal cord. Local treatment with cycloheximide suppressed the axotomy-induced peripherin-IR-enhancement in severed ends, suggesting the occurrence of intra-axonal peripherin synthesis in vivo. Treatment with calpain inhibitors frequently formed abnormally swollen microtubule-free ends, which suggests that calpain-activation is critical for functional growth cone formation in adult rat spinal cord. These observations indicate that adult rat cordotomy with a scalpel results in the rapid formation of intensely NF-IR-positive zipper-like axon segments at the transection site, which are similar to &quot;preserved fibers&quot; reported by Ramon y Cajal [Ramon y Cajal S (1928) Degeneration and regeneration in the nervous system. New York: Hafner]. On the other hand, axonal regenerative responses start within 6 h of injury, which may be supported by calpain-activation and intra-axonal protein synthesis.
Startle responses are attenuated by prepulse inhibition (PPI), which is considered to reflect a sensorimotor gating mechanism and is impaired in patients suffering from schizophrenia. A midbrain circuit that mediates PPI in rats has been proposed and behavioral experiments have indicated an important role of acetylcholine and GABA in inhibiting startle. We here test the hypothesis that activation of the midbrain neurons can inhibit startle signaling through a cholinergic mechanism. We have developed a brain slice that comprises startle mediating giant pontine neurons as well as midbrain mesopontine neurons required for PPI. Patch clamp recordings of startle mediating brainstem neurons combined with stimulation of sensory afferents within the startle pathway and activation of mesopontine neurons revealed a delayed inhibition of synaptic transmission 300 ms and 1 s after midbrain activation. The latter was reversed by the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine. Further, there was a shift in the paired pulse ratio 1 s but not 300 ms after midbrain stimulation. Our results show that there is a direct cholinergic projection from the proposed PPI midbrain circuit to startle mediating neurons in the brainstem and that this projection inhibits synaptic transmission in the startle pathway in a distinct time window through the activation of presynaptic muscarinic receptors. Moreover, there is indication for a different receptor that mediates inhibition through this projection in a shorter time window and is located postsynaptically. Our results contribute to the understanding of mechanisms underlying PPI, which is important for developing new targets in the treatment of disorders accompanied with pre-attentive cognitive deficits.
Previously, we reported that the stress associated with chronic isolation was associated with increased beta-amyloid (Abeta) plaque deposition and memory deficits in the Tg2576 transgenic animal model of Alzheimer's disease (AD) [Dong H, Goico B, Martin M, Csernansky CA, Bertchume A, Csernansky JG (2004) Effects of isolation stress on hippocampal neurogenesis, memory, and amyloid plaque deposition in APP (Tg2576) mutant mice. Neuroscience 127:601-609]. In this study, we investigated the potential mechanisms of stress-accelerated Abeta plaque deposition in this Tg2576 mice by examining the relationship between plasma corticosterone levels, expression of glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and corticotropin-releasing factor receptor-1 (CRFR1) in the brain, brain tissue Abeta levels and Abeta plaque deposition during isolation or group housing from weaning (i.e. 3 weeks of age) until 27 weeks of age. We found that isolation housing significantly increased plasma corticosterone levels as compared with group-housing in both Tg+ mice (which contain and overexpress human amyloid precursor protein (hAPP) gene) and Tg- mice (which do not contain hAPP gene as control). Also, isolated, but not group-housed animals showed increases in the expression of GR in the cortex. Furthermore, the expression of CRFR1 was increased in isolated Tg+ mice, but decreased in isolated Tg- mice in both cortex and hippocampus. Changes in the components of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis were accompanied by increases in brain tissue Abeta levels and Abeta plaque deposition in the hippocampus and overlying cortex in isolated Tg+ mice. These results suggest that isolation stress increases corticosterone levels and GR and CRFR1 expression in conjunction with increases in brain tissue Abeta levels and Abeta plaque deposition in the Tg2576 mouse model of AD.
Beta-amyloid (Abeta) degrading endopeptidases are thought to protect against Alzheimer's disease (AD) and are potentially therapeutic. Of particular interest are endopeptidases that are blocked by thiorphan and phosphoramidon (T/P), as these inhibitors rapidly induce Abeta deposition in rodents. Neprilysin (NEP) is the best known target of T/P; however neprilysin knockout results in only modest Abeta increases insufficient to induce deposition. Therefore, other endopeptidases targeted by T/P must be critical for Abeta catabolism. Another candidate is the T/P sensitive membrane metallo-endopeptidase-like protein (MMEL), a close homolog of neprilysin. The endopeptidase properties of beta and gamma splice forms of human MMEL were determined in HEK293T cells transduced with the human cDNAs for the two splice forms; this showed degradation of both Abeta(42) and Abeta(40) by hMMEL-beta but not hMMEL-gamma. hMMEL-beta activity was found at the extracellular surface with no significant secreted activity. hMMEL-gamma was not expressed at the extracellular surface. Finally, it was found that hMMEL cleaves Abeta near the alpha-secretase site (producing Abeta(1-17)&gt;Abeta(1-16)). These data establish hMMEL as a mediator of Abeta catabolism and raise the possibility of its involvement in the etiology of AD and as a target for intervention.
The rostral fastigial nucleus (RFN) of the cerebellum is thought to play an important role in postural control, and recent studies in conscious nonhuman primates suggest that this region also participates in the sensory processing required to compute body motion in space. The goal of the present study was to examine the dynamic and spatial responses to sinusoidal rotations in vertical planes of RFN neurons in conscious cats, and determine if they are similar to responses reported for monkeys. Approximately half of the RFN neurons examined were classified as graviceptive, since their firing was synchronized with stimulus position and the gain of their responses was relatively unaffected by the frequency of the tilts. The large majority (80%) of graviceptive RFN neurons were activated by pitch rotations. Most of the remaining RFN units exhibited responses to vertical oscillations that encoded stimulus velocity, and approximately 50% of these velocity units had a response vector orientation aligned near the plane of a single vertical semicircular canal. Unlike in primates, few feline RFN neurons had responses to vertical rotations that suggested integration of graviceptive (otolith) and velocity (vertical semicircular canal) signals. These data indicate that the physiological role of the RFN may differ between primates and lower mammals. The RFN in rats and cats in known to be involved in adjusting blood pressure and breathing during postural alterations in the transverse (pitch) plane. The relatively simple responses of many RFN neurons in cats are appropriate for triggering such compensatory autonomic responses.
Dysfunction of basal ganglia circuits underlies a variety of movement disorders and neuropsychiatric conditions. Selective control of the electrical activity of striatal outflow pathways by manipulation of ion channel function presents a novel therapeutic approach. Toward this end, we have constructed and studied in vitro an adenoviral gene transfer vector that employs the promoter region of the dopamine-1 receptor to drive expression of the inward rectifier K(+) channel Kir2.3. The use of this neuronal promoter confers cell-type specificity and a physiological level of trans-gene expression in rat primary striatal cultures. The electrophysiological properties were confirmed in transfected human embryonic kidney cells, in which an inwardly-rectifying, Cs(+)-sensitive current was measured by voltage clamp. Current clamp studies of transduced striatal neurons demonstrated an increase in the firing threshold, latency to first action potential and decrease in neuronal excitability. Neurotoxin-induced activation of c-Fos, a marker of neuronal activity, was blocked in transduced neurons indicating that the decrease in electrical excitability was physiologically significant. When used in vivo, this strategy may have the potential to positively impact movement disorders by selectively changing activity of neurons belonging to the direct striatal pathway, characterized by the expression of dopamine-1 receptors.
Rapid eye movement (REM) sleep deprivation elevates noradrenaline level, which upon acting on alpha1-adrenoceptors increases Na-K-ATPase activity; however, the detailed intracellular mechanism of action was unknown. Since membrane integrity is crucial for maintaining Na-K-ATPase activity as well as ionic exchange and noradrenaline affects membrane lipid-peroxidation, we proposed that the deprivation might modulate membrane lipid-peroxidation, which would modulate intracellular ionic concentration and thereby increase Na-K-ATPase activity. Hence, in this in vivo and in vitro study, rats were deprived of REM sleep for 4 days by the flowerpot method and suitable control experiments were conducted. The deprivation simultaneously decreased membrane lipid-peroxidation as well as increased Na-K-ATPase activity by its dephosphorylation and all the effects were induced by noradrenaline. Further, in vitro experiments showed that hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2))-induced enhanced lipid-peroxidation increased synaptosomal calcium (Ca(2+))-influx, which was also prevented by noradrenaline and nifidipine, an L-type Ca(2+)-channel blocker. Additionally, both nifidipine and cyclopiazonic acid, which have opposite effects on intracellular Ca(2+)-concentration, prevented deprivation induced increased Na-K-ATPase activity. We propose that REM sleep deprivation elevates noradrenaline level in the brain that acting on alpha1-adrenoceptor simultaneously reduces membrane lipid-peroxidation but activates phospholipase-C, resulting in closure of L-type Ca(2+)-channel and releasing membrane bound Ca(2+); the latter then dephosphorylates Na-K-ATPase, the active form, causing its increased activity.
Experience-dependent change in blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) signal is increasingly being employed in neuroimaging research to examine questions about function and plasticity. In this investigation, plasticity was examined during consecutive visual cue presentations that preceded correct button presses and subsequent reinforcer deliveries. Using functional neuroimaging and a modified repeated acquisition methodology, 10 adult subjects learned, through trial and error, a series of novel cue-response-reinforcer relations. Separate BOLD responses were obtained to consecutive cues and reinforcers. Repeated measures analysis of variance highlighted differential BOLD response changes. Consecutive visual cue presentations elicited rapid bilateral increases in activation in the anterior cingulate and medial frontal gyrus and moderate increases in medial temporal lobe structures and the striatum. Consecutive reinforcer presentations elicited rapid increases in activation in the left precuneus, lingual and fusiform gyri and moderate increases in medial temporal lobe structures and striatum. Within the medial temporal lobe, cues elicited a gradual increase then an abrupt decrease in activation and rewards elicited abrupt and then sustained activation. Consideration of experience-dependent BOLD response change and variability provides basic research a new perspective from which to examine regional plasticity and further explore dynamic experience-dependent shifts among cognitive processes. Furthermore, BOLD change and variability offer many clinical research areas novel supplemental indices of neuropathology.
The present study investigates the effects of divalent and trivalent manganese (Mn(2+)/Mn(3+)) mixture inhalation on mice to obtain a novel animal model of Parkinson disease (PD) inducing bilateral and progressive cell death in the substantia nigra compacta (SNc) and correlating these alterations with motor disturbances. CD-1 male mice inhaled a mixture of 0.04 M manganese chloride (MnCl(2)) and manganese acetate (Mn(OAc)(3)), 1 h twice a week for 5 months. Before Mn exposure, animals were trained to perform motor function tests and were evaluated each week after the exposure. By doing this, overall behavior was assessed by ratings and by videotaped analyses; by the end of Mn exposure period, animals were killed. The mesencephalon was processed for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunocytochemistry. After 5 months of Mn mixture inhalation, mice developed evident deficits in their motor performance manifested as akinesia, postural instability and action tremor. SNc of the Mn-exposed animals showed an important decrease (67.58%) in the number of TH-immunopositive neurons. Our data provide evidence that MnCl(2) and Mn(OAc)(3) mixture inhalation produces similar morphological and behavioral alterations to those observed in PD providing a useful experimental model for the study of this neurodegenerative disease.
In this study, we assessed the possibility that humans differ from other primate species in the supply of dopamine to the frontal cortex. To this end, quantitative comparative analyses were performed among humans, chimpanzees, and macaques using immunohistochemical methods to visualize tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive axons within the cerebral cortex. Axon densities and neuron densities were quantified using computer-assisted stereology. Prefrontal areas 9 and 32 were chosen for evaluation due to their roles in higher-order executive functions and theory of mind, respectively. Primary motor cortex (area 4) was also evaluated because it is not directly associated with cognition. We did not find an overt quantitative increase in cortical dopaminergic innervation in humans relative to the other primates examined. However, several differences in cortical dopaminergic innervation were observed among species which may have functional implications. Specifically, humans exhibited a sublaminar pattern of innervation in layer I of areas 9 and 32 that differed from that of macaques and chimpanzees. Analysis of axon length density to neuron density among species revealed that humans and chimpanzees together deviated from macaques in having increased dopaminergic afferents in layers III and V/VI of areas 9 and 32, but there were no phylogenetic differences in area 4. Finally, morphological specializations of axon coils that may be indicative of cortical plasticity events were observed in humans and chimpanzees, but not macaques. Our findings suggest significant modifications of dopamine's role in cortical organization occurred in the evolution of the apes, with further changes in the descent of humans.
We examined the spatial and temporal expression patterns of active p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), an important regulator of immune cell function, following spinal cord injury (SCI). We further assessed whether administration of SB203580, an inhibitor of p38 MAPK activity, would reduce inflammation, improve tissue sparing, and improve functional outcome after SCI. Adult Wistar rats were subjected to a T9/10 SCI contusion of moderate severity and killed at several time points after injury, whereas sham-injured (control) animals only received a laminectomy. In control animals, active p38 MAPK expression was primarily localized to resting microglia within the spinal cord. Over the first 24 h after SCI, a continuing increase in active p38 MAPK expression was evident in neutrophils and activated microglia (OX42+) surrounding the spinal lesion site. At 15 days post-injury, active p38 MAPK was localized to macrophages (ED1+) that now dominated the lesion site. In addition, active p38 MAPK was localized to macrophages within white matter fiber tracts undergoing degeneration, several segments rostral and caudal to the injury site, which persisted for at least 6 weeks. Overall, our results demonstrate that active p38 MAPK is increased within resident and invading immune cells after SCI contusion injury and, therefore, may be an important target to regulate the inflammatory cascade after SCI. However, intrathecal application of SB203580 failed to improve functional outcome after a moderate SCI contusion.
Spike-timing modifies the efficacy of both excitatory and inhibitory synapses onto CA1 pyramidal neurons in the rodent hippocampus. Repetitively spiking the presynaptic neuron before the postsynaptic neuron induces inhibitory synaptic plasticity, which results in a depolarization of the reversal potential for GABA (E(GABA)). Our goal was to determine how inhibitory synaptic plasticity regulates CA1 pyramidal neuron spiking in the rat hippocampus. We demonstrate electrophysiologically that depolarizing E(GABA) by 24.7 mV increased the spontaneous action potential firing frequency of cultured hippocampal neurons 254% from 0.12+/-0.07 Hz to 0.44+/-0.13 Hz (n=11; P&lt;0.05). Next we used a single compartment model of a CA1 pyramidal neuron to explore in detail how inhibitory synaptic plasticity of feedforward and feedback inhibition regulates the generation of action potentials, spike latency, and the minimum excitatory conductance required to generate an action potential; plasticity was modeled as a depolarization of E(GABA), which effectively weakens inhibition. Depolarization of E(GABA) at feedforward and feedback inhibitory synapses decreased the latency to the 1st spike by 2.27 ms, which was greater that the sum of the decreases produced by depolarizing E(GABA) at feedforward (0.85 ms) or feedback inhibitory synapses (0.02 ms) alone. In response to a train of synaptic inputs, depolarizing E(GABA) decreased the inter-spike interval and increased the number of output spikes in a frequency dependent manner, improving the reliability of input-output transmission. Moreover, a depolarizing shift in E(GABA) at feedforward and feedback synapses triggered by spike trains recorded from CA1 pyramidal layer neurons during field theta from anesthetized rats, significantly increased spiking on the up- and down-strokes of the first half of the theta rhythm (P&lt;0.05), without changing the preferred phase of firing (P=0.783). This study provides the first explanation of how depolarizing E(GABA) affects pyramidal cell output within the hippocampus.
Oxidative damage induced by abnormal iron accumulation in the brain is a primary cause of many neurodegenerative diseases, while the reason for iron deposition remains unclear. A previous study reported that various kinds of stress could cause a change in iron level and psychological stress (PS) was a risk factor for neuron death. In the present study we investigated the influence of PS on iron metabolism in rat brain. The results showed that both total iron and non-protein-bound-iron (NPBI) levels were higher in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus and striatum of PS rats. The levels of iron regulatory factors, including transferrin receptor 1 (TfR1), ferritin (Fn), and iron regulatory protein1 (IRP1), were all changed in the iron deposition regions of the PS-exposed rat brain, accompanied by intensified oxidative stress. It is concluded that PS can increase the intake of iron in some regions of brain and subsequently causes regional iron accumulation, indicating PS might be an important reason for iron deposition-caused neurodegenerative diseases.
During postnatal development, the dendrites of spinal motor neurons are refined in an activity-dependent manner that can be influenced by blocking activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. In late postnatal life, dendritic refinement ceases, and dendrite architecture is unaffected by NMDA antagonists; however the molecular substrate for limiting dendritic plasticity is not understood. During late postnatal development, expression of the NR3B NMDA receptor subunit, a putative dominant-negative subunit that reduces glutamate-induced ionic currents, is upregulated within motor neurons. To investigate whether increasing NR3B expression may contribute to the loss in late development of activity-dependent dendritic reorganization in the spinal cord, we over-expressed NR3B in cultured rat spinal motor neurons, and compared its effects on dendrite morphology with the effects of pharmacological blockade of NMDA receptors. We found that over-expression of the NR3B receptor subunit increased the length and complexity of dendritic arbor, and increased numbers of dendritic filopodia, suggesting that NR3B promotes the addition of branch segments in developing motor neurons. In contrast, blockade of NMDA receptor activity by the NMDA antagonist DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (AP5) had little effect on the overall length or complexity of dendritic arbor. Instead, treatment with AP5 resulted in significant reorganization of dendritic arbor in a manner that favored addition of dendritic segments of high branch orders, at the expense of those closer to the cell body. These results suggest that expression of the NR3B subunit may participate in activity-dependent reorganization of dendritic architecture, but via a mechanism that may be inconsistent with loss of NMDA receptor activity.
Neurovascular regulation, which is critical to the efficient functioning of the brain, is impaired in Alzheimer's disease and in transgenic mice overexpressing Abeta. Although senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles represent neuropathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease, deposition of Abeta in cerebral blood vessels also likely plays a significant role in this debilitating and fatal disease. Further, soluble Abeta, which shows greater correlation with disease progression and severity than deposited plaques or tangles, displays strong vasoactive properties. The aim of this study was to develop a non-invasive model of cerebral vasoactivity that would ultimately be translatable to Alzheimer's disease as a marker for disease-modifying efficacy of novel small molecule and biologics drugs. Relative changes in cerebral blood volume following relevant doses of soluble Abeta(1-40) (0.01 or 0.1 mg/mouse), PBS, or the reverse peptide, Abeta(40-1) (0.01 or 0.1 mg/mouse), were monitored non-invasively by contrast-enhanced functional magnetic resonance imaging in anesthetized C57BL/6 mice. Experiments were performed on a 7T horizontal bore scanner using gradient echo echo-planar imaging. As expected, PBS and Abeta(40-1) did not induce any significant change in vascular response. In contrast, Abeta(1-40) significantly decreased CBV in a quantifiable, dose-related and region-specific manner. These data demonstrate for the first time the feasibility of characterizing pathogenic Abeta(1-40)-induced vascular dysfunction in vivo using a non-invasive approach. Further, this technique can be readily applied to preclinical screening in a longitudinal manner for novel drugs or antibodies targeting disease modification.
Previous investigations with 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) have suggested that administration of this drug results in a degeneration of 5-HT nerve terminals and subsequent alterations in 5-HT neurotransmission. However, only limited investigations have examined the effects of MDMA on the dorsal raphe nucleus. The present study was designed to assess the effect of MDMA on the rate-limiting enzyme in 5-HT biosynthesis, tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH), by measuring TPH2 protein and mRNA levels in rat dorsal raphe (DR) nucleus. Rats were administered MDMA (20 mg/kg, s.c.) or saline twice daily for 4 days and killed 14 days later. Tissue sections of the DR were processed for quantitative immunoautoradiography and in situ hybridization histochemistry for measurements of the levels of TPH2-immunoreactivity (IR) and TPH2 mRNA. To assess 5-HT axon terminal integrity after MDMA treatment, the density of 5-HT transporter (SERT) binding sites was measured by quantitative autoradiography using [125I]RTI-55 ((-)-2beta-carbomethoxy-3 beta-(4-iodophenyl) tropane) ((125)I-RTI-55) as a ligand. TPH2-IR levels were significantly decreased by 45% in the mid DR and by 40% in the caudal DR in the MDMA-treated rats compared with saline-injected rats. In contrast, TPH2 mRNA levels were significantly increased by 24% in the mid DR and by 12% in the caudal DR. MDMA treatment significantly decreased (125)I-RTI-55 labeled SERT binding sites in the striatum, nucleus accumbens and cingulate cortex demonstrating a loss of 5-HT terminals. The increase in TPH2 mRNA levels in both the mid DR and caudal DR of MDMA-treated rats may reflect a compensatory mechanism in the injured 5-HT neurons to increase TPH2 protein synthesis. Taken together, our results suggest that a serious defect occurs in the biosynthesis of TPH2 in the DR following MDMA administration.
The development and maintenance of chronic pain are influenced by its social context, and especially by the responses of family members. For children, very few instruments are available that measure pain-related parental behavior. Using the Multidimensional Pain Inventory for adults (MPI; [Kerns RD, Turk DC, Rudy TE. The west haven-yale multidimensional pain inventory (WHYMPI). Pain 1985;23:345-356.]) as a model, we developed and evaluated a child and parent versions of the Pain-related Parent Behavior Inventory (PPBI). Here, we specifically studied maternal pain-related behavior as perceived by the child and self-reported by the mother. As substantiated by exploratory factor analysis in a mixed sample of 193 children and adolescents (8-16 years) either suffering from recurrent pain of different origin or being healthy controls, both PPBI versions entail the identical subscale solicitousness, distracting behaviors and discouraging/ignoring responses. Child and parent PPBI subscales were internally consistent and were not substantially related to age or gender. Validity analyses yielded a pattern of correlations with measures of depression, trait anxiety, pain activity, and pain-related cognitions that is consistent with the psychometric data for the adult MPI and findings on the social context of chronic pain. Child-perceived maternal behavior was significantly related to overall parenting and to mothers' actual behavior as observed during a cold pressor test. Finally, the PPBI was sensitive to differences in mothers' responses depending on the specific nature of the child's pain. Child and parent reports of parental behaviors were modestly correlated and were differentially related to the validity measures, hence supporting the importance of assessing the social context of pediatric pain independently of both the child's and the parent's perspectives.
Peripheral nerve injury causes neuropathic pain including mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia due to central and peripheral sensitization. Spontaneous ectopic discharges derived from dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons and from the sites of injury are a key factor in the initiation of this sensitization. Numerous studies have focused primarily on DRG neurons; however, the injured axons themselves likely play an equally important role. Previous studies of neuropathic pain rats with spinal nerve ligation (SNL) showed that the hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated cation (HCN) channel in DRG neuronal bodies is important for the development of neuropathic pain. Here, we investigate the role of the axonal HCN channel in neuropathic pain rats. Using the chronic constriction injury (CCI) model, we found abundant axonal accumulation of HCN channel protein at the injured sites accompanied by a slight decrease in DRG neuronal bodies. The function of these accumulated channels was verified by local application of ZD7288, a specific HCN blocker, which significantly suppressed the ectopic discharges from injured nerve fibers with no effect on impulse conduction. Moreover, mechanical allodynia, but not thermal hyperalgesia, was relieved significantly by ZD7288. These results suggest that axonal HCN channel accumulation plays an important role in ectopic discharges from injured spinal nerves and contributes to the development of mechanical allodynia in neuropathic pain rats.
In previous studies we demonstrated that protein kinase D1 (PKD1/PKCmu) could directly phosphorylate the transient receptor potential V1 (TRPV1) at its N-terminal region and enhance the function of TRPV1 in CHO cells stably transfected with TRPV1. In the current study we assessed the involvement of PKD1 in pain modulation and explored the possible interaction between PKD1 and TRPV1 in rat inflammatory heat hypersensitivity. PKD1 was translocated to cytoplasmic membrane fraction and was trans-phosphorylated only in membrane fraction but not in cytoplasmic fraction of dorsal root ganglia (DRG) at 2 and 6h after Complete Freund's Adjuvant (CFA) treatment. Pre i.t. injection of PKD1 antisense for 4 d or post-i.t. injection for 4 d both alleviated CFA-induced thermal hypersensitivity. Likewise, overexpression of PKD1 in DRG significantly enhanced, while dominant negative PKD1 (DN-PKD1) partly attenuated, heat hypersensitivity. Both PKD1 and TRPV1 were translocated to the cytoplasmic membrane in DRG 6 h after CFA treatment and, at that time, PKD1 interacted with TRPV1 by co-immunoprecipitation in DRG. Electrophysiological measurements indicated that DRG with overexpression of PKD1 were more sensitive to low dose capsaicin than those expressing DN-PKD1. The average magnitude of the peak inward current evoked by capsaicin was greater in the DRG overexpressing PKD1 than in those expressing DN-PKD1. Furthermore, overexpressed PKD1 could up regulate, whereas PKD1 antisense could knock down TRPV1 content in DRG through posttranscriptional regulation manner. We concluded that PKD1 in DRG, through interaction with TRPV1, is involved in developing and maintaining inflammatory heat hypersensitivity.
Chronic pain is often associated with reduced tactile acuity. A relationship exists between pain intensity, tactile acuity and cortical reorganisation. When pain resolves, tactile function improves and cortical organisation normalises. Tactile acuity can be improved in healthy controls when tactile stimulation is associated with a behavioural objective. We hypothesised that, in patients with chronic limb pain and decreased tactile acuity, discriminating between tactile stimuli would decrease pain and increase tactile acuity, but tactile stimulation alone would not. Thirteen patients with complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) of one limb underwent a waiting period and then approximately 2 weeks of tactile stimulation under two conditions: stimulation alone or discrimination between stimuli according to their diameter and location. There was no change in pain (100 mm VAS) or two-point discrimination (TPD) during a no-treatment waiting period, nor during the stimulation phase (p &gt; 0.32 for both). Pain and TPD were lower after the discrimination phase [mean (95% CI) effect size for pain VAS = 27 mm (14-40 mm) and for TPD = 5.7 mm (2.9-8. ), p &lt; 0.015 for both]. These gains were maintained at three-month follow-up. We conclude that tactile stimulation can decrease pain and increase tactile acuity when patients are required to discriminate between the type and location of tactile stimuli.
We evaluated the effect of low doses of systemically administered tetrodotoxin (TTX) on the development and expression of neuropathic pain induced by paclitaxel in mice. Treatment with paclitaxel (2mg/kg, i.p., once daily during 5 days) produced long-lasting (2-4 weeks) heat hyperalgesia (plantar test), mechanical allodynia (electronic Von Frey test) and cold allodynia (acetone drop method), with maximum effects observed on days 7, 10 and 10-14, respectively. Acute subcutaneous treatment with 1 or 3 microg/kg of TTX reduced the expression of mechanical allodynia, whereas higher doses (3 or 6 microg/kg) were required to reduce the expression of cold allodynia and heat hyperalgesia. In contrast, TTX (3 or 6 microg/kg, s.c.) did not affect the response to the same thermal and mechanical stimuli in control animals, which indicates that the antihyperalgesic and antiallodynic effects of TTX were not due to unspecific inhibition of the perception of these stimuli. Administration of TTX (6 microg/kg, s.c.) 30 min before each of the 5 doses of paclitaxel did not modify the development of heat hyperalgesia produced by the antineoplastic, but abolished the development of mechanical and cold allodynia. Coadministration of a lower dose of TTX (3 microg/kg) also prevented the development of mechanical allodynia. No signs of TTX-induced toxicity or motor incoordination were observed. These data suggest that low doses of TTX can be useful to prevent and treat paclitaxel-induced neuropathic pain, and that TTX-sensitive subtypes of sodium channels play a role in the pathogenesis of chemotherapy-induced neuropathic pain.
Long-term recordings of seasonal sleep patterns in captive white-crowned sparrows (Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii) have shown that these birds markedly reduce sleep time during the migratory period relative to the non-migratory period. It was also found that, despite this sleep reduction, sparrows showed no evidence of neurobehavioral deficits in a standard operant task used to assess the effects of sleep loss. In this study, we performed an extensive microarray analysis of gene expression in the sparrow telencephalon during the migratory season (M), relative to a 78-h period of enforced sleep restriction during the non-migratory season (SR), and a 6-h period of normal wakefulness during the non-migratory season (W). Of the estimated 17,100 transcripts that were reliably detected, only 0.17% changed expression as a function of M (relative to both SR and W), and 0.11% as a function of SR (relative to both M and W). Brain transcripts whose expression increased during M include the facilitated glucose transporter GLUT1, the presenilin associated rhomboid-like protein PARL, and several members of the heat shock protein family, such as HSP70, HSP90, GRP78 and BiP. These data suggest that migration is associated with brain cellular stress and enhanced energetic demands.
Decreases in serotonergic activity in the central nucleus of the amygdala reduce responses to stressors, suggesting an important role for serotonin in this region of the amygdala in stress reactivity. However, it is not known whether exposure to stressors actually increases serotonin release in the central nucleus of the amygdala. The current experiment tested the hypothesis that restraint stress increases extracellular serotonin within the central nucleus of the amygdala and adjacent medial amygdala using in vivo microdialysis in awake male rats during the dark phase of the light-dark cycle. Serotonin release in the central nucleus increased immediately in response to restraint stress. In contrast, there was no change in serotonin release within the adjacent medial amygdala during or following restraint. Since corticotropin-releasing factor is an important mediator of both responses to stressors and serotonergic activity, subsequent experiments tested the hypothesis that central nucleus serotonergic response to restraint stress is mediated by central corticotropin-releasing factor receptors. Administration of the corticotropin-releasing factor type 1 and 2 receptor antagonist d-Phe-CRF (icv, 10 microg/5 microl) prior to restraint stress suppressed restraint-induced serotonin release in the central nucleus. The results suggest that restraint stress rapidly and selectively increases serotonin release in the central nucleus of the amygdala by the activation of central corticotropin-releasing factor receptors. Furthermore, the results imply that corticotropin-releasing factor mediated serotonergic activity in central nucleus of the amygdala may be an important component of a stress response.
The kynurenine pathway converts tryptophan into various compounds, including L-kynurenine, which in turn can be converted into the excitatory amino acid receptor antagonist kynurenic acid. The ionotropic glutamate receptors have been considered to be attractive targets for new anticonvulsants in neurological disorders such as epileptic seizure. This study was designed to examine the conversion of L-kynurenine to kynurenic acid and to investigate the effects of kynurenic acid on pentylenetetrazole-treated rat brain slices, and in parallel to draw attention to the fact that a well-designed in vitro model has many advantages in pharmacological screening. Schaffer collateral stimulation-evoked field EPSPs were recorded from area CA1 of rat hippocampal slices in vitro; drugs were bath-applied. Pretreatment with the kynurenic acid precursor L-kynurenine led to the elimination of the effect of pentylenetetrazole on hippocampal slices in vitro. N-Omega-nitro-L-arginine, which inhibits kynurenine aminotransferase I and II, abolished this neuroprotective effect. This study has furnished the first in vitro electrophysiological evidence that rat brain slices have the enzymatic capacity to convert exogenously administered L-kynurenine (16 microM) to kynurenic acid in an amount sufficient to protect them against pentylenetetrazole (1 mM)-induced hyperexcitability.
The repeated administration of psychostimulants induces an enhanced behavioral response to a subsequent drug challenge. This behavioral sensitization is proposed to model the increased drug craving observed in human psychostimulant abusers. Using in vivo extracellular recordings from identified ventral tegmental area dopamine (DA) neurons, we report that amphetamine-sensitized rats display an activation of ventral hippocampal neuron firing and a significantly greater number of spontaneously active DA neurons compared with saline-treated rats. Moreover, TTX inactivation of the ventral hippocampus restores DA neuron activity to control levels and also blocks the expression of locomotor sensitization. Taken as a whole, we propose that behavioral sensitization to psychostimulant drugs is attributable, at least in part, to persistent activation of the ventral hippocampus-nucleus accumbens pathway, with the resultant increase in tonic DA neuron firing enabling an abnormally higher response to subsequent psychostimulant administration.
Psychological and microeconomic studies have shown that outcome values are discounted by imposed delays. The effect, called temporal discounting, is demonstrated typically by choice preferences for sooner smaller rewards over later larger rewards. However, it is unclear whether temporal discounting occurs during the decision process when differently delayed reward outcomes are compared or during predictions of reward delays by pavlovian conditioned stimuli without choice. To address this issue, we investigated the temporal discounting behavior in a choice situation and studied the effects of reward delay on the value signals of dopamine neurons. The choice behavior confirmed hyperbolic discounting of reward value by delays on the order of seconds. Reward delay reduced the responses of dopamine neurons to pavlovian conditioned stimuli according to a hyperbolic decay function similar to that observed in choice behavior. Moreover, the stimulus responses increased with larger reward magnitudes, suggesting that both delay and magnitude constituted viable components of dopamine value signals. In contrast, dopamine responses to the reward itself increased with longer delays, possibly reflecting temporal uncertainty and partial learning. These dopamine reward value signals might serve as useful inputs for brain mechanisms involved in economic choices between delayed rewards.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is the critical structure for preventing human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) trafficking into the brain. Specific HIV proteins, such as Tat protein, can contribute to the dysfunction of tight junctions at the BBB and HIV entry into the brain. Tat is released by HIV-1-infected cells and can interact with a variety of cell surface receptors activating several signal transduction pathways, including those localized in caveolae. The present study focused on the mechanisms of Tat-induced caveolae-associated Ras signaling at the level of the BBB. Treatment with Tat activated the Ras pathway in human brain microvascular endothelial cells (HBMECs). However, caveolin-1 silencing markedly attenuated these effects. Because the integrity of the brain endothelium is regulated by intercellular tight junctions, these structural elements of the BBB were also evaluated in the present study. Exposure to Tat diminished the expression of several tight junction proteins, namely, occludin, zonula occludens (ZO)-1, and ZO-2 in the caveolar fraction of HBMECs. These effects were effectively protected by pharmacological inhibition of the Ras signaling and by silencing of caveolin-1. The present data indicate the importance of caveolae-associated signaling in the disruption of tight junctions on Tat exposure. They also demonstrate that caveolin-1 may constitute an early and critical modulator that controls signaling pathways leading to the disruption of tight junction proteins. Thus, caveolin-1 may provide an effective target to protect against Tat-induced HBMEC dysfunction and the disruption of the BBB in HIV-1-infected patients.
Assessments of somatosensory and motor cortical somatotopy in vivo can provide important information on sensorimotor physiology. Here, novel polyimide-based thin-film microelectrode arrays (72 contacts) implanted epidurally, were used for recording of somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) and somatosensory cortex somatotopic maps of the rat. The objective was to evaluate this method with respect to precision and reliability. SEPs and somatosensory maps were measured twice within one session and again after 8 days of rest. Additionally, motor cortex maps were acquired once to assess the spatial relationship between somatosensory and motor representations of fore- and hindlimb within one individual. Somatosensory maps were well reproduced within and between sessions. SEP amplitudes and latencies were highly reliable within one recording session (combined intraclass correlation 90.5%), but less so between sessions (21.0%). Somatosensory map geometry was stable within and between sessions. For the forelimb the somatosensory representation had a 30% overlap with the corresponding motor area. No significant overlap was found for the hindlimb. No evidence for cortical injury was found on histology (Nissl). Thin-film epidural electrode array technology enables a detailed assessment of sensorimotor cortex physiology in vivo and can be used in longitudinal designs enabling studies of learning and plasticity processes.
The aim of this study was to test whether approximate entropy (ApEn) analysis provides a suitable method of detecting differences induced by a motor preparation task in time-ordered inter-spike intervals (ISIs) recorded in tonically firing motoneurons. Unlike classical methods of analyzing neuronal discharge variability, in which serial order is no taken into account, the approximate entropy (ApEn) was proposed by Pincus [Pincus SM. Approximate entropy as a measure of system complexity. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 1991;88:2297-301] to analyze ordered series. ApEn statistic is a number assigned to an ordered series, where higher values correspond to greater serial irregularity. In the present study, the activity of 31 single motor units (SMUs) was recorded in human extensor carpi radialis muscles and the ISI durations were analyzed during the performance of a pre-cueing reaction time motor task involving a 3-s preparatory period. ApEn values were computed for each SMU during three steps of the preparatory period and during the preceding control period. Lower ApEn values, were found during preparatory period. The decrease in ApEn values, i.e., the increase in serial regularity, was monotonic from the control to the end of the preparatory period. These results show that ApEn model-independent statistics are a relevant means of detecting changes related to motor preparation in the regularity of time-ordered inter-spike intervals (ISIs).
The rat vibrissal (whisker) array is a common model system in neuroscience used to study sensorimotor integration. Recent work has suggested that during object contact, the forces and moments at the whisker base may serve as important perceptual cues to the rat. To date, however, the force/moment profile that results from a whisker sweeping against an object has yet to be characterized, because it requires the simultaneous measurement of two-dimensional forces on the order of millinewtons. Current technology for these measurements typically involves prohibitively bulky, expensive equipment with complicated fabrication techniques. We have developed a simple, yet effective two-dimensional force sensor with +/-0.02 mN resolution; it is extremely compact, has a highly linear static response with low-noise output, and is inexpensive to build. We demonstrate the advantages and limitations of the sensor in three different experimental protocols, ranging from the precise quantification of forces on isolated (plucked) whiskers, to the detection of whisker-contact times in the awake behaving animal. Given the high fidelity of the sensor, it could have utility in a broad range of applications in which measuring contact/detach occurrence and/or small magnitude forces are important.
Many behaviors of interest to neurophysiologists are difficult to study under laboratory conditions because such behaviors are often inhibited when an animal is restrained and socially isolated. Even under the best conditions, such behaviors may be sparse enough as to require long duration neural recordings or simultaneous recording of multiple neurons to gather a sufficient amount of data for analysis. We have developed a preparation for chronic, multi-electrode recordings in the auditory cortex of marmoset monkeys, small primates, as well as techniques for neurophysiological recordings when the animals are free-roaming while singly caged in the environment of the monkey colony. In this report, we describe our solutions to overcome the problems associated with chronic recordings in free-roaming animals, where three-dimensional movements present particular challenges.
Western blots are used to estimate the relative concentrations of proteins of interest based on staining by specific antibodies. Quantitative measurements are often subject to error due to overloading of the loading control and over-reliance on normalization. We have found that at the protein concentrations normally used to quantify most low-abundance proteins of interest, frequently used single-protein loading controls, such as glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) and beta-actin, do not accurately reflect differences in protein concentration. Two total protein stains, SYPRO Ruby and Amido Black, were compared and found to be acceptable alternatives to single-protein controls. Although we cannot prove that high-abundance loading controls are inaccurate under all possible conditions, we conclude that the burden of proof should lie with the researcher to demonstrate that their loading control is reflective of quantitative differences in protein concentration.
Determining how a particular neuron, or population of neurons, encodes information in their spike trains is not a trivial problem, because multiple coding schemes exist and are not necessarily mutually exclusive. Coding schemes generally fall into one of two broad categories, which we refer to as rate and temporal coding. In rate coding schemes, information is encoded in the variations of the average firing rate of the spike train. In contrast, in temporal coding schemes, information is encoded in the specific timing of the individual spikes that comprise the train. Here, we describe a method for testing the presence of temporal encoding of information. Suppose that a set of original spike trains is given. First, surrogate spike trains are generated by randomizing each of the original spike trains subject to the following constraints: the local average firing rate is approximately preserved, while the overall average firing rate and the distribution of primary interspike intervals are perfectly preserved. These constraints ensure that any rate coding of information present in the original spike trains is preserved in the members of the surrogate population. The null-hypothesis is rejected when additional information is found to be present in the original spike trains, implying that temporal coding is present. The method is validated using artificial data, and then demonstrated using real neuronal data.
Rapid prototyping (RP) is a useful method for designing and fabricating a wide variety of devices used for neuroscience research. The present study confirms the utility of using fused deposition modeling, a specific form of RP, to produce three devices commonly used for basic science experimentation. The accuracy and precision of the RP method varies according to the type and quality of the printer as well as the thermoplastic substrate. The printer was capable of creating device channels with a minimum diameter of 0.4 or 0.6mm depending on the orientation of fabrication. RP enabled the computer-aided design and fabrication of three custom devices including a cortical recording/stroke induction platform capable of monitoring electrophysiological function during ischemic challenge. In addition to the recording platform, two perfusion chambers and a cranial window device were replicated with sub-millimeter precision. The ability to repeatedly modify the design of each device with minimal effort and low turn-around time is helpful for oft-unpredictable experimental conditions. Results obtained from validation studies using both the cortical recording platform and perfusion chamber did not vary from previous results using traditional hand-fabricated or commercially available devices. Combined with computer-aided design, rapid prototyping is an excellent alternative for developing and fabricating custom devices for neuroscience research.
Creatine (Cr) is an amino acid, which upon phosphorylation is utilized as an energy reservoir in cells with high-energy demand. The ongoing catabolism of creatine to creatinine requires a permanent creatine replenishment into the cells. Because neurons themselves cannot synthesize creatine, they have to take it up via the creatine transporter (CrT). Thus, the concentration of intracellular Cr available for the Cr/PCr shuttle system depends on the expression level of CrT protein. The proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) creatine peak (total creatine=tCr) constitutes of two metabolites, namely Cr and phosphocreatine (PCr). We have quantified the level of CrT protein expression with western blotting and compared it to tCr content as estimated by in vitro MRS in Sprague-Dawley rats. Under the assumption of hemispheric symmetry, we took identical samples from left and right hemisphere, which were used for in vitro MRS (tCr) and for western blotting (CrT), respectively. Altogether, it was possible to take 90 corresponding brain samples from 31 animals. A Pearson linear regression analysis for CrT and tCr revealed p&lt;0.0001, explaining 14% of the variance. Since MR-detectable alterations of tCr in the human brain are widespread (e.g. in most major psychiatric disorders proton MRS detectable tCr alterations have been described as regionally and usually state dependent) it is stringent to elucidate their meaning. An influence of tCr on the brain's energy regulating system seems plausible.
In neuroscience research, multiple electrodes are used to record simultaneous spiking activity of many neurons lossless in real time. Accordingly, to analyze the data from multiple electrodes, many algorithms and computer programs have been developed. Since these programs are developed by commercial companies or academic institutes independently, the lack of common standard makes the talks between them difficult. In one integrative analysis, when several of them are needed, neuroscience researchers are usually exhausted by the program switching and data transformation. In this paper, we developed an integrative workflow-based platform for multiple neural spike train data analysis, namely MEA-Platform. MEA-Platform is a Java-based software platform, which provides (1) a general application development interface to integrate or bridge other programs and (2) a workflow mechanism to operate them and make them talk easily. At the moment, many algorithms and tools abstracted from MEA-Tools, Spike manager and DATA-MEAns are integrated. They together provide comprehensive functionalities of data normalization, statistics and result reporting, which are indispensable for a complete analysis of multiple neural spike train data. Because the interface developed is very general and flexible, new analysis tools can be integrated effectively as required. MEA-Platform implies an ideal environment for integrative neuroscience research.
APEX 3 is a software test platform for auditory behavioral experiments. It provides a generic means of setting up experiments without any programming. The supported output devices include sound cards and cochlear implants from Cochlear Corporation and Advanced Bionics Corporation. Many psychophysical procedures are provided and there is an interface to add custom procedures. Plug-in interfaces are provided for data filters and external controllers. APEX 3 is supported under Linux and Windows and is available free of charge.
Among the possible interfaces with the peripheral nervous system (PNS), intraneural electrodes represent an interesting solution for their potential advantages such as the possibility of extracting spikes from electroneurographic (ENG) signals. Their use could increase the precision and the amount of information which can be detected with respect to other processing methods. In this study, in order to verify this assumption, thin-film longitudinal intrafascicular electrodes (tfLIFE) were implanted in the sciatic nerve of rabbits. Various sensory stimuli were applied to the hind limb of the animal and the elicited ENG signals were recorded using the tfLIFEs. These signals were processed to determine whether the different types of information can be decoded. Signals were wavelet denoised and spike sorted. Support vector machines were trained to use the spike waveforms found to infer the stimulus applied to the rabbit. This approach was also compared with previously used ENG-processing methods. The results indicate that the combination of wavelet denoising and spike sorting techniques can increase the amount of information extractable from ENG signals recorded with intraneural electrodes. This strategy could allow the development of more effective closed-loop neuroprostheses and hybrid bionic systems connecting the human nervous system with artificial devices.
Gender differences in dopaminergic related neurodegenerative diseases have hardly been studied until now. It is generally accepted that more men than women suffer from Parkinson's disease. One of the most prevalent symptoms in Parkinson's patients, hyposmia, does not show gender differences, while normally the sense of smell is better developed in females. Whether the change in dopamine in the olfactory bulb contributes equally to hyposmia in male and female Parkinson's patients is the subject of the present study. In a stereological study the total number of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive neurons in the olfactory bulbs of male and female Parkinson's patients and age-matched controls has been estimated. The present stereological study shows that the number of tyrosine hydroxylase positive cells in control females is significantly lower than those in control males. The number of dopaminergic cells in the olfactory bulbs of both male and female Parkinson's patients equals that of healthy males of the same age group. We therefore conclude that the hyposmia in Parkinson's disease patients cannot simply be ascribed to dopamine in the olfactory bulb.
A body of literature now exists, which demonstrates that idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) has a major negative impact on quality of life (QoL), and that depression and cognitive impairment are among the main predictors of poor QoL in this disorder. Relatively little work has been done to assess the differential contribution of the specific symptoms of PD to QoL, which was the aim of this study. One hundred thirty patients with PD completed a booklet of questionnaires, which included the PDQ39 as a disease-specific measure of QoL, a symptom checklist, a mobility checklist, as well as patient ratings of disease stage and disability. The results indicated that the contribution of physical, medication-related, and cognitive/psychiatric symptoms to QoL can be significant. Sudden unpredictable on/off states, difficulty in dressing, difficulty in walking, falls, depression, and confusion were PD symptoms, which significantly influenced QoL scores. Among the mobility problems associated with PD, start hesitation, shuffling gait, freezing, festination, propulsion, and difficulty in turning had a significant effect on QoL scores. In addition to depression and anxiety, the major predictors of QoL were shuffling, difficulty turning, falls, difficulty in dressing, fatigue, confusion, autonomic disturbance particularly urinary incontinence, unpredictable on/off fluctuations, and sensory symptoms such as pain. The implications of these results for the medical management of PD are discussed.


In 1958 a neurological section of the internal medicine was founded. Eight years late it became an independent department. After a very modest start neurology developped to an important and renowned institution. This development was favoured by the increasing importance of the neurosciences. From 1958 until his premature death in 1960 Bernese neurology was directed by Rolf Magun. From 1962 to 1990 it was headed by Marco Mumenthaler and since then by Christian W. Hess.
Deletion of F508 in the first nucleotide binding domain (NBD1) of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator protein (CFTR) is the commonest cause of cystic fibrosis (CF). Functional interactions between CFTR and CK2, a highly pleiotropic protein kinase, have been recently described which are perturbed by the F508 deletion. Here we show that both NBD1 wild type and NBD1 DeltaF508 are phosphorylated in vitro by CK2 catalytic alpha-subunit but not by CK2 holoenzyme unless polylysine is added. MS analysis reveals that, in both NBD1 wild type and DeltaF508, the phosphorylated residues are S422 and S670, while phosphorylation of S511 could not be detected. Accordingly, peptides encompassing the 500-518 sequence of CFTR are not phosphorylated by CK2; rather they inhibit CK2alpha catalytic activity in a manner which is not competitive with respect to the specific CK2 peptide substrate. In contrast, 500-518 peptides promote the phosphorylation of NBD1 by CK2 holoenzyme overcoming inhibition by the beta-subunit. Such a stimulatory efficacy of the CFTR 500-518 peptide is dramatically enhanced by deletion of F508 and is abolished by deletion of the II507 doublet. Kinetics of NBD1 phosphorylation by CK2 holoenzyme, but not by CK2alpha, display a sigmoid shape denoting a positive cooperativity which is dramatically enhanced by the addition of the DeltaF508 CFTR peptide. SPR analysis shows that NBD1 DeltaF508 interacts more tightly than NBD1 wt with the alpha-subunit of CK2 and that CFTR peptides which are able to trigger NBD1 phosphorylation by CK2 holoenzyme also perturb the interaction between the alpha- and the beta-subunits of CK2.
Magnetic resonance diffusion-weighted imaging coupled with fiber tractography (DFT) is the only non-invasive method for measuring white matter pathways in the living human brain. DFT is often used to discover new pathways. But there are also many applications, particularly in visual neuroscience, in which we are confident that two brain regions are connected, and we wish to find the most likely pathway forming the connection. In several cases, current DFT algorithms fail to find these candidate pathways. To overcome this limitation, we have developed a probabilistic DFT algorithm (ConTrack) that identifies the most likely pathways between two regions. We introduce the algorithm in three parts: a sampler to generate a large set of potential pathways, a scoring algorithm that measures the likelihood of a pathway, and an inferential step to identify the most likely pathways connecting two regions. In a series of experiments using human data, we show that ConTrack estimates known pathways at positions that are consistent with those found using a high quality deterministic algorithm. Further we show that separating sampling and scoring enables ConTrack to identify valid pathways, known to exist, that are missed by other deterministic and probabilistic DFT algorithms.



Glutamate/N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated neurotoxicity involves cyclooxygenase (COX)-2. We demonstrate that this neurotoxicity reflects activation of COX-2 by S-nitrosylation after selective binding of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) to COX-2. nNOS, via its PDZ domain, binds COX-2 with the generated NO S-nitrosylating and activating the enzyme. Selective disruption of nNOS-COX-2 binding prevents NMDA neurotoxicity.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of chronic administration of morphine on the expression of an endogenous opioid peptide in the spinal dorsal horn. Bovine adrenal medulla 22-like immunoreactivity (BAM22-IR) was found in the superficial layers of the spinal cord. Intrathecal (i.t.) administration of morphine (20 microg) for 6 days, but not 2 days, significantly reduced the expression of BAM22-IR whereas i.t. administration of saline for 2 and 6 days did not alter the expression of BAM22-IR. The present study suggests that reduction of BAM22-IR in the spinal cord is involved in the development of morphine tolerance.
C6 glioma cells were treated with clinically relevant concentrations of valproic acid (0.5 or 1.0 mM) for 1-7 days and RT-PCR used to examine expression of the melatonin MT(1) receptor and selected epigenetic modulators. Valproic acid caused significant time-dependent changes in the mRNA expression of the melatonin MT(1) receptor, histone deacetylase (HDAC) 1, 2 and 3, and methyl CpG binding protein 2 (MeCP2). A structurally distinct HDAC inhibitor, trichostatin A, also caused a significant concentration-dependent induction of melatonin MT(1) receptor mRNA expression, suggesting involvement of an epigenetic mechanism. The ability of clinical concentrations of valproic acid to significantly alter melatonin MT(1) receptor expression, suggests a role for this receptor in the diverse neuropharmacological and oncostatic effects of this agent.
A small subset of retinal ganglion cells projecting to the suprachiasmatic nucleus and other brain areas, is implicated in non-image forming visual responses to environmental light such as the pupillary light reflex, seasonal adaptations in physiology, photic inhibition of nocturnal melatonin release, and modulation of sleep, alertness and activity. These cells are intrinsically photosensitive (ipRGCs) and express an opsin-like photopigment called melanopsin. Two recent studies utilizing selective genetic ablation of ipRGCs demonstrate the key role of these inner retinal cells in conveying luminance signals to the brain for non-image forming visual processing. These findings advance our understanding of functional organization of a novel photosensory system in the mammalian retina, demonstrating well-defined roles for ipRGCs in circadian timing and other homeostatic functions related to ambient illumination.
Echidna and platypus brains were sectioned and stained by Nissl or myelin stains or immunocytochemically for calcium-binding proteins, gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) or other antigens. Cyto- and myeloarchitecture revealed thalami that are fundamentally mammalian in organization, with the three principal divisions of the thalamus (epithalamus, dorsal thalamus and ventral thalamus) identifiable as in marsupials and eutherian mammals. The dorsal thalamus exhibits more nuclear parcellation than hitherto described, but lack of an internal medullary lamina, caused by splaying out of afferent fibre tracts that contribute to it in other mammals, makes identification of anterior, medial and intralaminar nuclear groups difficult. Differentiation of the ventral nuclei is evident with the ventral posterior nucleus of the platypus enormously expanded into the interior of the cerebral hemisphere, where it adopts a relationship to the striatum not seen in other mammals. Other nuclei such as the lateral dorsal become identifiable by expression of patterns of calcium-binding proteins identical to those found in other mammals. GABA cells are present in the ventral and dorsal thalamic nuclei, and in the ventral thalamus form a remarkable continuum with GABA cells of the two segments of the globus pallidus and pars reticulata of the substantia nigra.

The precision with which motor neurons innervate target muscles depends on a regulatory network of Hox transcription factors that translates neuronal identity into patterns of connectivity. We show that a single transcription factor, FoxP1, coordinates motor neuron subtype identity and connectivity through its activity as a Hox accessory factor. FoxP1 is expressed in Hox-sensitive motor columns and acts as a dose-dependent determinant of columnar fate. Inactivation of Foxp1 abolishes the output of the motor neuron Hox network, reverting the spinal motor system to an ancestral state. The loss of FoxP1 also changes the pattern of motor neuron connectivity, and in the limb motor axons appear to select their trajectories and muscle targets at random. Our findings show that FoxP1 is a crucial determinant of motor neuron diversification and connectivity, and clarify how this Hox regulatory network controls the formation of a topographic neural map.
RhoA is known to be involved in myogenic differentiation, but whether it acts as a positive or negative regulator is controversial. To resolve this issue, we investigated the differentiation stage-specific roles of RhoA and its effector, Rho-associated kinase, using C2C12 myoblasts. We found that proliferating myoblasts show high levels of RhoA and serum-response factor activities and strong expression of the downstream target of RhoA, myocardin-related transcription factor-A (MRTF-A or MAL); these activities and expression are markedly lower in differentiating myocytes. We further demonstrated that, in proliferating myoblasts, an increase in MRTF-A, which forms a complex with Smad1/4, strikingly activates the expression level of the Id3 gene; the Id3 gene product is a potent inhibitor of myogenic differentiation. Finally, we found that during differentiation, one of the forkhead transcription factors translocates into the nucleus and suppresses Id3 expression by preventing the association of the MRTF-A-Smad complex with the Id3 promoter, which leads to the enhancement of myogenic differentiation. We conclude that RhoA/Rho-associated kinase signaling plays positive and negative roles in myogenic differentiation, mediated by MRTF-A/Smad-dependent transcription of the Id3 gene in a differentiation stage-specific manner.
The ability of synapses to undergo changes in structure and function in response to alterations of neuronal activity is an essential property of neural circuits. One way that this is achieved is through global changes in the molecular composition of the synapse; however, it is not clear how these changes are coupled to the dynamics of neuronal activity. Here we found that, in cultured rat cortical neurons, bidirectional changes of neuronal activity led to corresponding alterations in the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and phosphorylation of its receptor tropomyosin-related kinase B (TrkB), as well as in the level of synaptic proteins. Exogenous BDNF reversed changes in synaptic proteins induced by chronic activity blockade, while inhibiting Trk kinase activity or depleting endogenous BDNF abolished the concentration changes induced by chronic activity elevation. Both tetrodotoxin and bicuculline had significant, but opposite, effects on synaptic protein ubiquitination in a time-dependent manner. Furthermore, exogenous BDNF was sufficient to increase ubiquitination of synaptic proteins, whereas scavenging endogenous BDNF or inhibiting Trk kinase activity prevented the ubiquitination of synaptic proteins induced by chronic elevation of neuronal activity. Inhibiting the proteasome or blocking protein polyubiquitination mimicked the effect of tetrodotoxin on the levels of synaptic proteins and canceled the effects of BDNF. Our study indicates that BDNF-TrkB signaling acts upstream of the ubiquitin proteasome system, linking neuronal activity to protein turnover at the synapse.
Schizophrenia has been observed to be associated with various abnormalities in cytokines and cytokine receptors. Three very recent reports showed the evidence that the IL3 gene, colony stimulating factor 2 receptor alpha (CSF2RA), beta (CSF2RB) and IL-3 receptor alpha (IL3RA), the IL-specific receptor subunits for CSF2 and IL3, respectively, are associated with schizophrenia. To examine the association of the IL3RA polymorphism (rs6603272) with schizophrenia in a Chinese population, 310 physically healthy patients with schizophrenia were compared with 330 age-, sex- matched normal controls. Statistically significant differences were observed in both allelic and genotypic frequencies of the rs6603272 polymorphism (Allele, chi2=6.24, d.f.=1, p=0.013, odds ratio (OR)=1.35, 95% CI 1.07-1.71; Genotype, chi2=6.85, d.f.=2, p=0.033). Our results indicate a small but significant contribution of the IL3RA polymorphism to susceptibility to schizophrenia, suggesting that the IL3 pathway may be involved in schizophrenia.
Parkin plays an important role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. We previously described that Nrdp1, a RING-finger ubiquitin E3 ligase, interacted with Parkin by the yeast two-hybrid assay and by co-immunoprecipitation. Here we further demonstrated that overexpression of Nrdp1 significantly reduced the endogenous Parkin level in an Nrdp1 dosage-dependent and proteasome-dependent manner. More importantly, Nrdp1 ubiquitinated Parkin and catalyzed the poly-ubiquitin chains on Parkin in vitro as well as in cells, indicating Parkin is an Nrdp1 substrate. In addition, we demonstrated that overexpression of Nrdp1 increased the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), which was abrogated by co-expression of Parkin. Conversely, suppression of Nrdp1 by shRNA conferred SH-SY5Y cells a lower ROS level. Together, we provided evidence that interactions between Nrdp1 and Parkin negatively regulated Parkin level and affected ROS production, suggesting that Nrdp1 may play a role in Parkinson's disease.
Stress is a major risk factor in drug addiction development and relapse. Virtually all drugs of abuse act by increasing extracellular dopamine levels in the striatum. To gain an understanding of the interaction between stress and drug exposure, we studied the effects of concomitant chronic nicotine and chronic stress exposure on mouse striatal dopamine levels. C57Bl6/J mice were treated with nicotine in the drinking water or control solution for at least 6 weeks. Some mice were chronically stressed by daily exposure to cold, shaking or restrain. Nicotine-treated mice showed up-regulation of epibatidine binding in several brain regions. In mice treated with both chronic nicotine and stress, epibatidine binding was increased in all studied areas except the dorsal striatum. Therefore, microdialysis was used to measure extracellular dopamine levels in the dorsal striatum of mice chronically treated with nicotine, stress, or both. To have a measure of striatal response to different challenges, we performed microdialysis after acute injection of saline, nicotine, and cocaine. Chronic nicotine enhanced nicotine-dependent dopamine release, while chronic stress blunted the response to cocaine. When mice were subjected to both chronic nicotine and chronic stress, nicotine- and cocaine-dependent dopamine release was undistinguishable from that of control animals. In conclusion, our data suggest that chronic stress and chronic nicotine counteract each other's effect on dopamine release in the striatum. This effect might be mediated by changes in nicotinic acetylcholine receptor up-regulation. This &quot;normalization&quot; of striatal function when both nicotine and stress are present might help explain the comorbidity between stress-related disorders and drug abuse.
Pain, which afflicts up to 20% of the population at any time, provides both a massive therapeutic challenge and a route to understanding mechanisms in the nervous system. Specialised sensory neurons (nociceptors) signal the existence of tissue damage to the central nervous system (CNS), where pain is represented in a complex matrix involving many CNS structures. Genetic approaches to investigating pain pathways using model organisms have identified the molecular nature of the transducers, regulatory mechanisms involved in changing neuronal activity, as well as the critical role of immune system cells in driving pain pathways. In man, mapping of human pain mutants as well as twin studies and association studies of altered pain behaviour have identified important regulators of the pain system. In turn, new drug targets for chronic pain treatment have been validated in transgenic mouse studies. Thus, genetic studies of pain pathways have complemented the traditional neuroscience approaches of electrophysiology and pharmacology to give us fresh insights into the molecular basis of pain perception.
Although currently available retrograde tracers are useful tools for identifying striatal projection neurons, transported tracers often remained restricted within the neuronal somata and the thickest, main dendrites. Indeed, thin dendrites located far away from the cell soma as well as post-synaptic elements such as dendritic spines cannot be labeled unless performing intracellular injections. In this regard, the subsequent use of anterograde tracers for the labeling of striatal afferents often failed to unequivocally elucidate whether a given afferent makes true contacts with striatal projections neurons. Here we show that such a technical constraint can now be circumvented by retrograde tracing using rabies virus (RV). Immunofluorescence detection with a monoclonal antibody directed against the viral phosphoprotein resulted in a consistent Golgi-like labeling of striatal projection neurons, allowing clear visualization of small-size elements such as thin dendrites as well as dendritic spines. The combination of this retrograde tracing together with dual anterograde tracing of cortical and thalamic afferents has proven to be a useful tool for ascertaining striatal microcircuits. Indeed, by taking advantage of the trans-synaptic spread of RV, different subpopulations of local-circuit neurons modulating striatal efferent neurons can also be identified. At the striatal level, structures displaying labeling were visualized under the confocal laser-scanning microscope at high resolution. Once acquired, confocal stacks of images were firstly deconvoluted and then processed through 3D-volume rendering in order to unequivocally identify true contacts between pre-synaptic elements (axon terminals from cortical or thalamic sources) and post-synaptic elements (projection neurons and/or interneurons labeled with RV).
Ala substitution of potential metal-ion binding residues in the main ligand-binding pocket of the Zn2+-activated G protein-coupled receptor 39 (GPR39) receptor did not decrease Zn2+ potency. In contrast, Zn2+ stimulation was eliminated by combined substitution of His17 and His19, located in the N-terminal segment. Surprisingly, substitution of Asp313 located in extracellular loop 3 greatly increased ligand-independent signaling and apparently eliminated Zn2+-induced activation. It is proposed that Zn2+ acts as an agonist for GPR39, not in the classical manner by directly stabilizing an active conformation of the transmembrane domain, but instead by binding to His17 and His19 in the extracellular domain and potentially by diverting Asp313 from functioning as a tethered inverse agonist through engaging this residue in a tridentate metal-ion binding site.
Extensive theoretical and experimental work on the neuronal correlates of visual attention raises two hypotheses about the underlying mechanisms. The first hypothesis, named biased competition, originates from experimental single-cell recordings that have shown that attention upmodulates the firing rates of the neurons encoding the attended features and downregulates the firing rates of the neurons encoding the unattended features. Furthermore, attentional modulation of firing rates increases along the visual pathway. The other, newer hypothesis assigns synchronization a crucial role in the attentional process. It stems from experiments that have shown that attention modulates gamma-frequency synchronization. In this paper, we study the coexistence of the two phenomena using a theoretical framework. We find that the two effects can vary independently of each other and across layers. Therefore, the two phenomena are not concomitant. However, we show that there is an advantage in the processing of information if rate modulation is accompanied by gamma modulation, namely that reaction times are shorter, implying behavioral relevance for gamma synchronization.
Several studies have provided evidence that NG2-expressing (NG2(+)) progenitor cells are anatomically associated to neurons in gray matter areas. By analyzing the spatial distribution of NG2(+) cells in the hilus of the mouse dentate gyrus, we demonstrate that NG2(+) cells are indeed closely associated to interneurons. To define whether this anatomical proximity reflected a specific physiological interaction, we performed patch-clamp recordings on hilar NG2(+) cells and interneurons between 3 and 21 postnatal days. We first observed that hilar NG2(+) cells exhibit spontaneous glutamatergic EPSCs (sEPSCs) whose frequency and amplitude increase during the first 3 postnatal weeks. At the same time, the rise time and decay time of sEPSCs significantly decreased, suggesting that glutamatergic synapses in NG2(+) cells undergo a maturation process that is reminiscent of what has been reported in neurons during the same time period. We also observed that hilar interneurons and associated NG2(+) cells are similarly integrated into the local network, receiving excitatory inputs from both granule cells and CA3 pyramidal neurons. By performing pair recordings, we found that bursts of activity induced by GABAergic antagonists were strongly synchronized between both cell types and that the amplitude of these bursts was positively correlated. Finally, by applying carbachol to increase EPSC activity, we observed that closely apposed cells were more likely to exhibit synchronized EPSCs than cells separated by &gt;200 microm. The finding that NG2(+) cells are sensing patterns of activity arising in closely associated neurons suggests that NG2(+) cell function is finely regulated by the local network.
Activation of the climbing fiber input powerfully excites cerebellar Purkinje cells via hundreds of widespread dendritic synapses, triggering dendritic spikes as well as a characteristic high-frequency burst of somatic spikes known as the complex spike. To investigate the relationship between dendritic spikes and the spikelets within the somatic complex spike, and to evaluate the importance of the dendritic distribution of climbing fiber synapses, we made simultaneous somatic and dendritic patch-clamp recordings from Purkinje cells in cerebellar slices. Injection of large climbing fiber-like synaptic conductances at the soma using dynamic clamp was sufficient to reproduce the complex spike, independently of dendritic spikes, indicating that neither a dendritic synaptic distribution nor dendritic spikes are required. Furthermore, we found that dendritic spikes are not directly linked to spikelets in the complex spike, and that each dendritic spike is associated with only 0.24 +/- 0.09 extra somatic spikelets. Rather, we demonstrate that dendritic spikes regulate the pause in firing that follows the complex spike. Finally, using dual somatic and axonal recording, we show that all spikelets in the complex spike are axonally generated. Thus, complex spike generation proceeds relatively independently of dendritic spikes, reflecting the dual functional role of climbing fiber input: triggering plasticity at dendritic synapses and generating a distinct output signal in the axon. The encoding of dendritic spiking by the post-complex spike pause provides a novel computational function for dendritic spikes, which could serve to link these two roles at the level of the target neurons in the deep cerebellar nuclei.
The psychological refractory period (PRP) refers to the fact that humans typically cannot perform two tasks at once. Behavioral experiments have led to the proposal that, in fact, peripheral perceptual and motor stages continue to operate in parallel, and that only a central decision stage imposes a serial bottleneck. We tested this model using neuroimaging methods combined with innovative time-sensitive analysis tools. Subjects performed a dual-task visual-auditory paradigm in which a delay of 300 ms was injected into the auditory task either within or outside of the dual-task interference period. Event-related potentials indicated that the first approximately 250 ms of processing were insensitive to dual-task interference, and that the PRP was mainly reflected in a delayed global component. By a clustering analysis based on time-resolved functional magnetic resonance imaging, we identified networks with qualitatively different timing properties: sensory areas tracked the objective time of stimulus presentation, a bilateral parietoprefrontal network correlated with the PRP delay, and an extended bilateral network that included bilateral posterior parietal cortex, premotor cortex, supplementary motor area, anterior part of the insula, and cerebellum was shared by both tasks during the extent of dual-task performance. The results provide physiological evidence for the coexistence of serial and parallel processes within a cognitive task.
Genetic methods available in mice are likely to be powerful tools in dissecting cortical circuits. However, the visual cortex, in which sensory coding has been most thoroughly studied in other species, has essentially been neglected in mice perhaps because of their poor spatial acuity and the lack of columnar organization such as orientation maps. We have now applied quantitative methods to characterize visual receptive fields in mouse primary visual cortex V1 by making extracellular recordings with silicon electrode arrays in anesthetized mice. We used current source density analysis to determine laminar location and spike waveforms to discriminate putative excitatory and inhibitory units. We find that, although the spatial scale of mouse receptive fields is up to one or two orders of magnitude larger, neurons show selectivity for stimulus parameters such as orientation and spatial frequency that is near to that found in other species. Furthermore, typical response properties such as linear versus nonlinear spatial summation (i.e., simple and complex cells) and contrast-invariant tuning are also present in mouse V1 and correlate with laminar position and cell type. Interestingly, we find that putative inhibitory neurons generally have less selective, and nonlinear, responses. This quantitative description of receptive field properties should facilitate the use of mouse visual cortex as a system to address longstanding questions of visual neuroscience and cortical processing.
Synaptotagmin I is the Ca(2+) sensor for fast, synchronous release of neurotransmitter; however, the molecular interactions that couple Ca(2+) binding to membrane fusion remain unclear. The structure of synaptotagmin is dominated by two C(2) domains that interact with negatively charged membranes after binding Ca(2+). In vitro work has implicated a conserved basic residue at the tip of loop 3 of the Ca(2+)-binding pocket in both C(2) domains in coordinating this electrostatic interaction with anionic membranes. Although results from cultured cells suggest that the basic residue of the C(2)A domain is functionally significant, such studies provide contradictory results regarding the importance of the C(2)B basic residue during vesicle fusion. To directly test the functional significance of each of these residues at an intact synapse in vivo, we neutralized either the C(2)A or the C(2)B basic residue and assessed synaptic transmission at the Drosophila neuromuscular junction. The conserved basic residues at the tip of the Ca(2+)-binding pocket of both the C(2)A and C(2)B domains mediate Ca(2+)-dependent interactions with anionic membranes and are required for efficient evoked transmitter release. Our results directly support the hypothesis that the interactions between synaptotagmin and the presynaptic membrane, which are mediated by the basic residues at the tip of both the C(2)A and C(2)B Ca(2+)-binding pockets, are critical for coupling Ca(2+) influx with vesicle fusion during synaptic transmission in vivo. Our model for synaptotagmin's direct role in coupling Ca(2+) binding to vesicle fusion incorporates this finding with results from multiple in vitro and in vivo studies.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by progressive cognitive impairment associated with accumulation of amyloid beta-peptide, synaptic degeneration and the death of neurons in the hippocampus, and temporal, parietal and frontal lobes of the cerebral cortex. Analysis of postmortem brain tissue from AD patients can provide information on molecular alterations present at the end of the disease process, but cannot discriminate between changes that are specifically involved in AD versus those that are simply a consequence of neuronal degeneration. Animal models of AD provide the opportunity to elucidate the molecular changes that occur in brain cells as the disease process is initiated and progresses. To this end, we used the 3xTgAD mouse model of AD to gain insight into the complex alterations in proteins that occur in the hippocampus and cortex in AD. The 3xTgAD mice express mutant presenilin-1, amyloid precursor protein and tau, and exhibit AD-like amyloid and tau pathology in the hippocampus and cortex, and associated cognitive impairment. Using the iTRAQ stable-isotope-based quantitative proteomic technique, we performed an in-depth proteomic analysis of hippocampal and cortical tissue from 16 month old 3xTgAD and non-transgenic control mice. We found that the most important groups of significantly altered proteins included those involved in synaptic plasticity, neurite outgrowth and microtubule dynamics. Our findings have elucidated some of the complex proteome changes that occur in a mouse model of AD, which could potentially illuminate novel therapeutic avenues for the treatment of AD and other neurodegenerative disorders.

Targeting signals direct proteins to their extra- or intracellular destination such as the plasma membrane or cellular organelles. Here we investigated the structure and function of exceptionally long signal peptides encompassing at least 40 amino acid residues. We discovered a two-domain organization (&quot;NtraC model&quot;) in many long signals from vertebrate precursor proteins. Accordingly, long signal peptides may contain an N-terminal domain (N-domain) and a C-terminal domain (C-domain) with different signal or targeting capabilities, separable by a presumably turn-rich transition area (tra). Individual domain functions were probed by cellular targeting experiments with fusion proteins containing parts of the long signal peptide of human membrane protein shrew-1 and secreted alkaline phosphatase as a reporter protein. As predicted, the N-domain of the fusion protein alone was shown to act as a mitochondrial targeting signal, whereas the C-domain alone functions as an export signal. Selective disruption of the transition area in the signal peptide impairs the export efficiency of the reporter protein. Altogether, the results of cellular targeting studies provide a proof-of-principle for our NtraC model and highlight the particular functional importance of the predicted transition area, which critically affects the rate of protein export. In conclusion, the NtraC approach enables the systematic detection and prediction of cryptic targeting signals present in one coherent sequence, and provides a structurally motivated basis for decoding the functional complexity of long protein targeting signals.


Social transmission of learned behaviour is well documented in vertebrates but much less so among invertebrates. New research shows that nectar robbing can spread socially among bumble bees, even in the absence of nectar-robbing models.



We tested whether the sex pheromones that stimulate courtship clasping in male roughskin newts do so, at least in part, by amplifying the somatosensory signals that directly trigger the motor pattern associated with clasping and, if so, whether that amplification is dependent on endogenous vasotocin (VT). Female olfactory stimuli increased the number of action potentials recorded in the medulla of males in response to tactile stimulation of the cloaca, which triggers the clasp motor reflex, as well as to tactile stimulation of the snout and hindlimb. That enhancement was blocked by exposing the medulla to a V1a receptor antagonist before pheromone exposure. However, the antagonist did not affect medullary responses to tactile stimuli in the absence of pheromone exposure, suggesting that pheromones amplify somatosensory signals by inducing endogenous VT release. The ability of VT to couple sensory systems together in response to social stimulation could allow this peptide to induce variable behavioural outcomes, depending on the immediate context of the social interaction and thus on the nature of the associated stimuli that are amplified. If widespread in vertebrates, this mechanism could account for some of the behavioural variability associated with this and related peptides both within and across species.
Tactile discrimination depends on integration of information from the discrete receptive fields (RFs) of peripheral sensory afferents. Because this information is processed over a hierarchy of subcortical nuclei and cortical areas, the integration likely occurs at multiple levels. The current study presents results indicating that neurons across most of the extent of the hand representation in monkey primary somatosensory cortex (area 3b) interact, even when these neurons have separate RFs. We obtained simultaneous recordings by using a 100-electrode array implanted in the hand representation of primary somatosensory cortex of two anesthetized owl monkeys. During a series of 0.5-s skin indentations with single or dual probes, the distance between electrodes from which neurons with synchronized spike times were recorded exceeded 2 mm. The results provide evidence that stimuli on different parts of the hand influence the degree of synchronous firing among a large population of neurons. Because spike synchrony potentiates the activation of commonly targeted neurons, synchronous neural activity in primary somatosensory cortex can contribute to discrimination of complex tactile stimuli.
Retinal rods and cones, which are the front-end light detectors in the eye, achieve wonders together by being able to signal single-photon absorption and yet also able to adjust their function to brightness changes spanning 10(9)-fold. How these cells detect light is now quite well understood. Not surprising for almost any biological process, the intial step of seeing reveals a rich complexity as the probing goes deeper. The odyssey continues, but the knowledge gained so far is already nothing short of remarkable in qualitative and quantitative detail. It has also indirectly opened up the mystery of odorant sensing. Basic science aside, clinical ophthalmology has benefited tremendously from this endeavor as well. This article begins by recapitulating the key developments in this understanding from the mid-1960s to the late 1980s, during which period the advances were particularly rapid and fit for an intricate detective story. It then highlights some details discovered more recently, followed by a comparison between rods and cones.
Retrograde signaling by endocannabinoids (eCBs) mediates a widely expressed form of long-term depression at excitatory and inhibitory synapses (eCB-LTD), involving a reduction in neurotransmitter release. In the hippocampus, eCB-LTD occurs at interneuron (IN)-pyramidal cell (PC) synapses (I-LTD), and its induction requires a presynaptic reduction of cAMP/PKA signaling resulting from minutes of type 1 cannabinoid receptor (CB1R) activation. Although repetitive activity of glutamatergic synapses initiates the eCB mobilization required for I-LTD, it is unclear whether CB1R-containing GABAergic terminals are passive targets of eCBs or whether they actively contribute to induction. Here, we show that the minutes-long induction period for I-LTD may serve as a window to integrate associated spontaneous activity in the same IN receiving the retrograde eCB signal. Indeed, reducing spontaneous IN firing blocked I-LTD, which could be rescued with extra stimulation of inhibitory afferents. Moreover, cell pair recordings showed that a single IN expressed LTD onto a PC only if it was active during eCB signaling. Several methods of disrupting presynaptic Ca(2+) dynamics all blocked I-LTD, strongly suggesting that IN spikes regulate I-LTD by raising Ca(2+) at the nerve terminal. Finally, inhibiting the Ca(2+)-activated phosphatase, calcineurin, fully blocked I-LTD, but blocking another phosphatase did not. Our findings support a model where both CB1R signaling and IN activity shift the balance of kinase and phosphatase activity in the presynaptic terminal to induce I-LTD.

Over the past decades, several sensitive post-electrophoretic stains have been developed for an identification of proteins in general, or for a specific detection of post-translational modifications such as phosphorylation, glycosylation or oxidation. Yet, for a visualization and quantification of protein differences, the differential two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, termed DIGE, has become the method of choice for a detection of differences in two sets of proteomes. The goal of this review is to evaluate the use of the most common non-covalent and covalent staining techniques in 2D electrophoresis gels, in order to obtain maximal information per electrophoresis gel and for an identification of potential biomarkers. We will also discuss the use of detergents during covalent labeling, the identification of oxidative modifications and review influence of detergents on finger prints analysis and MS/MS identification in relation to 2D electrophoresis.
Cysteine thiol modifications are increasingly recognized to occur under both physiological and pathophysiological conditions, making their accurate detection, identification and quantification of growing importance. However, saturation labeling of thiols with fluorescent dyes results in poor protein recuperation and therefore requires the use of large quantities of starting material. This is especially important in sequential dye-labeling steps when applied for an identification of cysteine modifications. First, we studied the effects of different detergents during labeling procedure, i.e. Tween 20, Triton X-100 and CHAPS, on protein yield and composition. Tween 20 and Triton X-100 resulted in yields of around 50% labeled proteins compared to only 10% with PBS alone and a most diversified 2-DE protein pattern. Secondly, Tween 20 was used for serial protein labeling with maleimid fluorophores, first to conjugate to accessible thiols and after a reduction to label with another fluorophore previously masked di-sulphide and/or oxidized proteins in frontal cortex autopsy tissue of a subject with mild Alzheimer's disease. Two-DE DIGE revealed a complex protein pattern of readily labeled thiols and di-sulphide and/or oxidized proteins. Seventeen proteins were identified by MALDI-TOF and by peptide fingerprints. Several proteins were oxidized and involved in Alzheimer's disease. However methionine oxidation was prevalent. Infrared DIGE may provide an additional tool for an identification of oxidation susceptible proteins.
The thalamocortical projection to the rodent barrel cortex consists of inputs from the ventral posterior medial (VPM) and posterior medial (POm) nuclei that terminate in largely nonoverlapping territories in and outside of layer IV. This projection in both rats and mice has been used extensively to study development and plasticity of highly organized synaptic circuits. Whereas the VPM pathway has been well characterized in both rats and mice, organization of the POm pathway has only been described in rats, and no studies have focused exclusively on the development of the POm projection. Here, using transport of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin(PHA-L) or carbocyanine dyes, we characterize the POm thalamocortical innervation of adult mouse barrel cortex and describe its early postnatal development in both mice and rats. In adult mice, POm inputs form a dense plexus in layer Va that extends uniformly underneath layer IV barrels and septa. Innervation of layer IV is very sparse; a clear septal innervation pattern is evident only at the layer IV/Va border. This pattern differs subtly from that described previously in rats. Developmentally, in both species, POm axons are present in barrel cortex at birth. In mice, they occupy layer IV as it differentiates, whereas in rats, POm axons do not enter layer IV until 1-2 days after its emergence from the cortical plate. In both species, arbors undergo progressive and directed growth. However, no layer IV septal innervation pattern emerges until several days after the cytoarchitectonic appearance of barrels and well after the emergence of whisker-related clusters of VPM thalamocortical axons. The mature pattern resolves earlier in rats than in mice. Taken together, these data reveal anatomical differences between mice and rats in the development and organization of POm inputs to barrel cortex, with implications for species differences in the nature and plasticity of lemniscal and paralemniscal information processing.
The ventral nerve cord of holometabolous insects is reorganized during metamorphosis. A prominent feature of this reorganization is the migration of subsets of thoracic and abdominal larval ganglia to form fused compound ganglia. Studies in the hawkmoth Manduca sexta revealed that pulses of the steroid hormone 20-hydroxyecdysone (20E) regulate ganglionic fusion, but little is known about the cellular mechanisms that make migration and fusion possible. To test the hypothesis that modulation of cell adhesion molecules is an essential component of ventral nerve cord reorganization, we used antibodies selective for either the transmembrane isoform of the cell adhesion receptor fasciclin II (TM-MFas II) or the glycosyl phosphatidylinositol-linked isoform (GPI-MFas II) to study cell adhesion during ganglionic migration and fusion. Our observations show that expression of TM-MFas II is regulated temporally and spatially. GPI-MFas II was expressed on the surface of the segmental ganglia and the transverse nerve, but no evidence was obtained for regulation of GPI-MFas II expression during metamorphosis of the ventral nerve cord. Manipulation of 20E titers revealed that TM-MFas II expression on neurons in migrating ganglia is regulated by hormonal events previously shown to choreograph ganglionic migration and fusion. Injections of actinomycin D (an RNA synthesis inhibitor) or cycloheximide (a protein synthesis inhibitor) blocked ganglionic movement and the concomitant increase in TM-MFas II, suggesting that 20E regulates transcription of TM-MFas II. The few neurons that showed TM-MFas II immunoreactivity independent of endocrine milieu were immunoreactive to an antiserum specific for eclosion hormone (EH), a neuropeptide regulator of molting.
An important question in neuroscience is how different aspects of a stimulus are encoded at different stages of neural processing. In this review, I discuss studies investigating the peripheral neural code for perceived intensity in touch. One of the recurrent themes in this line of research is that information about stimulus intensity is encoded in the activity of populations of neurons. Not only is information integrated across afferents of a given type, but information is also combined across submodalities to yield a unified percept of stimulus intensity. The convergence of information stemming from multiple submodalities is particularly interesting in light of the fact that these are generally thought to be parallel sensory channels with distinct sensory functions and little cross-channel interactions. I discuss implications of a recently proposed model of intensity coding for psychophysical functions and for the coding of intensity in cortex. I also briefly review the peripheral coding of intensity in other sensory modalities.
Perinatal hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy results in a spectrum of pathologies related to the degree of initial infarct and environmental factors, including maternal interactions. Infants actively influence their environment by crying; rat pups produce ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs). Our study observed that ischemic pups engage in less time producing USVs and make fewer USVs overall, with male ischemic pups experiencing reductions in more categories than females. Future studies should consider whether alterations in mother-pup interactions result from these reductions.
Involvement of hippocampal cannabinoid receptors in short-term memory was investigated in rats using spontaneous object and place recognition memory tasks. Rats were allowed to explore the field in which two identical objects were presented. Then after a delay period, they were placed again in the same field in which one of the two objects was replaced by another object (object recognition task) or moved to another place (place recognition task), and their exploration behavior to these objects were analyzed. Activation of hippocampal cannabinoid receptors by an agonist WIN 55,212-2 (1-2 microg/side) dose-dependently decreased the exploration of object in a new place, while it did not affect the exploration of a new object. Disruptive effect of WIN 55,212-2 on place recognition was antagonized by the pretreatment with a cannabinoid receptor antagonist AM 281 (2mg/kg, i.p.). Results suggest that hippocampal cannabinoid receptors play an important role in place recognition or spatial memory.
Nicotine withdrawal is associated with multiple symptoms such as anxiety, increased appetite, and disrupted cognition in humans. Although animal models have provided insights into the somatic and affective symptoms of nicotine withdrawal, less research has focused on the effects of nicotine withdrawal on cognition. Therefore, in this study, C57BL/6J mice were used to test the effects of withdrawal from chronic nicotine on foreground and background contextual fear conditioning, which present the context as a primary or secondary stimulus, respectively. Mice withdrawn from 12 days of chronic nicotine (6.3mg/kg/day) or saline were trained and tested in either foreground or background contextual fear conditioning; nicotine withdrawal-associated deficits in contextual fear conditioning were observed in both conditions. Mice were also tested for the effects of withdrawal on pre-pulse inhibition of the acoustic startle reflex (PPI), a measure of sensory gating, and on the acoustic startle reflex. Mice withdrawn from 12 days of chronic nicotine (6.3 or 12.6 mg/kg/day) or saline underwent one 30-min PPI and startle session; no effect of withdrawal from chronic nicotine on PPI or startle was observed for either dose at 24h after nicotine removal. Therefore, mice were tested at different time points following withdrawal from 12.6 mg/kg/day chronic nicotine (8, 24, and 48 h after nicotine removal). No effect of withdrawal from chronic nicotine was observed at any time point for PPI. Overall, these results demonstrate that nicotine withdrawal disrupts two methods of contextual learning but not sensory gating in C57BL/6J mice.


In the present study, we will provide further anatomical evidence that the primary auditory cortex (field AI) is not only involved in sensory processing of its own modality, but also in complex bottom-up and top-down processing of multimodal information. We have recently shown that AI in the Mongolian gerbil (Meriones unguiculatus) has substantial connections with non-auditory sensory and multisensory brain structures [Budinger, E., Heil, P., Hess, A., Scheich, H., 2006. Multisensory processing via early cortical stages: Connections of the primary auditory cortical field with other sensory systems. Neuroscience 143, 1065-1083]. Here we will report about the direct connections of AI with non-sensory cortical areas and subcortical structures. We approached this issue by means of the axonal transport of the sensitive bidirectional neuronal tracers fluorescein-labelled (FD) and tetramethylrhodamine-labelled dextran (TMRD), which were simultaneously injected into different frequency regions of the gerbil's AI. Of the total number of retrogradely labelled cell bodies found in non-sensory brain areas, which identify cells of origin of direct projections to AI, approximately 24% were in cortical areas and 76% in subcortical structures. Of the cell bodies in the cortical areas, about 4.4% were located in the orbital, 11.1% in the infralimbic medial prefrontal (areas DPC, IL), 18.2% in the cingulate (3.2% in CG1, 2.9% in CG2, 12.1% in CG3), 9.5% in the frontal association (area Fr2), 12.0% in the insular (areas AI, DI), 10.8% in the retrosplenial, and 34.0% in the perirhinal cortex. The cortical regions with retrogradely labelled cells, as well as the entorhinal cortex, also contained anterogradely labelled axons and their terminations, which means that they are also target areas of direct projections from AI. The laminar pattern of corticocortical connections indicates that AI receives primarily cortical feedback-type inputs and projects in a feedforward manner to its target areas. The high number of double-labelled somata, the non-topographic distribution of single FD- and TMRD-labelled somata, and the overlapping spatial distribution of FD- and TMRD-labelled axonal elements suggest rather non-tonotopic connections between AI and the multimodal cortices. Of the labelled cell bodies in the subcortical structures, about 38.8% were located in the ipsilateral basal forebrain (10.6% in the lateral amygdala LA, 11.5% in the globus pallidus GP, 3.7% in the ventral pallidum VPa, 13.0% in the nucleus basalis NB), 13.1% in the ipsi- and contralateral diencephalon (6.4% in the posterior paraventricular thalamic nuclei, 6.7% in the hypothalamic area), and 48.1% in the midbrain (20.0% in the ipsilateral substantia nigra, 9.8% in the ipsi- and contralateral ventral tegmental area, 5.0% in the ipsi- and contralateral locus coeruleus, 13.3% the ipsi- and contralateral dorsal raphe nuclei). Thus, the majority of subcortical inputs to AI was related to different neurotransmitter systems. Anterograde labelling was only found in some ipsilateral basal forebrain structures, namely, the LA, basolateral amygdala, GP, VPa, and NB. As for the cortex, the proportion and spatial distribution of single FD-, TMRD-, and double-labelled neuronal elements suggests rather non-tonotopic connections between AI and the neuromodulatory subcortical structures.
Discontinuities in feature maps serve as important cues for the location of object boundaries. Here we used multi-input nonlinear analysis methods and EEG source imaging to assess the role of several different boundary cues in visual scene segmentation. Synthetic figure/ground displays portraying a circular figure region were defined solely by differences in the temporal frequency of the figure and background regions in the limiting case and by the addition of orientation or relative alignment cues in other cases. The use of distinct temporal frequencies made it possible to separately record responses arising from each region and to characterize the nature of nonlinear interactions between the two regions as measured in a set of retinotopically and functionally defined cortical areas. Figure/background interactions were prominent in retinotopic areas, and in an extra-striate region lying dorsal and anterior to area MT+. Figure/background interaction was greatly diminished by the elimination of orientation cues, the introduction of small gaps between the two regions, or by the presence of a constant second-order border between regions. Nonlinear figure/background interactions therefore carry spatially precise, time-locked information about the continuity/discontinuity of oriented texture fields. This information is widely distributed throughout occipital areas, including areas that do not display strong retinotopy.
Depression is often preceded by stressful life events and accompanied with elevated cortisol levels and glucocorticoid resistance. It has been suggested that a major depressive disorder may result from impaired coping with and adaptation to stress. The question is whether or not hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA)-axis dysfunction influences the process of adaptation. We examined the effect of a dysregulated HPA-axis on the adaptation to acoustic stimuli in rats with or without preceding restraint stress. HPA-axis function was altered via slow release of corticosterone (CORT, 90 mg) from subcutaneously implanted pellets for 7 or 14 days. The rate of body temperature increases during restraint (10 min) and the response to acoustic stimuli (of 80+120 dB) were used to quantify daily stress reactivity. Rats habituated to either stress regardless of CORT treatment. CORT treatment combined with restraint decreased the initial reactivity and the variability in response, but the rate of habituation was not influenced. These results show that suppressing normal HPA-axis function by chronic exposure to CORT does affect the course of habituation, but not habituation per se. This implies that altered HPA-axis function in depressed patients may not be causally related to stress coping, but instead may influence the course of the disorder.
Sleep is an essential process conserved from flies to humans. The importance of sleep is underscored by its tight homeostatic control. Through a forward genetic screen, we identified a gene, sleepless, required for sleep in Drosophila. The sleepless gene encodes a brain-enriched, glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored protein. Loss of SLEEPLESS protein caused an extreme (&gt;80%) reduction in sleep; a moderate reduction in SLEEPLESS had minimal effects on baseline sleep but markedly reduced the amount of recovery sleep after sleep deprivation. Genetic and molecular analyses revealed that quiver, a mutation that impairs Shaker-dependent potassium current, is an allele of sleepless. Consistent with this finding, Shaker protein levels were reduced in sleepless mutants. We propose that SLEEPLESS is a signaling molecule that connects sleep drive to lowered membrane excitability.


Cues that reliably predict rewards trigger the thoughts and emotions normally evoked by those rewards. Humans and other animals will work, often quite hard, for these cues. This is termed conditioned reinforcement. The ability to use conditioned reinforcers to guide our behaviour is normally beneficial; however, it can go awry. For example, corporate icons, such as McDonald's Golden Arches, influence consumer behaviour in powerful and sometimes surprising ways, and drug-associated cues trigger relapse to drug seeking in addicts and animals exposed to addictive drugs, even after abstinence or extinction. Yet, despite their prevalence, it is not known how conditioned reinforcers control human or other animal behaviour. One possibility is that they act through the use of the specific rewards they predict; alternatively, they could control behaviour directly by activating emotions that are independent of any specific reward. In other words, the Golden Arches may drive business because they evoke thoughts of hamburgers and fries, or instead, may be effective because they also evoke feelings of hunger or happiness. Moreover, different brain circuits could support conditioned reinforcement mediated by thoughts of specific outcomes versus more general affective information. Here we have attempted to address these questions in rats. Rats were trained to learn that different cues predicted different rewards using specialized conditioning procedures that controlled whether the cues evoked thoughts of specific outcomes or general affective representations common to different outcomes. Subsequently, these rats were given the opportunity to press levers to obtain short and otherwise unrewarded presentations of these cues. We found that rats were willing to work for cues that evoked either outcome-specific or general affective representations. Furthermore the orbitofrontal cortex, a prefrontal region important for adaptive decision-making, was critical for the former but not for the latter form of conditioned reinforcement.
Gastrointestinal (GI) abnormalities resulting from spinal cord injury (SCI) are challenging disorders that have not been examined experimentally using clinically relevant models. In this study, female Sprague-Dawley rats (n=5/groupx4: T10-T11 contusion, laminectomy, or nave) were fasted for 24 h before being submitted to dye recovery assays (Phenol Red solution, 1.5 ml/rat; per oral) on GI emptying/transiting at 48 h or 4 weeks postinjury (p.i.). Compared with controls, SCI significantly increased dye recovery rate (DRR, determined by spectrophotometry) in the duodenum (+84.6%) and stomach (+32.6%), but decreased it in the jejunum (-64.1% and -49.5%) and ileum (-73.6% and -70.1%) at 48 h and 4 weeks p.i., respectively (P&lt;or=0.005, ANOVA with post hoc t-test). Electrophysiological analysis revealed that purinergic fast inhibitory junction potential (IJP) was reduced approximately 30% in the antrum and duodenum of rats 48 h p.i. (numbers of animals/numbers of tissue samples=3/7; P&lt;0.001), and slow IJP was essentially abolished. Immunocytochemistry consequently uncovered significant reductions in the GI vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and neuronal nitric oxide synthase (i.e. slow IJP mediators) reactivity at 48 h and 4 weeks p.i., suggesting that SCI disrupted interstitial neurotransmission. Importantly, SCI caused discernible atrophy of the GI mucosa and muscle coat (e.g. the two layers of gastric wall were correspondingly 28% and 27% thinner 4 weeks p.i.). We conclude that contusive SCI triggers GI abnormalities with unique pathophysiology and pathology in different segments. Such GI disorders evolve continuously during the entire post-SCI period examined, and may require therapeutic development to target specific underlying mechanisms.
Rats will readily perform an operant response to self-administer electrical stimulation to the posterior mesencephalon (PM). Previous results show that axons that support self-stimulation travel between the PM and the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and that their activation increases firing of VTA neurons. The present work sought to extend these findings by describing the distribution of ventral midbrain neurons affected by PM self-stimulation. In Experiment 1, ventral midbrain Fos-immunoreactivity (IR) was assessed in three groups of rats implanted with a monopolar electrode; two groups were trained to self-administer stimulation, but only one was allowed to self-stimulate on the test day, whereas the third was never trained or tested. Self-stimulation induced prominent Fos-IR that was differentially distributed within the VTA and substantia nigra (SN). Control rats showed only sparse labeling. In Experiment 2, ventral midbrain Fos-IR was assessed with three additional groups trained to self-administer PM stimulation and tested as follows: Group-1 was allowed to self-stimulate, Group-2 received stimulation at parameters that failed to support self-stimulation (deemed non-rewarding) &quot;yoked&quot; to the rate of responding of Group-1, and Group-3 received no stimulation. PM self-stimulation induced Fos-IR throughout the rostral-caudal VTA and within the SN reticulata. Non-rewarding stimulation induced sparse Fos-IR, comparable to no stimulation. Fos-IR specific to PM self-stimulation was also observed within the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) and nucleus accumbens (NAS)-shell, but not within NAS-core, caudate putamen, medial prefrontal or orbital cortices. These findings are consistent with evidence that reward or positive reinforcement can be triggered by chemical and electrical stimulation over a large rostral-caudal extent of the VTA. They suggest that among ventral midbrain projection sites, the BNST and NAS-shell constitute important components of the circuitry implicated in reward. They provide additional support for the functional link between neurons that support PM and VTA self-stimulation, and offer topographical guidance to future attempts at their identification.
The impact of the A-type GABA (GABA-A) receptor in gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons is controversial. In adult GnRH neurons, the GABA-A receptor conductance has been reported to either hyperpolarize or depolarize GnRH neurons. Regardless of whether GABA is inhibitory or excitatory in GnRH neurons, GABAergic input would be integrated with post-synaptic potentials generated by other synaptic inputs. We used dynamic current clamping and compartmental computer modeling to examine the integration of AMPA-type glutamatergic input and GABA-mediated input in both the hyperpolarizing (inhibitory) and depolarizing (excitatory) modes in GnRH neurons from transgenic mice (Mus Musculus) generated on a C57BL6 background. In both living and model neurons, action potentials were most likely a few ms after a maximum in AMPA conductance coincided with a minimum in inhibitory GABA. Excitatory GABA interacted differently with AMPA, with spikes most likely, in both dynamic clamping of living neurons and in model neurons, when a maximum in AMPA coincided with the decay from peak of a maximum in GABA. Distributing synapses along the dendrite maximized the temporal relationship between AMPA and GABA conductances and therefore, the potential for spiking. Thus, these two dominant neurotransmitters could interact in multiple frames to generate action potentials in GnRH neurons.
Although the biological activity of estrogen is generally mediated through nuclear estrogen receptors, a large body of evidence indicates that estrogen may also affect target cells upon binding to putative membrane estrogen receptors (mER) coupled to intracellular signaling cascades; however, no agreement has been reached on the nature and precise location of the putative estrogen receptor (ER) responsible for these rapid effects. In the present report we show that the expression of ERalpha is associated with the plasma membrane fraction of rat hypothalamic tissue at embryonic day 16. Moreover, our experiments extend these results to rat hypothalamic neurons in vitro showing that ERalpha can be detected from the cell exterior as a biotinylated cell-surface protein. We have also shown that the mERalpha is under regulation of estradiol, and the ERalpha agonist, 4,4',4''-(4-propyl-[1H]-pyrazole-1,3,5-triyl)trisphenol, induced extracellular-signal-regulated kinase signaling in a dose-dependent manner and in a time-course not compatible with genomic actions, supporting the notion of a membrane-initiated phenomenon.
Prenatal exposure to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) or methylmercury (MeHg) contaminated food may affect brain development, leading to long-term alterations in cognitive function. Both types of contaminants, PCBs and MeHg, are often found together contaminating food, especially fish in some polluted areas. Exposure to combinations of neurotoxicants may exert different effects on the developing nervous system than exposure to individual contaminants. Developmental exposure (during pregnancy and lactation) to PCB126 or PCB153 impairs learning ability when the rats are 3 months old. Impairment of learning seems to be a consequence of impairment of the function of the glutamate-nitric oxide (NO)-cGMP pathway in brain in vivo. The aims of the present work were 1) to assess whether perinatal exposure to MeHg also affects the function of the glutamate-NO-cGMP pathway in brain in vivo analyzed by in vivo brain microdialysis and/or the ability to learn the Y maze task when the rats are 3 months old, and 2) to assess whether perinatal exposure to combinations of MeHg with PCB153 or PCB126 potentiates, decreases or does not modify the effects of the individual neurotoxicants. Perinatal exposure to PCB126, PCB153 or MeHg impaired the function of the glutamate-NO-cGMP pathway in cerebellum and learning ability. However, co-exposure to PCB126+MeHg or PCB153+MeHg inhibits the impairment of the pathway or learning ability. These results support that the function of this pathway modulates learning of the Y maze task. Moreover, they show that co-exposure to these PCBs and MeHg does not exacerbate, but reduces the effects on the ability to learn this task.
Minocycline is a semi-synthetic second-generation tetracycline known to improve cognition in amyloid precursor protein transgenic mice. Whether it can protect the somatostatin (SRIF) receptor-effector system, also involved in learning and memory, from alterations induced by chronic i.c.v. infusion of beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta)(25-35) is presently unknown. Hence, in the present study, we tested the effects of minocycline on the SRIF signaling pathway in the rat temporal cortex. To this end, male Wistar rats were injected with minocycline (45 mg/kg body weight) i.p. twice on the first day of treatment. On the following day and during 14 days, Abeta(25-35) was administered i.c.v. via an osmotic minipump connected to a cannula implanted in the left lateral ventricle (300 pmol/day). Minocycline (22.5 mg/kg, i.p.) was injected once again the last 2 days of the Abeta(25-35) infusion. The animals were killed by decapitation 24 h after the last drug injection. Our results show that minocycline prevents the decrease in SRIF receptor density and somatostatin receptor (sst) 2 expression and the attenuated capacity of SRIF to inhibit adenylyl cyclase (AC) activity, alterations present in the temporal cortex of Abeta(25-35)-treated rats. Furthermore, minocycline blocks the Abeta(25-35)-induced decrease in phosphorylated cyclic AMP (cAMP) response element binding protein (p-CREB) content and G-protein-coupled receptor kinase 2 (GRK) protein expression in this brain area. Altogether, the present data demonstrate that minocycline in vivo provides protection against Abeta-induced impairment of the SRIF signal transduction pathway in the rat temporal cortex and suggest that it may have a potential as a therapeutic agent in human Alzheimer's disease, although further studies are warranted.
Long term facilitation (LTF) of C-fiber-evoked firing of wide dynamic range neurons in the spinal dorsal horn in response to conditioning stimulation (CS) of afferent fibers is a widely studied cellular model of spinal nociceptive sensitization. Although 100 Hz CS of primary afferent fibers is commonly used to induce spinal cord LTF, this frequency exceeds the physiological firing range. Here, we examined the effects of electrical stimulation of the sciatic nerve within the physiological frequency range on the magnitude and stability of the C-fiber-evoked responses of wide dynamic range neurons and the expression of immediate early genes (c-fos, zif268, and Arc) in anesthetized rats. Stimulation frequencies of 3, 30 and 100 Hz all induced facilitation of similar magnitude as recorded at 1 h post-CS. Strikingly, however, 3 Hz-induced potentiation of the C-fiber responses was decremental, whereas both 30 and 100 Hz stimulation resulted in stable, non-decremental facilitation over 3 h of recording. The number of dorsal horn neurons expressing c-fos, but not zif268 or Arc, was significantly elevated after 3 Hz CS and increased proportionally with stimulation rate. In contrast, a stable LTF of C-fiber responses was obtained at 30 and 100 Hz CS, and at these frequencies there was a sharp increase in zif268 expression and appearance of Arc-positive neurons. The results show that response facilitation can be induced by stimulation frequencies in the physiological range (3 and 30 Hz). Three hertz stimulation induced the early phase of LTF, but the responses were decremental. Arc and zif268, two genes previously coupled to LTP of synaptic transmission in the adult brain, are upregulated at the same frequencies that give stable LTF (30 and 100 Hz). This frequency-dependence is important for understanding how the afferent firing pattern affects neuronal plasticity and nociception in the spinal dorsal horn.
Our experiments demonstrate a novel role for group I metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) subtypes 1 and 5 in generating a long-lasting synaptic excitation in the substantia gelatinosa (SG) and deep dorsal horn (DH) neurons of the rat spinal cord. In the present study we have investigated a slow excitatory postsynaptic current (EPSC), elicited by a brief high intensity (at Adelta/C fiber strength) and high frequency (20 or 100 Hz) stimulation of primary afferent fibers (PAFs) using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from neurons located in the DH (laminae II-V) in spinal cord slices of young rats and wild-type and gene-targeted mice lacking mGluR1 subtype. The results shown here suggest that the activation of both mGluR1 and mGluR5 along with NK1 receptors, may be involved in the generation of the slow EPSC in the spinal cord DH. Inhibition of glial and neuronal glutamate transporters by DL-threo-beta-benzyloxyaspartate (TBOA) enhanced the group I mGluR-dependent slow EPSC about eightfold. Therefore, we conclude, that glutamate transporters strongly influence the group I mGluR activation by PAFs possibly at sensory synapses in the DH. Overall these data indicate that stimulus trains can generate a sustained and widespread glutamate signal that can further elicit prolonged EPSCs predominantly mediated by the group I mGluRs. These slow excitatory synaptic currents may have important functional implications for DH cell firing and synaptic plasticity of sensory transmission, including nociception.
We have recorded excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) evoked by local electrical stimulation in 243 nucleus accumbens (nAcb) neurons in vitro during postnatal development from the day of birth (postnatal day 0; P0) to P27 and in young adults rats (P59-P71). An EPSC sensitive to glutamatergic antagonists was found in all neurons. In the majority of cases (189/243), the EPSC had two distinct components: an early one sensitive to 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) and a late one that was sensitive to D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV) showing that early and late components of the EPSC were mediated by AMPA/kainate (KA) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors respectively. During the first four postnatal days, the amplitudes of both the AMPA/KA and NMDA components of the EPSC were relatively small and then began to increase until the end of the second postnatal week. Whereas the amplitude of the early component appeared to stabilize from that point on, the late component began to decrease and became virtually undetectable in preparations from animals older than 3 weeks unless the AMPA/KA response was blocked with CNQX. In addition, the ratio between the amplitude of the NMDA and AMPA/KA receptor-mediated components of the EPSC followed a developmental pattern parallel to that of the NMDA receptor component showing an increase during the first two postnatal weeks followed by a decrease. Together, these results show that, during postnatal development, there is a period when NMDA receptor-mediated EPSC are preeminent and that time frame might represent a period during which the development of the nAcb might be sensitive to environmental manipulation.
Neuropathic pain (NPP) due to sensory nerve injury is, in part, the result of peripheral sensitization leading to a long-lasting increase in synaptic plasticity in the spinal dorsal horn. Thus, activation of GABA-mediated inhibitory inputs from sensory neurons could be beneficial in the alleviation of NPP symptoms. Dorsal root ganglia (DRG) conduct painful stimulation from the periphery to the spinal cord. Long-lasting down-regulation in GABA tone or sensitivity in DRG neurons has been reported in animals with neuropathy. To determine the function of GABA in DRG in the development of NPP, we examined how the acute pharmacological GABA(A)-receptor modulation of L5 DRG in vivo affects the development of NPP in rats with crush injury to the sciatic nerve. Direct application of muscimol and gaboxadol, GABA(A) agonists, to L5 DRG immediately after injury induced dose-dependent alleviation, whereas bicuculline and picrotoxin, GABA(A) antagonists, worsened NPP postaxonal injury. The pain-alleviating effects of muscimol and gaboxadol were blocked by bicuculline. Muscimol, applied at the time of injury, caused complete and long-lasting abolishment of NPP development. However, when muscimol was applied after NPP had already developed, its pain-alleviating effect, although significant, was short-lived. Using a fluorescent tracer, sodium fluorescein, we confirmed that local DRG application results in minimal spread into the corresponding dorsal horn of the ipsilateral spinal cord. GABA(A) receptors in DRG are important in the development of NPP after peripheral nerve injury, making timely exogenous GABAergic manipulation at the DRG level a potentially useful therapeutic modality.
Building upon our initial studies in young adult surgically menopausal monkeys, this study examined the effects of a novel schedule of administration of estradiol therapy alone, or in combination with progesterone, on visual and spatial recognition memory in older monkeys. Monkeys were preoperatively trained on a delayed matching-to-sample task and a delayed response task. At the time of ovariectomy, monkeys began their hormonal treatments and were cognitively assessed at 2, 12 and 24 weeks following treatment initiation. A schedule of hormone administration was used that closely modeled the normal fluctuations of hormones during the course of a normal primate menstrual cycle. Monkeys receiving placebo had lower levels of accuracy than monkeys receiving estrogen therapies on the delayed matching-to-sample task that were not apparent until 12 weeks following initiation of therapy and were no longer detected at the 24-week assessment. There was no effect of hormone therapy on accuracy in the delayed response task at any of the postoperative assessments. In both tasks, monkeys treated with estrogen plus progesterone had longer choice response latencies, especially on trials in which they made errors; however these effects did not influence accuracy measures in these animals. Our findings indicate that visual recognition ability may be more sensitive than spatial recognition memory to this novel hormone therapy regimen, that treatment with estradiol plus progesterone was equivalent to that of estradiol alone, and that neither therapy had significant negative impact on memory profiles.
Accumulating evidence suggests that the side effects of celecoxib, widely used to treat muscle and joint pain, may be mediated in part through cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) independent mechanisms, such as inhibition of ion channels. In this study we report effects of celecoxib on ionic currents and neuronal activity in isolated rat retinal neurons. We found that celecoxib suppressed voltage-gated potassium currents in retinal bipolar cells with an effective concentration to inhibit 50% of function (EC(50)) of 5.5 microM. In retinal amacrine and ganglion cells, celecoxib inhibited voltage-dependent sodium channels with an EC(50) of 5.2 microM, and voltage-dependent transient and sustained potassium currents with EC(50)s of 16.3 and 9.1 microM, respectively. Notably, the rate of spontaneous spike activity was dramatically suppressed in ganglion and amacrine cells with an EC(50) of 0.76 microM. All actions of celecoxib on ionic currents and action potentials occurred from the extracellular side and were completely reversible. These findings indicate that inhibition of ion channels by celecoxib in the CNS may affect neuronal function at clinically relevant concentrations.
Increasing experimental and clinical evidence suggests that abnormal glutamate transmission might play a major role in a vast number of neurological disorders. As a measure of glutamatergic excitation, we have studied the acetylcholine (ACh) release induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor stimulation in primary cultured rat ventral horn spinal neurons and we have evaluated the possibility to limit the consequences of the hyperactivation of glutamatergic receptors, by recruiting the inhibitory transmission mediated by GABA and glycine. For this purpose, we have exposed cell cultures, previously loaded with [(3)H]choline, to NMDA, which increased the spontaneous tritium efflux in a concentration-dependent manner. Tritium release is dependent upon external Ca(2+), tetrodotoxin, Cd(2+) ions and omega-conotoxin GVIA, but not on omega-conotoxin MVIIC nor nifedipine, suggesting the involvement of N-type voltage-sensitive calcium channels. NMDA-mediated [(3)H]ACh release was completely prevented by MK-801, 5,7-diclorokynurenic acid and ifenprodil, while it was strongly inhibited by a lower external pH, suggesting that the involved NMDA receptors contain NR1 and NR2B subunits. Muscimol inhibited NMDA-evoked [(3)H]ACh release and its effect was antagonized by SR95531 and potentiated by diazepam, indicating the involvement of benzodiazepine-sensitive GABA(A) receptors. Also glycine, via strychnine-sensitive receptors, inhibited the effect of NMDA. It is concluded that glutamate acts on the NMDA receptors situated on spinal motoneurons to evoke ACh release, which can be inhibited through the activation of GABA(A) and glycine receptors present on the same neurons. These data suggest that glutamatergic overload of receptors located onto spinal cord motoneurons might be decreased by activating GABA(A) and glycine receptors.
In the mammalian hippocampus, the dentate gyrus (DG) is characterized by sparse and powerful unidirectional projections to CA3 pyramidal cells, the so-called mossy fibers (MF). The MF form a distinct type of synapses, rich in zinc, that appear to duplicate, in terms of the information they convey, what CA3 cells already receive from entorhinal cortex layer II cells, which project both to the DG and to CA3. Computational models have hypothesized that the function of the MF is to enforce a new, well-separated pattern of activity onto CA3 cells, to represent a new memory, prevailing over the interference produced by the traces of older memories already stored on CA3 recurrent collateral connections. Although behavioral observations support the notion that the MF are crucial for decorrelating new memory representations from previous ones, a number of findings require that this view be reassessed and articulated more precisely in the spatial and temporal domains. First, neurophysiological recordings indicate that the very sparse dentate activity is concentrated on cells that display multiple but disorderly place fields, unlike both the single fields typical of CA3 and the multiple regular grid-aligned fields of medial entorhinal cortex. Second, neurogenesis is found to occur in the adult DG, leading to new cells that are functionally added to the existing circuitry, and may account for much of its ongoing activity. Third, a comparative analysis suggests that only mammals have evolved a DG, despite some of its features being present also in reptiles, whereas the avian hippocampus seems to have taken a different evolutionary path. Thus, we need to understand both how the mammalian dentate operates, in space and time, and whether evolution, in other vertebrate lineages, has offered alternative solutions to the same computational problems.
Retrieval of a consolidated memory triggers a number of processes which depend, among other factors, on the duration of the reactivation session: reconsolidation requires a brief reactivation session, and extinction, a prolonged one. The scope of this study is to explore the potential role of the hippocampal endocannabinoid system on reconsolidation and extinction processes. Bilateral infusion of the CB1 cannabinoid receptor antagonist, N-(piperidin-1-yl)-5-(4-iodophenyl)-1-(2, 4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-1H-pyrazole-3-carboxamide (AM251) into the CA1 region of the dorsal hippocampus of Wistar rats after memory reactivation facilitated the reconsolidation of the contextual fear conditioning memory. The inhibition of protein synthesis with DRB in the same brain region blocked memory reconsolidation. Both effects were persistent, lasting up to 7 days after the first retrieval experience. In contrast, the local infusion of anandamide blocked memory reconsolidation, an effect that was antagonized by the combined administration of anandamide with a subthreshold dose of a CB1 antagonist, supporting a CB1-mediated role of the hippocampal endocannabinoid system in the modulation of the memory reconsolidation. Local infusion of AM251 into CA1 blocked memory extinction whereas the administration of anandamide facilitated it; however, when combined with a subthreshold concentration of the CB1 antagonist, anandamide did not affect the extinction process. The clear-cut, opposite effects observed in each situation suggest a possible role of the hippocampal endocannabinoid system as a switching mechanism deciding which processes will take place, either maintaining the original memory (reconsolidation) or promoting a new learning (extinction).
The present studies aimed to determine whether estradiol (E(2)) modulates the stimulation of cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) peptide in the mesolimbic and nigrostriatal dopaminergic systems. I.c.v. administration of the CART peptide (55-102, 1 microg/3 microl) increased dopamine turnover (3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, DOPAC) in the nucleus accumbens (NA) and striatum (ST) in ovariectomized (OVX) female Sprague-Dawley rats with E(2)-priming. This stimulation of NA and ST DOPAC contents by CART peptide was found in OVX+E(2) female rats, but not in OVX only female rats, suggesting E(2) is an important factor in modulating the stimulatory effect of CART in the regulation of NA and ST DOPAC contents. This stimulation by CART peptide was also restored by treatment with the water-soluble form of E(2), but not by treatment with the membrane-impermeable form of E(2) in OVX female rats, suggesting that E(2) acts through intracellular rather than extracellular mechanisms to modulate the effects of CART peptide. Furthermore, the effects of water-soluble form of E(2) were blocked by E(2) antagonist, tamoxifen, but not by testosterone antagonist, flutamide. Our findings are the first to demonstrate that that E(2) plays a regulatory role in stimulation of CART peptide in mesolimbic and nigrostriatal dopaminergic systems in female rats, and E(2) acts through its own receptor(s) and intracellular mechanisms.
Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is associated with several pathophysiological conditions, including hypertension, obesity, insulin resistance, hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) dysregulation, and other endocrine and metabolic disturbances comprising the &quot;metabolic syndrome.&quot; Repeated episodes of hypoxia in OSA may represent a chronic intermittent stress, leading to HPA dysregulation. Alterations in HPA reactivity could then contribute to or exacerbate other pathophysiological processes. We showed previously that another metabolic stressor, chronic intermittent cold stress, enhanced noradrenergic facilitation of acute HPA stress reactivity. In this study, we investigated whether chronic intermittent hypoxia (CIH), a rat model for the arterial hypoxemia that accompanies OSA, similarly sensitizes the HPA response to novel acute stress. Rats were exposed to CIH (alternating cycles of normoxia [3 min at 21% O(2)] and hypoxia [3 min at 10% O(2)], repeated continuously for 8 h/day during the light portion of the cycle for 7 days). On the day after the final CIH exposure, there were no differences in baseline plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), but the peak ACTH response to 30 min acute immobilization stress was greater in CIH-stressed rats than in controls. Induction of Fos expression by acute immobilization stress was comparable following CIH in several HPA-modulatory brain regions, including the paraventricular nucleus, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and amygdala. Fos induction was attenuated in lateral hypothalamus, an HPA-inhibitory region. By contrast, acute Fos induction was enhanced in noradrenergic neurons in the locus coeruleus following CIH exposure. Thus, similar to chronic cold stress, CIH sensitized acute HPA and noradrenergic stress reactivity. Plasticity in the acute stress response is important for long-term adaptation, but may also contribute to pathophysiological conditions associated with states of chronic or repeated stress, such as OSA. Determining the neural mechanisms underlying these adaptations may help us better understand the etiology of such disorders, and inform the development of more effective treatments.
We studied the long term effects of neonatal stress in female rats and subsequent responses to stress when adults. Female rats that experienced maternal separation (MS) showed in adulthood depressive-like behavior in the forced swimming test and cognitive impairments in the novel object recognition test, which were reverted by the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist mifepristone or the beta-adrenoceptor antagonist propranolol. Markers of HPA axis (corticosterone levels, CRF mRNA levels in the paraventricular nucleus and glucocorticoid receptor density in the hippocampus) were altered by MS, suggesting that an altered HPA axis function may be associated to behavioral and cognitive deficits in MS female rats. In addition, MS rats were found to be more vulnerable to chronic stress than controls as shown by decreases in open field activity, increases in immobility time in the forced swim test, and changes in markers of HPA axis (decreases in the density of glucocorticoid receptors). These present findings are discussed in terms of gender differences in adulthood.
Morphologic and functional studies describing the impact of aging on mesencephalic dopaminergic (DA) neurons in laboratory animals are rather scanty and inconclusive. In rats, stereological studies characterizing age changes in the mesencephalic DA neurons have not been documented. In order to fill this information gap and to determine whether the very old rat may serve as a suitable animal model of Parkinson's disease, we performed a stereological assessment of the mesencephalic tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive (TH-ir) neurons in young-adult (4-6 months), old (22-24 months) and senile (30-32 months) Sprague-Dawley female rats. Morphometric analysis of the TH-ir neurons of the substantia nigra (SN) and ventral tegmental area (VTA) was performed using an appropriate image analysis system. Age changes in motor performance were assessed measuring the endurance of rats to hang from a wire mesh pole or to remain on a ramp set at different angles to the floor. Age changes in locomotion and exploratory activity were evaluated by the open field test. We observed a significant age-related reduction in TH-ir neuron numbers in the SN (17 and 33% reduction in old and senile rats, respectively compared with young counterparts) but not in the VTA. The size of the TH-ir cells increased significantly in both the SN and VTA of the senescent animals but TH labeling intensity fell. Motor, locomotor and exploratory performance deteriorated markedly in the old and senile rats as compared with young animals. These findings reveal the existence of a moderate but significant vulnerability of mesencephalic DA neurons to aging in rats. This phenomenon, which is particularly marked in the SN of very old rats, may contribute to the age-related decline in motor and exploratory performance recorded in this species.
It has been shown that interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) facilitates nociception during neuropathic and inflammatory pain, but its involvement in bone cancer pain and its mechanisms have not previously been established. This study is an investigation of IL-1beta spinal expression and the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor (NMDAR) NR1 subunit phosphorylation during cancer pain, co-localization of IL-1 receptor type I (IL-1RI) and NMDAR in the spinal cord, and the effects of IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra) on NMDAR1 (NR1) phosphorylation and hyperalgesia in a rat model of bone cancer pain. Cancer was induced by injecting AT-3.1 prostate cancer cells into the tibia of the male Copenhagen rat. Phosphorylation of NR1, an essential subunit of the NMDAR, is known to modulate NMDAR activity and facilitate pain. Mechanical hyperalgesia, established by a decrease in paw withdrawal pressure threshold (PWPT), was measured at baseline and 2 h after IL-1ra treatment. IL-1ra was given (i.t.) daily for 7 days between days 13 and 19 after the cancer cell inoculation. Spinal cords were removed for Western blot to measure IL-1beta and NR1 phosphorylation and for double immunostaining of IL-1RI and NR1. The data showed that 1) spinal IL-1beta was up-regulated and NR1 phosphorylation was increased, 2) IL-1ra at 0.1 mg/rat significantly (P&lt;0.05) inhibited mechanical hyperalgesia, increasing PWPT on day 14 from 71.1+/-3.1-85.3+/-4.6 g and on day 19 from 73.5.0+/-3.5-87.1+/-3.7 g, and inhibited NR1 phosphorylation compared with saline control, and 3) IL-1RI is localized in NR1-immunoreactive neurons within the spinal cord. The results suggest that spinal IL-1beta enhances NR1 phosphorylation to facilitate bone cancer pain.
Neuronal cell death and its regulation have been extensively studied as an essential process of both neurodevelopment and neurodegenerative conditions. However it is not clear how circulating hormones influence such processes. Therefore we aimed to determine whether the anti-obesity hormone leptin could promote the survival of murine central and peripheral neurons in vitro. Thus we established primary neuronal cultures of dopaminergic midbrain neurons and trigeminal sensory neurons and induced cell death via either toxic insult or growth factor withdrawal. We demonstrate that leptin promotes the survival of developing peripheral and central neurons via activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3-kinase)/Akt/nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) -dependent signaling cascades. Specifically, leptin protects dopaminergic midbrain neurons from the apoptotic stimuli, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). In addition, it promotes the survival of postnatal, but not embryonic, trigeminal sensory neurons following neurotrophin withdrawal. Our data reveal a novel neuroprotective role for leptin in the peripheral nervous system while expanding on the known anti-apoptotic role of leptin in the CNS. These findings have important implications for our understanding of neuronal viability.
Opioid receptor agonists and antagonists have profound effects on cocaine-induced hyperactivity and conditioned reward. Recently, the role specifically of the mu opioid receptor has been demonstrated based on the finding that i.c.v. administration of the selective mu opioid receptor antagonist, D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Arg-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH2 (CTAP), can attenuate cocaine-induced behaviors. The purpose of the present study was to determine the location of mu opioid receptors that are critical for cocaine-induced reward and hyperactivity. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats received injections of CTAP into the caudate putamen, the rostral or caudal ventral tegmental area (VTA) or the medial shell or core of the nucleus accumbens prior to cocaine to determine the role of mu opioid receptors in cocaine-induced reward and hyperactivity. Cocaine-induced reward was assessed using an unbiased conditioned place preference procedure. Results demonstrate that animals pre-treated with CTAP into the nucleus accumbens core or rostral VTA, but not the caudal VTA, caudate putamen or medial nucleus accumbens shell, during conditioning with cocaine showed an attenuation of the development of cocaine-induced place preference. In contrast, CTAP injected into the nucleus accumbens shell but not the core attenuated the expression of cocaine place preference. Intra-nucleus accumbens core, caudate putamen or caudal VTA CTAP significantly attenuated cocaine-induced hyperactivity. In addition, the number of cFos positive cells was increased in the motor cortex, medial and ventromedial aspects of the nucleus accumbens shell, basolateral amygdala and caudal VTA during the expression of cocaine place preference, and this increase was attenuated in the animals that received intra-accumbens core CTAP during daily cocaine conditioning. These results demonstrate the importance of mu opioid receptors in the nucleus accumbens and VTA in cocaine-induced reward and hyperactivity and suggest that some aspects of the behavioral effects of cocaine are mediated by endogenous activation of mu opioid receptors in these brain regions.
The existence of a sex difference in several chronic pain syndromes and the fluctuation of symptoms during the menstrual cycle strongly suggest sex hormones are involved in pain processing. The mechanisms underlying these changes are not well understood. Using the colorectal distention model in the rat, we previously reported a sex difference in the response to distention [Ji Y, Murphy AZ, Traub RJ (2006) Sex differences in morphine induced analgesia of visceral pain are supraspinally and peripherally mediated. Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol 291:R307-R314] and that ovariectomy decreased the responses to distention while estrogen replacement reversed the decrease [Ji Y, Murphy AZ, Traub RJ (2003) Estrogen modulates the visceromotor reflex and responses of spinal dorsal horn neurons to colorectal stimulation in the rat. J Neurosci 23:3908-3915], suggesting estrogen increases visceral nociception. In the present study we tested the hypothesis that the visceromotor response to colorectal distention fluctuates with the estrous cycle. Three measurements (vaginal smears, uterine tube weight and plasma estrogen concentration) were used to determine the estrous phase. Comparison of the visceromotor response threshold and magnitude was made between proestrus and metestrus/diestrus. Our experiment demonstrated that the distention threshold was significantly lower in proestrus (median: 15 mm Hg) as compared with metestrus/diestrus (median: 25 mm Hg); and the magnitude of the visceromotor response to graded intensities of colorectal distentions (20, 40, 60, 80 mm Hg) was significantly higher in proestrus. The results indicate that the visceromotor response fluctuates with estrous phase, providing evidence for endogenous estrogen modulation of visceral nociceptive processing that could contribute to sex differences.
Glucocorticoids have a prominent role in the treatment of CNS injuries. However, the cellular consequences of glucocorticoid treatment on remote degenerative responses after focal brain lesions have been poorly investigated. Here we examine the effectiveness of a high dose (50 mg/kg) of methylprednisolone sodium succinate (MPSS) in reducing neuronal loss, glial response and glial-derived inflammatory mediators in inferior olive and pontine nuclei after lesion of the contralateral cerebellar hemisphere using immunohistochemistry and Western blot techniques. Quantitative analysis demonstrated that MPSS treatment significantly improved the survival of neurons in remote precerebellar stations. This survival was accompanied by reduction in the postlesional activation of microglia, astrocytes and interleukin-1 beta (IL-1beta). Cell death resumed after suspension of MPSS treatment and this delayed wave of cell loss was paralleled by reactivation of the inflammatory markers analyzed. The present study confirms the importance of inflammatory events in inducing remote cell death and that this type of degeneration can be delayed by MPSS treatment. Furthermore, the sustained effect of MPSS treatment, up to 28 days postlesion, and the reactivation of the degenerative phenomena after its suspension, support the hypothesis that glucocorticoid treatment, although capable of delaying cell death mechanisms, is not effective in blocking the cascade of remote degenerative events started by the primary lesion.
We investigated the mechanism of facilitation at the crayfish inhibitory neuromuscular junction before and after blocking P-type Ca(2+) channels. P-type channels have been shown to be closer to releasable synaptic vesicles than non-P-type channels at this synapse. Prior to the block of P-type channels, facilitation evoked by a train of 10 action potentials at 100 Hz was increased by application of 40 mM [Mg(2+)](o), but decreased by pressure-injected EGTA. Blocking P-type channels with 5 nM omega-Aga IVA, which reduced total Ca(2+) influx and release to levels comparable to that recorded in 40 mM [Mg(2+)](o), did not change the magnitude of facilitation. We explored whether this observation could be attributed to the buffer saturation model of facilitation, since increasing the Ca(2+) channel-vesicle separation could potentially enhance the role of endogenous buffers. The characteristics of facilitation in synapses treated with omega-Aga IVA were probed with broad action potentials in the presence of K(+) channel blockers. After Ca(2+) channel-vesicle separation was increased by omega-Aga IVA, facilitation probed with broad action potential was still decreased by EGTA injection and increased by 40 mM [Mg(2+)](o). EGTA-AM perfusion was used to test the impact of EGTA over a range of concentration in omega-Aga IVA-poisoned preparations. The results showed a concentration dependent decrease in facilitation as EGTA concentration rose. Thus, probing facilitation with EGTA and reduced Ca(2+) influx showed that characteristics of facilitation are not changed after the role of endogenous buffer is enhanced by increasing Ca(2+) channel-vesicle separation. There is no clear indication that buffer saturation has become the dominant mechanism for facilitation after omega-Aga IVA poisoning. Finally, we sought correlation between residual Ca(2+) and the magnitude of facilitation. Using fluorescence transients of a low affinity Ca(2+) indicator, we calculated the ratio of fluorescence amplitude measured immediately before test pulse (residual Ca(2+)) to that evoked during action potential (local Ca(2+)). This ratio provides an estimate of relative changes between residual Ca(2+) and local Ca(2+) important for release. There is a significant increase in the ratio when Ca(2+) influx is reduced by 40 mM [Mg(2+)](o). The magnitude of facilitation exhibited a clear and positive correlation with the ratio, regardless of separation between Ca(2+) channels and releasable vesicles. This correlation suggests the importance of relative changes between residual and local Ca(2+) and lends support to the residual Ca(2+) hypothesis of facilitation.
Aggregation of alpha-synuclein may contribute to neuropathology in Parkinson's disease patients and in transgenic animal models. Natively unfolded alpha-synuclein binds to various proteins and conformational changes due to alpha-synuclein misfolding may alter physiological interactions. In the present study, we used protein arrays spotted with 5000 recombinant human proteins for a large scale interaction analysis of monomeric versus oligomeric alpha-synuclein. Monomeric alpha-synuclein bound to arrayed cAMP regulated phosphoprotein 19 and binding appears to be disrupted by alpha-synuclein oligomerization. Incubation with recombinant alpha-synuclein oligomers lead to the identification of several GTPase activating proteins and Cdc42 effector proteins as binding partners. Protein database searches revealed a Cdc42/Rac interactive binding domain in some interactors. To demonstrate in vivo relevance, we analyzed brainstem protein extracts from alpha-synuclein(A30P) transgenic mice. Pull-down assays using beads conjugated with a Cdc42/Rac interactive binding domain lead to an enrichment of endogenous alpha-synuclein oligomers. Cdc42 effector proteins were also co-immunoprecipitated with alpha-synuclein from brainstem lysates and were colocalized with alpha-synuclein aggregates in brain sections by double immunostaining. By two-dimensional gel electrophoretic analysis of synaptosomal fractions from transgenic mouse brains we detected additional isoforms of septin 6, a downstream target of Cdc42 effector proteins. Small GTPases have recently been identified in a genetic modifier screen to suppress alpha-synuclein toxicity in yeast. Our data indicate that components of small GTPase signal transduction pathways may be directly targeted by alpha-synuclein oligomers which potentially leads to signaling deficits and neurodegeneration.
Transmembrane protein 50b, Tmem50b, previously referred to as C21orf4, encodes a predicted transmembrane protein and is one of few genes significantly over-expressed during cerebellar development in a Down syndrome mouse model, Ts1Cje. In order to assess potential mechanisms by which Tmem50b could contribute to Down syndrome-related phenotypes, we determined the expression patterns of Tmem50b mRNA, as well as Tmem50b protein distribution, expression and subcellular localization. In situ hybridization in mice at embryonic day 14.5 showed cortical plate and spinal cord mRNA expression. By postnatal day 7, strong mRNA expression was seen in the cerebellum, hippocampus and olfactory bulb, with diffuse cortical expression. Quantitative PCR of adult mouse tissue showed Tmem50b mRNA expression in the brain, heart and testis. A rabbit polyclonal antibody was generated against Tmem50b and rat and mouse tissue screening by Western blot, and immunohistochemistry showed that protein expression concurred with mRNA expression. Double immunofluorescence revealed that Tmem50b is highly expressed in rat and mouse glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive cells in vivo and in vitro, but less so in neuronal MAP2- or beta-tubulin II-positive cells in vitro. Tmem50b is invariably expressed in cultured mouse neural precursor cells. In adult mouse cerebellum sections, Tmem50b immunoreactivity was found in Purkinje and Golgi cell somata and in Bergmann glial processes. Electron microscopy confirmed that Tmem50b was present on endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and Golgi apparatus membranes. Results indicate that Tmem50b is a developmentally-regulated intracellular ER and Golgi apparatus membrane protein that may prove important for correct brain development through functions associated with precursor cells and glia.
Cannabinoid ligands have been shown to be anti-nociceptive in animal models of acute and chronic pain by acting at the two known cannabinoid receptors, cannabinoid-1 receptor (CB-1) and cannabinoid-2 receptor (CB-2). A major concern with the use of cannabinoids for pain relief is that they activate receptors at sites other than those involved in the transmission of nociceptive stimuli. An alternative approach is to target the naturally occurring endocannabinoids, such as anandamide (AEA), 2-arachidonylglycerol (2-AG) and N-arachidonylglycine (N-AG). However in vivo results obtained with these compounds appear to be weak, most probably due to their rapid degradation and subsequent short half-life. The predominant enzyme responsible for the hydrolysis of anandamide (and some other endocannabinoids) in the brain is fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH). Recently, the alpha-ketoheterocycle OL135 has been synthesized and shown to be a highly potent and selective inhibitor of FAAH with efficacy in pain models in vivo. In the present study, we have adapted the mild thermal injury (MTI) model of acute pain for the mouse and pharmacologically characterized this model by showing significant reversal of the tactile allodynia by morphine (3, 5 and 10 mg kg(-1) s.c.), gabapentin (100 and 300 mg kg(-1) i.p.), ibuprofen (100 mg kg(-1) i.p.) and OL135 (10, 30 and 100 mg kg(-1) i.p.). Furthermore we have demonstrated, using this model, that a subtherapeutic dose of OL135 can enable the endocannabinoids AEA and 2-AG, but not N-AG to be active at doses where they are otherwise nonanalgesic (20 mg kg(-1) i.p.). The implications of this model in the study of pain in mice, and the therapeutic potential of FAAH inhibition to provide analgesia without the undesirable side effects of direct agonism of cannabinoid receptors are discussed.
We report naturally occurring, systematic variations in synaptic strength at neuromuscular junctions along the dorsal-ventral (D-V) axis of the Drosophila larval body wall. These gradual changes were correlated with differences in presynaptic neurotransmitter release regulated by nerve terminal excitability and in postsynaptic receptor composition influencing miniature excitatory junctional potential (mEJP) amplitude. Surprisingly, synaptic strength and D-V differentials at physiological Ca(2+) levels were not significantly altered in slowpoke (slo) and Shaker (Sh) mutants, despite their defects in two major repolarizing forces, Ca(2+)-activated Slo (BK) and voltage-activated Sh currents, respectively. However, lowering [Ca(2+)](o) levels revealed greatly altered synaptic mechanisms in these mutants, indicated by drastically enhanced excitatory junctional potentials (EJPs) in Sh but paradoxically reduced EJPs in slo. Removal of Sh current in slo mutants by 4-aminopyridine blockade or by combining slo with Sh mutations led to strikingly increased synaptic transmission, suggesting upregulation of presynaptic Sh current to limit excessive neurotransmitter release in the absence of Slo current. In addition, slo mutants displayed altered immunoreactivity intensity ratio between DGluRIIA and DGluRIIB receptor subunits. This modified receptor composition caused smaller mEJP amplitudes, further preventing excessive transmission in the absence of Slo current. Such compensatory regulations were prevented by rutabaga (rut) adenylyl cyclase mutations in rut slo double mutants, demonstrating a novel role of rut in homeostatic plasticity, in addition to its well-established function in learning behavior.
Recent findings indicate that neurosteroids could act as important keys during the brain development. Fluctuations in neonatal allopregnanolone (AlloP) could result in altered pharmacological properties of the GABA(A) receptor system in adulthood. Recent studies demonstrated that neurosteroids play a critical role in regulating normal neurodevelopment in the hippocampus. The aim of the present work is to screen whether developmentally altered neurosteroid levels influence the behavioral response to adult intrahippocampal administration of AlloP, a GABA(A) positive modulating neurosteroid, and pregnenolone sulfate (PregS), a GABA(A) negative modulator in rats. For this purpose, pups received AlloP (10 mg/kg, s.c.), a 5alpha-reductase inhibitor (finasteride, 50 mg/kg, s.c.) or vehicle from the fifth to the ninth postnatal day. At maturity (i.e. 90 days old) a bilateral cannula was implanted into the hippocampus. After recovery from surgery, animals received an administration of AlloP (0.2 microg/0.5 microl), PregS (5 ng/0.5 microl) or vehicle in each hippocampus 5 min before they were tested in the elevated plus maze (EPM) and immediately after the passive avoidance training session, and retention was tested 24 h later. Results indicated that neonatal finasteride treatment deteriorated passive avoidance retention and elicited an anxiogenic-like effect in the EPM test in adulthood, as seen by the reduction of open arm entries and in the time spent in the open arms. Intrahippocampal PregS administration also disrupted passive avoidance, possibly related to its anxiogenic profile. Fluctuations in neonatal AlloP affect the aversive learning and the anxiety-related behavior in adulthood, and this effect could be in part mediated by alterations of the mature functions of the hippocampus, possibly via the GABA(A) receptor. These data point to the role of GABAergic neurosteroids in critical periods of vulnerability that influence normal development of GABAergic pathways in the CNS.
We examined the expression of SIRT1 in several experimental paradigms of human pathologies. We used a neuroblastoma cell line (B65), neuronal primary cultures (hippocampus and cerebellar granule cells) and in vivo approaches in rat and senescence murine models (SAM). Cell cultures and rats were treated with several well-know neurotoxins, i.e. rotenone, MPP(+), kainate and 3-nitropropionic acid. Subsequently, SIRT1 expression was compared in these different paradigms of neurotoxicity. The pattern of expression of SIRT1 in proliferating cell cultures (B65) was different to that in quiescent cell cultures. In the murine model of senescence (senescence-accelerated mice prone, SAMP8), SIRT1 expression progressively decreased, while in the control strain (senescence-accelerated mice resistant, SAMR1) it increased. Finally, we studied human samples of Parkinson's disease (PD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and Huntington's diseases (HD). SIRT1 expression decreased dramatically in HD, but there were no significant changes in Parkinson-related illnesses. In conclusion, SIRT1 expression may be a good sensor of toxic neuronal processes.
Activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) is the first step in the induction of certain forms of synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus. In the adult rat hippocampus, NMDARs are composed almost exclusively of NR1 and NR2 subunits with NR1 subunits being mainly associated with either NR2A and/or NR2B subunits. The role played by the different subunits in synaptic plasticity is still controversial. In the present study, we used two different long term depression (LTD) -inducing protocols (electrical and chemical stimulation) to show that activation of NR2A-containing NMDAR subunits leads to the induction of LTD. We also demonstrated that extrasynaptic NR2B-containing NMDARs regulate the magnitude of LTD by exerting a control over the function of synaptic NR2A-containing NMDARs while having no effect on plasticity in the absence of synaptic receptor activation. Taken as a whole, these experiments demonstrate that NMDAR subunits play different roles according to their nature (NR2A or NR2B) and location (synaptic versus extrasynaptic). This sheds new light on the functional role of extrasynaptic NR2B containing-NMDARs. These results are particularly important for a better understanding of certain pathological disorders associated with glutamatergic overactivity.
The orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) plays a critical role in learning a reversal of stimulus-reward contingencies. Dopamine (DA) neurons probably support reversal learning by emitting prediction error signals that indicate the discrepancy between the actually received reward and its prediction. However, the role of DA receptor-mediated signaling in the OFC to adapt behavior to changing stimulus-reward contingencies is largely unknown. Here we examined the effects of a selective D1 or D2 receptor blockade in the OFC on learning a reversal of previously acquired stimulus-reward magnitude contingencies. Rats were trained on a reaction time (RT) task demanding conditioned lever release with discriminative visual stimuli signaling in advance the upcoming reward magnitude (one or five food pellets). After acquisition, RTs were guided by stimulus-associated reward magnitudes, i.e. RTs of responses were significantly shorter for expected high versus low reward. Thereafter, stimulus-reward magnitude contingencies were reversed and learning was tested under reversal conditions for three blocks after pre-trial infusions of the selective D1 or D2 receptor antagonists R(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepinhydrochloride (SCH23390), eticlopride, or vehicle. For comparisons, we included intra-OFC infusions of the selective N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist AP5. Results revealed that in animals subjected to intra-OFC infusions of SCH23390 or eticlopride learning a reversal of previously acquired stimulus reward-magnitude contingencies was impaired. Thus, in a visual discrimination task as used here, D1 and D2 receptor-mediated signaling in the OFC seems to be necessary to update the reward-predictive significance of stimuli.
Little is known about the pathology and pathogenesis of the rupture of intracranial aneurysms. For a better understanding of the molecular processes involved in intracranial aneurysm (IA) formation we performed a gene expression analysis comparing ruptured and unruptured aneurysm tissue to a control artery. Tissue samples of six ruptured and four unruptured aneurysms, and four cerebral arteries serving as controls, were profiled using oligonucleotide microarrays. Gene ontology classification of the differentially expressed genes was analyzed and regulatory functional networks and canonical pathways were identified with a network-based computational pathway analysis tool. Real time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunohistochemical staining were performed as confirmation. Analysis of aneurysmal and control tissue revealed 521 differentially expressed genes. The most significantly associated gene ontology term was antigen processing (P=1.64E-16). Further network-based analysis showed the top scoring regulatory functional network to be built around overexpressed major histocompatibility class (MHC) I and II complex related genes and confirmed the canonical pathway &quot;Antigen Presentation&quot; to have the highest upregulation in IA tissue (P=7.3E-10). Real time RT-PCR showed significant overexpression of MHC class II genes. Immunohistochemical staining showed strong positivity for MHC II molecule specific antibody (HLA II), for CD68 (macrophages, monocytes), for CD45RO (T-cells) and HLA I antibody. Our results offer strong evidence for MHC class II gene overexpression in human IA tissue and that antigen presenting cells (macrophages, monocytes) play a key role in IA formation.
Health problems can arise from de-synchrony between the external environment and the endogenous circadian rhythm, yet the circadian system is not able to quickly adjust to large, abrupt changes in the external daily cycle. In this study, we investigated the ability of NAN-190 to potentiate the circadian rhythm response to light as measured by phase of behavioral activity rhythms. NAN-190 (5 mg/kg, i.p.) was able to significantly potentiate the response to light both in dark-adapted and entrained hamsters. Furthermore, NAN-190 was effective even when administered up to 6 h after light onset. Response to a light pulse was both greater in magnitude and involved fewer unstable transient cycles. Finally, NAN-190 was able to speed re-entrainment to a 6 h advance of the light/dark cycle by an average of 6 days when compared with vehicle-treated animals. This work suggests that compounds like NAN-190 may hold great potential as a pharmaceutical treatment for jetlag, shift work, and other circadian disorders.
The delineation of pancreatic nerve innervation during fetal life may contribute to our understanding of pancreatic pain modalities after birth. The aim of this study was to characterize the spatial and temporal distribution of nerve structures in the human pancreas throughout gestation. Computer-based image morphometry with piecewise polynomial interpolation analysis was performed to quantify nervous structures in the head, body and tail of the pancreas. Nerve structures were detected by automatic immunostaining techniques using a polyclonal antibody against two S-100 proteins that reacts strongly with human S100A and B that are detected in Schwann cells. Immunoreactivity was found in the parenchyma of head, body and tail of the pancreas with the relative density being head&gt;body&gt;tail. In addition to this extensive set of nerve fibers terminating in the pancreas there were large bundles of en passant nerve fibers in the dorsal region of the pancreas that were 3D reconstructed and were associated with the superior mesenteric plexus. If at first glance, the perimeter and the width of the nerve fibers seem to increase at a continuous rate up to term in all three regions of the pancreas, spatial and temporal co-analysis identified that the head of the pancreas shows a two-peak growth increase at 14 and 22 weeks of gestation with regard to the area, perimeter and width of the nerve structures, while the body and tail regions show a unique peak at 20 weeks. A developmental deceleration was found between the 22nd and the 36th week of gestation for the head region only. This is the first systematic study of nerve innervation of the human pancreas throughout gestation. The developmental dynamics of the pancreas nerve innervation corresponds approximately to the remodeling of the intrahepatic biliary system. Understanding the factors and disease states that may alter the distribution of nerve structures can be of significance for the development of therapies in pancreatic disorders of child- and adulthood.
Nicotinic responses to endogenous acetylcholine and to exogenously applied agonists have been studied in the intact or denervated rat sympathetic neuron in vitro, by using the two-microelectrode voltage-clamp technique. Preganglionic denervation resulted in progressive decrease of the synaptic current (excitatory postsynaptic current, EPSC) amplitude, which disappeared within 24 h. These effects were accompanied by changes in ion selectivity of the nicotinic channel (nAChR). The extrapolated EPSC null potential (equilibrium potential for acetylcholine action, E(Syn)) shifted from a mean value of -15.9+/-0.7 mV, in control, to -7.4+/-1.6 mV, in denervated neurons, indicating a decrease of the permeability ratio for the main components of the synaptic current (P(K)/P(Na)) from 1.56 to 1.07. The overall properties of AChRs were investigated by applying dimethylphenylpiperazinium or cytisine and by examining the effects of endogenous ACh, diffusing within the ganglion after preganglionic tetanization in the presence of neostigmine. The null potentials of these macrocurrents (equilibrium potential for dimethylphenylpiperazinium action, E(DMPP); and equilibrium potential for diffusing acetylcholine, E(ACh), respectively) were evaluated by applying voltage ramps and from current-voltage plots. In normal neurons, E(Syn) (-15.9+/-0.7 mV) was significantly different from E(DMPP) (-26.1+/-1.0) and E(ACh) (-31.1+/-3.3); following denervation, nerve-evoked currents displayed marked shifts in their null potentials (E(Syn)=-7.4+/-1.6 mV), whereas the amplitude and null potential of the agonist-evoked macrocurrents were unaffected by denervation and its duration (E(DMPP)=-26.6+/-1.2 mV). It is suggested that two populations of nicotinic receptors, synaptic and extrasynaptic, are present on the neuron surface, and that only the synaptic type displays sensitivity to denervation.
Secretin is a gut peptide hormone that is also expressed in the CNS. To explore the potential neuroactive role of secretin in the brain, we have generated secretin deficient mice. Secretin deficient mice demonstrated impairment in synaptic plasticity (significant reduction in long term potentiation (LTP) induction and LTP maintenance) in the CA1 area of the hippocampus. Using a beta-galactosidase (lacZ) reporter in the targeted allele and secretin antibody staining, we have detected secretin gene expression in the hippocampus, cerebellum, and the brain stem in adult mouse brain. In the hippocampus, secretin was expressed in the dentate gyrus, the hilus, and the molecular layer. These findings suggest that secretin is involved in synaptic function in the adult brain.
Research has established that severe stress adversely affects hippocampal memory, and chewing has been suggested to restore impaired cognitive functions in the hippocampus. To address how chewing involves stress-attenuated hippocampal memory process, we measured the long-term potentiation (LTP) of hippocampal slices of adult male rats that had experienced restraint stress, including some rats that were allowed to chew a wooden stick during the stress period and other rats that were not. The three experimental conditions were: 1) restraint stress without chewing (ST), 2) restraint stress with chewing (SC), and 3) no treatment (CT). We prepared hippocampal slices and collected trunk blood from all experimental animals. For rats in the two stressed groups, we collected tissue and blood at one of three post-stress time points: immediately after, 24 h after, or 48 h after exposure to the stressor. We found that the magnitude of LTP in both group ST and SC was significantly attenuated immediately after stress exposure. However, within 24 h after the end of the stress period, LTP had returned to the control level in group SC whereas it remained low in group ST. At the same post-stress time point, we found that facilitation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors by bath-applied glycine had less effect on the magnitude of LTP in group SC than on group ST, suggesting that most NMDA receptors had already become functionally restored in group SC by that time. Plasma concentration of adrenocorticotropic hormone was significantly elevated only in group ST immediately after exposure to the stressor, reflecting the involvement of chewing in decreasing subsequent corticosterone secretion. Thus, the present study demonstrates that chewing ameliorates the stress-induced impairment of NMDA receptor-mediated LTP, suggesting chewing as a good strategy to cope with severe stress by suppressing excessive endocrine responses.
When given in a warm environment MDMA (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine, ecstasy) causes hyperthermia by increasing interscapular brown adipose tissue (iBAT) heat production and decreasing heat loss via cutaneous vasoconstriction. When given in a cold environment, however, MDMA causes hypothermia by an unknown mechanism. This paper addresses these mechanisms and in addition examines whether antagonists at 5-HT(1A) and D(2) receptors reduce the hypothermic action of MDMA. Male Sprague-Dawley rats instrumented with a Doppler probe for measuring tail blood flow, and probes for measuring core and iBAT temperatures, were placed in a temperature-controlled chamber. The chamber temperature was reduced to 10 degrees C and vehicle (0.5 ml Ringer), the 5-HT(1A) antagonist WAY 100635 (0.5 mg/kg), the D(2) antagonist spiperone (20 mug/kg), or the combination of Way 100635 and spiperone were injected s.c. Thirty minutes later the antagonists were injected again along with MDMA (10 mg/kg) or vehicle. MDMA reduced core body temperature by preventing cold-elicited iBAT thermogenesis and by transiently reversing cold-elicited cutaneous vasoconstriction. Pretreatment with WAY 100635 prevented MDMA induced increases in tail blood flow, and briefly attenuated MDMA's effects on iBAT and core temperature. While spiperone alone failed to affect any of the parameters, the combination of spiperone and WAY 100635 decreased MDMA-mediated hypothermia by attenuating both the effects on tail blood flow and iBAT thermogenesis. MDMA's prevention of cold-induced iBAT thermogenesis appears to have a central origin as it rapidly reverses cold-induced increases in iBAT sympathetic nerve discharge in anesthetized rats. Our results demonstrate that MDMA in a cold environment reduces core body temperature by inhibiting iBAT thermogenesis and tail artery vasoconstriction and suggest that mechanisms by which this occurs include the activation of 5-HT1A and dopamine D2 receptors.
At the mouse neuromuscular junction, activation of adenosine A(1) and P2Y receptors inhibits acetylcholine release by an effect on voltage dependent calcium channels related to spontaneous and evoked secretion. However, an effect of purines upon the neurotransmitter-releasing machinery downstream of Ca(2+) influx cannot be ruled out. An excellent tool to study neurotransmitter exocytosis in a Ca(2+)-independent step is the hypertonic response. Intracellular recordings were performed on diaphragm fibers of CF1 mice to determine the action of the specific adenosine A(1) receptor agonist 2-chloro-N(6)-cyclopentyl-adenosine (CCPA) and the P2Y(12-13) agonist 2-methylthio-adenosine 5'-diphosphate (2-MeSADP) on the hypertonic response. Both purines significantly decreased such response (peak and area under the curve), and their effect was prevented by specific antagonists of A(1) and P2Y(12-13) receptors, 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX) and N-[2-(methylthioethyl)]-2-[3,3,3-trifluoropropyl]thio-5'-adenylic acid, monoanhydride with dichloromethylenebiphosphonic acid, tetrasodium salt (AR-C69931MX), respectively. Moreover, incubation of preparations only with the antagonists induced a higher response compared with controls, suggesting that endogenous ATP/ADP and adenosine are able to modulate the hypertonic response by activating their specific receptors. To search for the intracellular pathways involved in this effect, we studied the action of CCPA and 2-MeSADP in hypertonicity in the presence of inhibitors of several pathways. We found that the effect of CPPA was prevented by the calmodulin antagonist N-(6-aminohexil)-5-chloro-1-naphthalenesulfonamide hydrochloride (W-7) while that of 2-MeSADP was occluded by the protein kinase C antagonist chelerythrine and W-7. On the other hand, the inhibitors of protein kinase A (N-(2[pbromocinnamylamino]-ethyl)-5-isoquinolinesulfonamide, H-89) and phosphoinositide-3 kinase (PI3K) (2-(4-morpholinyl)-8-phenyl-4H-1-benzopyran-4-one hydrochloride, LY-294002) did not modify the modulatory action in hypertonicity of both purines. Our results provide evidence that activation of A(1) and P2Y(12-13) receptors by CCPA and 2-MeSADP inhibits ACh release from mammalian motor nerve terminals through an effect on a Ca(2+)-independent step in the cascade of the exocytotic process. Since presynaptic calcium channels are intimately associated with components of the synaptic vesicle docking and fusion processes, further experiments could clarify if the actions of purines on calcium channels and on secretory machinery are related.
The ventral tegmental area is part of the midbrain dopamine system and is crucially involved in reward, motivation and drug abuse. The activity of dopamine neurons within this region is controlled by synaptic input. In particular, excitatory glutamatergic inputs are important for the switch from regular firing into burst firing. In the present manuscript we determined the role of presynaptic metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) in the regulation of spontaneous glutamate release of terminals projecting to dopamine cells in the ventral tegmental area of mice. We show that group III mGluRs regulate spontaneous glutamate release and this effect is most likely mediated by mGluR7. The presynaptic dampening of glutamatergic input might open new perspectives in the treatment of drug addiction.
Acetylcholine is released in the primary visual cortex during visual stimulation and may have a neuromodulatory role in visual processing. The present study uses both behavioral and functional neuroanatomy investigations to examine this role in the rat. In the first set of experiments the cholinergic system was lesioned with 192 immunoglobulin G (IgG) saporin and the visual acuity and performance in a visual water maze task were assessed. The cholinergic lesion did not affect the visual acuity measured pre- and post-lesion but it did reduce the efficiency to learn a novel orientation discrimination task measured post-lesion. In order to better understand the involvement of the cholinergic system in the neuronal activity in the visual cortex c-Fos expression induced by patterned visual stimulation was further investigated. Results obtained following lesion of the cholinergic fibers (192 IgG-saporin or quisqualic acid), muscarinic inhibition (scopolamine), or NMDA receptor inhibition (CPP) were compared with control conditions. Double and triple immunolabeling was used in order to determine the neurochemical nature of the activated cortical cells. The results demonstrated that patterned stimulation elicited a significant increase in c-Fos immunolabeled neurons in layer IV of the contralateral primary visual cortex to the stimulated eye which was completely abolished by cholinergic fibers lesion as well as scopolamine administration. This effect was independent of NMDA receptor transmission. The c-Fos activation was predominantly observed in the glutamatergic spiny stellate cells and less frequently in GABAergic interneurons. Altogether, these results demonstrate a strong involvement of the basal forebrain cholinergic system in the modulation of post-synaptic visual processing, which could be related to cognitive enhancement or attention during visual learning.
In this report a series of six in vitro experiments in which reserpine-evoked dopamine output and two in vivo experiments in which the effects of reserpine injections upon dopamine content from striatal tissue of female and male mice were performed as a means to assess possible sex differences in vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT2) function. Significantly greater amounts of dopamine were obtained from striatal tissue of female mice in response to either a brief (experiment 1) or continuous (experiment 2) infusion of reserpine. Similarly, reserpine-evoked dopamine output from striatal tissue of gonadectomized females was significantly greater that that of gonadectomized males (experiment 3). When reserpine-evoked dopamine responses were compared directly between intact versus gonadectomized females (experiment 4) or males (experiment 5) no statistically significant differences were obtained. Finally, comparisons of gonadectomized females treated or not with estrogen revealed no statistically significant differences in reserpine-evoked dopamine output (experiment 6). Injections of reserpine produced significantly greater depletions of striatal dopamine content within intact female versus male mice (experiment 7). Dopamine contents of gonadectomized females treated or not with estrogen did not differ following treatment with reserpine, but were significantly greater than that of gonadectomized males (experiment 8). Taken together, these results show that female striatal tissue is more responsive to reserpine-evoked dopamine output, and this sex difference appears to be estrogen independent. Similarly, the dopamine depleting effects of reserpine are greater in intact female mice, however, gonadectomy reverses this effect in an estrogen independent manner. The data suggest that female mice may have a greater amount/activity of VMAT2 function as revealed by the increased responsiveness to the VMAT2 blocking drug, reserpine. Such differences in VMAT2 function may be related to the gender differences observed in conditions like Parkinson's disease and drug addiction.
We provide a detailed and exhaustive description of forebrain regions, nuclei, and neuronal populations which express the LIM-homeodomain transcription factor Islet1 during Xenopus development. To this end, Isl1 immunofluorescence staining was combined with other regional or neuronal markers such as Nkx2.1, Pax6, GABA, nitric oxide synthase, tyrosine hydroxylase or calretinin, and with tract tracing experiments to differentiate projection neurons from interneurons. We interpret and discuss the results with regard to the developmental origin of some previously &quot;ambiguous&quot; nuclei of the septum and the amygdala. Thus, Isl1 appears like a prominently expressed determinant of striatal and striatal-derived regions of the subpallium, including the central amygdala, together with the dorsal septal nucleus and the lateral septum. In the diencephalon, Isl1 is a conspicuous marker of the prethalamus, the chiasmatic regions, and the preoptic region (including important dopaminergic populations). The tuberal and mammillary parts of the hypothalamus also strongly express Isl1. From a comparative point of view, a major difference with mammals is the scarce expression of Isl1 in the embryonic medial ganglionic eminence, which is notably devoid of Isl1 expression in mammals, and the important retrochiasmatic and mammillary Isl1 expression, both also devoid of Isl1 expression in mammals. Finally, we provide evidence for the existence in Xenopus of a &quot;new&quot; caudal medial telencephalic nucleus, the POC (for preoptic commissural area), which was recently described in mammals.
Our recent study has shown that activation of transient receptor potential A1 channel (TRPA1) by pungent chemicals such as allyl-isothiocyanate (AITC) requires an unidentified cytosolic factor whose action can be mimicked by inorganic polyphosphates. Thus, AITC and other pungent chemicals fail to activate TRPA1 in excised patches. It is unclear whether TRPA1 switches to a conformation that is insensitive to the pungent chemicals, or whether TRPA1 simply becomes completely non-functional and insensitive to all activators when the cytosolic factor is absent. To help distinguish between these possibilities, the effects of Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and Ca(2+) that are structurally different from pungent chemicals were tested on AITC-sensitive and AITC-insensitive states of TRPA1. In HeLa cells transiently expressing mouse TRPA1, activation of TRPA1 by THC was slow and weak from the extracellular side (cell-attached; K(1/2) &gt;20 microM), but was faster and more potent from the intracellular side (inside-out; K(1/2), approximately 0.7 microM), and this did not require the presence of a polyphosphate. Similar results were observed in rat trigeminal neurons. Increasing the extracellular [Ca(2+)] from approximately 0-1-3 mM activated TRPA1 in cell-attached patches. Elevation of cytosolic [Ca(2+)] using thapsigargin (inhibitor of Ca(2+)-ATPAse) and histamine (that elevates IP(3)) also activated TRPA1 in cell-attached patches. Similar to pungent chemicals, Ca(2+) (1-5 microM) failed to activate TRPA1 in inside-out patches, unless polyphosphates were present. These results show that TRPA1 can exist in different functional states: a native state (cell-attached patch) and a non-native state (excised patch). THC can activate TRPA1 even in the absence of polyphosphates, whereas pungent chemicals and Ca(2+) require it for activation.
It was often thought that synchronized rhythmic epochs of spindle waves disconnect thalamo-cortical system from incoming sensory signals. The present study addresses this issue by simultaneous extracellular action potential and local field potential (LFP) recordings from primary auditory cortex of ketamine-anesthetized cats during spindling activity. We compared cortical spectrotemporal receptive fields (STRF) obtained during spindling and non-spindling epochs. The basic spectro-temporal parameters of &quot;spindling&quot; and &quot;non-spindling&quot; STRFs were similar. However, the peak-firing rate at the best frequency was significantly enhanced during spindling epochs. This enhancement was mainly caused by the increased probability of a stimulus to evoke spikes (effectiveness of stimuli) during spindling as compared with non-spindling epochs. Augmented LFPs associated with effective stimuli and increased single-unit pair correlations during spindling epochs suggested higher synchrony of thalamo-cortical inputs during spindling that resulted in increased effectiveness of stimuli presented during spindling activity. The neuronal firing rate, both stimulus-driven and spontaneous, was higher during spindling as compared with non-spindling epochs. Overall, our results suggests that thalamic cells during spindling respond to incoming stimuli-related inputs and, moreover, cause more powerful stimulus-related or spontaneous activation of the cortex.
The degree of behavioral control that an organism has over a stressor determines the behavioral and neurochemical sequelae of the stressor, with the presence of control preventing the typical outcomes that occur when the stressor is uncontrollable (e.g. failure to learn, exaggerated fear, dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) 5-HT activation). Furthermore, an experience with a controllable stressor blocks the consequences of later uncontrollable stressors (&quot;immunization&quot;). These effects of control have been argued to be mediated by control-induced activation of ventral medial prefrontal cortex (mPFCv) output to the DRN. The experiments that have led to this interpretation have all involved the inactivation of the mPFCv with muscimol, showing that inactivation during the stressor eliminates the stressor-resistance produced by control, with the controllable stressor now acting as if it were uncontrollable. The present experiments in rats employed the opposite strategy, activating the mPFCv during the stressor. mPFCv microinjection of picrotoxin during the stressor eliminated the DRN 5-HT activation that normally occurs during the uncontrollable stressor, as well as the escape learning deficit and exaggerated fear that normally follows uncontrollable stress. Furthermore, mPFCv activation during an initial exposure to an uncontrollable stressor led the uncontrollable stressor to produce behavioral and neurochemical immunization when the subjects were later exposed to an uncontrollable stressor. That is, the conjoint activation of the mPFCv and exposure to an uncontrollable stressor led the uncontrollable stressor to act as if it were controllable. These results provide strong support for the argument that behavioral control produced stress-resistance by activating the mPFCv.






Motor development depends on forming specific connections between the corticospinal tract (CST) and the spinal cord. Blocking CST activity in kittens during the critical period for establishing connections with spinal motor circuits results in permanent impairments in connectivity and function. The changes in connections are consistent with the hypothesis that the inactive tract is less competitive in developing spinal connections than the active tract. In this study, we tested the competition hypothesis by determining whether activating CST axons, after previous silencing during the critical period, abrogated development of aberrant corticospinal connections and motor impairments. In kittens, we inactivated motor cortex by muscimol infusion between postnatal weeks 5 and 7. Next, we electrically stimulated CST axons in the medullary pyramid 2.5 h daily, between weeks 7 and 10. In controls (n = 3), CST terminations were densest within the contralateral deeper, premotor, spinal layers. After previous inactivation (n = 3), CST terminations were densest within the dorsal, somatic sensory, layers. There were more ipsilateral terminations from the active tract. During visually guided locomotion, there was a movement endpoint impairment. Stimulation after inactivation (n = 6) resulted in significantly fewer terminations in the sensory layers and more in the premotor layers, and fewer ipsilateral connections from active cortex. Chronic stimulation reduced the current threshold for evoking contralateral movements by pyramidal stimulation, suggesting strengthening of connections. Importantly, stimulation significantly improved stepping accuracy. These findings show the importance of activity-dependent processes in specifying CST connections. They also provide a strategy for harnessing activity to rescue CST axons at risk of developing aberrant connections after CNS injury.
The concentration of transmitter in the synaptic cleft and its clearance time are one of the main determinants of synaptic strength. We estimated the time course of glycine at rat lumbar motoneurons synapses in spinal cord slices by recording synaptic currents in the presence of a low-affinity competitive antagonist at glycine receptors [2-(3-carboxypropyl)-3-amino-6-(4-methoxyphenyl)pyridazinium (SR-95531)]. Data were analyzed by using the established activation mechanism for glycine receptors and our measurements of SR-95531 binding rates. We show that this technique alone is not sufficient to determine simultaneously the peak concentration of transmitter and its clearance time. However, we found that block of the glial glycine transporter prolongs the glycine transient. This observation puts additional constraints on the range of possible values of the time course of glycine, indicating that glycine reaches a peak concentration of 2.2-3.5 mM and is cleared from the cleft with a time constant of 0.6-0.9 ms.
Auditory perception is mediated through a finite number of mechanosensory hair cells located in a specialized sensory epithelium within the inner ear. The formation of the appropriate number of hair cells and the location of those cells is crucial for normal auditory function. However, the factors that regulate the formation of this epithelium remain poorly understood. Truncating mutations in the transcription factor GLI3, a downstream effector of the Hedgehog (HH) pathway, lead to a partial loss of HH signaling and cause Pallister-Hall syndrome (PHS). Here, we report that cochleae from a mouse model of PHS (Gli3(Delta699)), which produces only the truncated, repressor form of GLI3, have a variably penetrant phenotype that includes an increase in the size of the sensory epithelium and the development of large ectopic sensory patches in Klliker's organ (KO). Consistent with the mouse model, some PHS individuals exhibit hearing loss across a broad range of frequencies. Moreover, inhibition of HH signaling in vitro results in an increase in the size of the prosensory domain, a precursor population that gives rise to the sensory epithelium, whereas treatment with Sonic hedgehog (SHH) inhibits prosensory formation. Finally, we demonstrate that HH signaling within the cochlea regulates expression of prosensory markers and that the effects of HH in KO are dependent on activation of Notch, an inducer of prosensory fate. These results suggest that HH signaling plays a key role in the specification, size, and location of the prosensory domain, and therefore of hair cells, within the cochlea.
The molecular mechanisms underlying the transition from recreational drug use to chronic addiction remain poorly understood. One molecule implicated in this process is DeltaFosB, a transcription factor that accumulates in striatum after repeated drug exposure and mediates sensitized behavioral responses to psychostimulants and other drugs of abuse. The downstream transcriptional mechanisms by which DeltaFosB regulates drug-induced behaviors are incompletely understood. We reported previously the chromatin remodeling mechanisms by which DeltaFosB activates the expression of certain genes; however, the mechanisms underlying DeltaFosB-mediated gene repression remain unknown. Here, we identify c-fos, an immediate early gene rapidly induced in striatum after acute psychostimulant exposure, as a novel downstream target that is repressed chronically by DeltaFosB. We show that accumulation of DeltaFosB in striatum after chronic amphetamine treatment desensitizes c-fos mRNA induction to a subsequent drug dose. DeltaFosB desensitizes c-fos expression by recruiting histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) to the c-fos gene promoter, which, in turn, deacetylates surrounding histones and attenuates gene activity. Accordingly, local knock-out of HDAC1 in striatum abolishes amphetamine-induced desensitization of the c-fos gene. In concert, chronic amphetamine increases histone H3 methylation on the c-fos promoter, a chromatin modification also known to repress gene activity, as well as expression levels of the H3 histone methyltransferase, KMT1A (lysine methyltransferase 1A, formerly SUV39H1). This study reveals a novel epigenetic pathway through which DeltaFosB mediates distinct transcriptional programs that may ultimately alter behavioral plasticity to chronic amphetamine exposure.
Neocortical action potential responses in vivo are characterized by considerable threshold variability, and thus timing and rate variability, even under seemingly identical conditions. This finding suggests that cortical ensembles are required for accurate sensorimotor integration and processing. Intracellularly, trial-to-trial variability results not only from variation in synaptic activities, but also in the transformation of these into patterns of action potentials. Through simultaneous axonal and somatic recordings and computational simulations, we demonstrate that the initiation of action potentials in the axon initial segment followed by backpropagation of these spikes throughout the neuron results in a distortion of the relationship between the timing of synaptic and action potential events. In addition, this backpropagation also results in an unusually high rate of rise of membrane potential at the foot of the action potential. The distortion of the relationship between the amplitude time course of synaptic inputs and action potential output caused by spike backpropagation results in the appearance of high spike threshold variability at the level of the soma. At the point of spike initiation, the axon initial segment, threshold variability is considerably less. Our results indicate that spike generation in cortical neurons is largely as expected by Hodgkin-Huxley theory and is more precise than previously thought.
Histamine (HA) is the photoreceptor neurotransmitter in arthropods, directly gating chloride channels on large monopolar cells (LMCs), postsynaptic to photoreceptors in the lamina. Two histamine-gated channel genes that could contribute to this channel in Drosophila are hclA (also known as ort) and hclB (also known as hisCl1), both encoding novel members of the Cys-loop receptor superfamily. Drosophila S2 cells transfected with these genes expressed both homomeric and heteromeric histamine-gated chloride channels. The electrophysiological properties of these channels were compared with those from isolated Drosophila LMCs. HCLA homomers had nearly identical HA sensitivity to the native receptors (EC(50) = 25 microM). Single-channel analysis revealed further close similarity in terms of single-channel kinetics and subconductance states ( approximately 25, 40, and 60 pS, the latter strongly voltage dependent). In contrast, HCLB homomers and heteromeric receptors were more sensitive to HA (EC(50) = 14 and 1.2 microM, respectively), with much smaller single-channel conductances ( approximately 4 pS). Null mutations of hclA (ort(US6096)) abolished the synaptic transients in the electroretinograms (ERGs). Surprisingly, the ERG &quot;on&quot; transients in hclB mutants transients were approximately twofold enhanced, whereas intracellular recordings from their LMCs revealed altered responses with slower kinetics. However, HCLB expression within the lamina, assessed by both a GFP (green fluorescent protein) reporter gene strategy and mRNA tagging, was exclusively localized to the glia cells, whereas HCLA expression was confirmed in the LMCs. Our results suggest that the native receptor at the LMC synapse is an HCLA homomer, whereas HCLB signaling via the lamina glia plays a previously unrecognized role in shaping the LMC postsynaptic response.
The laterocapsular division of the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeLC) has emerged as an important site of pain-related plasticity and pain modulation. Glutamate and neuropeptide receptors in the CeLC contribute to synaptic and behavioral changes in the arthritis pain model, but the intracellular signaling pathways remain to be determined. This study addressed the role of PKA, PKC, and ERK in the CeLC. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were used in all experiments. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings of CeLC neurons were made in brain slices from normal rats and from rats with a kaolin/carrageenan-induced monoarthritis in the knee (6 h postinduction). Membrane-permeable inhibitors of PKA (KT5720, 1 microM; cAMPS-Rp, 10 microM) and ERK (U0126, 1 microM) activation inhibited synaptic plasticity in slices from arthritic rats but had no effect on normal transmission in control slices. A PKC inhibitor (GF109203x, 1 microM) and an inactive structural analogue of U0126 (U0124, 1 microM) had no effect. The NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic component was inhibited by KT5720 or U0126; their combined application had additive effects. U0126 did not inhibit synaptic facilitation by forskolin-induced PKA-activation. Administration of KT5720 (100 microM, concentration in microdialysis probe) or U0126 (100 microM) into the CeLC, but not striatum (placement control), inhibited audible and ultrasonic vocalizations and spinal reflexes of arthritic rats but had no effect in normal animals. GF109203x (100 microM) and U0124 (100 microM) did not affect pain behavior. The data suggest that in the amygdala PKA and ERK, but not PKC, contribute to pain-related synaptic facilitation and behavior by increasing NMDA receptor function through independent signaling pathways.
Only a subset of adults acquires specific advanced mathematical skills, such as integral calculus. The representation of more sophisticated mathematical concepts probably evolved from basic number systems; however its neuroanatomical basis is still unknown. Using fMRI, we investigated the neural basis of integral calculus while healthy participants were engaged in an integration verification task. Solving integrals activated a left-lateralized cortical network including the horizontal intraparietal sulcus, posterior superior parietal lobe, posterior cingulate gyrus, and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Our results indicate that solving of more abstract and sophisticated mathematical facts, such as calculus integrals, elicits a pattern of brain activation similar to the cortical network engaged in basic numeric comparison, quantity manipulation, and arithmetic problem solving.

Visual stimuli of short duration seem to persist longer after the stimulus offset than stimuli of longer duration. This visual persistence must have a physiological explanation. In ferrets exposed to stimuli of different durations we measured the relative changes in the membrane potentials with a voltage sensitive dye and the action potentials of populations of neurons in the upper layers of areas 17 and 18. For durations less than 100 ms, the timing and amplitude of the firing and membrane potentials showed several non-linear effects. The ON response became truncated, the OFF response progressively reduced, and the timing of the OFF responses progressively delayed the shorter the stimulus duration. The offset of the stimulus elicited a sudden and strong negativity in the time derivative of the dye signal. All these non-linearities could be explained by the stimulus offset inducing a sudden inhibition in layers II-III as indicated by the strongly negative time derivative of the dye signal. Despite the non-linear behavior of the layer II-III neurons the sum of the action potentials, integrated from the peak of the ON response to the peak of the OFF response, was almost linearly related to the stimulus duration.

Although visual consciousness can be manipulated easily (e.g., by visual masking), it is unresolved whether it can be assessed accurately with behavioral measures such as discrimination ability and self-report. Older theories of visual consciousness postulated a sensory threshold and distinguished between subjective and objective thresholds. In contrast, newer theories distinguish among three aspects: phenomenal, access, and reflexive consciousness. This review shows that discrimination ability and self-report differ in their sensitivity to these aspects. Therefore, both need to be assessed in the study of visual consciousness.
Two missense mutations, R33Q and L167H, of hCASQ2 (human cardiac calsequestrin), a protein segregated to the lumen of the sarcoplasmic reticulum, are linked to the autosomal recessive form of CPVT (catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia). The effects of these mutations on the conformational, stability and Ca(2+) sensitivity properties of hCASQ2, were investigated. Recombinant WT (wild-type) and mutant CASQ2s were purified to homogeneity and characterized by spectroscopic (CD and fluorescence) and biochemical (size-exclusion chromatography and limited proteolysis) methods at 500 and 100 mM KCl, with or without Ca(2+) at a physiological intraluminal concentration of 1 mM; Ca(2+)-induced polymerization properties were studied by turbidimetry. In the absence of Ca(2+), mutations did not alter the conformation of monomeric CASQ2. For L167H only, at 100 mM KCl, emission fluorescence changes suggested tertiary structure alterations. Limited proteolysis showed that amino acid substitutions enhanced the conformational flexibility of CASQ2 mutants, which became more susceptible to tryptic cleavage, in the order L167H&gt;R33Q&gt;WT. Ca(2+) at a concentration of 1 mM amplified such differences: Ca(2+) stabilized WT CASQ2 against urea denaturation and tryptic cleavage, whereas this effect was reduced in R33Q and absent in L167H. Increasing [Ca(2+)] induced polymerization and precipitation of R33Q, but not that of L167H, which was insensitive to Ca(2+). Based on CASQ2 models, we propose that the Arg(33)--&gt;Gln exchange made the Ca(2+)-dependent formation of front-to-front dimers more difficult, whereas the Leu(167)--&gt;His replacement almost completely inhibited back-to-back dimer interactions. Initial molecular events of CPVT pathogenesis begin to unveil and appear to be different depending upon the specific CASQ2 mutation.

In vitro studies have implicated chemokine receptors in consumption and clearance of specific ligands. We studied the role that various signaling chemokine receptors play during ligand homeostasis in vivo. We examined the levels of ligands in serum and CNS tissue in mice lacking chemokine receptors. Compared with receptor-sufficient controls, Cx3cr1(-/-) mice exhibited augmented levels of CX3CL1 both in serum and brain, and circulating levels of CXCL1 and CXCL2 were increased in Cxcr2(-/-) mice. CCR2-deficient mice showed significantly increased amounts of circulating CCL2 compared with wild-type mice. Cxcr3(-/-) mice revealed increased levels of circulating and brain CXCL10 after experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) induction. CCR2-deficient peripheral blood and resident peritoneal cells exhibited reduced binding capacity and biologic responses to the CCR1 ligand CCL3, suggesting that elevated levels of CCR2 ligands had down-regulated CCR1. The results indicate that signaling chemokine receptors clear chemokines from circulation and tissues. These homeostatic functions of signaling chemokine receptors need to be integrated into safety and efficacy calculations when considering therapeutic receptor blockade.
Recruitment of circulating natural killer (NK) cells into inflamed lymph nodes is known to provide a potent, IFN-gamma-dependent boost for Th1-polarized immune responses in mouse models. Such NK cell recruitment into draining lymph nodes is induced by certain s.c. injected adjuvants, including mature vaccine dendritic cells (DC), and is mediated by a CXCR3-dependent pathway. Here, we show that monocyte-derived immature human DCs stimulated with polyinosinic acid:polycytidylic acid, IFN-alpha, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta), and IFN-gamma, alpha-type 1-polarized DC (alpha DC1), secrete profuse amounts of the CXCR3 ligand CXCL9/MIG and substantial amounts of CXCL10/IP-10 and CXCL11/I-TAC after withdrawal of maturation stimuli. In sharp contrast, no measurable production of these chemokines was found in DCs after maturation with the current gold standard maturation cocktail for human DC-based cancer vaccines consisting of TNF-alpha, IL-1 beta, IL-6, and prostaglandin-E(2) (PGE(2)-DC). PGE(2)-DCs preferentially produced the Th2 and regulatory T-cell-attracting chemokines CCL17/TARC and CCL22/MDC, whereas only marginal levels of these chemokines were produced by alpha DC1s. Functional studies in vitro showed that supernatants from mature alpha DC1s actively recruited CD3(-)CD56(+) NK cells and that adding anti-CXCL9/MIG antibodies to the alpha DC1 supernatant substantially reduced this recruitment. Finally, alpha DC1s were able to induce IFN-gamma production when cocultured with resting autologous NK cells, but only if concurrent CD40 ligation was provided. These novel findings indicate that injected human alpha DC1-based vaccines have the potential to recruit and activate NK cells during their arrival to draining lymph nodes and that this feature may be of relevance for efficient priming of Th1 cells and CTLs.
Aquaporin-4 (AQP4) is the major water channel expressed in fast-twitch skeletal muscle fibers. AQP4 is reduced in Duchenne and Becker Muscular Dystrophies, but not in caveolinopathies, thus suggesting an interaction with dystrophin or with members of the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC) rather than a nonspecific effect due to muscle membrane damage. To establish the role of sarcoglycans in AQP4 decrease occurring in muscular dystrophy, AQP4 expression was analyzed in muscle biopsies from patients affected by Limb Girdle Muscular Dystrophies (LGMDs) 2C-F genetically confirmed. In all the LGMD 2C-F (2alpha-, 1beta-, 2gamma-, 1delta-deficiency), AQP4 was severely decreased. This effect was associated to a marked reduction in alpha1-syntrophin levels. In control muscle AQP4 did not show a direct interaction with any of the four sarcoglycans but, it co-immunoprecipitated with alpha1-syntrophin, indicating that this modular protein may link AQP4 levels with the DGC complex. To determine whether AQP4 expression could be affected in other LGMDs due to the defect of a membrane protein not associated to the dystrophin complex, we examined AQP4 expression in 6 patients affected by dysferlin deficiency genetically confirmed. All the patients displayed a reduction of the water channel, and AQP4 expression appeared to correlate with the severity of the muscle histopathological lesions. However, differently from what observed in the sarcoglycans, alpha1-syntrophin expression was normal or just slightly reduced. These results seem to indicate an additional mechanism of regulation of AQP4 levels in muscle cells. In accordance with a specific effect of membrane muscle disorders, AQP4 protein levels were not changed in 3 mitochondrial and 3 metabolic myopathies. In conclusion, AQP4 expression and membrane localization are markedly reduced in LGMD 2B-2F. The role of AQP4 in the degenerative mechanism occurring in these diseases will be the object of our future research.
Neural crest-derived structures that depend critically upon expression of the basic helix-loop-helix DNA binding protein Hand2 for normal development include craniofacial cartilage and bone, the outflow tract of the heart, cardiac cushion, and noradrenergic sympathetic ganglion neurons. Loss of Hand2 is embryonic lethal by E9.5, obviating a genetic analysis of its in-vivo function. We have overcome this difficulty by specific deletion of Hand2 in neural crest-derived cells by crossing our line of floxed Hand2 mice with Wnt1-Cre transgenic mice. Our analysis of Hand2 knock-out in neural crest-derived cells reveals effects on development in all neural crest-derived structures where Hand2 is expressed. In the autonomic nervous system, conditional disruption of Hand2 results in a significant and progressive loss of neurons as well as a significant loss of TH expression. Hand2 affects generation of the neural precursor pool of cells by affecting both the proliferative capacity of the progenitors as well as affecting expression of Phox2a and Gata3, DNA binding proteins important for the cell autonomous development of noradrenergic neurons. Our data suggest that Hand2 is a multifunctional DNA binding protein affecting differentiation and cell type-specific gene expression in neural crest-derived noradrenergic sympathetic ganglion neurons. Hand2 has a pivotal function in a non-linear cross-regulatory network of DNA binding proteins that affect cell autonomous control of differentiation and cell type-specific gene expression.
Clenbuterol (CLB) is an antiasthmatic drug used also illegally as a lean muscle mass enhancer in both humans and animals. CLB and amine-related drugs in general are nitrosatable, thus raising concerns regarding possible genotoxic/carcinogenic activity. Oral administration of CLB raises the issue of its possible transformation by salivary nitrite at the acidic pH of gastric juice. In acidic human saliva CLB was rapidly transformed to the CLB arenediazonium ion. This suggests a reaction of CLB with salivary nitrite, as confirmed in aerobic HNO(2) solution by a drastic decrease in nitric oxide, nitrite, and nitrate. In human saliva, both glutathione and ascorbic acid were able to inhibit CLB arenediazonium formation and to react with preformed CLB arenediazonium. The effect of ascorbic acid is particularly pertinent because this vitamin is actively concentrated within the gastric juice. EPR spin trapping experiments showed that preformed CLB arenediazonium ion was reduced to the aryl radical by ascorbic acid, glutathione, and serum albumin, the major protein of saliva. As demonstrated by anti-CLB antibodies and MS, the CLB-albumin interaction leads to the formation of a covalent drug-protein adduct, with a preference for Tyr-rich regions. This study highlights the possible hazards associated with the use/abuse of this drug.
A number of studies have associated the S18Y polymorphic variant of UCH-L1 with protection from sporadic Parkinson's Disease (PD). The mechanism involved in this protective function is unknown, but has generally been assumed to be linked to the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS). In the current study, we have investigated the effects of overexpression of UCH-L1 and its variants, including S18Y, in neuronal cells. We find that S18Y, but not WT, UCH-L1 confers a specific antioxidant protective function when expressed at physiological levels in human neuroblastoma cells and primary cortical neurons. In contrast, neither WT nor S18Y UCH-L1 appear to directly impact the proteasome, although they both lead to stabilization of free ubiquitin. Lack of WT mouse UCH-L1 in neurons derived from gad mice led to a decrease of free ubiquitin, but no overall decrease in UPS function or enhanced sensitivity to oxidative stress. We conclude that the S18Y variant of UCH-L1 confers a novel antioxidant function that is not present in the WT form and that this function may underlie the protective effects of this variant in certain PD populations. Our results furthermore provide indirect evidence for the importance of oxidative stress as a pathogenetic factor in certain forms of sporadic PD.
Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD) is caused by polyalanine expansion in nuclear protein PABPN1 [poly(A) binding protein nuclear 1] and characterized by muscle degeneration. Druggable modifiers of proteotoxicity in degenerative diseases, notably the longevity modulators sirtuins, may constitute useful therapeutic targets. However, the modifiers of mutant PABPN1 are unknown. Here, we report that longevity and cell metabolism modifiers modulate mutant PABPN1 toxicity in the muscle cell. Using PABPN1 nematodes that show muscle cell degeneration and abnormal motility, we found that increased dosage of the sirtuin and deacetylase sir-2.1/SIRT1 exacerbated muscle pathology, an effect dependent on the transcription factor daf-16/FoxO and fuel sensor aak-2/AMPK (AMP-activated protein kinase), while null mutants of sir-2.1, daf-16 and aak-2 were protective. Consistently, the Sir2 inhibitor sirtinol was protective, whereas the Sir2 and AMPK activator resveratrol was detrimental. Furthermore, rescue by sirtinol was dependent on daf-16 and not aak-2, whereas aggravation by resveratrol was dependent on aak-2 and not daf-16. Finally, the survival of mammalian cells expressing mutant PABPN1 was promoted by sirtinol and decreased by resveratrol. Altogether, our data identify Sir2 and AMPK inhibition as therapeutic strategies for muscle protection in OPMD, extending the value of druggable proteins in cell maintenance networks to polyalanine diseases.
Machado-Joseph disease (MJD) is a fatal, dominant neurodegenerative disorder. MJD results from polyglutamine repeat expansion in the MJD-1 gene, conferring a toxic gain of function to the ataxin-3 protein. In this study, we aimed at overexpressing ataxin-3 in the rat brain using lentiviral vectors (LV), to generate an in vivo MJD genetic model and, to study the disorder in defined brain regions: substantia nigra, an area affected in MJD, cortex and striatum, regions not previously reported to be affected in MJD. LV encoding mutant or wild-type human ataxin-3 was injected in the brain of adult rats and the animals were tested for behavioral deficits and neuropathological abnormalities. Striatal pathology was confirmed in transgenic mice and human tissue. In substantia nigra, unilateral overexpression of mutant ataxin-3 led to: apomorphine-induced turning behavior; formation of ubiquitinated ataxin-3 aggregates; alpha-synuclein immunoreactivity; and loss of dopaminergic markers (TH and VMAT2). No neuropathological changes were observed upon wild-type ataxin-3 overexpression. Mutant ataxin-3 expression in striatum and cortex, resulted in accumulation of misfolded ataxin-3, and within striatum, loss of neuronal markers. Striatal pathology was confirmed by observation in MJD transgenic mice of ataxin-3 aggregates and substantial reduction of DARPP-32 immunoreactivity and, in human striata, by ataxin-3 inclusions, immunoreactive for ubiquitin and alpha-synuclein. This study demonstrates the use of LV encoding mutant ataxin-3 to produce a model of MJD and brings evidence of striatal pathology, suggesting that this region may contribute to dystonia and chorea observed in some MJD patients and may represent a target for therapies.
The canonical transient receptor potential channels (TRPCs) are Ca(2+)-permeable nonselective cation channels with various physiological functions. Here, we report that TRPC6, a member of the TRPC family, promotes hippocampal neuron dendritic growth. The peak expression of TRPC6 in rat hippocampus was between postnatal day 7 and 14, a period known to be important for maximal dendritic growth. Overexpression of TRPC6 increased phosphorylation of Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent kinase IV (CaMKIV) and cAMP-response-element binding protein (CREB) and promoted dendritic growth in hippocampal cultures. Downregulation of TRPC6 by short hairpin RNA interference against TRPC6 suppressed phosphorylation of both CaMKIV and CREB and impaired dendritic growth. Expressing a dominant-negative form of CaMKIV or CREB blocked the TRPC6-induced dendritic growth. Furthermore, inhibition of Ca(2+) influx suppressed the TRPC6 effect on dendritic growth. Finally, in TRPC6 transgenic mice, the phosphorylation of CaMKIV and CREB was enhanced and the dendritic growth was also increased. In conclusion, TRPC6 promoted dendritic growth via the CaMKIV-CREB pathway. Our results thus revealed a novel role of TRPC6 during the development of the central nervous system (CNS).
Interferon-beta (IFN-beta) achieves its beneficial effect on multiple sclerosis (MS) via anti-inflammatory properties. In this study, we assessed the expression of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) patients treated or not with IFN-beta. Intracellular BDNF was measured by Western blot and ELISA and compared with serum BDNF. We found higher levels of BDNF in PBMC of IFN-beta-treated versus non-treated patients, whereas serum levels of BDNF were similar. We hypothesize that the increased intracellular BDNF secondary to IFN-beta is not released in the periphery. This release is probably not tissue specific but in MS patients, BDNF could be specifically delivered by PBMC at the site of re-activation, i.e. within the central nervous system.

A 49-year-old man developed simultaneously a Guillain Barr Syndrome (GBS) and a nephrotic syndrome (NS). The patient relapsed twice, despite treatment with intravenous immunoglobulins (IVIg) after a full or partial recovery, and became resistant to IVIg. Renal biopsy revealed focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS). He responded to plasmapheresis and corticosteroids with simultaneous recovery of his GBS and NS, suggesting a common pathogenesis of the two conditions.

Most of the resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies demonstrated the correlations between spatially distinct brain areas from the perspective of functional connectivity or functional integration. The functional connectivity approaches do not directly provide information of the amplitude of brain activity of each brain region within a network. Alternatively, an index named amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF) of the resting-state fMRI signal has been suggested to reflect the intensity of regional spontaneous brain activity. However, it has been indicated that the ALFF is also sensitive to the physiological noise. The current study proposed a fractional ALFF (fALFF) approach, i.e., the ratio of power spectrum of low-frequency (0.01-0.08 Hz) to that of the entire frequency range and this approach was tested in two groups of resting-state fMRI data. The results showed that the brain areas within the default mode network including posterior cingulate cortex, precuneus, medial prefrontal cortex and bilateral inferior parietal lobule had significantly higher fALFF than the other brain areas. This pattern was consistent with previous neuroimaging results. The non-specific signal components in the cistern areas in resting-state fMRI were significantly suppressed, indicating that the fALFF approach improved the sensitivity and specificity in detecting spontaneous brain activities. Its mechanism and sensitivity to abnormal brain activity should be evaluated in the future studies.
Short interval intracortical inhibition (SICI) and intracortical facilitation (ICF) were evaluated in the masseter muscles of 12 subjects and the cortical silent period (SP) in nine subjects. Motor evoked potentials (MEPs) were recorded from contralateral (cMM) and ipsilateral (iMM) masseters, activated at 10% of maximal voluntary contraction (MVC). Interstimulus intervals (ISIs) were 2 and 3 ms for SICI, 10 and 15 ms for ICF. TMS of the left masseteric cortex induced MEPs that were larger in the cMM than the iMM; stimulation of right masseteric cortex produced a similar asymmetry in response amplitude. SICI was only observed using a CS intensity of 70% AMT and was equal in both cMM and iMM. SICI was stronger at higher TS intensities, was abolished by muscle activation greater than 10% MVC, and was unaffected by coil orientation changes. Control experiments confirmed that SICI was not contaminated by any inhibitory peripheral reflexes. However, ICF could not be obtained because it was masked by bilateral reflex depression of masseter EMG caused by auditory input from the coil discharge. The SP was bilateral and symmetric; its duration ranged from 35 to 70 ms depending on TS intensity and coil orientation. We conclude that SICI is present in the cortical representation of masseter muscles. The similarity of SICI in cMM and iMM suggests either that a single pool of inhibitory interneurons controls ipsi- and contralateral corticotrigeminal projections or that inhibition is directed to bilaterally projecting corticotrigeminal fibres. Finally, the corticotrigeminal projection seems to be weakly influenced by inhibitory interneurons mediating the cortical SP.
Some areas of current interest in the rapidly expanding purinergic signalling field that are controversial or are unresolved are highlighted in this review. These include the mechanisms underlying: ATP transport across cell and vesicle membranes; the interaction of multiple receptors for purines and pyrimidines on single cells; the blocking effect of antagonists to P2X(4) and P2X(7) receptors expressed by microglial cells in neuropathic and inflammatory pain; and the complex actions mediated by P2X(7) receptors. Some desirable areas for further research are also discussed including: comparative studies of the evolution of purinergic signalling; studies of purinergic signalling in development and regeneration, including the involvement of stem cells; behavioural studies; and therapeutic strategies.
High frequency (&gt;or= 100 Hz) bursts of action potentials (APs) generated by neocortical neurons are thought to increase information content and, through back-propagation, to influence synaptic integration and efficacy in distal dendritic compartments. It was recently shown in acute slice experiments that intrinsic bursting properties differ between neocortical L2/3 and L5B (thick tufted) neurons. In L2/3 neurons for instance, dendritic APs were brief and generated only one additional AP after the initial somatic AP. In L5B neurons, dendritic plateau potentials facilitated the generation of trains of three or more APs. We recently showed in vivo that spiking frequencies are very different for L2/3 and L5B thick tufted neurons under anaesthesia. Here, we addressed the question whether in vivo the bursting properties are different for these two cell types. We recorded from L2/3 and L5B thick tufted neurons of rat primary somatosensory (barrel) cortex under anaesthetized and awake conditions and found that AP activity is dominated by single APs. In addition, we found that in the anaesthetized animal also bursts of two APs were observed in L2/3 neurons but the relative occurrence of these bursts was low. In L5B thick tufted neurons, bursts consisting of up to six APs were recorded and their relative occurrence was significantly higher. Frequencies within bursts were also significantly higher in L5B thick tufted neurons than in L2/3 neurons. In awake (head-restrained) animals, average spike frequencies of L2/3 and L5B thick tufted neurons were surprisingly similar to spike rates under anaesthesia. However, bursting behaviour in L2/3 neurons was comparable to L5B thick tufted neurons. Thus, the distribution of interspike intervals was changed in L2/3 neurons without affecting the average spiking rate. We observed bursts consisting of up to five APs in both cell types and both probability of bursts and AP frequency within bursts were similar for L2/3 and L5B thick tufted neurons. Our analysis shows that most cortical APs occur as single APs, although a minor fraction of APs in L2/3 and L5B thick tufted neurons are part of high frequency bursts (15%). This AP bursting is dependent on the behavioural state of the animal in a cell-type dependent manner.
The present study investigated motor unit (MU) loss in a murine model of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). The fast-twitch tibialis anterior (TA) and medial gastrocnemius (MG) muscles of transgenic SOD1(G93A) and SOD1(WT) mice were studied during the presymptomatic phase of disease progression at 60 days of age. Whole muscle maximum isometric twitch and tetanic forces were 80% lower (P &lt; 0.01) in the TA muscles of SOD1(G93A) compared to SOD1(WT) mice. Enumeration of total MU numbers within TA muscles showed a 60% reduction (P &lt; 0.01) within SOD1(G93A) mice (38 +/- 7) compared with SOD1(WT) controls (95 +/- 12); this was attributed to a lower proportion of the most forceful fast-fatigable (FF) MU in SOD1(G93A) mice, as seen by a significant (P &lt; 0.01) leftward shift in the cumulative frequency histogram of single MU forces. Similar patterns of MU loss and corresponding decreases in isometric twitch force were observed in the MG. Immunocytochemical analyses of the entire cross-sectional area (CSA) of serial sections of TA muscles stained with anti-neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) and various monoclonal antibodies for myosin heavy chain (MHC) isoforms showed respective 65% (P &lt; 0.01) and 28% (P &lt; 0.05) decreases in the number of innervated IIB and IID/X muscle fibres in SOD1(G93A), which paralleled the 60% decrease (P &lt; 0.01) in the force generating capacity of individual fibres. The loss of fast MUs was partially compensated by activity-dependent fast-to-slower fibre type transitions, as determined by increases (P &lt; 0.04) in the CSA and proportion of IIA fibres (from 4% to 14%) and IID/X fibres (from 31% to 39%), and decreases (P &lt; 0.001) in the CSA and proportion of type IIB fibres (from 65% to 44%). We conclude that preferential loss of IIB fibres is incomplete at 60 days of age, and is consistent with a selective albeit gradual loss of FF MUs that is not fully compensated by sprouting of the remaining motoneurons that innervate type IIA or IID/X muscle fibres. Our findings indicate that disease progression in fast-twitch muscles of SOD1(G93A) mice involves parallel processes: (1) gradual selective motor axon die-back of the FF motor units that contain large type IIB muscle fibres, and of fatigue-intermediate motor units that innervate type IID/X muscle fibres, and (2) activity-dependent conversion of motor units to those innervated by smaller motor axons innervating type IIA fatigue-resistant muscle fibres.
Mutations in the progranulin (PGRN) gene were recently described as the cause of ubiquitin positive frontotemporal dementia (FTD) in many families. Different frequencies of these genetic changes have been reported in diverse populations leading us to determine if these mutations were a major cause of FTD in the Portuguese population. The entire coding sequence plus exon 0 of PGRN were sequenced in a consecutive series of 46 FTD/CBS Portuguese patients. Two mutations were found: a novel pathogenic insertion (p.Gln300GlnfsX61) and a previously described point variant (p.T182M) of unclear pathogenicity. Pathogenic mutations in the PGRN gene were found in one of the 36 probands studied (3% of the probands in our series) who had a corticobasal syndrome presentation, indicating that in the Portuguese population, mutations in this gene are not a major cause of FTD.
Studies of specific populations have provided invaluable knowledge about Parkinson's disease (PD), especially in the field of genetics. The present report systematically reviews the medical literature on PD in Arabs. Medline and Embase were searched, and 24 article were identified: genetic (n = 17), epidemiological (n = 3), and clinical series (n = 5). Both autosomal dominant and recessive forms of inherited PD are described, associated with four genes (Parkin, PINK1, LRRK2, and PARK9). The G2019S LRRK2 mutation is more common in both familial (37-42%) and apparently sporadic PD (41%) in North African Arabs than in Europeans and North Americans (2-3%). The incidence of PD is reported at 4.5 per 100,000 person-years and reported prevalence at 27 to 43 per 100,000 persons. Hospital-based clinical series suggest that parkinsonism is the commonest movement disorder. Clinical features of PD in Arabs are not significantly different from those reported elsewhere. PD was reported as the cause of dementia in around 7% of Arabs. The majority of studies relate to the role of genes in the etiology of PD in North African Arabs. Further genetic, epidemiological and clinical studies from the majority of Arabic countries may enhance our understanding of PD.
We report a case of probable psychogenic propriospinal myoclonus (PSM) in a patient who developed a sudden onset of disabling axial flexor myoclonus following a cosmetic surgical procedure. The electrophysiological findings were consistent with previous reports of PSM. Spontaneous remissions and disappearance of the jerks, sustained for 2 years, following removal of superficial surgical screws support the diagnosis of a psychogenic movement disorder.
Our objective was to investigate whether asymptomatic carriers of apolipoprotein E epsilon4 [APOE-4] demonstrate pathological differences and atrophy in medial temporal lobe (MTL) subregions. We measured cortical thickness and volume in MTL subregions (hippocampal CA fields 1, 2 and 3; dentate gyrus; entorhinal cortex; subiculum; perirhinal cortex; parahippocampal cortex; and fusiform gyrus) using a high-resolution in-plane (0.4x0.4 mm) MRI sequence in 30 cognitively normal volunteers (14 APOE-4 carriers, 16 non-carriers, mean age 57 years). A cortical unfolding procedure maximized the visibility of this convoluted cortex, providing cortical ribbon thickness measures throughout individual subregions of the hippocampus and surrounding cortex. APOE-4 carriers had reduced cortical thickness compared with non-carriers in entorhinal cortex (ERC) and the subiculum (Sub), but not in the main hippocampal body or perirhinal cortex. Average cortical thickness was 14.8% lower (p=1.0e(- 6)) for ERC and 12.6% lower (p=6.8e(- 5)) for Sub in APOE-4 carriers. Standard volumetric measures of the same regions showed similar, but non-significant trends. Cognitively intact carriers of APOE-4 show regionally specific thinning of the cortical ribbon compared to APOE-3 carriers; cortical thickness may be a more sensitive measure of pathological differences in genetic risk subjects than standard volumetry.
Subtle but progressive variations in human cortical thickness have been associated with the initial phases of prevalent neurological and psychiatric conditions. But slight changes in cortical thickness at preclinical stages are typically masked by effects of the Gaussian kernel smoothing on the cortical surface shape descriptors. Here we present the first study aimed at detecting changes in human cortical thickness maps by applying soft-thresholding to multiresolution spherical wavelet coefficients. In order to make Gaussian and wavelet smoothing methods comparable, the trade-off between sensitivity and specificity was optimized to detect simulated thickness changes in various cortical areas of healthy elderly subjects. Results revealed a better sensitivity-specificity trade-off when using wavelet-based methods as compared to Gaussian smoothing in both the whole neocortex (p&lt;10(-7)) and cortical region-based statistical analyses (p&lt;10(-9)), which was mainly due to the higher specificity obtained with the wavelet approach. The lower smoothing introduced by wavelets and their adaptive properties may account for the enhanced specificity and sensitivity when compared with Gaussian spatial filters. These results strongly support the use of spherical wavelet methods to detect subtle variations in cortical thickness maps, which may be crucial in better understanding the course of neuronal loss in normal aging and in finding early markers of cortical degeneration.
Variability in the control group plays a crucial role in voxel-based morphometry (VBM) detection of structural abnormalities. Two common methods of minimising this variance are inclusion of covariates and matching of control and patient groups. We address two major questions: What are the optimal covariates in the VBM design? When a large pool of controls are available, is it better to choose a subset of matched control subjects at the expense of numbers, or include all available controls? We used regression analysis in a group of 176 controls to determine the contribution of gender, age, and total intracranial volume (TIV) to volume variation. We then used different matching and covariate strategies to determine the optimal design for VBM detection of abnormality in epilepsy patients with hippocampal sclerosis. In the regression analysis, focal gender effects disappeared with inclusion of TIV as an additional regressor. Age had a small but unique contribution to focal volume changes. In the VBM analysis of HS patients, detection of abnormalities was strongly influenced by choice of covariates. The optimal combination was different for grey and white matter (for grey matter: TIV; for temporal lobe white matter: TIV, age and gender). A control group size of 70-90 subjects allowed optimal detection of volume loss in the hippocampus and thalamus. At these group sizes, matched control groups did not consistently prove superior to deliberately &quot;unmatched&quot; groups of the same size. The optimal detection of volume loss was obtained with all available control subjects.



This study examined within- and across-session consistency of visual analog scale (VAS) pain intensity and unpleasantness ratings of contact heat stimuli in 64 subjects (32 male). Subjects participated in four sessions over 14 days, with three stimulus series per session. Two levels of painful heat (pain-lo: rated 40, and pain-hi: rated 70 on a 0-100 VAS) were delivered in randomized order during each series, with temperatures selected on an individual subject basis to equalize pain perception across subjects. Across-session ratings declined by the fourth session for both pain levels (p=0.01). Within-session ratings declined by the third series for both pain levels (p&lt;0.001). While significant, changes in across- and within-session ratings were of small magnitude. Comparison of coefficients of variation (CVs) for across- and within-session ratings revealed that pain-lo ratings were more variable than pain-hi ratings (p&lt;0.001). Across- and within-session CVs were highly correlated for each pain level (pain-lo p&lt;0.001; pain-hi p=0.001), suggesting that variability of VAS ratings is a characteristic of individual subjects over both short and long time scales. Across- and within-session CVs were significantly negatively correlated with individual ratings of the stimuli, but were not correlated with demographic or psychosocial factors. Furthermore, sex did not impact consistency of ratings, demonstrating that neither sex is more variable in ratings than the other over time. Taken together, these findings suggest that VAS ratings of painful contact heat are relatively stable over time but the variability of these ratings is significantly impacted by the perceived intensity of the stimulus.
The aims of this study was to investigate the impact of aluminum nitrate administered in drinking water during 90 days (sub-chronic toxicity), on body weight gain, motor activity, brain aluminum accumulation and especially in recognition memory of wistar rats. Two groups of young female wistar rats were used. Treated rats received (80 mg L(-1)) of aluminum nitrate diluted in drinking water, while control rats received a drinking water only, for 3 months. An evolution of body weight, a motor activity, object recognition memory (NOR) and brain aluminum concentration has been evaluated. The body weight was taken weekly, whereas the memory abilities and the motor activity are measured once every fortnight alternatively, by submitting rats to the open field test and to the novel object recognizing memory test. The results have showed a significant decrease in rats' body weight (p &lt; 0.05). Though, no significance was registered for motor activity. Nevertheless, a high significance is showed for recognition memory compared to control rats (p &lt; 0.01), especially at the end of testing period, even the difference between control and aluminium treated rats in brain aluminum levels was not significant.
Successful adaptation to changes in an animal's emotional and motivational environment depends on behavioral flexibility accompanied by changes in bodily responses, e.g., autonomic and endocrine, which support the change in behavior. Here, we identify the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) as pivotal in the flexible regulation and coordination of behavioral and autonomic responses during adaptation. Using an appetitive Pavlovian task, we demonstrate that OFC lesions in the marmoset (i) impair an animal's ability to rapidly suppress its appetitive cardiovascular arousal upon termination of a conditioned stimulus and (ii) cause an uncoupling of the behavioral and autonomic components of the adaptive response after reversal of the reward contingencies. These findings highlight the role of the OFC in emotional regulation and are highly relevant to our understanding of disorders such as schizophrenia and autism in which uncoupling of emotional responses may contribute to the experiential distress and disadvantageous behavior associated with these disorders.
We demonstrate the feasibility of generating thousands of transgenic Drosophila melanogaster lines in which the expression of an exogenous gene is reproducibly directed to distinct small subsets of cells in the adult brain. We expect the expression patterns produced by the collection of 5,000 lines that we are currently generating to encompass all neurons in the brain in a variety of intersecting patterns. Overlapping 3-kb DNA fragments from the flanking noncoding and intronic regions of genes thought to have patterned expression in the adult brain were inserted into a defined genomic location by site-specific recombination. These fragments were then assayed for their ability to function as transcriptional enhancers in conjunction with a synthetic core promoter designed to work with a wide variety of enhancer types. An analysis of 44 fragments from four genes found that &gt;80% drive expression patterns in the brain; the observed patterns were, on average, comprised of &lt;100 cells. Our results suggest that the D. melanogaster genome contains &gt;50,000 enhancers and that multiple enhancers drive distinct subsets of expression of a gene in each tissue and developmental stage. We expect that these lines will be valuable tools for neuroanatomy as well as for the elucidation of neuronal circuits and information flow in the fly brain.
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is characterised by disturbances in concentration and memory, symptoms which are a source of further distress for patients. Related to this, abnormalities in underlying working memory (WM) systems have been identified [Clark, C.R., McFarlane, A.C., Morris, P., Weber, D.L., Sonkkilla, C., Shaw, M.E., Marcina, J., Tochon-Danguy, H.J., Egan, G.F., 2003. Cerebral function in posttraumatic stress disorder during verbal working memory updating: a positron emission tomography study. Biological Psychiatry 53, 474-481.], indicating dysfunction in left hemisphere brain regions. In this study, we performed functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in 13 patients with severe PTSD and matched non-traumatized Controls, during performance of visuo-verbal tasks that involved either maintenance or continual updating of word stimuli in WM. The PTSD group failed to show differential activation during WM updating, and instead appeared to show abnormal recruitment of WM updating network regions during WM maintenance. These regions included the bilateral dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) and the inferior parietal lobe (IPL). Several other regions were significantly more activated in Controls than in PTSD during WM updating, including the hippocampus, the anterior cingulate (AC), and the brainstem pons, key regions that are consistently implicated in the neurobiology of PTSD. These findings suggest compensatory recruitment of networks in PTSD normally only deployed during updating of WM and may reflect PTSD patients' difficulty engaging with their day-to-day environment.
Ethanol produces a wide variety of behavioral and physiological effects in the body, but exactly how it acts to produce these effects is still poorly understood. Although ethanol was long believed to act nonspecifically through the disordering of lipids in cell membranes, proteins are at the core of most current theories of its mechanisms of action. Although ethanol affects various biochemical processes such as neurotransmitter release, enzyme function, and ion channel kinetics, we are only beginning to understand the specific molecular sites to which ethanol molecules bind to produce these myriad effects. For most effects of ethanol characterized thus far, it is unknown whether the protein whose function is being studied actually binds ethanol, or if alcohol is instead binding to another protein that then indirectly affects the functioning of the protein being studied. In this Review, we describe criteria that should be considered when identifying alcohol binding sites and highlight a number of proteins for which there exists considerable molecular-level evidence for distinct ethanol binding sites.
Retrograde and anterograde amnesic effects of excitotoxic lesions of the rat retrosplenial cortex (RS) and hippocampus (HPC) were investigated. To test retrograde amnesia, rats were trained with two-arm place discrimination in a radial maze 4 wk and 1 d before surgery with a different arm pair, respectively. In the retention test 1 wk after surgery, both lesion groups showed temporally ungraded retrograde amnesia. To test anterograde amnesia, animals were trained after surgery to discriminate three arm pairs successively within a day, and then after interposition of 1- to 4-wk intervals, one of these pairs, respectively, was tested for retention. RS-lesioned rats could acquire these pairs of place discriminations rapidly but showed a retention interval-dependent impairment in the retention test. Conversely, HPC-lesioned rats took more sessions to acquire these pairs than did the control group, and their retention was approximately 70% of correct performance regardless of retention interval. Results suggest that RS and HPC have different roles in spatial memory and that RS is important for remote memory process.

Apnea of pre-maturity is common, occurring in 85% of infants born less than 34 week gestation. Oral caffeine is the most frequent form of therapy, often in conjunction with the use of intubation and intermittent ventilation. Morphine is used to reduce the pain believed to be associated with the latter. Little information is available on the effects of caffeine, morphine or their combination, on the developing brain. We determined the effect of caffeine and morphine alone and in combination of cell death on the developing brain of the rat. Cell death, measured by Fluoro-jade B and activated caspase-3, was significantly increased at 12 and 24 hour post-caffeine injection (P &lt; 0.05) in the cortex, caudate, nucleus accumbens, hypothalamus, hippocampus and superior colliculus. No alterations were seen following morphine injection alone. However, in the thalamus, the combination of caffeine and morphine did increase cell death to a significantly greater extent than caffeine alone. Further research is required to determine the long-term pathologic and functional effects of caffeine and the combination of caffeine and morphine on the developing immature brain.
The lifespan of the predominant inhibitory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), is determined by its uptake into neurons and glia, through high-affinity Na(+)/Cl(-) dependent transporters (GATs). We now evaluated how the uptake of GABA by nerve endings, which is mostly mediated by the GAT-1 subtype, is modulated by brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). BDNF (10-200 ng/ml) decreased GAT-1-mediated GABA uptake by isolated hippocampal rat nerve terminals (synaptosomes), an effect that occurred within 1 min of incubation with BDNF and blocked by the tyrosine kinase inhibitor K252a (100 nM) as well as by the PLC inhibitor, U73122 (3 microM). Maximum inhibition was attained with 100 ng/ml BDNF. In contrast with what has been observed for other synaptic actions of BDNF, the inhibition of GABA transport by BDNF does not require tonic activation of adenosine A(2A) receptors since it was not blocked by the A(2A) receptor antagonist SCH 58261 (50 nM). However, in synaptosomes previously depleted of extracellular endogenous adenosine by incubation with adenosine deaminase (1 U/ml), activation of A(2A) receptors with the A(2A) receptor agonist, CGS 21680 (30 nM), enhanced the inhibitory effect of BDNF upon GABA transport, an action prevented by the A(2A) receptor antagonist, SCH 58261 (50 nM). It is concluded that BDNF, through TrkB and PLCgamma signalling inhibits GAT-1-mediated GABA transport by nerve endings and that this action is not dependent on, but can be enhanced by, TrkB/A(2A) receptor cross talk.
The treatment of acute and chronic pain is still deficient. The modulation of glial cells may provide novel targets to treat pain. We hypothesize that astrocytes and microglia participate in the initiation and maintenance of both, acute surgical and chronic neuropathic pain. Rats underwent paw incision, L5 nerve exposure or L5 nerve transection surgery. Behavioral mechanical allodynia was assessed using von Frey filaments. Immunohistochemistry was performed using anti-ionized calcium binding adaptor protein, Iba-1 (microglia), and anti-Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein, GFAP (astrocytes) on day 1, 4 and 7 after surgery. Following paw incision and at spinal L5 segment GFAP expression was increased in laminae I-II and Iba1 in deep laminae on day 1, in the entire dorsal horn on day 4 and dissipated on day 7 after paw incision in parallel with the allodynia. L5 nerve transection induced mechanical allodynia from day 1 to 7 which correlated with Iba-1 increases on day 1, 4 (entire dorsal horn) and day 7 after nerve injury (deep laminae of the dorsal horn) at spinal L5 segment. Conversely, GFAP increased at later time points from day 4 (deep laminae) and on day 7 (entire dorsal horn). Our data demonstrates that astrocytes (GFAP expression) play a role in the initiation of acute pain and the maintenance of chronic pain while Iba-1 increases closely correlated with the early phase of neuropathic pain. Iba1 and GFAP increased rostrally, at L3 segment, after paw incision (day 4) and only Iba1 increased following L5 nerve transection (day 7).
Antibodies to amyloid beta protein (Abeta) are present naturally or after Abeta vaccine therapy in human plasma. To clarify their clinical role, we examined plasma samples from 113 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 205 normal controls using the tissue amyloid plaque immunoreactivity (TAPIR) assay. A high positive rate of TAPIR was revealed in AD (45.1%) and age-matched controls (41.2%), however, no significance was observed. No significant difference was observed in the MMS score or disease duration between TAPIR-positive and negative samples. TAPIR-positive plasma reacted with the Abeta40 monomer and dimer, and the Abeta42 monomer weakly, but not with the Abeta42 dimer. TAPIR was even detected in samples from young normal subjects and young Tg2576 transgenic mice. Although the Abeta40 level and Abeta40/42 ratio increased, and Abeta42 was significantly decreased in plasma from AD groups when compared to controls, no significant correlations were revealed between plasma Abeta levels and TAPIR grading. Thus an immune response to Abeta40 and immune tolerance to Abeta42 occurred naturally in humans without a close relationship to the Abeta burden in the brain. Clarification of the mechanism of the immune response to Abeta42 is necessary for realization of an immunotherapy for AD.
The mammalian K2P2.1 potassium channel (TREK-1, KCNK2) is highly expressed in excitable tissues, where it plays a key role in the cellular mechanisms of neuroprotection, anesthesia, pain perception, and depression. Here, we report that external acidification, within the physiological range, strongly inhibits the human K2P2.1 channel by inducing &quot;C-type&quot; closure. We have identified two histidine residues (i.e. His-87 and His-141), located in the first external loop of the channel, that govern the response of the channel to external pH. We demonstrate that these residues are within physical proximity to glutamate 84, homologous to Shaker Glu-418, KcsA Glu-51, and KCNK0 Glu-28 residues, all previously argued to stabilize the outer pore gate in the open conformation by forming hydrogen bonds with pore-adjacent residues. We thus propose a novel mechanism for pH sensing in which protonation of His-141 and His-87 generates a local positive charge that serves to draw Glu-84 away from its natural interactions, facilitating the collapse of the selectivity filter region. In accordance with this proposed mechanism, low pH modified K2P2.1 selectivity toward potassium. Moreover, the proton-mediated effect was inhibited by external potassium ions and was enhanced by a mutation (S164Y) known to accelerate C-type gating. Furthermore, proton-induced current inhibition was more pronounced at negative potentials. Thus, voltage-dependent C-type gating acceleration by protons represents a novel mechanism for K2P2.1 outward rectification.
Cation-selective cysteine (Cys)-loop transmitter-gated ion channels provide an important pathway for Ca2+ entry into neurones. We examined the influence on Ca2+ permeation of amino acids located at intra- and extracellular ends of the conduction pathway of the human 5-hydroxytryptamine type 3A (5-HT3A) receptor. Mutation of cytoplasmic arginine residues 432, 436, and 440 to glutamine, aspartate, and alanine (the aligned residues of the human 5-HT3B subunit (yielding 5-HT3A(QDA)) increased PCa/PCs from 1.4 to 3.7. The effect was attributable to the removal of an electrostatic influence of the Arg-436 residue. Despite its relatively high permeability to Ca2+, the single channel conductance of the 5-HT3A(QDA) receptor was depressed in a concentration-dependent and voltage-independent manner by extracellular Ca2+. A conserved aspartate, located toward the extracellular end of the conduction pathway and known to influence ionic selectivity, contributed to the inhibitory effect of Ca2+ on macroscopic currents mediated by 5-HT3A receptors. We introduced a D293A mutation into the 5-HT3A(QDA) receptor (yielding the 5-HT3A(QDA D293A) construct) to determine whether the aspartate is required for the suppression of single channel conductance by Ca2+. The D293A mutation decreased the PCa/PCs ratio to 0.25 and reduced inwardly directed single channel conductance from 41 to 30 pS but did not prevent suppression of single channel conductance by Ca2+. The D293A mutation also reduced PCa/PCs when engineered into the wild-type 5-HT3A receptor. The data helped to identify key residues in the cytoplasmic domain (Arg-436) and extracellular vestibule (Asp-293) that markedly influence PCa/PCs and additionally directly demonstrated a depression of single channel conductance by Ca2+.
Skeletal muscle fibrosis is a major pathological hallmark of chronic myopathies in which myofibers are replaced by progressive deposition of collagen and other extracellular matrix proteins produced by muscle fibroblasts. Recent studies have shown that in the absence of the endogenous muscle growth regulator myostatin, regeneration of muscle is enhanced, and muscle fibrosis is correspondingly reduced. We now demonstrate that myostatin not only regulates the growth of myocytes but also directly regulates muscle fibroblasts. Our results show that myostatin stimulates the proliferation of muscle fibroblasts and the production of extracellular matrix proteins both in vitro and in vivo. Further, muscle fibroblasts express myostatin and its putative receptor activin receptor IIB. Proliferation of muscle fibroblasts, induced by myostatin, involves the activation of Smad, p38 MAPK and Akt pathways. These results expand our understanding of the function of myostatin in muscle tissue and provide a potential target for anti-fibrotic therapies.

To examine a possible involvement of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in visceral pain, the levels of ROS in the colon and the effect of a ROS scavenger phenyl N-t-butylnitrone (PBN) on pain were examined in zymosan-induced colitis rats. Zymosan was instilled into the colon of adult rats. The electromyograms (EMGs) of abdominal muscle contractions in response to colorectal distension (CRD) were recorded as an indicator of visceral pain. After zymosan treatment, the rats showed enhanced EMG and elevated levels of H2O2 in the colon. PBN treatment (intraperitoneal, intrathecal or intracolonic) significantly reduced the enhanced EMGs induced by zymosan. The results suggest that elevated ROS in the spinal cord and the colon are involved in visceral pain.
Honey bees can distinguish nestmates from non-nestmates, directing aggressive responses toward non-nestmates and rarely attacking nestmates. Here we provide evidence that treatment with pilocarpine, a muscarinic agonist, significantly reduced the number of aggressive responses directed toward nestmates. By contrast, treatment with scopolamine, a muscarinic antagonist, significantly increased attacks on nestmates. Locomotor activity was not altered by these pharmacological treatments. When interpreted in light of known cholinergic pathways in the insect brain, our results provide the first evidence that cholinergic signaling via muscarinic receptors plays a role in olfaction-based social behavior in honey bees.

An efficient synthesis involving a key aldol reaction and biological properties of 1,3-diphenyl-2-propen-1-ones 8- 20 is described. The in vitro activity for 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging of 10 and 11 was 2 times higher than that for resveratrol. Compounds 9 and 11 were the strongest in suppression of in vitro nitric oxide (NO) generation and antiexcitotoxicity. Molecular modeling proposes an electron-donating group at the para position of acetophenones that leads to a dramatic increase in the suppression of NO production.


Gain modulation is a widespread neuronal phenomenon that modifies response amplitude without changing selectivity. Computational and in vitro studies have proposed cellular mechanisms of gain modulation based on the postsynaptic effects of background synaptic activation, but these mechanisms have not been studied in vivo. Here, we used intracellular recordings from cat primary visual cortex to measure neuronal gain while changing background synaptic activity with visual stimulation. We found that increases in the membrane fluctuations associated with increases in synaptic input do not obligatorily result in gain modulation in vivo. However, visual stimuli that evoked sustained changes in resting membrane potential, input resistance, and membrane fluctuations robustly modulated neuronal gain. The magnitude of gain modulation depended critically on the spatiotemporal properties of the visual stimulus. Gain modulation in vivo may thus be determined on a moment-to-moment basis by sensory context and the consequent dynamics of synaptic activation.
Salient stimuli that modify behavior induce transcription of activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein (Arc/Arg3.1) and transport Arc mRNA into dendrites, suggesting that local Arc translation mediates synaptic plasticity that encodes such stimuli. Here, we demonstrate that long-term synaptic depression (LTD) in hippocampal neurons induced by group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) relies on rapid translation of Arc. mGluR-LTD induction causes long-term increases in AMPA receptor endocytosis rate and dendritic synthesis of Arc, a component of the AMPAR endocytosis machinery. Knockdown of Arc prevents mGluRs from triggering AMPAR endocytosis or LTD, and acute blockade of new Arc synthesis with antisense oligonucleotides blocks mGluR-LTD and AMPAR trafficking. In contrast, LTD induced by NMDA receptors does not persistently alter AMPAR endocytosis rate, induce Arc synthesis, or require Arc protein. These data demonstrate a role for local Arc synthesis specifically in mGluR-LTD and suggest that mGluR-LTD may be one consequence of Arc mRNA induction during experience.
Group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR) induce long-term depression (LTD) that requires protein synthesis. Here, we demonstrate that Arc/Arg3.1 is translationally induced within 5 min of mGluR activation, and this response is essential for mGluR-dependent LTD. The increase in Arc/Arg3.1 translation requires eEF2K, a Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent kinase that binds mGluR and dissociates upon mGluR activation, whereupon it phosphorylates eEF2. Phospho-eEF2 acts to slow the elongation step of translation and inhibits general protein synthesis but simultaneously increases Arc/Arg3.1 translation. Genetic deletion of eEF2K results in a selective deficit of rapid mGluR-dependent Arc/Arg3.1 translation and mGluR-LTD. This rapid translational mechanism is disrupted in the fragile X disease mouse (Fmr1 KO) in which mGluR-LTD does not require de novo protein synthesis but does require Arc/Arg3.1. We propose a model in which eEF2K-eEF2 and FMRP coordinately control the dynamic translation of Arc/Arg3.1 mRNA in dendrites that is critical for synapse-specific LTD.
Motile dendritic filopodial processes are thought to be precursors of spine synapses, but how motility relates to cell-surface cues required for axon-dendrite recognition and synaptogenesis remains unclear. We demonstrate with dynamic imaging that loss of EphBs results in reduced motility of filopodia in cultured cortical neurons and brain slice. EphB knockdown and rescue experiments during different developmental time windows show that EphBs are required for synaptogenesis only when filopodia are most abundant and motile. In the context of EphB knockdown and reduced filopodia motility, independent rescue of either motility with PAK or of Eph-ephrin binding with an EphB2 kinase mutant is not sufficient to restore synapse formation. Strikingly, the combination of PAK and kinase-inactive EphB2 rescues synaptogenesis. Deletion of the ephrin-binding domain from EphB2 precludes rescue, indicating that both motility and trans-cellular interactions are required. Our findings provide a mechanistic link between dendritic filopodia motility and synapse differentiation.
Although noncholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain are known to contribute to cognition, their response properties in behaving animals is unclear. In this issue of Neuron, Lin and Nicolelis demonstrate that these neurons represent the motivational salience of sensory stimuli and may modulate cortical processing to direct top-down attention.
Neuroscientists have been looking for good examples linking neuronal activity to gene expression/regulation involved in synaptic plasticity and the formation of long-term memories. New findings from Park et al. and Waung et al. in this issue of Neuron show that fast dendritic translation of the immediate-early gene Arc/Arg3.1 is involved in hippocampal mGluR-LTD, a protein synthesis-dependent form of plasticity.
A question subject to intense debate is whether scalp-recorded event-related brain potentials are due to phase resetting of the ongoing electroencephalogram (EEG) or rather to the superimposition of time-locked components on background activity. The two hypotheses are usually assessed by means of statistics in the time-frequency domain, for example, through wavelet transformation of multiple EEG trials that yield for each time and frequency a scatter plot of complex values coefficients. Currently, intertrial phase correlation (phase locking or phase coherence) is taken as evidence for phase resetting at a given frequency and latency. Here we present a formal analysis using a complex t-statistic to illustrate that such measures are, in effect, tests for the mean vector of the repeated trials, and as such on their own are inappropriate measures of phase resetting. We also propose simple t-like statistics for testing changes in (i) the mean (presence of an event-related potential), (ii) the amplitude variance (presence of (de)synchronization) and (iii) the concentration of phases (phase locking). The first two statistics are found to be proper measures of the presence of a non-zero mean activity and induced activity, respectively. In the third case, two different tests are introduced: one based on measuring the alignment of coefficients in the complex plane and another derived from the argument that phase locking persists when the mean of the coefficients is removed. Both statistics gave unambiguous evidence of the presence of phase locking suggesting that they constitute promising tools in the analysis of event-related brain dynamics.
An important issue in affective neuroscience concerns the role of mesocorticolimbic dopamine systems in positive-valenced motivation (e.g., reward) versus negative-valenced motivation (e.g., fear). Here, we assessed whether endogenous dopamine receptor stimulation in nucleus accumbens contributes to both appetitive behavior and fearful behavior that is generated in keyboard manner by local glutamate disruptions at different sites in medial shell. 6,7-Dinitroquinoxaline-2,3(1H,4H)-dione (DNQX) microinjections (450 ng) locally disrupt glutamate signals in &lt;4 mm(3) of nucleus accumbens, and generate either desire or fear (or both) depending on precise rostrocaudal location in medial shell. At rostral shell sites, local AMPA/kainate blockade generates positive ingestive behavior, but the elicited motivated behavior becomes incrementally more fearful as the same microinjection is moved caudally. A dopamine-blocking mixture of D(1) and D(2) antagonists (raclopride and SCH-23390 [R(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5,-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrochloride]) was combined here in the same microinjection with DNQX to assess the role of endogenous local dopamine in mediating the DNQX-motivated behaviors. We report that local dopamine blockade prevented DNQX microinjections from generating appetitive behavior (eating) in rostral shell, and equally prevented DNQX from generating fearful behavior (defensive treading) in caudal shell. We conclude that local dopamine is needed to enable disruptions of corticolimbic glutamate signals in shell to generate either positive incentive salience or negative fearful salience (valence depending on site and other conditions). Thus, dopamine interacts with localization of valence-biased glutamate circuits in medial shell to facilitate keyboard stimulation of both appetitive and fearful motivations.
The serine/threonine kinase Akt regulates multiple cellular functions. The current studies identify a new role for Akt in CNS myelination. In earlier studies on cultured oligodendrocytes, we showed that neuregulin signals through phosphatidylinositol-3'-OH kinase and Akt to enhance survival of oligodendrocytes. However, when transgenic animals were generated that overexpressed constitutively active Akt in oligodendrocytes and their progenitor cells, no enhanced survival of oligodendrocytes or progenitors was found. No alteration in the proliferation or death of progenitors was noted. In contrast, the major impact of Akt overexpression in oligodendrocytes was enhanced myelination. Most interestingly, oligodendrocytes in these mice continued actively myelinating throughout life. Thus, expression of constitutively active Akt in oligodendrocytes and their progenitor cells generated no more oligodendrocytes, but dramatically more myelin. The increased myelination continued as these mice aged, resulting in enlarged optic nerves and white matter areas. In older animals with enlarged white matter areas, the density of oligodendrocytes was reduced, but because of the increased area, the total number of oligodendrocytes remained comparable with wild-type controls. Interestingly, in these animals, overexpression of Akt in Schwann cells did not impact myelination. Thus, in vivo, constitutively active Akt enhances CNS myelination but not PNS myelination and has no impact developmentally on oligodendrocyte number. Understanding the unique aspects of Akt signal transduction in oligodendrocytes that lead to myelination rather than uncontrolled proliferation of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells may have important implications for understanding remyelination in the adult nervous system.
Methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MeCP2) binds methylated DNA and recruits corepressor proteins to modify chromatin and alter gene transcription. Mutations of the MECP2 gene can cause Rett syndrome, whereas subtle reductions of MeCP2 expression may be associated with male-dominated social and neurodevelopmental disorders. We report that transiently decreased amygdala Mecp2 expression during a sensitive period of brain sexual differentiation disrupts the organization of sex differences in juvenile social play behavior. Interestingly, neonatal treatment with Mecp2 small interfering RNA within the developing amygdala reduced juvenile social play behavior in males but not females. Reduced Mecp2 expression did not change juvenile sociability or anxiety-like behavior, suggesting that this disruption is associated with subtle behavioral modification. This suggests that Mecp2 may have an overlooked role in the organization of sexually dimorphic behaviors and that male juvenile behavior is particularly sensitive to Mecp2 disruption during this period of development.
Dopamine receptor signaling exhibits prominent plasticity that is important for the pathogenesis of both addictive and movement disorders. Psychoactive stimulants that activate the dopamine D(1) receptor (Drd1a) induce the rapid phosphorylation and activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) in neurons of the nucleus accumbens and ventral striatum. This response is known to be dependent on the phosphatase inhibitor dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein-32 (DARPP-32) and appears critical for the sensitization of Drd1a responses that contributes to addiction. Loss of dopamine input to the striatum, as in models of Parkinson's disease (PD), also results in a sensitization of responses to dopamine agonists that is manifest by increased activation of ERK1/2 in the dorsal striatum. Here, we test whether DARPP-32 is required for sensitization of Drd1a responses in a PD model. In the normal dorsal striatum, there is minimal Drd1a-mediated activation of ERK1/2; however, in the PD model there is robust Drd1a-mediated activation of ERK1/2. In both wild-type and DARPP-32 knock-out mice, Drd1a robustly induces pERK1/2 throughout the dopamine-depleted striatum. These findings indicate that Drd1a sensitization relevant for PD occurs by a novel mechanism that does not require DARPP-32.
Potentiation of spinal nociceptive transmission by synaptic delivery of AMPA receptors, via an NMDA receptor- and Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII)-dependent pathway, has been proposed to underlie certain forms of hyperalgesia, the enhanced pain sensitivity that may accompany inflammation or tissue injury. However, the specific synaptic populations that may be subject to such plasticity have not been identified. Using neuronal tracing and postembedding immunogold labeling, we show that a model of acute inflammatory hyperalgesia is associated with an elevated density of GluR1-containing AMPA receptors, as well as an increased synaptic ratio of GluR1 to GluR2/3 subunits, at synapses established by C-fibers that lack the neuropeptide substance P. A more subtle increase in GluR1 immunolabeling was noted at synapses formed by substance P-containing nociceptors. No changes in either GluR1 or GluR2/3 contents were observed at synapses formed by low-threshold mechanosensitive primary afferent fibers. These results contrast with our previous observations in the same pain model of increased and decreased levels of activated CaMKII at synapses formed by peptidergic and nonpeptidergic nociceptive fibers, respectively, suggesting that the observed redistribution of AMPA receptor subunits does not depend on postsynaptic CaMKII activity. The present ultrastructural evidence of topographically specific, activity-dependent insertion of GluR1-containing AMPA receptors at a central synapse suggests that potentiation of nonpeptidergic C-fiber synapses by this mechanism contributes to inflammatory pain.
Axons in the PNS and CNS are ensheathed by multiple layers of tightly compacted myelin membranes. A series of cytoplasmic channels connect outer and inner margins of PNS, but not CNS, myelin internodes. Membranes of these Schmidt-Lantermann (S-L) incisures contain the myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) but not P(0) or proteolipid protein (PLP), the structural proteins of compact PNS (P(0)) and CNS (PLP) myelin. We show here that incisures are present in MAG-null and absent from P(0)-null PNS internodes. To test the possibility that P(0) regulates incisure formation, we replaced PLP with P(0) in CNS myelin. S-L incisures formed in P(0)-CNS myelin internodes. Furthermore, axoplasm ensheathed by 65% of the CNS incisures examined by electron microscopy had focal accumulations of organelles, indicating that these CNS incisures disrupt axonal transport. These data support the hypotheses that P(0) protein is required for and can induce S-L incisures and that P(0)-induced CNS incisures can be detrimental to axonal function.
Patterning events during early eye formation determine retinal cell fate and can dictate the behavior of retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons as they navigate toward central brain targets. The temporally and spatially regulated expression of bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) and their receptors in the retina are thought to play a key role in this process, initiating gene expression cascades that distinguish different regions of the retina, particularly along the dorsoventral axis. Here, we examine the role of BMP and a potential downstream effector, EphB, in retinotopic map formation in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and superior colliculus (SC). RGC axon behaviors during retinotopic map formation in wild-type mice are compared with those in several strains of mice with engineered defects of BMP and EphB signaling. Normal RGC axon sorting produces axon order in the optic tract that reflects the dorsoventral position of the parent RGCs in the eye. A dramatic consequence of disrupting BMP signaling is a missorting of RGC axons as they exit the optic chiasm. This sorting is not dependent on EphB. When BMP signaling in the developing eye is genetically modified, RGC order in the optic tract and targeting in the LGN and SC are correspondingly disrupted. These experiments show that BMP signaling regulates dorsoventral RGC cell fate, RGC axon behavior in the ascending optic tract, and retinotopic map formation in the LGN and SC through mechanisms that are in part distinct from EphB signaling in the LGN and SC.
It has been suggested that learning is associated with a transient and highly selective increase in brain gray matter in healthy young volunteers. It is not clear whether and to what extent the aging brain is still able to exhibit such structural plasticity. We built on our original study, now focusing on healthy senior citizens. We observed that elderly persons were able to learn three-ball cascade juggling, but with less proficiency compared with 20-year-old adolescents. Similar to the young group, gray-matter changes in the older brain related to skill acquisition were observed in area hMT/V5 (middle temporal area of the visual cortex). In addition, elderly volunteers who learned to juggle showed transient increases in gray matter in the hippocampus on the left side and in the nucleus accumbens bilaterally.

In controlling animal behavior the nervous system has to perform within the operational limits set by the requirements of each specific behavior. The implications for the corresponding range of suitable network, single neuron, and ion channel properties have remained elusive. In this article we approach the question of how well-constrained properties of neuronal systems may be on the neuronal level. We used large data sets of the activity of isolated invertebrate identified cells and built an accurate conductance-based model for this cell type using customized automated parameter estimation techniques. By direct inspection of the data we found that the variability of the neurons is larger when they are isolated from the circuit than when in the intact system. Furthermore, the responses of the neurons to perturbations appear to be more consistent than their autonomous behavior under stationary conditions. In the developed model, the constraints on different parameters that enforce appropriate model dynamics vary widely from some very tightly controlled parameters to others that are almost arbitrary. The model also allows predictions for the effect of blocking selected ionic currents and to prove that the origin of irregular dynamics in the neuron model is proper chaoticity and that this chaoticity is typical in an appropriate sense. Our results indicate that data driven models are useful tools for the in-depth analysis of neuronal dynamics. The better consistency of responses to perturbations, in the real neurons as well as in the model, suggests a paradigm shift away from measuring autonomous dynamics alone towards protocols of controlled perturbations. Our predictions for the impact of channel blockers on the neuronal dynamics and the proof of chaoticity underscore the wide scope of our approach.



Emerging evidence suggests that myocyte enhancer factor 2 (MEF2) transcription factors act as effectors of neurogenesis in the brain, with MEF2C the predominant isoform in developing cerebrocortex. Here, we show that conditional knockout of Mef2c in nestin-expressing neural stem/progenitor cells (NSCs) impaired neuronal differentiation in vivo, resulting in aberrant compaction and smaller somal size. NSC proliferation and survival were not affected. Conditional null mice surviving to adulthood manifested more immature electrophysiological network properties and severe behavioral deficits reminiscent of Rett syndrome, an autism-related disorder. Our data support a crucial role for MEF2C in programming early neuronal differentiation and proper distribution within the layers of the neocortex.
Cerebral responses to putative pheromones and objects of sexual attraction were recently found to differ between homo- and heterosexual subjects. Although this observation may merely mirror perceptional differences, it raises the intriguing question as to whether certain sexually dimorphic features in the brain may differ between individuals of the same sex but different sexual orientation. We addressed this issue by studying hemispheric asymmetry and functional connectivity, two parameters that in previous publications have shown specific sex differences. Ninety subjects [25 heterosexual men (HeM) and women (HeW), and 20 homosexual men (HoM) and women (HoW)] were investigated with magnetic resonance volumetry of cerebral and cerebellar hemispheres. Fifty of them also participated in PET measurements of cerebral blood flow, used for analyses of functional connections from the right and left amygdalae. HeM and HoW showed a rightward cerebral asymmetry, whereas volumes of the cerebral hemispheres were symmetrical in HoM and HeW. No cerebellar asymmetries were found. Homosexual subjects also showed sex-atypical amygdala connections. In HoM, as in HeW, the connections were more widespread from the left amygdala; in HoW and HeM, on the other hand, from the right amygdala. Furthermore, in HoM and HeW the connections were primarily displayed with the contralateral amygdala and the anterior cingulate, in HeM and HoW with the caudate, putamen, and the prefrontal cortex. The present study shows sex-atypical cerebral asymmetry and functional connections in homosexual subjects. The results cannot be primarily ascribed to learned effects, and they suggest a linkage to neurobiological entities.
Glutamatergic modulation of inhibitory interneurons plays a crucial role in shaping the flow of information in the cerebral cortex. In a cohort of postmortem human brains from schizophrenia (n=20), bipolar disorder (n=20) and normal control (n=20) subjects, we colocalized the mRNA for the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor NR2A subunit, labeled with [35S], and the mRNA for the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) synthesizing enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD)67, labeled with digoxigenin. We found that the density of GAD67+ neurons in layers 2-5 of the prefrontal cortex was decreased by 27-36% in both schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. In addition, the density of the GAD67+/NR2A+ neurons was decreased by 57% and 49% in layers 3 and 4, respectively, in schizophrenia, but it was unchanged in bipolar disorder. These findings raise the possibility that glutamatergic innervation of inhibitory interneurons via the NMDA receptor in the prefrontal cortex may be selectively altered in schizophrenia.
The hippocampal formation receives extensive noradrenergic projections and expresses high levels of mineralocorticoid (MR) and glucocorticoid (GR) receptors. Considerable evidence suggests that the noradrenergic system influences hippocampal corticosteroid receptors. However, there is relatively little data describing the influence of glucocorticoids on noradrenergic receptors in the hippocampal formation. alpha1d adrenergic receptor (ADR) mRNA is expressed at high levels in the hippocampal formation, within cells that express MR or GR. In order to determine whether expression of alpha1d ADR mRNA is influenced by circulating glucocorticoids, male rats underwent bilateral adrenalectomy (ADX) or sham surgery, and were killed after 1, 3, 7 or 14 days. Levels of alpha1d ADR mRNA were profoundly decreased in hippocampal subfields CA1, CA2 and CA3 and the medial and lateral blades of the dentate gyrus, as early as 1day after ADX, as determined by in situ hybridization. The effect was specific for the hippocampal formation, with levels of alpha1d mRNA unaltered by ADX in the lateral amygdala, reticular thalamic nucleus, retrosplenial cortex or primary somatosensory cortex. Additional rats underwent ADX or sham surgery and received a corticosterone pellet (10 or 50mg) or placebo for 7 days. Corticosterone replacement prevented the ADX-induced decrease in hippocampal alpha1d ADR mRNA, with the magnitude of effect depending on corticosterone dose and hippocampal subregion. These data indicate that alpha1d ADR mRNA expression in the hippocampal formation is highly sensitive to circulating levels of corticosterone, and provides further evidence for a close interaction between glucocorticoids and the noradrenergic system in the hippocampus.
Muscular dystrophy patients often show cognitive impairment, in addition to muscle degeneration caused by dystrophin gene defects. The cognitive impairments lead to speculation that the dystrophin protein family may play a key role at neuronal synapses. Dystrophin regulates the stability of selected GABA(A) receptor subtypes and alpha3-containing nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) at a subset of central GABAergic and peripheral sympathetic nicotinic neuron synapses. Similarly, utrophin, the autosomal homologue of dystrophin, is not required for clustering but indirectly stabilizes muscle-type nAChRs at the neuromuscular junction. We examined dystrophin and utrophin expression and localization in the avian parasympathetic ciliary ganglion (CG) to determine whether these proteins play a general role at neuronal nicotinic synapses. We have determined that full-length utrophin and dystrophin and the short dystrophin isoform Dp116 are the major isoforms expressed in the CG based on immunoblotting and immunolabeling. Unexpectedly, the cytoskeletal proteins were not detected at nicotinic synapses or in CG neurons. They are expressed in myelinating and non-myelinating Schwann cells. Further, utrophin expression developmentally precedes that of dystrophin. The proteins show partially overlapping distributions, but also differential accumulation along the surface membrane of Schwann cells adjacent to neuronal somata versus axonal processes. Our findings are consistent with reports that dystrophin protein family members function in the maintenance of cell-cell interactions and myelination by anchoring the Schwann cell surface membrane to the basal lamina. In contrast, our results differ from those in skeletal muscle and a subset of sympathetic neurons where utrophin and dystrophin localize at nicotinic synapses.
Intravenous (iv) cocaine mimics salient somato-sensory stimuli in their ability to induce rapid physiological effects, which appear to involve its action on peripherally located neural elements and fast neural transmission via somato-sensory pathways. To further clarify this mechanism, single-unit recording with fine glass electrodes was used in awake rats to examine responses of ventral tegmental area (VTA) neurons, both presumed dopamine (DA) and non-DA, to iv cocaine and tail-press, a typical somato-sensory stimulus. To exclude the contribution of DA mechanisms to the observed neuronal responses to sensory stimuli and cocaine, recordings were conducted during full DA receptor blockade (SCH23390+eticloptide). Iv cocaine (0.25 mg/kg delivered over 10 s) induced significant excitations of approximately 63% of long-spike (presumed DA) and approximately 70% of short-spike (presumed non-DA) VTA neurons. In both subgroups, neuronal excitations occurred with short latencies (4-8 s), peaked at 10-20 s (30-40% increase over baseline) and disappeared at 30-40 s after the injection onset. Most long-(67%) and short-spike (89%) VTA neurons also showed phasic responses to tail-press (5-s). All responsive long-spike cells were excited by tail-press; excitations were very rapid (peak at 1 s) and strong (100% rate increase over baseline) but brief (2-3 s). In contrast, both excitations (60%) and inhibitions (29%) were seen in short-spike cells. These responses were also rapid and transient, but excitations of short-spike units were more prolonged and sustained (10-15 s) than in long-spike cells. These data suggest that in awake animals iv cocaine, like somato-sensory stimuli, rapidly and transiently excites VTA neurons of different subtypes. Therefore, along with direct action on specific brain substrates, central effects of cocaine may occur, via an indirect mechanism, involving peripheral neural elements, visceral sensory nerves and rapid neural transmission. Via this mechanism, cocaine, like somato-sensory stimuli, can rapidly activate DA neurons and induce phasic DA release, creating the conditions for DA accumulation by a later occurring and prolonged direct inhibiting action on DA uptake. By providing a rapid neural signal and triggering transient neural activation, such a peripherally driven action might play a crucial role in the sensory effects of cocaine, thus contributing to learning and development of drug-taking behavior.
Glycogen was quantified in rat adipocytes by isolation using conventional KOH digestion and ethanol precipitation, followed by hydrolysis and spectrophotometric assay of the glucose product. A concentration of 0.193+/-0.020 micromol glucosyl units/10(6)cells was recorded. When this procedure was modified by including a 4h incubation with glucose oxidase prior to glycogen hydrolysis, the glycogen concentration was found to be 0.055+/-0.008 micromol glucosyl units/10(6) cells. Therefore in adipocytes, conventional glycogen assays give substantial overestimates due to incomplete removal of glucose during glycogen isolation. Contaminant glucose can be scavenged in a simple manner by incubation with glucose oxidase prior to glycogen hydrolysis.
Acute hemorrhagic leukoencephalomyelitis (AHLE) is a rare neurological condition characterized by the development of acute hemorrhagic demyelination and high mortality. The pathomechanism of AHLE, as well as potential therapeutic approaches, have remained elusive due to the lack of suitable animal models. We report the first murine model of AHLE using a variation of the Theiler's Murine Encephalitis Virus (TMEV) MS model. During acute TMEV infection, C57BL/6 mice do not normally undergo demyelination. However, when 7 day TMEV infected C57BL/6 mice are intravenously administered the immunodominant CD8 T cell peptide, VP2121-130, animals develop characteristics of human AHLE based on pathologic, MRI and clinical features including microhemorrhages, increased blood-brain barrier permeability, and demyelination. The animals also develop severe disability as assessed using the rotarod assay. This study demonstrates the development of hemorrhagic demyelination in TMEV infected C57BL/6 mice within 24 hours of inducing this condition through intravenous administration of CD8 T cell restricted peptide. This study is also the first demonstration of rapid demyelination in a TMEV resistant non-demyelinating strain without transgenic alterations or pharmacologically induced immunosuppression.
In sensory neurophysiology, reverse correlation analyses have advanced our understanding of the spatio-temporal structure of receptive fields (RFs) and the tuning properties of individual neurons. Here, we used a psychophysical variant of the motion reverse correlation technique to investigate how visual selective attention influences human perceptual tuning curves for direction of motion. Direction tuning functions were computed by reverse correlating speeded target-present responses of human observers with a random sequence of brief, fully coherent motion impulses. We found that attention enhanced the amplitude of perceptual tuning curves for direction of motion, while tuning width remained unaffected. Furthermore, the full direction tuning profile across time could be well fitted by a separable model of direction and temporal tuning. Attention enhanced both the direction tuning and its temporal profile, without shifts or changes in shape. Thus, attention exerts a multiplicative effect on human perceptual tuning curves for direction of motion. An analysis of second-order correlations revealed a boost in the likelihood of responses to the target direction when it was followed by a motion impulse in the opposite direction. This perceptual effect might be mediated by biphasic neurons that are preferentially activated by a rapid succession of opposite motion directions.
Rodent reproductive behavior relies heavily on odor processing, and evidence suggests that many odor-guided sexual behaviors are shaped by prior experience. We sought to determine if exposure to male odors during development is required for the adult expression of proceptive sexual behavior toward male odors in female Syrian hamsters. Exposure to male odors was restricted in nave subjects by removing all male siblings from the litter at three to five days of age. Control litters were also culled, but included equal numbers of male and female pups. As adults, nave females displayed investigatory preferences toward male odors in a Y-maze that were comparable to control females; this preference was observed whether contact with the odor stimuli was prevented of allowed. In contrast, nave females vaginal scent-marked equally toward male and female volatile odors, suggesting an inability to target behavior toward sexually relevant odors. However, nave females marked preferentially toward male odors when allowed to contact the odor stimuli. These results provide evidence for the experience-dependent development of vaginal marking behavior toward volatile components of sexual odors. Furthermore, they suggest that distinct mechanisms regulate the development of odor preferences and vaginal marking behavior in this species.
Several studies report that environmental enrichment enhances sensitivity to opioid receptor agonists in male rats. Very few studies have examined the effects of enrichment in female rats, and thus it is not clear whether females are similarly sensitive to these effects. Consequently, the purpose of the present study was to examine the effects of environmental enrichment on sensitivity to representative mu, kappa, and mixed-action opioids in female rats. Following a protocol established in males, females were obtained at weaning and randomly assigned to two groups immediately upon arrival: isolated rats were housed individually with no visual or tactile contact with other rats; enriched rats were housed in groups of four in large cages and given various novel objects on a regular basis. After 6 weeks under these conditions, the antinociceptive effects of mu (morphine, levorphanol), kappa (spiradoline, U69,593), and mixed-action (buprenorphine, butorphanol) opioids were examined in a warm-water, tail-withdrawal procedure. All the opioids examined produced dose-dependent increases in antinociception; however, no differences in opioid sensitivity were observed between the two groups. To determine whether these findings were consistent across behavioral endpoints, the antidiuretic effects of representative mu opioids, and the diuretic effects of representative kappa opioids, were examined in female rats reared under isolated or enriched conditions for 10 weeks. Similar to that seen in the antinociceptive experiment, no significant differences in opioid sensitivity were observed between groups. These data indicate that environmental enrichment does not alter sensitivity to the effects of opioid receptor agonists in female rats, and suggest that females may respond differently to environmental enrichment than males.
FE65, a neural adaptor protein, interacts with amyloid beta-protein precursor (APP) and is known to regulate amyloid beta generation from APP. FE65 also associates with nuclear proteins; however, its physiological function in the nucleus remains unclear. A fixed population of cytoplasmic FE65 is tethered to membranes by binding APP. This membrane-tethered FE65 is liberated from membranes by APP phosphorylation, which is facilitated by a stress-activated protein kinase in sorbitol-treated cells. Here we show that liberated FE65, which is distinct from &quot;virgin&quot; FE65 in the cytoplasm, translocates into the nucleus and accumulates in the nuclear matrix forming a patched structure. Targeting of FE65 into the nuclear matrix was suppressed by the APP intracellular domain fragment, which is generated by consecutive cleavages of APP. Thus, nuclear translocation of FE65 is under the regulation of APP. In the nucleus, FE65 induced gammaH2AX, which plays an important role in DNA repair as a cellular response by stress-damaged cells. These observations suggest that APP-regulated FE65 plays an important role in the early stress response of cells and that FE65 deregulated from APP induces apoptosis.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid receptors (GABA(A)R) are the major sites of fast inhibitory neurotransmission in the brain, and a critical determinant for the efficacy of neuronal inhibition is the number of these receptors that are expressed on the neuronal cell surface. GABA(A)Rs are heteropentamers that can be constructed from seven subunit classes with multiple members; alpha, beta, gamma(1-3), delta, epsilon(1-3), theta, and pi. Receptor assembly occurs within the endoplasmic reticulum, and it is evident that transport-competent combinations exiting this organelle can access the cell surface, whereas unassembled subunits are ubiquitinated and subject to proteasomal degradation. In a previous report the ubiquitin-like protein Plic-1 was shown to directly interact with GABA(A)Rs and promote their accumulation at the cell surface. In this study we explore the mechanisms by which Plic-1 regulates the membrane trafficking of GABA(A)Rs. Using both recombinant and neuronal preparations it was apparent that Plic-1 increased the stability of endoplasmic reticulum resident GABA(A)Rs together with an increase in the abundance of poly-ubiquitinated receptor subunits. Furthermore, Plic-1 elevated cell surface expression levels by selectively increasing their rates of membrane insertion. Thus, Plic-1 may play a significant role in regulating the strength of synaptic inhibition by increasing the stability of GABA(A)Rs within the secretory pathway and thereby promoting their insertion into the neuronal plasma membrane.
The amyloid-beta42 (Abeta42) peptide has been suggested to play a causative role in Alzheimer disease (AD). Neprilysin (NEP) is one of the rate-limiting Abeta-degrading enzymes, and its enhancement ameliorates extracellular amyloid pathology, synaptic dysfunction, and memory defects in mouse models of Abeta amyloidosis. In addition to the extracellular Abeta, intraneuronal Abeta42 may contribute to AD pathogenesis. However, the protective effects of neuronal NEP expression on intraneuronal Abeta42 accumulation and neurodegeneration remain elusive. In contrast, sustained NEP activation may be detrimental because NEP can degrade many physiological peptides, but its consequences in the brain are not fully understood. Using transgenic Drosophila expressing human NEP and Abeta42, we demonstrated that NEP efficiently suppressed the formation of intraneuronal Abeta42 deposits and Abeta42-induced neuron loss. However, neuronal NEP overexpression reduced cAMP-responsive element-binding protein-mediated transcription, caused age-dependent axon degeneration, and shortened the life span of the flies. Interestingly, the mRNA levels of endogenous fly NEP genes and phosphoramidon-sensitive NEP activity declined during aging in fly brains, as observed in mammals. Taken together, these data suggest both the protective and detrimental effects of chronically high NEP activity in the brain. Down-regulation of NEP activity in aging brains may be an evolutionarily conserved phenomenon, which could predispose humans to developing late-onset AD.
This study was aimed to determine the effect of unilateral hippocampal inactivation on spatial memory retrieval in male and female Wistar rats. Subjects were chronically implanted with a stainless-steel cannula that enabled unilateral intrahippocampal injections of tetrodotoxin, a sodium channel blocker. Rats were trained during eight consecutive days on the Morris water maze task. On day 1, subjects received a visible platform session. From day 2 to day 7 the hidden platform was located in North quadrant and on day 8 the hidden platform changed to the opposite location. Subjects were randomly distributed into four groups: male saline, male TTX, female saline, female TTX. Saline or TTX was applied 30min before training but only on days 7 and 8. Results showed that males outperform females during the initial training (days 2-6). After TTX injection, both male and female rats were impaired. However, a detailed analysis revealed that the impairment in females was more pronounced, both during the retrieval session (day 7) as well as during reversal (day 8). This data points to a different role of the hippocampus or a different distribution of memories in both sexes.
We evaluate the capacity and performance of a perceptron discriminator operating in a highly sparse regime where classic perceptron results do not apply. The perceptron is constructed to respond to a specified set of q stimuli, with only statistical information provided about other stimuli to which it is not supposed to respond. We compute the probability of both false-positive and false-negative errors and determine the capacity of the system for not responding to nonselected stimuli and for responding to selected stimuli in the presence of noise. If q is a sublinear function of N, the number of inputs to the perceptron, these capacities are exponential in N/q.
To determine how spatial scale is represented in the pyramidal cell population of the hippocampus, we recorded neural activity at multiple longitudinal levels of this brain area while rats ran back and forth on an 18-meter-long linear track. CA3 cells had well-defined place fields at all levels. The scale of representation increased almost linearly from &lt;1 meter at the dorsal pole to approximately 10 meters at the ventral pole. The results suggest that the place-cell map includes the entire hippocampus and that environments are represented in the hippocampus at a topographically graded but finite continuum of scales.



Relapse to cocaine use after prolonged abstinence is an important clinical problem. This relapse is often induced by exposure to cues associated with cocaine use. To account for the persistent propensity for relapse, it has been suggested that cue-induced cocaine craving increases over the first several weeks of abstinence and remains high for extended periods. We and others identified an analogous phenomenon in rats that was termed 'incubation of cocaine craving': time-dependent increases in cue-induced cocaine-seeking over the first months after withdrawal from self-administered cocaine. Cocaine-seeking requires the activation of glutamate projections that excite receptors for alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) in the nucleus accumbens. Here we show that the number of synaptic AMPA receptors in the accumbens is increased after prolonged withdrawal from cocaine self-administration by the addition of new AMPA receptors lacking glutamate receptor 2 (GluR2). Furthermore, we show that these new receptors mediate the incubation of cocaine craving. Our results indicate that GluR2-lacking AMPA receptors could be a new target for drug development for the treatment of cocaine addiction. We propose that after prolonged withdrawal from cocaine, increased numbers of synaptic AMPA receptors combined with the higher conductance of GluR2-lacking AMPA receptors causes increased reactivity of accumbens neurons to cocaine-related cues, leading to an intensification of drug craving and relapse.
A shift of GABA(A)-mediated responses from hyperpolarizing to depolarizing after neuronal injury leads to GABA(A)-mediated increase in [Ca2+](i). In addition, central neurons become dependent on BDNF for survival. Whether these two mechanisms are causally interrelated is an open question. Here, we show in lesioned CA3 hippocampal neurons in vitro and in axotomized corticospinal neurons in vivo that posttraumatic downregulation of the neuron-specific K-Cl cotransporter KCC2 leads to intracellular chloride accumulation by the Na-K-2Cl cotransporter NKCC1, resulting in GABA-induced [Ca2+](i) transients. This mechanism is required by a population of neurons to survive in a BDNF-dependent manner after injury, because blocking GABA(A)-depolarization with the NKCC1 inhibitor bumetanide prevents the loss of neurons on BDNF withdrawal. The resurgence of KCC2 expression during recovery coincides with loss of BDNF dependency for survival. This is likely mediated through BDNF itself, because injured neurons reverse their response to this neurotrophin by switching the BDNF-induced downregulation of KCC2 to upregulation.
The mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases ERK1 and ERK2 are critical intracellular signaling intermediates; however, little is known about their isoform-specific functions in vivo. We have examined the role of ERK2 in neural development by conditional inactivation of the murine mapk1/ERK2 gene in neural progenitor cells of the developing cortex. ERK MAP kinase (MAPK) activity in neural progenitor cells is required for neuronal cell fate determination. Loss of ERK2 resulted in a reduction in cortical thickness attributable to impaired proliferation of neural progenitors during the neurogenic period and the generation of fewer neurons. Mutant neural progenitor cells remained in an undifferentiated state until gliogenic stimuli induced their differentiation, resulting in the generation of more astrocytes. The mutant mice displayed profound deficits in associative learning. Importantly, we have identified patients with a 1 Mb microdeletion on chromosome 22q11.2 encompassing the MAPK1/ERK2 gene. These children, who have reduced ERK2 levels, exhibit microcephaly, impaired cognition, and developmental delay. These findings demonstrate an important role for ERK2 in cellular proliferation and differentiation during neural development as well as in cognition and memory formation.
Computational models predict that experience-driven clustering of coactive synapses is a mechanism for information storage. This prediction has remained untested, because it is difficult to approach through time-lapse analysis. Here, we exploit a unique feature of the barn owl auditory localization pathway that permits retrospective analysis of prelearned and postlearned circuitry: owls reared wearing prismatic spectacles develop an adaptive microcircuit that coexists with the native one but can be analyzed independently based on topographic location. To visualize the clustering of axodendritic contacts (potential synapses) within these zones, coactive axons were labeled by focal injection of fluorescent tracer and their target dendrites labeled with an antibody directed against CaMKII (calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase type II, alpha subunit). Using high-resolution confocal imaging, we measured the distance from each contact to its nearest neighbor on the same branch of dendrite. We found that the distribution of intercontact distances for the adaptive zone was shifted dramatically toward smaller values compared with distributions for either the maladaptive zone of the same animals or the adaptive zone of normal juveniles, which indicates that a dynamic clustering of contacts had occurred. Moreover, clustering in the normal zone was greater in normal juveniles than in prism-adapted owls, indicative of declustering. These data demonstrate that clustering is bidirectionally adjustable and tuned by behaviorally relevant experience. The microanatomical configurations in all zones of both experimental groups matched the functional circuit strengths that were assessed by in vivo electrophysiological mapping. Thus, the observed changes in clustering are appropriately positioned to contribute to the adaptive strengthening and weakening of auditory-driven responses.
There are critical postnatal periods during which even subtle interventions can have long-lasting effects on adult physiology. We asked whether an immune challenge during early postnatal development can alter neuronal excitability and seizure susceptibility in adults. Postnatal day 14 (P14) male Sprague Dawley rats were injected with the bacterial endotoxin lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and control animals received sterile saline. Three weeks later, extracellular recordings from hippocampal slices revealed enhanced field EPSP slopes after Schaffer collateral stimulation and increased epileptiform burst-firing activity in CA1 after 4-aminopyridine application. Six to 8 weeks after postnatal LPS injection, seizure susceptibility was assessed in response to lithium-pilocarpine, kainic acid, and pentylenetetrazol. Rats treated with LPS showed significantly greater adult seizure susceptibility to all convulsants, as well as increased cytokine release and enhanced neuronal degeneration within the hippocampus after limbic seizures. These persistent increases in seizure susceptibility occurred only when LPS was given during a critical postnatal period (P7 and P14) and not before (P1) or after (P20). This early effect of LPS on adult seizures was blocked by concurrent intracerebroventricular administration of a tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) antibody and mimicked by intracerebroventricular injection of rat recombinant TNFalpha. Postnatal LPS injection did not result in permanent changes in microglial (Iba1) activity or hippocampal cytokine [IL-1beta (interleukin-1beta) and TNFalpha] levels, but caused a slight increase in astrocyte (GFAP) numbers. These novel results indicate that a single LPS injection during a critical postnatal period causes a long-lasting increase in seizure susceptibility that is strongly dependent on TNFalpha.

We use the whole-cell patch clamp technique to study the synaptic circuitry that underlies visual information processing in the retina. In this video, we will guide you through the process of performing whole-cell recordings of light evoked currents of individual cells in the retinal slice preparation. We use the aquatic tiger salamander as an animal model. We begin by describing the dissection of the eye and show how slices are mounted for electrophysiological recordings. Once the slice is placed in the recording chamber, we demonstrate how to perform whole-cell voltage clamp recordings. We then project visual stimuli onto the photoreceptors in the slice to elicit light-evoked current responses. During the recording we perfuse the slice with pharmacological agents, whereby an 8-channel perfusion system allows us to quickly switch between different agents. The retinal slice preparation is widely used for patch clamp recordings in the retina, in particular to study amacrine or bipolar cells, which are not accessible in a whole-mount preparation.
The frontal eye fields (FEFs) and posterior parietal cortex (PPC) are important for target detection in conjunction visual search but the relative timings of their contribution have not been compared directly. We addressed this using temporally specific double pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation delivered at different times over FEFs and PPC during performance of a visual search task. Disruption of performance was earlier (0/40 ms) with FEF stimulation than with PPC stimulation (120/160 ms), revealing a clear and substantial temporal dissociation of the involvement of these two areas in conjunction visual search. We discuss these timings with reference to the respective roles of FEF and PPC in the modulation of extrastriate visual areas and selection of responses.
The spike activity of cells in some cortical areas has been found to be correlated with reaction times and behavioral responses during two-choice decision tasks. These experimental findings have motivated the study of biologically plausible winner-take-all network models, in which strong recurrent excitation and feedback inhibition allow the network to form a categorical choice upon stimulation. Choice formation corresponds in these models to the transition from the spontaneous state of the network to a state where neurons selective for one of the choices fire at a high rate and inhibit the activity of the other neurons. This transition has been traditionally induced by an increase in the external input that destabilizes the spontaneous state of the network and forces its relaxation to a decision state. Here we explore a different mechanism by which the system can undergo such transitions while keeping the spontaneous state stable, based on an escape induced by finite-size noise from the spontaneous state. This decision mechanism naturally arises for low stimulus strengths and leads to exponentially distributed decision times when the amount of noise in the system is small. Furthermore, we show using numerical simulations that mean decision times follow in this regime an exponential dependence on the amplitude of noise. The escape mechanism provides thus a dynamical basis for the wide range and variability of decision times observed experimentally.

Sleepiness is related to factors such as the time of day, the time since awakening and the duration of prior sleep. The present study investigated whether actual road crashes could be predicted from a mathematical model based on these three factors (the Sleep/Wake Predictor-SWP). Data were derived from a population-based case-control study of serious injury crashes. Data on accident time (or control sampling time) and start and end of prior sleep were entered into the model (blind). The predicted sleepiness values were used in logistic regressions. The results showed a highly significant odds ratio (OR)=1.72 (confidence interval=1.41-2.09) for each incremental step of sleepiness on the output sleepiness scale (nine steps). There was also a significant interaction with blood alcohol level, showing high OR values for high sleepiness levels and alcohol levels above 50 mg% (0.05 g/dl). It was concluded that the model is a good predictor of road crashes beyond that of alcohol level, and that interaction between the two carries a very high risk.


Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a lethal X-linked disorder of striated muscle caused by the absence of dystrophin. Recently, impairment of vascular dilation under shear stress has been found in DMD, but the underlying molecular mechanism is not fully understood. Moreover, dilation of intramuscular arterioles, which may be a key to the molecular pathogenesis, has not been addressed yet. We examined dilation of arterioles in the mouse cremaster muscle under shear stress due to ligation. The vasodilation was significantly impaired in dystrophin-deficient mdx mice as well as in neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS)-deficient mice; however, neither endothelial NOS-deficient mice nor alpha1-syntrophin-deficient mice showed any difference in vasodilation from control mice. These results indicate that nNOS is the main supplier of nitric oxide in shear stress-induced vasodilation in skeletal muscle, but that the sarcolemmal localization of nNOS is not indispensable for the function. In contrast, the response to acetylcholine or sodium nitroprusside was not impaired in mdx or nNOS-deficient mice, suggesting that pharmacological treatment using a vasoactive agent may ameliorate skeletal and cardiac muscle symptoms of DMD.
Neurodegenerative disorders are characterized by neuronal impairment that eventually leads to neuronal death. In spite of the brain's known capacity for regeneration, lost neurons are difficult to replace. Therefore, drugs aimed at inhibiting neurodegenerative processes are likely to be most effective if the treatment is initiated as early as possible. However, clinical manifestations in early disease stages are often numerous, subtle and difficult to diagnose. This is where biomarkers that specifically reflect onset of pathology, directly or indirectly, may have a profound impact on diagnosis making in the future. A triplet of biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease (AD), total and hyperphosphorylated tau and the 42 amino acid isoform of beta-amyloid, has already been established for early detection of AD before the onset of dementia. However, more biomarkers are needed both for AD and for other neurodegenerative disorders, such as Parkinson's disease, frontotemporal dementia and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. This review provides an update on recent advances in clinical neuroproteomics, a biomarker discovery field that has expanded immensely during the last decade, and gives an overview of the most commonly used techniques and the major clinically relevant findings these techniques have lead to.

We recently reported that Alzheimer's disease (AD) with amygdala Lewy bodies (ALB) is a distinct form of alpha-synucleinopathy that occurs in advanced AD. In AD/ALB the alpha-synuclein pathology correlated with tau pathology, but not amyloid plaques, and there was often co-localization of tau and alpha-synuclein in the same neuron. Given the anatomical connectivity of the anterior olfactory nucleus and the amygdala, which receives axonal projections from the olfactory bulb, we hypothesized that there might be a relationship between tau and alpha-synuclein pathology in the olfactory bulb and the amygdala in AD. We screened for alpha-synuclein pathology in the olfactory bulb in AD with and without ALB, and investigated its relationship with tau pathology. In 38 of 41 (93%) AD/ALB cases and 4 of 21 (19%) AD cases without ALB (AD/non-ALB), alpha-synuclein pathology was detected in the olfactory bulb. Double immunolabeling at the light and electron microscopic levels revealed co-localization of tau and alpha-synuclein in the olfactory bulb neurons and neurites. The severity of tau pathology correlated with alpha-synuclein pathology in the olfactory bulb. In addition, alpha-synuclein pathology in the olfactory bulb correlated with alpha-synuclein pathology in amygdala. Tau pathology was greater in both the olfactory bulb and amygdala in AD/ALB than in AD/non-ALB, but there was no difference in tau pathology between the two groups in other brain regions assessed. The present study shows that in AD/ALB, the olfactory bulb is nearly equally vulnerable to tau and alpha-synuclein pathology as the amygdala and suggests that neurodegeneration in these two anatomical regions is linked.

A basic issue in the neurosciences of language is whether an L2 can be processed through the same neural mechanism underlying L1 acquisition and processing. In the present paper I review data from functional neuroimaging studies focusing on grammatical and lexico-semantic processing in bilinguals. The available evidence indicates that the L2 seems to be acquired through the same neural structures responsible for L1 acquisition. This fact is also observed for grammar acquisition in late L2 learners contrary to what one may expect from critical period accounts. However, neural differences for an L2 may be observed, in terms of more extended activity of the neural system mediating L1 processing. These differences may disappear once a more 'native-like' proficiency is established, reflecting a change in language processing mechanisms: from controlled processing for a weak L2 system (i.e., a less proficient L2) to more automatic processing. The neuroimaging data reviewed in this paper also support the notion that language control is a crucial aspect specific to the bilingual language system. The activity of brain areas related to cognitive control during the processing of a 'weak' L2 may reflect competition and conflict between languages which may be resolved with the intervention of these areas.


We present a case series of nine obese outpatients with a diagnosis of binge eating disorder who were treated with a flexible dose of the anticonvulsant oxcarbazepine. The drug has not previously been used to treat this disorder. Five patients dropped out at various points of the study, giving only fragmented data. Where data were available, all patients reported side effects (n=7) and some showed a reduction (n=4) or no change (n=3) in binge episode frequency. Some patients lost weight over the study period (n=3; range, 3-5 kg); others showed no change (n=2) or an increase in weight (n=3; range, 1.8-2.9 kg). Our results were inconsistent, but the drug was effective for some patients who showed marked impulsivity in eating behaviours and depressive symptoms.
Reduced energy intake, or caloric restriction (CR), is known to extend life span and to retard age-related health decline in a number of different species, including worms, flies, fish, mice and rats. CR has been shown to reduce oxidative stress, improve insulin sensitivity, and alter neuroendocrine responses and central nervous system (CNS) function in animals. CR has particularly profound and complex actions upon reproductive health. At the reductionist level the most crucial physiological function of any organism is its capacity to reproduce. For a successful species to thrive, the balance between available energy (food) and the energy expenditure required for reproduction must be tightly linked. An ability to coordinate energy balance and fecundity involves complex interactions of hormones from both the periphery and the CNS and primarily centers upon the master endocrine gland, the anterior pituitary. In this review article we review the effects of CR on pituitary gonadotrope function and on the male and female reproductive axes. A better understanding of how dietary energy intake affects reproductive axis function and endocrine pulsatility could provide novel strategies for the prevention and management of reproductive dysfunction and its associated comorbidities.
Connectivity between the hippocampus and hypothalamus plays an essential role in circadian rhythmicity and stress responsiveness. Both hippocampal dysfunction and loss of hormonal pulsatility have been demonstrated in aged animals, but the possibility of a functional interaction between these two processes remains unexplored. Correlated hippocampal neuropathology and flattening of the circadian rhythms occur in the elderly, and we propose that these processes are causally linked. In this review, we discuss the anatomical and functional nature of hippocampal interconnections with the hypothalamus. We also discuss the results of studies exploring the relationship between circadian phase and hippocampal plasticity in young animals, with the goal of understanding how these mechanisms might be restored in the aging brain.




We have demonstrated that after intraperitoneal lipopolysaccharide (LPS) injection, old rats mount fevers similar to those of young rats at an ambient temperature (Ta) of 31 degrees C, but not at 21 degrees C. The same is true for intraperitoneal or intravenous IL-1beta administration. The underlying mechanism responsible for blunted fever in old rats may be a deficiency in communication between the periphery and the brain. Possibly, peripheral cytokine actions are altered in old rats, such that the signal that reaches the brain is diminished. Here, we hypothesized that at standard laboratory temperatures, not enough IL-1beta is reaching the brain for fever to occur and that a warmer Ta would increase the influx of IL-1beta into the brain, enabling old rats to generate fever. Young (3-5 mo) and old (23-29 mo) Long-Evans rats were maintained for 3 days at either Ta 21 or 31 degrees C prior to intravenous injection with radiolabeled IL-1beta to measure passage across the blood-brain barrier. Young rats showed similar influx of IL-1beta into the brain at the two Tas, but old rats showed significant influx only at the warmer Ta. These data suggest that the lack of fever at a cool Ta may be due to a reduced influx of IL-1beta into the brain.
In order to complement the studies on the fila olfactoria completed by Dr. Santiago Ramn y Cajal, we have included a translation of &quot;Sobre Algunos Puntos Dudosos de la Estructura del Bulbo Olfatorio&quot; by T. Blanes, a student of Dr. Cajal. This work describes in stunning detail additional morphological aspects of the olfactory pathway, including what was at the time the modestly studied neuroglia. The neuroglia of the olfactory system has been revisited in the last several decades for its importance in the field of regenerative neuroscience. Olfactory ensheathing glia has the unique quality of providing ensheathment to neurons which traverse from the central to the peripheral nervous system and are being used as a candidate in present-day transplantation studies to mimic this phenomenon at the dorsal root entry zone after a central nervous system injury. Although this fine work has passed its centennial anniversary since initial publication, it has been widely cited throughout the years, and of recent when Pressler and Stowbridge reported Blanes cell electrophysiological recordings (Neuron V 49, 6; p 889-904, 2006). An English translation the details of what Blanes initially documented with unduplicated precision can now be made available to a wider audience in the field of neuroscience, and is especially important now that more and more present-day studies require a precise and complete understanding of the anatomical structures contained within the olfactory system.
In the late Nineteenth Century, Santiago Ramn y Cajal was able to reproduce an exceptional illustration of the Olfactory Nerve pathway and its myriad of cells, by using the Golgi Method. Dr. Cajal focused intense study on the histology of the nervous system and published a treatise on the olfactory nerve fibers and the distinct peripheral origin and central nervous system endpoint of this unique pathway. The original title of this work is &quot;Origen y terminacin de las fibras nerviosas olfatorias&quot; published in 1890. As the original publication is in Spanish, here we provide an English translation allowing present-day English speakers to read these writings. Cajal followed the trajectory of the olfactory nerve fibers as they transitioned between the peripheral and central nervous system and was able to assert that these fibers were not continuous from the olfactory bulb to the bipolar cells that relinquish into the olfactory epithelium, but that the olfactory system was made up of various cell types each having distinct morphologies and functions. This may very well be the first definitive description of the olfactory receptor neurons and the first illustrations of the continuity of these cells throughout the olfactory pathway. These meticulous histological preparations were created by first using Camillo Golgi's potassium dichromate and silver nitrate impregnation method known as &quot;reazione nera&quot; or &quot;black reaction,&quot; where nerve cells, nerve fibers, and neuroglia could be visualized. This study exhibits the structural and functional organization of the mammalian fila olfactoria as it was investigated in centuries past.
This usability study evaluated users' perceptions of a multimedia prototype for a new e-learning tool: Anatomy of the Central Nervous System: A Multimedia Course. Usability testing is a collection of formative evaluation methods that inform the developmental design of e-learning tools to maximize user acceptance, satisfaction, and adoption. Sixty-two study participants piloted the prototype and completed a usability questionnaire designed to measure two usability properties: program need and program applicability. Statistical analyses were used to test the hypothesis that the multimedia prototype was well designed and highly usable, it was perceived as: (1) highly needed across a spectrum of educational contexts, (2) highly applicable in supporting the pedagogical processes of teaching and learning neuroanatomy, and (3) was highly usable by all types of users. Three independent variables represented user differences: level of expertise (faculty vs. student), age, and gender. Analysis of the results supports the research hypotheses that the prototype was designed well for different types of users in various educational contexts and for supporting the pedagogy of neuroanatomy. In addition, the results suggest that the multimedia program will be most useful as a neuroanatomy review tool for health-professions students preparing for licensing or board exams. This study demonstrates the importance of integrating quality properties of usability with principles of human learning during the instructional design process for multimedia products.
Previous studies demonstrated that layer strain domestic chicks bred for egg production can orient using directional cues from the magnetic field; here we report that chicks from a broiler strain bred for meat production do not use magnetic cues for orientation. We imprinted both strains of chicken on a red ball and subsequently trained them in a featureless testing arena. Between rewarded trials in the geomagnetic field, we inserted unrewarded tests under the following conditions: (1) in the geomagnetic field, (2) in a magnetic field with North shifted by 90 degrees and (3) in a magnetic field with the inclination inverted. The layer chicks made a correct axial response in 75-80% of the tests, shifting their choices following a rotation of magnetic North. Chicks of the broiler strain, in contrast, performed at chance level with between 47 and 60% of choices on the correct axis. This difference between the strains does not appear to be due to substantial strain differences in motivation to perform the task. It therefore appears possible that the selection of the broiler strain has led to the elimination of the specific ability to respond to magnetic cues in the test situation.
In this study we tested the hypothesis that fear might facilitate learning when experienced contextually to the task. To this purpose, learning and memory performance of CD-1 mice in a Morris Water Maze (MWM) was assessed in the presence of a live predator (rat). Results indicate that a live predator induced specific predatory-avoidance responses, such as diving behavior and thigmotaxis. The rat-exposed group showed the most adaptive strategy, balancing anti-predator behavior and escape responses, while the rat pre-exposed group showed impairment in the initial phases of the acquisition. The probe trial revealed distinct swimming patterns but equal memory abilities in the different groups. Overall, this procedure represents a novel and easy test to assess the effects of stressful stimuli, contextually to spatial learning and memory performance, in mice.
Neuropsychiatry is an emerging field at the intersection of neurology and psychiatry, driven by the unprecedented advances in neuroscience. The arbitrary demarcation between neurology and psychiatry, which largely existed only in the last century and a half, has become less tenable. We discuss the definition and scope of this emerging field. We also review the development of clinical neuropsychiatry in Singapore in the context of historical developments and recent changes in the field from other countries. At a more practical level, we discuss a few of the clinical settings in which neuropsychiatry operates, in particular, the stigma associated with psychiatric disorders locally, and the significant number of patients with psychiatric or psychosomatic symptoms presenting to neurology and general practice clinics. The stigma may be ameliorated by better understanding of the neurobiological basis of psychiatry. We see the future of neuropsychiatry in Singapore, as in other developed countries, as one approach to understand and manage complex brain disorders. We advocate training for both psychiatry and neurology residents in their counterpart fields, which will lead to greater understanding of both fields, and enhance collaboration in clinical care and research.
Common genetic variants that increase the risk for Parkinson's disease may differentiate patient subgroups and influence future individualized therapeutic strategies. Herein we show evidence for leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) c.4883G&gt;C (R1628P) as a risk factor in ethnic Chinese populations. A study of 1,986 individuals from 3 independent centers in Taiwan and Singapore demonstrates that Lrrk2 R1628P increases risk for Parkinson's disease (odds ratio, 1.84; 95% confidence interval, 1.20-2.83; p = 0.006). Haplotype analysis suggests an ancestral founder for carriers approximately 2,500 years ago. These findings support the importance of LRRK2 variants in sporadic Parkinson's disease. Ann Neurol 2008.



Electrical stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus is an effective treatment for the motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease. While most patients who undergo this procedure do not appear to suffer behavioral side effects, a minority experience cognitive or emotional deficits, and longitudinal studies have reported declines; however, the measures of cognitive function used have been limited. One explanation for the possible disturbance of cognitive functions is that electrical stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus disrupts the normal flow of information within cortico-striatal loops involving prefrontal, associative, or limbic cortex. We wished to assess the effect of high frequency electrical stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus in Parkinson's disease patients while they performed a comprehensive neuropsychological test battery. We selected cognitive tasks known to test the function of different cortical areas, including tests of executive function, cognitive flexibility, attention, memory, language and visual perception. Patients were tested on two separate days, with the stimulators turned on or off. Test scores were also compared to preoperative performance. In our sample of 15 patients without dementia or major depression there was no deterioration on any cognitive test as a result of stimulation. We conclude that electrical stimulation of the motor subthalamic nucleus does not cause appreciable declines in cognitive function in well-selected patients.
Previous research suggests that agricultural herbicides interfere with olfactory-mediated behavior, such as responses to alarm signals and the ability to locate food, in aquatic organisms. In crayfish, aggressive interactions are also mediated by chemical signals. These social signals are important in establishing dominance, which in turn has an impact on an individual's ability to find and use mates, food, and habitat space. In this study, we investigated the impact of exposure to sublethal levels of the herbicide metolachlor on the ability of crayfish to respond to olfactory signals used in agonistic behaviors. Crayfish were exposed to three different environmentally relevant concentrations (60 ppb, 70 ppb, and 80 ppb) of metolachlor for 96 hours. Each exposed crayfish was then placed in a fight arena and was allowed to interact with a nave, untreated crayfish for 15 minutes. We analyzed several characteristics of fighting behavior, including initial aggressiveness, time to fight, intensity levels, duration, number of encounters, and the winner and loser of each fight. Crayfish exposed to 80 ppb metolachlor were less likely to initiate and win encounters against nave conspecifics than any other treatment group. Analysis of fight dynamics shows that metolachlor does not alter the temporal fighting dynamics within crayfish aggression. We conclude that high sublethal concentrations of metolachlor may be interfering with the ability of crayfish to receive or respond to social signals and thus affect certain agonistic behaviors.
Severity of stroke influences the possibility of living at homes after stroke and has been discussed as one possible prognostic factor for functional outcome and future residence. The objective was to explore how severity at stroke onset affects health-related quality of life (HRQL) and informal care among 147 stroke survivors and their spouses living in their own homes 1 year after acute stroke. This study is part of &quot;The Gteborg 70+ Stroke Study&quot; which included 249 elderly persons after acute stroke. One year after stroke 59% of the survivors, 94 women and 53 men, lived in their own homes. This group forms the present study population. They were subdivided according to the severity of stroke at onset, as assessed by Barthel index (BI) ratings in the acute phase. The stroke survivors rated their HRQL and were interviewed in their own homes to assess the effects of stroke on daily life activities and informal care after 1 year. Informal caregivers were found to assist their spouses to a great extent, regardless of severity of stroke. Persons with moderate/severe stroke at onset received more informal as well as more formal help than the ones with mild stroke. As expected, the group with moderate/severe stroke also was more dependent on personal assistance, used more assistive devices (ADs) and rated their HRQL lower. However, persons who were assessed as mild stroke at onset also needed informal care, particularly with more complex tasks. Gender differences were obvious, since many women were living alone after their partner had died, while the men usually had assistance from their spouses. Noteworthy is that informal caregivers assisted their spouses to a large extent, regardless of severity of stroke at onset. Different kind of support programs, extended day rehabilitation centers and more relieve places should be developed. That could possibly improve the life situation for the elderly stroke survivors and their caregivers, generally an elderly spouse.

In order to functionally characterise the muscarinic vasodilator responses, effects of cholinergic agonists were studied on isolated preparations of the rat submandibular artery and vein and carotid and jugular vessels. Tentatively, a cholinergic regulatory mechanism having different effects on the arterial and venous vessels would enhance vascular fluid recruitment for the secretory response. In vitro functional findings were correlated to the expression and cellular location of the different receptors that were assessed by immunohistochemistry. In order to find in vivo correlates to the in vitro findings, the influence of muscarinic receptors on permeability was studied on the vasculature of the submandibular gland in anaesthetised rats. Staining for muscarinic M1 receptors occurred in the endothelium, and muscarinic M5 receptors, and possibly M3 also, were detected in the arterial smooth muscle. In venous endothelium, muscarinic M1 and M4 receptors occurred. In the jugular smooth muscle layer, staining for M1, and possibly also for M3, appeared. Muscarinic agonists caused arteries to relax and veins to contract. The nitric oxide synthase inhibitor Nomega-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA; 10(-4)M) markedly reduced the cholinergic-evoked relaxation of pre-contracted carotid arterial preparations. In the presence of 4-DAMP (10(-7)M), the relaxation to cholinergic agonists was inhibited. Pirenzepine (10(-5)M) did not only inhibit the relaxatory effects, but even reversed the effects, while it in the jugular vein abolished the cholinergic effects. The arterial nitric oxide-dependent response to muscarinic receptor stimulation consisted of two parts -- one sensitive to pirenzepine and 4-DAMP and the other to 4-DAMP only. Inhibition of the former part only, resulted in cholinergic arterial contraction. Also, the submandibular artery and vein responses to muscarinic receptor stimulation show a resemblance with those of the carotid and jugular vessels, i.e. a pronounced arterial relaxation and a contractile component in the venous response. In vivo examination of submandibular glandular vasculature by studying glandular permeability to Evans blue, confirmed the in vitro observations indicating muscarinic M1 receptors preserving perfusion pressure during the secretory process.


Effects of age on depression vulnerability and antidepressant efficacy remain an important concern. Here, we show, by using a novel animal model of depressive behavior, that young rats (4 weeks old) are more vulnerable to the induction of depressive behavior than older ones (3, 6, and 14 months old). The induced depressive behavior in different ages of rats, however, was similarly sensitive to imipramine. A direct cerebroventricular administration of brain-derived neurotrophic factor was also sufficient to produce an antidepressant-like effect in the rats of different ages. These results suggest that although different ages of rats exhibit different sensitivity to the induction of depressive behavior, the induced depressive behavior may involve the same type of underlying abnormal neuropathophysiology in the brain and is sensitive to imipramine and brain-derived neurotrophic factor treatment.
Gamma-hydroxybutyric acid has been proposed as a pharmacotherapy for alcoholism in part based on similar discriminative stimulus effects as ethanol. To date, drug discrimination studies with gamma-hydroxybutyric acid and ethanol have exclusively used rodents or pigeons as subjects. To evaluate possible differences between species, sex, and route of administration, this study investigated the substitution of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (intragastrically or intramuscularly) for ethanol 30 or 60 min after administration in male (n=6) and female (n=7) cynomolgus monkeys trained to discriminate 1.0 and 2.0 g/kg ethanol. At least one dose of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid completely or partially substituted for ethanol in three of the 13 monkeys tested, with each case occurring in female monkeys. Ethanol-appropriate responding did not increase with gamma-hydroxybutyric acid dose. Monkeys were more sensitive to the response rate decreasing effects of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid administered intramuscularly compared with intragastrically. The lack of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid substitution for ethanol suggests that these drugs have different receptor bases for discrimination. Furthermore, the data do not strongly support shared discriminative stimulus effects as the rationale for gamma-hydroxybutyric acid pharmacotherapy for alcoholism.
Berlyne [Berlyne, D.E., 1950. Novelty and curiosity as determinants of exploratory behaviour. Brit. J. Psychol. 41, 68-80] first illustrated that rats prefer to explore novel objects over ones with which they have had previous experience. Recently, variants on this novel object recognition (NOR) task have become widely popular and have been employed in numerous neuroscience and behavioral pharmacological studies investigating memory processes. Given this popularity, a thorough understanding of the various behavioral processes involved in novelty reaction and preference is essential. The current study compared the effects of spaced and massed initial stimulus exposures upon later object exploration and novel stimulus preference in Long-Evans rats. Results illustrated that a distributed initial stimulus familiarization procedure promoted greater novel object preference than did a massed procedure, and suggest that the novel object recognition task is sensitive to spacing effects in a similar fashion to more traditional learning paradigms. The mechanisms underlying such spacing effects are briefly discussed.
Mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC) deficiencies are thought to underlie defects in energy metabolism and have been implicated in the neurodegenerative process. In particular, reductions in complex I activities in Parkinson's disease are thought to cause bioenergetic dysfunction with subsequent degeneration of dopaminergic neurons. In terms of bioenergetics and assessing ETC-related problems in the brain, the presence of heterogeneous mitochondria has complicated matters as isolated non-synaptic mitochondria have different energy thresholds and flux control coefficients compared to isolated mitochondria of synaptic origin. The molecular mechanisms that underlie complex I deficiencies in the parkinsonian brain are unknown and are the source of intensive research. This review explores the relationship between complex I activity and energy metabolism in the brain as well as the nature of the complex I defect.
Detrimental changes to mitochondrial function have been shown to occur with age. In this study we examined the levels of H(2)O(2) production, in situ mitochondrial membrane potential (Deltapsi(m)), oxygen consumption (JO(2)) and electron transport chain (ETC) enzyme activities in synaptosomes isolated from rats of two age groups, 6 and 18 months. The rate of H(2)O(2) production in synaptosomes was found to be higher in the 18-month old group compared to that of 6-month old. Deltapsi(m) was found to be significantly lower in synaptosomes from the older rats, which also correlated with a reduction in JO(2). Measurement of the individual electron transport chain enzyme activities revealed that reduced complex II/III and complex IV activities were the possible contributors to the reduced bioenergetic function in synaptosomes from the older rats. These data suggest that ageing may lead to increased nerve terminal H(2)O(2) production while simultaneous deleterious effects on bioenergetic function occur in in situ synaptosomal mitochondria. In addition, Ca(2+)-independent glutamate release was found to be increased at lower levels of complex I inhibition in the synaptosomes from older rats, suggesting that reduction of mitochondrial function may potentiate excitotoxic conditions in the ageing brain.
We have studied the effects of rotenone in myoblasts from healthy donors and from patients with Ullrich congenital muscular dystrophy (UCMD), a severe muscle disease due to mutations in the genes encoding the extracellular matrix protein collagen VI. Addition of rotenone to normal myoblasts caused a very limited mitochondrial depolarization because the membrane potential was maintained by the F1FO synthase, as indicated by full depolarization following the subsequent addition of oligomycin. In UCMD myoblasts rotenone instead caused complete mitochondrial depolarization, which was followed by faster ATP depletion than in healthy myoblasts. Mitochondrial depolarization could be prevented by treatment with cyclosporin A and intracellular Ca(2+) chelators, while it was worsened by depleting Ca(2+) stores with thapsigargin. Thus, in UCMD myoblasts rotenone-induced depolarization is due to opening of the permeability transition pore rather than to inhibition of electron flux as such. These findings indicate that in UCMD myoblasts the threshold for pore opening is very close to the resting membrane potential, so that even a small depolarization causes permeability transition pore opening and precipitates ATP depletion.
Daily rhythms are a ubiquitous feature of living systems. Generally, these rhythms are not just passive consequences of cyclic fluctuations in the environment, but instead originate within the organism. In mammals, including humans, the master pacemaker controlling 24-hour rhythms is localized in the suprachiasmatic nuclei of the hypothalamus. This circadian clock is responsible for the temporal organization of a wide variety of functions, ranging from sleep and food intake, to physiological measures such as body temperature, heart rate and hormone release. The retinal circadian clock was the first extra-SCN circadian oscillator to be discovered in mammals and several studies have now demonstrated that many of the physiological, cellular and molecular rhythms that are present within the retina are under the control of a retinal circadian clock, or more likely a network of hierarchically organized circadian clocks that are present within this tissue. BioEssays 30:624-633, 2008. (c) 2008 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
An important goal of research on the cognitive neuroscience of decision-making is to produce a comprehensive model of behavior that flows from perception to action with all of the intermediate steps defined. To understand the mechanisms of perceptual decision-making for an auditory discrimination experiment, we connected a large-scale, neurobiologically realistic auditory pattern recognition model to a three-layer decision-making model and simulated an auditory delayed match-to-sample (DMS) task. In each trial of our simulated DMS task, pairs of stimuli were compared each stimulus being a sequence of three frequency-modulated tonal-contour segments, and a &quot;match&quot; or &quot;nonmatch&quot; button was pressed. The model's simulated response times and the different patterns of neural responses (transient, sustained, increasing) are consistent with experimental data and the simulated neurophysiological activity provides insights into the neural interactions from perception to action in the auditory DMS task.
Continuous (reaction times) and binary (correct/ incorrect responses) measures of performance are routinely recorded to track the dynamics of a subject's cognitive state during a learning experiment. Current analyses of experimental data from learning studies do not consider the two performance measures together and do not use the concept of the cognitive state formally to design statistical methods. We develop a mixed filter algorithm to estimate the cognitive state modeled as a linear stochastic dynamical system from simultaneously recorded continuous and binary measures of performance. The mixed filter algorithm has the Kalman filter and the more recently developed recursive filtering algorithm for binary processes as special cases. In the analysis of a simulated learning experiment the mixed filter algorithm provided a more accurate and precise estimate of the cognitive state process than either the Kalman or binary filter alone. In the analysis of an actual learning experiment in which a monkey's performance was tracked by its series of reaction times, and correct and incorrect responses, the mixed filter gave a more complete description of the learning process than either the Kalman or binary filter. These results establish the feasibility of estimating cognitive state from simultaneously recorded continuous and binary performance measures and suggest a way to make practical use of concepts from learning theory in the design of statistical methods for the analysis of data from learning experiments.

Much work in the cognitive neuroscience of schizophrenia has focused on attention, memory, and executive functioning. To date, less work has focused on perceptual processing. However, perceptual functions are frequently disrupted in schizophrenia, and thus this domain has been included in the CNTRICS (Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia) project. In this article, we describe the basic science presentation and the breakout group discussion on the topic of perception from the first CNTRICS meeting, held in Bethesda, Maryland on February 26 and 27, 2007. The importance of perceptual dysfunction in schizophrenia, the nature of perceptual abnormalities in this disorder, and the critical need to develop perceptual tests appropriate for future clinical trials were discussed. Although deficits are also seen in auditory, olfactory, and somatosensory processing in schizophrenia, the first CNTRICS meeting focused on visual processing deficits. Key concepts of gain control and integration in visual perception were introduced. Definitions and examples of these concepts are provided in this article. Use of visual gain control and integration fit a number of the criteria suggested by the CNTRICS committee, provide fundamental constructs for understanding the visual system in schizophrenia, and are inclusive of both lower-level and higher-level perceptual deficits.


Patients with schizophrenia have pronounced deficits in memory for events--episodic memory. These deficits severely affect patients' quality of life and functional outcome, and current medications have only a modest effect, making episodic memory an important domain for translational development of clinical trial paradigms. The current article provides a brief review of the significant progress that cognitive neuroscience has made in understanding basic mechanisms of episodic memory formation and retrieval that were presented and discussed at the first CNTRICS (Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia) meeting in Washington, D.C. During that meeting a collaborative decision was made that measures of item-specific and relational memory were the most promising constructs for immediate translational development. A brief summary of research on episodic memory in schizophrenia is presented to provide a context for investigating item-specific and relational memory processes. Candidate brain regions are also discussed.
This overview describes the generation and development of the ideas that led to the Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia (CNTRICS) initiative. It also describes the organization, process, and products of the first meeting. The CNTRICS initiative involves a series of three conferences that will systematically address barriers to translating paradigms developed in the basic animal and human cognitive neuroscience fields for use in translational research aimed at developing novel treatments for cognitive impairments in schizophrenia. The articles in this special section report on the results of the first conference, which used a criterion-based consensus-building process to develop a set of cognitive constructs to be targeted for translation efforts.
Working memory is one of the central constructs in cognitive science and has received enormous attention in the theoretical and empirical literature. Similarly, working memory deficits have long been thought to be among the core cognitive deficits in schizophrenia, making it a ripe area for translation. This article provides a brief overview of the current theories and data on the psychological and neural mechanisms involved in working memory, which is a summary of the presentation and discussion on working memory that occurred at the first Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia (CNTRICS) meeting (Washington, D.C.). At this meeting, the consensus was that the constructs of goal maintenance and interference control were the most ready to be pursued as part of a translational cognitive neuroscience effort at future CNTRICS meetings. The constructs of long-term memory reactivation, capacity, and strategic encoding were felt to be of great clinical interest but requiring more basic research. In addition, the group felt that the constructs of maintenance over time and updating in working memory had growing construct validity at the psychological and neural levels but required more research in schizophrenia before these should be considered as targets for a clinical trials setting.
Schizophrenia is widely thought to involve deficits of attention. However, the term &quot;attention&quot; can be defined so broadly that impaired performance on virtually any task could be construed as evidence for a deficit in attention, and this has slowed cumulative progress in understanding attention deficits in schizophrenia. To address this problem, we divide the general concept of attention into two distinct constructs: input selection, the selection of task-relevant inputs for further processing; and rule selection, the selective activation of task-appropriate rules. These constructs are closely tied to working memory, because input selection mechanisms are used to control the transfer of information into working memory and because working memory stores the rules used by rule selection mechanisms. These constructs are also closely tied to executive function, because executive systems are used to guide input selection and because rule selection is itself a key aspect of executive function. Within the domain of input selection, it is important to distinguish between the control of selection--the processes that guide attention to task-relevant inputs--and the implementation of selection--the processes that enhance the processing of the relevant inputs and suppress the irrelevant inputs. Current evidence suggests that schizophrenia involves a significant impairment in the control of selection but little or no impairment in the implementation of selection. Consequently, the CNTRICS (Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia) participants agreed by consensus that attentional control should be a priority target for measurement and treatment research in schizophrenia.

Behavioral and electrophysiological brain responses were used to examine the relationship between the vulnerability to distraction and the orienting response in schizophrenia. Nineteen schizophrenics and nineteen matched healthy controls were instructed to ignore task-irrelevant auditory stimuli while they classified capital letters and digits. The auditory sequences contained repetitive standard tones occasionally replaced by complex novel sounds. Relative to controls, patients showed an increased behavioral distraction, as indicated by a larger response time increase caused by novel sounds, and a disturbance in the attention orienting toward distracting stimuli, as indicated by a reduced novelty-P3. This behavioral-electrophysiological dissociation may stem from a limited pool of available resources. Thus, the few attentional resources directed toward novel stimuli would be sufficient to cause an important decrease of the similarly reduced amount of resources assigned to task-relevant stimuli, resulting in a striking impairment of the ongoing task performance.
(S)-5-bromo-N-[(1-cyclopropylmethyl-2-pyrrolidinyl)methyl]-2,3-dimethoxybenzamide (4) has pico-molar in vitro binding affinity to D(2) receptor (K(i) (D(2))=0.003 nM) with lower affinity to D(3) receptor (K(i) (D(3))=0.22 nM). In this study, we describe radiosynthesis of [(11)C]4 and evaluation of its binding characteristics in post-mortem human brain autoradiography and with PET in cynomolgus monkeys. The (11)C labelled 4 was synthesized by using [(11)C]methyltriflate in a methylation reaction with its phenolic precursor with good incorporation yield (64+/-11%, DCY) and high specific radioactivity &gt;370 GBq/micromol (&gt;10,000 Ci/mmol). In post-mortem human brain autoradiography [(11)C]4 exhibited high specific binding in brain regions enriched with dopamine D(2)/D(3) receptors and low level of non-specific binding. In cynomolgus monkeys [(11)C]4 exhibited high brain uptake reaching 4.4% ID at 7.5 min. The binding in the extrastriatal low density D(2)-receptor regions; thalamus and frontal, parietal, temporal, and occipital cortex, was clearly visible. Pre-treatment with raclopride (1 mg/kg as tartrate) caused high reduction of binding in extrastriatal regions, including cerebellum. [(11)C]4 is a promising radioligand for imaging D(2) receptors in low density regions in brain.
In the present study, single-molecule fluorescence microscopy was used to examine the characteristics of plasma membrane targeting and microdomain localization of enhanced yellow fluorescent protein (eYFP)-tagged wild-type Dok5 and its variants in living Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells. We found that Dok5 can target constitutively to the plasma membrane, and the PH domain is essential for this process. Furthermore, single-molecule trajectories analysis revealed that Dok5 can constitutively partition into microdomain on the plasma membrane. Finally, the potential mechanism of microdomain localization of Dok5 was discussed. This study provided insights into the characteristics of plasma membrane targeting and microdomain localization of Dok5 in living CHO cells.



Cancer-induced bone pain (CIBP) is a major clinical problem with up to 85% of patients with bony metastases having pain, often associated with anxiety and depression, reduced performance status, and a poor quality of life. Malignant bone disease creates a chronic pain state through sensitization and synaptic plasticity within the spinal cord that amplifies nociceptive signals and their transmission to the brain. Fifty per cent of patients are expected to gain adequate analgesia from palliative radiotherapy within 4-6 weeks of treatment. Opioid analgesia does make a useful contribution to the management of CIBP, especially in terms of suppressing tonic background pain. However, CIBP remains a clinical challenge because the spontaneous and movement-related components are more difficult to treat with opioids and commonly used analgesic drugs, without unacceptable side-effects. Recently developed laboratory models of CIBP, which show congruency with the clinical syndrome, are contributing to an improved understanding of the neurobiology of CIBP. This chronic pain syndrome appears to be unique and distinct from other chronic pain states, such as inflammatory or neuropathic pain. This has clear implications for treatment and development of future therapies. A translational medicine approach, using a highly iterative process between the clinic and the laboratory, may allow improved understanding of the underlying mechanisms of CIBP to be rapidly translated into real clinical benefits in terms of improved pain management.

The histamine H3 receptor, first described in 1983 as a histamine autoreceptor and later shown to also function as a heteroreceptor that regulates the release of other neurotransmitters, has been the focus of research by numerous laboratories as it represents an attractive drug target for a number of indications including cognition. The purpose of this review is to acquaint the reader with the current understanding of H3 receptor localization and function as a modulator of neurotransmitter release and its effects on cognitive processes, as well as to provide an update on selected H3 antagonists in various states of preclinical and clinical advancement. Blockade of centrally localized H3 receptors by selective H3 receptor antagonists has been shown to enhance the release of neurotransmitters such as histamine, ACh, dopamine and norepinephrine, among others, which play important roles in cognitive processes. The cognitive-enhancing effects of H3 antagonists across multiple cognitive domains in a wide number of preclinical cognition models also bolster confidence in this therapeutic approach for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia. However, although a number of clinical studies examining the efficacy of H3 receptor antagonists for a variety of cognitive disorders are currently underway, no clinical proof of concept for an H3 receptor antagonist has been reported to date. The discovery of effective H3 antagonists as therapeutic agents for the novel treatment of cognitive disorders will only be accomplished through continued research efforts that further our insights into the functions of the H3 receptor.

The pathological correlate of clinical disability and progression in multiple sclerosis is neuronal and axonal loss; however, the underlying mechanisms are unknown. Abnormal phosphorylation of tau is a common feature of some neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease. We investigated the presence of tau hyperphosphorylation and its relationship with neuronal and axonal loss in chronic experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (CEAE) and in brain samples from patients with secondary progressive multiple sclerosis. We report the novel finding of abnormal tau phosphorylation in CEAE. We further show that accumulation of insoluble tau is associated with both neuronal and axonal loss that correlates with progression from relapsing-remitting to chronic stages of EAE. Significantly, analysis of secondary progressive multiple sclerosis brain tissue also revealed abnormally phosphorylated tau and the formation of insoluble tau. Together, these observations provide the first evidence implicating abnormal tau in the neurodegenerative phase of tissue injury in experimental and human demyelinating disease.

Only around 80% of patients with generalized myasthenia gravis (MG) have serum antibodies to acetylcholine receptor [AChR; acetylcholine receptor antibody positive myasthenia gravis (AChR-MG)] by the radioimmunoprecipitation assay used worldwide. Antibodies to muscle specific kinase [MuSK; MuSK antibody positive myasthenia gravis (MuSK-MG)] make up a variable proportion of the remaining 20%. The patients with neither AChR nor MuSK antibodies are often called seronegative (seronegative MG, SNMG). There is accumulating evidence that SNMG patients are similar to AChR-MG in clinical features and thymic pathology. We hypothesized that SNMG patients have low-affinity antibodies to AChR that cannot be detected in solution phase assays, but would be detected by binding to the AChRs on the cell membrane, particularly if they were clustered at the high density that is found at the neuromuscular junction. We expressed recombinant AChR subunits with the clustering protein, rapsyn, in human embryonic kidney cells and tested for binding of antibodies by immunofluorescence. To identify AChRs, we tagged either AChR or rapsyn with enhanced green fluorescence protein, and visualized human antibodies with Alexa Fluor-labelled secondary or tertiary antibodies, or by fluorescence-activated cell sorter (FACS). We correlated the results with the thymic pathology where available. We detected AChR antibodies to rapsyn-clustered AChR in 66% (25/38) of sera previously negative for binding to AChR in solution and confirmed the results with FACS. The antibodies were mainly IgG1 subclass and showed ability to activate complement. In addition, there was a correlation between serum binding to clustered AChR and complement deposition on myoid cells in patients' thymus tissue. A similar approach was used to demonstrate that MuSK antibodies, although mainly IgG4, were partially IgG1 subclass and capable of activating complement when bound to MuSK on the cell surface. These observations throw new light on different forms of MG paving the way for improved diagnosis and management, and the approaches used have applicability to other antibody-mediated conditions.
In the central nervous system (CNS) of man, evolutionary pressure has preserved some capability for remyelination while axonal regeneration is very limited. In contrast, two efficient programmes of regeneration exist in the adult fish CNS, neurite regrowth and remyelination. The rapidity of CNS remyelination is critical since it not only restores fast conduction of nerve impulses but also maintains axon integrity. If myelin repair fails, axons degenerate, leading to increased disability. In the human CNS demyelinating disease multiple sclerosis (MS), remyelination often takes place in the midst of inflammation. Here, we discuss recent studies that address the innate repair capabilities of the axon-glia unit from fish to man. We propose that expansion of this research field will help find ways to maintain or enhance spontaneous remyelination in man.
Predicting the individual vulnerability to immune mediated disease is one of the main challenges of modern biomedical research. However, the question of individual behavioral and physiological characteristics that might predict this vulnerability has been subject of research and debate for a long time. This paper will argue that animal models aimed at individual vulnerability should consider the biological function of variation in nature. An increasing number of studies show the ecological significance of variation within a species. Based on behavioral studies in several vertebrate species two coping style can be distinguished. Variation in coping style appears to play a role in the population dynamics and the evolutionary fitness of the species. Coping styles are reflected in a stable differentiation in the behavioral and physiological stress responsiveness over time and across situations. Based on the observations that the individual level of offensive aggressive behavior (i.e., the tendency to defend the home territory) is strongly related to the way animals react to various other environmental challenges, it is argued that the individual's level of offensiveness is an important indicator and component of a more trait-like behavioral and physiological response pattern (coping style) to environmental demands. The coping style of aggressive animals is principally aimed at a (pro)active prevention or manipulation of a stressor whereas the non-aggressive individuals tend to passively accept or react to it. Proactive coping is associated with high sympathetic reactivity to stressors whereas the more passive or reactive coping style generally has a higher HPA axis reactivity. In view of the immune modulating nature of these major neuroendocrine stress systems, one might expect that coping styles will be reflected in a differential vulnerability to immune mediated disease as well. Indeed, several studies have demonstrated such a relationship, indicating that the functional variation in coping style and related neuroendocrine stress reactivity, as it occurs in nature, might be a good standard for studies aimed at understanding individual vulnerability. This is in agreement with more recent views that also in humans stress reactivity may be the best predictor for the individual vulnerability to immune mediated diseases. This asks for a more fundamental and translational approach of individual disease vulnerability based on a common biological basis of individual differentiation in behavior and physiology in humans and animals.
Prior research indicates that cognitive priming manipulations that activate personal goals acutely increase or decrease natural killer cell cytotoxicity depending on whether individuals see themselves as making or failing to make progress toward their goals. Those findings in a laboratory setting revealed a psychobiological pathway whereby experiences of failure can influence health, but did not assess the impact of chronic perceived success/failure in goal pursuit on actual health outcomes. Three new studies investigated whether individual differences in perceived failure to attain personal goals influenced the self-reported symptoms of upper respiratory infections (URIs) as well as antibody response to flu immunization. Based on pilot data in young women, it also was hypothesized that the occurrence of menstrual dysfunction might interact with goal pursuit failure to more specifically predict cold and flu symptoms and optimal responses to vaccination. Perceived failure to attain goals did predict the reporting of URI symptoms as well as antibody levels post-immunization, both alone and in combination with menstrual dysfunction.
Socially inhibited individuals show increased vulnerability to viral infections, and this has been linked to increased activity of the sympathetic nervous system (SNS). To determine whether structural alterations in SNS innervation of lymphoid tissue might contribute to these effects, we assayed the density of catecholaminergic nerve fibers in 13 lymph nodes from seven healthy adult rhesus macaques that showed stable individual differences in propensity to socially affiliate (Sociability). Tissues from Low Sociable animals showed a 2.8-fold greater density of catecholaminergic innervation relative to tissues from High Sociable animals, and this was associated with a 2.3-fold greater expression of nerve growth factor (NGF) mRNA, suggesting a molecular mechanism for observed differences. Low Sociable animals also showed alterations in lymph node expression of the immunoregulatory cytokine genes IFNG and IL4, and lower secondary IgG responses to tetanus vaccination. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that structural differences in lymphoid tissue innervation might potentially contribute to relationships between social temperament and immunobiology.


Allen [Allen, M. D. (2005). The preservation of verb subcategory knowledge in a spoken language comprehension deficit. Brain and Language, 95, 255-264] presents evidence from a single patient, WBN, to motivate a theory of lexical processing and representation in which syntactic information may be encoded and retrieved independently of semantic information. In his critique, Kemmerer argues that because Allen depended entirely on preposition-based verb subcategory violations to test WBN's knowledge of correct argument structure, his results, at best, address a &quot;strawman&quot; theory. This argument rests on the assumption that preposition subcategory options are superficial syntactic phenomena which are not represented by argument structure proper. We demonstrate that preposition subcategory is in fact treated as semantically determined argument structure in the theories that Allen evaluated, and thus far from irrelevant. In further discussion of grammatically relevant versus irrelevant semantic features, Kemmerer offers a review of his own studies. However, due to an important design shortcoming in these experiments, we remain unconvinced. Reemphasizing the fact the Allen (2005) never claimed to rule out all semantic contributions to syntax, we propose an improvement in Kemmerer's approach that might provide more satisfactory evidence on the distinction between the kinds of relevant versus irrelevant features his studies have addressed.
Masked priming is used in psycholinguistic studies to assess questions about lexical access and representation. We present two masked priming experiments using MEG. If the MEG signal elicited by words reflects specific aspects of lexical retrieval, then one expects to identify specific neural correlates of retrieval that are sensitive to priming. To date, the electrophysiological evidence has been equivocal. We report findings from two experiments. Both employed identity priming, where the prime and target are the same lexical item but differ in case (NEWS-news). The first experiment used only forward masking, while the prime in the second experiment was both preceded and followed by a mask (backward masking). In both studies, we find a significant behavioral effect of priming. Using MEG, we identified a component peaking approximately 225 ms post-onset of the target, whose latency was sensitive to repetition. These findings support the notion that properties of the MEG response index specific lexical processes and demonstrate that masked priming can be effectively combined with MEG to investigate the nature of lexical processing.
Despite the increasing number of neuroimaging studies of syntactic gender processing no model is currently available that includes data from visual and auditory language comprehension and language production. This paper provides a systematic review of the neural correlates of syntactic gender processing. Based on anatomical information from cytoarchitectonic probability maps it is argued that the left BA 44 plays a central role for the active use of gender information, e.g., for explicit decisions as well as for subsequent morphological encoding. The left BA 45 is involved in the strategic generation of morphological cues that facilitate gender processing. Model implications for aphasic patients with lesions including or excluding parts of Broca's speech region are discussed.
In previous work we reported robust collaborative learning for referential labels in patients with hippocampal amnesia, resulting in increasingly rapid and economical communication or &quot;common ground&quot; with their partners [Duff, M. C., Hengst, J., Tranel, D., &amp; Cohen, N. J. (2006). Development of shared information in communication despite hippocampal amnesia. Nature Neuroscience, 9(1), 140-146]. The current paper reports the results of discourse analysis, describing the communicative resources and practices used in extended, repeated collaborative interactions, as partners successfully referenced the target cards, managed the task itself, and engaged in non-task talk. Although amnesic pairs showed a normal rate of reduction across trials in the number of words and time-to-completion, their communicative effort was higher overall, particularly the discourse associated with task management, they exhibited a general lack of flexibility in their referential expressions, and they showed a number of striking differences in use of personal and communal knowledge and of multiple perspectives. The interactive sessions provided a potent learning environment, but also a very challenging task in the face of memory impairment. The results give insight into the acquisition of common ground and the manner in which amnesic patients accommodate their memory deficits during real-world interactions, and they have significant implications for memory intervention.
Previous functional neuroimaging studies have demonstrated the critical role of the medial temporal lobe (MTL) regions in the encoding and retrieval of episodic memory. It has also been shown that an emotional factor in human memory enhances episodic encoding and retrieval. However, there is little evidence regarding the specific contribution of each MTL region to the relational, contextual, and emotional processes of episodic memory. The goal of this review article is to identify differential activation patterns of the processes between MTL regions. Results from functional neuroimaging studies of episodic memory show that the hippocampus is involved in encoding the relation between memory items, whereas the entorhinal and perirhinal cortices (anterior parahippocampal gyrus) contribute to the encoding of a single item. Additionally, the parahippocampal cortex (posterior parahippocampal gyrus) is selectively activated during the processing of contextual information of episodic memory. A similar pattern of functional dissociation is found in episodic memory retrieval. Functional neuroimaging has also shown that emotional information of episodic memory enhances amygdala-MTL correlations and that this enhancement is observed during both the encoding and retrieval of emotional memories. These findings from pervious neuroimaging studies suggest that different MTL regions could organize memory for personally experienced episodes via the &quot;relation&quot; and &quot;context&quot; factors of episodic memory, and that the emotional factor of episodes could modulate the functional organization in the MTL regions.
The prefrontal cortex (PFC), which is considered to be the center of executive control, also plays important roles in motivational operations. Neurons related to the expectancy of the presence or absence of a particular reward in a task situation are present in the primate lateral, medial and orbital PFC; these neurons show differential delay activity between reward and no-reward trials as well as showing differential delay activity between different types of reward trials. Reward expectancy-related neuronal activities reflect the motivation of animals to obtain the reward. Behavioral studies indicate that better learning is achieved when a more preferred reward is used. In primate lateral PFC neurons, cognitive task (e.g., working memory)-related activity is enhanced when a more preferred reward is used. Thus, motivation appears to modulate learning-related neuronal activity that in turn modulates learning-related behavior. Expectancies of outcome can also be advantageous during learning if animals exhibit different reactions for different outcomes, as different expectancies develop for different outcomes. Thus, differential outcome expectancies may facilitate learning and discriminative performance by providing the subject with an additional source of information. Motivation is induced not only by homeostatic (such as food and liquid) but also by nonhomeostatic rewards (such as seeing and manipulating interesting objects). The expectancy of both types of rewards could modulate learning at both the neuronal and behavioral levels.
The hippocampus, which is known as the center for learning and memory, is a remarkable neural structure that displays a variety of synchronous oscillations under physiological or pathophysiological conditions, such as theta rhythms, ripples, and epileptic seizures. Epileptic seizures, in particular, are caused by the enormous synchronous and rhythmic firing of hippocampal neurons (2-5 Hz) and can last for up to several minutes in temporal lobe epilepsy. Electrically induced seizure-like afterdischarges are an excellent experimental system for elucidating the network mechanisms underlying the neuronal synchronization and rhythm generation of these epileptic seizures in extremely hyperactive hippocampal networks. In this paper, we review the key findings of recent in vitro studies on the seizure-like afterdischarge in a local neuronal network in the rat hippocampal CA1 area. During the afterdischarge, GABAergic synaptic transmissions become transiently depolarizing and even excitatory as chloride rapidly accumulates post-synaptically through the GABAA receptors on hippocampal pyramidal cells. This transient GABAergic excitation is enhanced by glutamate release and extracellular potassium accumulation. Dual whole-cell patch-clamp recordings from a variety of interneurons and their neighboring pyramidal cells revealed that interneurons located in the stratum oriens and stratum pyramidale, including basket, chandelier, and bistratified cells, exhibited prominent firing activity that was phase-locked to the afterdischarge responses in the pyramidal cells. Thus, neuronal synchronization during the afterdischarge is achieved by synergistic excitations of glutamatergic pyramidal cells and GABAergic interneurons. Our observations also suggest that local circuits in the stratum oriens and stratum pyramidale may be responsible for rhythmic excitation during the seizure-like afterdischarge; however the detailed mechanism underlying this rhythmic excitation is not yet fully understood.
Longitudinal fiber systems in the hippocampal formation play an important role in propagating information to the entire septotemporal extent of the hippocampus. Previously, we have elucidated the longitudinal axonal projections of CA3 pyramidal cells (Ishizuka et al., 1990, J Comp Neurol 295: 580-623). Moreover, we have noted the existence of longitudinal fiber systems in the dentate gyrus. In the dentate gyrus, we found 2 types of longitudinal fiber systems originating from the hilar cells in the dentate gyrus-Type I and Type II fiber systems-by using the anterograde labeling technique with Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) and the retrograde labeling method with fluorescent dyes or the cholera toxin-B subunit. We observed that the Type I fiber system distributed its axonal ramifications in the inner molecular layer immediately above the granular cell layer, while the Type II fiber system distributed its terminals in the outer molecular layer. The Type I fiber system extended over almost the entire longitudinal (septotemporal) extent of the dentate gyrus, but in case of injection of the labeling molecule at the extreme temporal level, it extended within the temporal half of the dentate gyrus. In contrast, axonal arborizations of the Type II system were restricted within approximately 1.5 mm from the level of injection in each septotemporal direction. Axonal arborizations of the Type I fiber systems terminated densely in the narrow band of the inner molecular layer, while those of the Type II fiber system were loosely distributed in a slightly wider area of the outer molecular layer. The cells of origin of both Type I and Type II fiber systems were located in the hilar area. It appears likely that the cells of origin of the Type I system distributed their dendrites within the hilar area, since their cell bodies and axons were not labeled when the injection of PHA-L was restricted within the molecular layer. In contrast, the cells of origin of the Type II fiber system seemed to extend their dendrites over the outer molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. It appears likely that these longitudinal fiber systems of the dentate gyrus and the field CA3 function as an important system for analyzing information under physiological conditions, but under pathological conditions such as epileptic seizure abnormal neuronal bursting might expand to the entire extent of the hippocampus via these longitudinal systems.
Synaptic transmission is regulated by vesicular exocytosis and subsequent recycling at the presynaptic terminals. These vesicular dynamics were quantified by measuring the synaptop Hluorin fluorescence from individual large mossy fiber boutons in the hippocampus of a TV-42 transgenic mouse in which synaptopHluorin is specifically expressed in the mossy fiber boutons. We found that there are 2 distinct vesicle pools: a resting pool, which is resistant to exocytosis, and a releasable pool. The initially docked vesicles are easily depleted and the readily releasable pool (RRP) is replenished by the reserve subpopulation of the releasable pool (&quot;reserve&quot; releasable pool, RsvRP). When some of the silent synapses, which are pre-existing but are incapable of transmission, are recruited for transmission, a large number of alternative neuronal circuits are created in an off/on-switching manner. Here, we show that protein kinase C (PKC) activation facilitates presynaptic unsilencing at certain release sites, provided by the large mossy fiber boutons in the mouse hippocampus, by redirecting the synaptic vesicles from the resting pool to the RsvRP. At other sites PKC also facilitates the replenishment of the RRP from the RsvRP. Synaptic transmission was also potentiated through a mechanism involving non-PKC C1 domain-containing receptors, which would increase the size of the RRP. Thus, PKC and non-PKC mechanisms differentially reorganize vesicular dynamics and synergistically potentiate transmission.
Physiological aging of the brain is inevitable, regardless of the occurrence of pathological diseases such as Alzheimer disease or cerebral vascular disorders. AMI (age-related memory impairment) is an important phenotype of brain aging. In contrast to organismal aging, the molecular mechanisms underlying AMI are poorly understood and hindered by the lack of specific mutants for AMI. We used the fruit fly Drosophila as a novel model for genetic analyses of AMI since it has a short lifespan and is suitable for quantitative analysis of learning and memory. The molecular mechanisms underlying learning and memory in Drosophila are similar to those in mammals. In a screen for AMI mutants, we found that heterozygous mutations of DC0 gene, which encodes the major catalytic subunit of PKA (cAMP-dependent kinase), delayed AMI onset by more than 2-fold without affecting lifespan and memory at young age. The first identification of AMI mutant provides provocative insights into the role of cAMP/PKA signaling and the genetic relationship between organismal aging and brain aging.
Effects of weak electrical currents on brain and neuronal function were first described decades ago. Recently, DC polarization of the brain was reintroduced as a noninvasive technique to alter cortical activity in humans. Beyond this, transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) of different cortical areas has been shown, in various studies, to result in modifications of perceptual, cognitive, and behavioral functions. Moreover, preliminary data suggest that it can induce beneficial effects in brain disorders. Brain stimulation with weak direct currents is a promising tool in human neuroscience and neurobehavioral research. To facilitate and standardize future tDCS studies, we offer this overview of the state of the art for tDCS.




Sirtuins are known to protect cells and extend life span, but our previous studies indicated that S. cerevisiae Sir2 can also increase stress sensitivity and limit life-span extension. Here we provide evidence for a role of the mammalian Sir2 ortholog SirT1 in the sensitization of neurons to oxidative damage. SirT1 inhibition increased acetylation and decreased phosphorylation of IRS-2; it also reduced activation of the Ras/ERK1/2 pathway, suggesting that SirT1 may enhance IGF-I signaling in part by deacetylating IRS-2. Either the inhibition of SirT1 or of Ras/ERK1/2 was associated with resistance to oxidative damage. Markers of oxidized proteins and lipids were reduced in the brain of old SirT1-deficient mice, but the life span of the homozygote knockout mice was reduced under both normal and calorie-restricted conditions. These results are consistent with findings in S. cerevisiae and other model systems, suggesting that mammalian sirtuins can play both protective and proaging roles.
In order to understand the connectivity of neuronal networks, their constituent neurons should ideally be studied in a common framework. Since morphological data from physiologically characterized and stained neurons usually arise from different individual brains, this can only be performed in a virtual standardized brain that compensates for interindividual variability. The desert locust, Schistocerca gregaria, is an insect species used widely for the analysis of olfactory and visual signal processing, endocrine functions, and neural networks controlling motor output. To provide a common multi-user platform for neural circuit analysis in the brain of this species, we have generated a standardized three-dimensional brain of this locust. Serial confocal images from whole-mount locust brains were used to reconstruct 34 neuropil areas in ten brains. For standardization, we compared two different methods: an iterative shape-averaging (ISA) procedure by using affine transformations followed by iterative nonrigid registrations, and the Virtual Insect Brain (VIB) protocol by using global and local rigid transformations followed by local nonrigid transformations. Both methods generated a standard brain, but for different applications. Whereas the VIB technique was designed to visualize anatomical variability between the input brains, the purpose of the ISA method was the opposite, i.e., to remove this variability. A novel individually labeled neuron, connecting the lobula to the midbrain and deutocerebrum, has been registered into the ISA atlas and demonstrates its usefulness and accuracy for future analysis of neural networks. The locust standard brain is accessible at http://www.3d-insectbrain.com .
Mixed-rod cone bipolar (Mb) cells of goldfish retina have large synaptic terminals (10 microm in diameter) that make 60-90 ribbon synapses mostly onto amacrine cells and rarely onto ganglion cells and, in return, receive 300-400 synapses from gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic amacrine cells. Tissue viewed by electron microscopy revealed the presence of double-membrane-bound processes deep within Mb terminals. No membrane specializations were apparent on these invaginating processes, although rare vesicular fusion was observed. These invaginating dendrites were termed &quot;InDents&quot;. Mb bipolar cells were identified by their immunoreactivity for protein kinase C. Double-label immunofluorescence with other cell-type-specific labels eliminated Mller cells, efferent fibers, other Mb bipolar cells, dopaminergic interplexiform cells, and somatostatin amacrine cells as a source of the InDents. Confocal analysis of double-labeled tissue clearly showed dendrites of GABA amacrine cells, backfilled ganglion cells, and dendrites containing PanNa immunoreactivity extending into and passing through Mb terminals. Nearly all Mb terminals showed evidence for the presence of InDents, indicating their common presence in goldfish retina. No PanNa immunoreactivity was found on GABA or ganglion cell InDents, suggesting that a subtype of glycine amacrine cell contained voltage-gated Na channels. Thus, potassium and calcium voltage-gated channels might be present on the InDents and on the Mb terminal membrane opposed to the InDents. In addition to synaptic signaling at ribbon and conventional synapses, Mb bipolar cells may exchange information with InDents by an alternative signaling mechanism.
Acute and chronic whiplash headache are new diagnostic entities in the ICHD-2 (5.3, 5.4). In a prospective cohort study, 210 rear-end collision victims were identified consecutively from police records and asked about head and neck pain in questionnaires after 2 weeks, 3 months and 1 year. The results were compared with those of matched controls who were also followed for 1 year. Of 210 accident victims, 75 developed headache within 7 days. Of these, 37 had also neck pain and complied with the criteria for acute whiplash headache. These 37 had the same headache diagnoses, headache features, accompanying symptoms and long-term prognosis as the 38 without initial neck pain who therefore did not comply with the acute whiplash headache diagnosis. Previous headache was a major risk factor for headache both in the acute and chronic stage. Compared with the non-traumatized controls, headache in the whiplash group had the same prevalence, the same diagnoses and characteristic features, and the same prognosis. Both acute and chronic whiplash headache lack specificity compared with the headache in a control group, and have the same long-term prognosis, indicating that such headaches are primary headaches, probably elicited by the stress of the situation.
Recently, functional imaging data have underscored the crucial role of the hypothalamus in trigemino-autonomic headaches, a group of severe primary headaches. This prompted the application of hypothalamic deep-brain stimulation (DBS), with the intention to preventing cluster headache (CH) attacks in selected severe therapy-refractory cases. To date, a total of 50 operated intractable CH patients, one patient with short-lasting unilateral neuralgiform headache attacks with conjunctival injection and tearing and three with atypical facial pain, have been reported. However, it is not apparent why the spontaneous bursts of activation in the inferior posterior hypothalamus result in excruciating head pain, whereas continuous electrical stimulation of the identical area is able to prevent these attacks. Recently, this issue has been addressed by examining 10 operated chronic CH patients, using H(2)(15)O-positron emission tomography and alternately switching the hypothalamic stimulator on and off. The stimulation-induced activation in the ipsilateral posterior inferior hypothalamic grey (the site of the stimulator tip) as well as activation and de-activation in several cerebral structures belonging to neuronal circuits usually activated in pain transmission. These data argue against an unspecific antinociceptive effect or pure inhibition of hypothalamic activity as the mode of action of hypothalamic DBS and suggest functional modulation of the pain-processing network.
Alterations in the inhibitory circuitry of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) in schizophrenia include reduced expression of the messenger RNA (mRNA) for somatostatin (SST), a neuropeptide present in a subpopulation of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurons. However, neither the cellular substrate nor the causal mechanisms for decreased SST mRNA levels in schizophrenia are known. We used in situ hybridization to quantify the compartmental, laminar, and cellular levels of SST mRNA expression in the DLPFC of 23 pairs of schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder and control subjects. We also explored potential causal mechanisms by utilizing similar methods to analyze SST mRNA expression in 2 animal models. The expression of SST mRNA was significantly decreased in layers 2-superficial 6 of subjects with schizophrenia, but not in layer 1, deep 6 or the white matter. At the cellular level, both the density of cortical SST mRNA-positive neurons and the expression of SST mRNA per neuron were reduced in the subjects with schizophrenia. These alterations were not due to potential confounds and appeared to be a downstream consequence of impaired neurotrophin signaling through the trkB receptor. These findings support the hypothesis that a marked reduction in SST mRNA expression in a subset of GABA neurons contributes to DLPFC dysfunction in schizophrenia.
Familiarity refers to an explicit recognition experience without any necessary retrieval of specific detail related to the episode during which initial learning transpired. Prior experience can also implicitly influence subsequent processing through a memory phenomenon termed conceptual priming, which occurs without explicit awareness of recognition. Resolving current theoretical controversy on relationships between familiarity and conceptual priming requires a clarification of their neural substrates. Accordingly, we obtained functional magnetic resonance images in a novel paradigm for separately assessing neural correlates of familiarity and conceptual priming using famous and nonfamous faces. Conceptual priming, as shown by more accurate behavioral responses to strongly conceptually primed than to weakly conceptually primed faces, was associated with activity reductions in left prefrontal cortex, whereas familiarity was associated with activity enhancements in right parietal cortex for more-familiar compared with less-familiar faces. This neuroimaging evidence implicates separate neurocognitive processes operative in explicit stimulus recognition versus implicit conceptual priming.
Associative theory postulates that learning the consequences of our actions in a given context is represented in the brain as stimulus-response-outcome associations that evolve according to prediction-error signals (the discrepancy between the observed and predicted outcome). We tested the theory on brain functional magnetic resonance imaging data acquired from human participants learning arbitrary visuomotor associations. We developed a novel task that systematically manipulated learning and induced highly reproducible performances. This granted the validation of the model-based results and an in-depth analysis of the brain signals in representative single trials. Consistent with the Rescorla-Wagner model, prediction-error signals are computed in the human brain and selectively engage the ventral striatum. In addition, we found evidence of computations not formally predicted by the Rescorla-Wagner model. The dorsal fronto-parietal network, the dorsal striatum, and the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex are activated both on the incorrect and first correct trials and may reflect the processing of relevant visuomotor mappings during the early phases of learning. The left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex is selectively activated on the first correct outcome. The results provide quantitative evidence of the neural computations mediating arbitrary visuomotor learning and suggest new directions for future computational models.
The development of the cortical vascular network depends on functional maturation. External inputs are an essential requirement in the modeling of the visual cortex, mainly during the critical period, when the functional and structural properties of visual cortical neurons are particularly susceptible to alterations. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is the major angiogenic factor, a key signal in the induction of vessel growth. Our study focused on the role of visual stimuli on the development of the vascular pattern correlated with VEGF levels. Vascular density and the expression of VEGF were examined in the primary visual cortex of rats reared under different visual environments (dark rearing, dark-rearing in conditions of enriched environment, enriched environment, and laboratory standard conditions) during postnatal development (before, during, and after the critical period). Our results show a restricted VEGF cellular expression to astroglial cells. Quantitative differences appeared during the critical period: higher vascular density and VEGF protein levels were found in the enriched environment group; both dark-reared groups showed lower vascular density and VEGF levels, which means that enriched environment without the physical exercise component does not exert effects in dark-reared rats.
Previous work in animal models has shown that projections from the basolateral amygdala (BLA) progressively infiltrate the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) from birth to adulthood, with the most dramatic sprouting occurring during the postweanling period. GABAergic (gamma-aminobutyric acidergic) interneurons in the human homolog of the rat mPFC have been implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia, an illness with an onset that is delayed until late adolescence. Here we investigated the interaction of BLA fibers with mPFC GABAergic interneurons from postnatal day 6 (P6) to P120 using anterograde tracing and immunocytochemistry. We found a 3-fold increase in axosomatic and an 8-fold increase in axo-dendritic contacts in both layers II and V of the mPFC. Ultrastructural analysis using a colloidal gold immunolocalization demonstrated that the greatest proportion of BLA appositions were with GABA-negative spines (30.8%) and GABA-positive dendritic shafts (35.5%). Although GABA-negative interactions demonstrated well-defined axo-spinous synapses, membrane specializations could not be identified with confidence in GABA-positive elements. Our findings suggest that GABAergic interneurons are major targets for BLA fibers projecting to the mPFC. The establishment of this circuitry, largely during adolescence, may contribute to the integration of emotional responses with attentional and other cognitive processes mediated within this region during corticolimbic development.
Language selection (or control) refers to the cognitive mechanism that controls which language to use at a given moment and context. It allows bilinguals to selectively communicate in one target language while minimizing the interferences from the nontarget language. Previous studies have suggested the participation in language control of different brain areas. However, the question remains whether the selection of one language among others relies on a language-specific neural module or general executive regions that also allow switching between different competing behavioral responses including the switching between various linguistic registers. In this functional magnetic resonance imaging study, we investigated the neural correlates of language selection processes in German-French bilingual subjects during picture naming in different monolingual and bilingual selection contexts. We show that naming in the first language in the bilingual context (compared with monolingual contexts) increased activation in the left caudate and anterior cingulate cortex. Furthermore, the activation of these areas is even more extended when the subjects are using a second weaker language. These findings show that language control processes engaged in contexts during which both languages must remain active recruit the left caudate and the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) in a manner that can be distinguished from areas engaged in intralanguage task switching.
Regulated trafficking of AMPA receptors (AMPARs) is an important mechanism that underlies the activity-dependent modification of synaptic strength. Trafficking of AMPARs is regulated by specific interactions of their subunits with other proteins. Recently, we have reported that the AMPAR subunit GluR1 binds the cGMP-dependent kinase type II (cGKII) adjacent to the kinase catalytic site, and that this interaction is increased by cGMP. In this complex, cGKII phosphorylates GluR1 at serine 845 (S845), a site known to be phosphorylated also by PKA. S845 phosphorylation leads to an increase of GluR1 on the plasma membrane. In neurons, cGMP is produced by soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC), which is activated by nitric oxide (NO). Calcium flux through the NMDA receptor (NMDAR) activates neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), which produces NO. Using a combination of biochemical and electrophysiological experiments, we have shown that trafficking of GluR1 is under the regulation of NO, cGMP and cGKII. Moreover, our study indicates that the interaction of cGKII with GluR1, which is under the regulation of the NMDAR and NO, plays an important role in hippocampal plasticity.
Herbivore insects are suitable model organisms for studying how plant odor information is encoded in olfactory receptor neurons (RNs). By the use of gas chromatography linked to electrophysiological recordings from single RNs, screening for sensitivity to naturally produced plant odorants is possible in order to determine the molecular receptive ranges of the neurons. Using this method, we have in this study of the cabbage moth, Mamestra brassicae, classified 21 types of olfactory RNs according to their responses to odorants present in the host plants of Brassicae, in the related species of Arabidopsis, as well as in essential oils of nonhost plants like ylang-ylang. Most of the RNs were tuned to one or a few structurally similar compounds, showing minimal overlap of their molecular receptive ranges. Whereas some RNs displayed a novel tuning, others were tuned to the same compounds as neurons in other insect species. We also found colocation in the same sensillum of 3 RN types with the same response characteristics and tuning as 3 colocated types described in heliothine moths living on different host plants. The presence of similar RN types across different insect species implies conservation or reappearance of the RN types, independent of the evolution of host plant ranges.

1. In the present study, we investigated the short- and long-term effects of extremely low-frequency (ELF) magnetic fields on spatial recognition memory in mice by using a two-trial recognition Y-maze that is based on the innate tendency of rodents to explore novel environments. 2. Mice were exposed to 25 or 50 Hz electromagnetic fields for either 7 (short term) or 25 days (long term) and then tested in the Y-maze. 3. The results indicated that neither short- nor long-term exposure to magnetic fields affected the locomotor activity of mice in the Y-maze. However, long-term exposure to 50 Hz fields reduced recognition of the novel arm. 4. Our findings suggest that ELF magnetic fields impair spatial recognition memory in the Y-maze depending on the field strength and/or duration of exposure.

The acronym IBMPFD denotes a syndrome including inclusion body myopathy, Paget's disease of the bone (PDB) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) as cardinal features, which is caused by missense mutations in the VCP gene. We studied the clinical characteristics and the histopathological features in two siblings and their mother who presented with adult-onset myopathy and presenile, rapidly progressive FTD. One sibling also showed PDB. Light and electron microscopy performed on muscle biopsies demonstrated degenerative changes with inclusion bodies and abnormal aggregates. Mutation analysis of the VCP gene on affected siblings revealed a heterozygous missense mutation (R155H) in a hot spot. This is the first Italian family with multiple individuals diagnosed as having IBMPFD and carrying the recurrent R155H mutation. The implications for genetic counselling were also discussed, with regard to the procedures that may be offered to families suffering from a multisystem disorder with high risk of cognitive decline.

Parkinsonism with evidence of midbrain dysfunction has been reported in a few patients with aqueductal stenosis after placement of ventriculoperitoneal (VP) shunt. The response to levodopa is variable. We report a patient with neurocysticercosis of the fourth ventricle who developed transient parkinsonism without evidence of midbrain dysfunction after placement of a VP shunt. The frequency of tremor was 5-5.5 Hz. Though the response to levodopa was initially slow, later it was significant, and after 3 months he was asymptomatic without levodopa. The exact pathophysiology of parkinsonism in our patient remained obscure.

The aim of the study was to evaluate the use of imaging in the development of neuropharmacological drugs. All New Drug Applications (NDAs) approved from 1995 through 2004 in the Division of Neuropharmacological Drug Products at the Food and Drug Administration were surveyed for imaging studies. Imaging literature was also reviewed with respect to antipsychotics and antidepressants. One hundred and six NDAs (35 new molecular entities (NMEs)) were approved; 15 of these NDAs (10 NMEs) had imaging studies. The primary imaging modality was positron emission tomography. Imaging was primarily conducted for drugs used in schizophrenia, depression, multiple sclerosis, and migraine. The majority evaluated receptor occupancy or proof of concept. Examples (including literature) are discussed as pertinent to dosage, efficacy, safety, or further development of a drug or class of drugs. Imaging contributes to optimal clinical development of central nervous system (CNS)-active drugs. Opportunities are available for its broader use, contributing to improved understanding of the clinical pharmacology of CNS-active drugs.



The prevalence of borderline personality disorder (BPD) in outpatient clinics varies greatly (7%-27%) depending on the setting and methodology. We examined the cross-sectional rate of BPD in a general adult outpatient university clinic using a 2-phase procedure: (1) we screened all registered patients with the self-report SCID-II-PQ and (2) we administered the Revised Diagnostic Interview for Borderlines (DIB-R). Sixty-six percent (239/360) of the clinic patients completed the screening: About 72.4% (173/239) (95% confidence interval [CI] = 66.7%, 78.1%) were positive for BPD on the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Personality Disorders-Patient Questionnaire (SCID-II-PQ), and 22.6% (54/239) (95% CI = 17.3%, 27.9%) were positive for BPD on the DIB-R. Our BPD rate was somewhat higher than recent semistructured interview studies (9%-18%). We believe this is due, in part, to our cross-sectional design and our decision not to exclude acute Axis I disorders. Mostly, however, we believe that our 22.6% incidence of BPD arises from the high morbidity of our sample. Demographic data from 130 of 131 DIB-R completers reveal the following: mean age was 40.2 years, 75.4% were female, most patients were unable to work, and they averaged 3.8 lifetime hospitalizations.

INTRODUCTIONThe generation of gain-of-function phenotypes by ectopic expression of known genes provides a powerful complement to the genetic approach, in which genes are studied or identified through mutations that generally reduce or eliminate gene function. The GAL4 system is a method for ectopic gene expression that allows the selective activation of any cloned gene in a wide variety of tissue- and cell-specific patterns. A key advantage of the system is the separation of the GAL4 protein from its target gene in distinct transgenic lines, which ensures that the target gene is silent until the introduction of GAL4. Recent modifications and adaptations of the GAL4 system to make the system inducible have further expanded its scope, enabling greater temporal control over the activity of GAL4. There are now large resources for the community, including thousands of GAL4 lines and a wide selection of reporter lines. Here we present an overview of the GAL4 system, highlighting recent developments and discussing methods for generating and analyzing transgenic flies for GAL4-mediated ectopic expression.
INTRODUCTIONThe GAL4 system is a method for ectopic gene expression that allows the selective activation of any cloned gene in a wide variety of tissue- and cell-specific patterns. This protocol describes the generation of driver and reporter lines for use with the GAL4 system in Drosophila. A promoter-GAL4 fusion is constructed using a P-element transformable vector, and a GAL4-responsive target gene is created via generation of an upstream activation sequence (UAS)-reporter construct. An alternative strategy for integration using the phiC31 system is also provided. Transformant lines are generated using standard procedures for microinjection.
The following review was constructed as a concept paper based on a recent workshop on neurodegenerative disease sponsored by the National Institute on Aging (NIA), the American Geriatric Society (AGS), and the John A. Hartford Foundation. The meeting was entitled &quot;Thinking, moving and feeling: Common underlying mechanisms? 4(th) Annual Bedside-to-Bench Conference&quot; and had the purpose to connect current basic and clinical findings on common brain-related alterations occurring with aging such as depression, movement disorders, and cognitive decline. Many prominent researchers expressed their opinion on aging and it was revealed that age-related brain dysfunction of any kind seems to share several risk factors and/or pathways. But can something be done to actively achieve &quot;successful aging&quot;? In this review, based largely on the workshop and current literature, we have summarized some of the current theories for depression, movement and cognitive impairment with aging, as well as potential preventive measures. We have also summarized the emerging need for relevant animal models and how these could be developed and utilized.
ATP contributes to nociceptive sensory processing by activating a family of ligand-gated ion channels, the P2X receptors. One of these, the P2X3 receptor, is highly localized on primary afferent neurons. In sensory neurons, P2X3 receptors function as homomeric (P2X3) and heteromeric (P2X2/3) channels. Exogenous application of ATP and related agonists excites peripheral and central nerves, and increases sensitivity to noxious stimuli. Specific targeting of P2X3 receptors by gene deletion and knockdown results in a hypoalgesic phenotype. In animal models of pain, pharmacological blockade of P2X3 receptors fully blocked specific types of chronic inflammatory and neuropathic pain. Peripheral nerve injury differentially alters functional expression of P2X3 receptors on small and large diameter primary afferent neurons. These data have delineated discrete roles for homomeric P2X3 and heteromeric P2X2/3 receptor activation in acute and chronic pain. Similar findings have also been generated from extensive research of the bladder urothelial-sensory neuron system. The urinary bladder is richly innervated by P2X3 receptor-containing neurons. Heteromeric P2X2/3 channels in the bladder contribute to both mechanosensitivity and nociceptive responses. Thus, both genetic and pharmacological approaches have provided converging evidence that activation of P2X3-containing channels is an important mediator of acute and persistent nociceptive signaling in the peripheral nervous system.
Cognition is a complex set of processes, including attention, learning and memory, that refers to the capacity to encode, consolidate, store and retrieve recent and remotely stored fact (semantic) and experience-based (episodic) memory. The development of cognitive enhancers is of particular importance to society and the pharmaceutical industry, as cognitive dysfunctions are observed across a wide range of neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders; however, developing such therapeutics has proven difficult. There is poor congruency between the abundance of positive results observed in animal studies compared with clinical outcome. For example, from 1982 to 2002 there was a 6000% increase in studies on cognitive processing in rodents that had little or no impact on the outcome of phase II and III clinical trials. The effects of therapeutics on models of cognition that demonstrate the potential to improve preclinical-to-clinical congruency, focusing on attention, impulsivity and episodic memory, are summarized in this review. Changes in attention, impulsivity and episodic memory are tractable 'disease biomarkers' that correlate with the disease phenotypes that are potential therapeutic targets. In the context of the development of cognitive enhancing drugs, one of the major goals of translational medicine is to improve the congruency between preclinical models and clinical results. Improved translatability could improve discovery, validation and implementation of biomarkers to inform clinical outcome studies and decision making, and to establish proof-of-concept for efficacy and safety based on targeted mechanisms of action.
Recently developed techniques for spatially and temporally controlled genetic manipulations based on regulated homologous recombination and/or transcription are extensively used in brain research. In addition to being important for testing the role of specific proteins in the central nervous system, these techniques allow analysis of brain functions at the neuronal circuit level. This overview discusses principles of conditional inactivation and expression of genes, and their specific applications to studies of the mammalian brain.
Fluid replacement remains an important strategy for preserving exercise performance as dehydration in excess of 2% of body weight consistently impairs aerobic exercise performance. Too much of a good thing, however, can have negative health consequences as persistent drinking in excess of sweating rate can induce symptomatic exercise associated hyponatremia. This short review highlights new position stands and/or policy statements regarding fluid replacement for sport, evidence that laboratory findings translate to team sport performance, and current hydration practices of athletes. It is culminated with practical strategies for drinking appropriately during physical activity.
Different aspects of neural development are tightly regulated and the underlying mechanisms have to be transcriptionally well controlled. Here we present evidence that the transcription factor Zfh1, the Drosophila member of the conserved zfh1 gene family, is important for different steps of neuronal differentiation. First, we show that late larval expression of the neuropeptide FMRFamide is dependent on correct levels of Zfh1 and that this regulation is presumably direct via a conserved zfh1 homeodomain binding site in the FMRFamide enhancer. Using MARCM analysis we additionally examined the requirement for Zfh1 during embryonic and larval stages of motoneuron development. We could show that Zfh1 cell autonomously regulates motoneuronal outgrowth and larval growth of neuromuscular junctions (NMJs). In addition, we find that the growth of NMJs is dependent on the dosage of Zfh1, suggesting it to be a downstream effector of the known NMJ size regulating pathways.
Mitotic spindle orientation in polarized cells determines whether they divide symmetrically or asymmetrically. Moreover, regulated spindle orientation may be important for embryonic development, stem cell biology, and tumor growth. Drosophila neuroblasts align their spindle along an apical/basal cortical polarity axis to self-renew an apical neuroblast and generate a basal differentiating cell. It is unknown whether spindle alignment requires both apical and basal cues, nor have molecular motors been identified that regulate spindle movement. Using live imaging of neuroblasts within intact larval brains, we detect independent movement of both apical and basal spindle poles, suggesting that forces act on both poles. We show that reducing astral microtubules decreases the frequency of spindle movement, but not its maximum velocity, suggesting that one or few microtubules can move the spindle. Mutants in the Lis1/dynactin complex strongly decrease maximum and average spindle velocity, consistent with this motor complex mediating spindle/cortex forces. Loss of either astral microtubules or Lis1/dynactin leads to spindle/cortical polarity alignment defects at metaphase, but these are rescued by telophase. We propose that an early Lis1/dynactin-dependent pathway and a late Lis1/dynactin-independent pathway regulate neuroblast spindle orientation.
Wnt signaling regulates many aspects of development through canonical and PCP signaling pathways. A paper by Yamamoto et al. in this issue of Developmental Cell identifies collagen triple helix repeat containing 1 as a Wnt-binding cofactor that specifically activates the Wnt-PCP pathway.
The aim of this study was to investigate the timing and course of investigation and diagnosis in children with acute arterial ischaemic stroke (AIS) and factors influencing this using a retrospective case-note review. Participants comprised 50 children (26 males, 24 females; median age at presentation 3 y 4 mo, range 2 mo-16 y 10 mo). Although all had brain infarction, symptoms resolved in less than 24 hours in 21 children (transient ischaemic attack [TIA] group). Thirty-seven children saw a doctor within 6 hours of the attack; 32 did not see a paediatric neurologist until after 24 hours. Initial neuroimaging (computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging) occurred in less than 6 hours in 13/46 children and in more than 24 hours in 18/46 children. Brain magnetic resonance imaging occurred in more than 24 hours in 43/47 children. Time to clinical diagnosis (data available on 42 children) was less than 6 hours in 14 children, 6 to 12 hours in six, 12 to 24 hours in eight, and more than 24 hours in 14 children. In multiple regression analysis, patients with stroke were more likely to have shorter time to diagnosis than those with TIA. Our results show that most children with acute AIS are seen within 6 hours but definitive imaging and specialist assessment take more than 24 hours. Time to diagnosis is significantly longer in children with TIA (p=0.001). Trials of acute treatment being designed for childhood AIS will require rapid transfer to tertiary centers and access to definitive neuroimaging, but these data suggest that this will challenge existing practice.
Emotions are both central to life experience itself and highly pertinent to various disciplines, including neuroscience, psychology, social studies, philosophy, and the arts. The definition of emotion lies at the interface of nature and culture reflecting an understanding of the components that shape emotional states and experiences across time and cultures. This review describes how the concept of emotion developed in Western thought, from the Renaissance notion of the passions to the 19th century idea of 'emotion'.
In pigeons, asymmetric photic stimulation around hatch induces functional visual asymmetries that are accompanied by left-right differences in tectal cell sizes. Different aspects of light-dependent neuronal differentiation are known to be mediated by the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Therefore, we investigated by means of single or triple BDNF- or saline-injections into the right eye of dark-incubated pigeon hatchlings if ocular BDNF enrichment mimics the effects of biased visual input. As adults, the birds were tested in a grit-grain discrimination task to estimate the degree and direction of visual lateralization followed by a morphometric analysis of retinal and tectal cells. The grit-grain discrimination task demonstrated that triple BDNF-injections enhanced visuoperceptual and visuomotor functioning of the left eye system. Morphometric analysis showed bilateral cell-type dependent effects within the optic tectum. While single-BDNF injections increased cell body sizes of calbindin-positive efferent neurons, triple-injections decreased cell sizes of parvalbumin-positive cells. Moreover, single BDNF-injections increased retinal cell sizes within the contralateral eye. Analysis of BDNF-induced intracellular signaling demonstrated enhanced downstream Ras activation for at least 24 h within both tectal halves whereas activity changes within the contralateral retina could not be detected. This points to primarily tectal effects of ocular BDNF. In sum, exogenous BDNF modulates the differentiation of retinotectal circuitries and dose-dependently shifts lateralized visuomotor processing towards the noninjected side. Since these effects are opposite to embryonic light stimulation, it is unlikely that the impact of light onto asymmetry formation is mediated by retinal BDNF.
In the vestibular organs of the inner ear, an early postnatal decline in the capacity for cell proliferation appears to be responsible for limits to hair cell regeneration that are unique to mammals. We have investigated the time course of that decline in cell proliferation and its potential regulation by glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK3). Our immunoblots have revealed that inactive GSK3 beta decreases postnatally in the murine utricular epithelium, as E-cadherin and the active forms of GSK3 alpha and GSK3 beta each increase. In cultured utricular epithelia, pharmacological inhibition of GSK3 by LiCl and SB-216763 increased cell proliferation across a range of postnatal ages. LiCl treatments also led to increased levels of beta-catenin and Snail and decreased expression of E-cadherin. Transfection with a dominant-negative GSK3 beta enhanced proliferation in these epithelia in a cell-autonomous manner, while overexpression of wild-type GSK3 beta markedly reduced it. The evidence from these measurements and experimental manipulations indicates that the balance of active and inactive forms of GSK3 helps to determine whether mammalian vestibular supporting cells will proliferate; permitting proliferation during early development when inactive GSK3 predominates and progressively inhibiting proliferation, and thereby limiting the capacity for hair cell regeneration as more GSK3 becomes active during the first week of postnatal maturation.

Advances in the fields of cognitive and affective developmental neuroscience, developmental psychopathology, neurobiology, genetics, and applied behavior analysis have contributed to a more optimistic outcome for individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD). These advances have led to new methods for early detection and more effective treatments. For the first time, prevention of ASD is plausible. Prevention will entail detecting infants at risk before the full syndrome is present and implementing treatments designed to alter the course of early behavioral and brain development. This article describes a developmental model of risk, risk processes, symptom emergence, and adaptation in ASD that offers a framework for understanding early brain plasticity in ASD and its role in prevention of the disorder.
In adults, facial identity is coded by opponent processes relative to an average face or norm, as evidenced by the face identity aftereffect: adapting to a face biases perception towards the opposite identity, so that a previously neutral face (e.g. the average) resembles the identity of the computationally opposite face. We investigated whether children as young as 8 use adaptive norm-based coding to represent faces, a question of interest because 8-year-olds are less accurate than adults at recognizing faces and do not show the adult neural markers of face expertise. We found comparable face identity aftereffects in 8-year-olds and adults: perception of identity in both groups shifted in the direction predicted by norm-based coding. This finding suggests that, by 8 years of age, the adaptive computational mechanisms used to code facial identity are like those of adults and hence that children's immaturities in face processing arise from another source.
The development of language indicating the emergence of thinking about the thoughts of self and others has been scarcely studied in Spanish-speaking children. For this reason, we studied the development of mental state language and various indicators of language development in 25 Spanish-speaking children assessed at 3, 3 1/2, 4, 4 1/2, and 5 years of age. We coded and categorized the 40,250 utterances children produced during the five time points, 1202 (3.01%) of which had mental terms. In this sample, mental state language in Spanish children developed with a similar timeline and patterns as described in English-speaking children. However, several findings were novel for studies of mental state language. The general indexes of syntactic development did not correlate with the production of mental terms. The Index of Lexical Diversity was associated with the frequency of references to verbs of desire. The results of regression analyses suggest that not only the development of subordinate sentences with complement is associated with genuine mental references to desires and beliefs, but the development of lexical skills as well.

According to a long-standing hypothesis, aging is mainly caused by accumulation of nuclear (n) DNA damage in differentiated cells such as neurons due to insufficient nDNA repair during lifetime. In line with this hypothesis it was until recently widely accepted that neuron loss is a general consequence of normal aging, explaining some degree of decline in brain function during aging. However, with the advent of more accurate procedures for counting neurons, it is currently widely accepted that there is widespread preservation of neuron numbers in the aging brain, and the changes that do occur are relatively specific to certain brain regions and types of neurons. Whether accumulation of nDNA damage and decline in nDNA repair is a general phenomenon in the aging brain or also shows cell-type specificity is, however, not known. It has not been possible to address this issue with the biochemical and molecular-biological methods available to study nDNA damage and nDNA repair. Rather, it was the introduction of autoradiographic methods to study quantitatively the relative amounts of nDNA damage (measured as nDNA single-strand breaks) and nDNA repair (measured as unscheduled DNA synthesis) on tissue sections that made it possible to address this question in a cell-type-specific manner under physiological conditions. The results of these studies revealed a formerly unknown inverse relationship between age-related accumulation of nDNA damage and age-related impairment in nDNA repair on the one hand, and the age-related, selective, loss of neurons on the other hand. This inverse relation may not only reflect a fundamental process of aging in the central nervous system but also provide the molecular basis for a new approach to understand the selective neuronal vulnerability in neurodegenerative diseases, particularly Alzheimer's disease.


Signal transducer and activator of transcription (Stat)-3 signals mediate many of the metabolic effects of the fat cell-derived hormone, leptin. In mice, brain-specific depletion of either the long form of the leptin receptor (Lepr) or Stat3 results in comparable obese phenotypes as does replacement of Lepr with an altered leptin receptor locus that codes for a Lepr unable to interact with Stat3. Among the multiple brain regions containing leptin-sensitive Stat3 sites, cells expressing feeding-related neuropeptides in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus have received much of the focus. To determine the contribution to energy homeostasis of Stat3 expressed in agouti-related protein (Agrp)/neuropeptide Y (Npy) arcuate neurons, Stat3 was deleted specifically from these cells, and several metabolic indices were measured. It was found that deletion of Stat3 from Agrp/Npy neurons resulted in modest weight gain that was accounted for by increased adiposity. Agrp/Stat3-deficient mice also showed hyperleptinemia, and high-fat diet-induced hyperinsulinemia. Stat3 deletion in Agrp/Npy neurons also resulted in altered hypothalamic gene expression indicated by increased Npy mRNA and decreased induction of suppressor of cytokine signaling-3 in response to leptin. Agrp mRNA levels in the fed or fasted state were unaffected. Behaviorally, mice without Stat3 in Agrp/Npy neurons were mildly hyperphagic and hyporesponsive to leptin. We conclude that Stat3 in Agrp/Npy neurons is required for normal energy homeostasis, but Stat3 signaling in other brain areas also contributes to the regulation of energy homeostasis.
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a complex endocrine and metabolic disorder associated with ovulatory dysfunction, hyperandrogenism, abdominal obesity, and insulin resistance. Pharmacotherapy is often unsatisfactory. This study evaluates the effects of low-frequency electro-acupuncture (EA) and physical exercise on metabolic disturbances and adipose tissue mRNA expression of selected genes in a rat PCOS model characterized by insulin resistance and adiposity. Dihydrotestosterone (inducing PCOS) or vehicle (control) was administrated continuously, beginning before puberty. At age 10 wk, PCOS rats were randomly divided into three groups; PCOS, PCOS EA, and PCOS exercise. PCOS EA rats received 2-Hz EA (evoking muscle twitches) three times/wk during 4-5 wk. PCOS exercise rats had free access to a running wheel for 4-5 wk. EA and exercise improved insulin sensitivity, measured by clamp, in PCOS rats. Exercise also reduced adiposity, visceral adipocyte size, and plasma leptin. EA increased plasma IGF-I. Real-time RT-PCR revealed increased expression of leptin and IL-6 and decreased expression of uncoupling protein 2 in visceral adipose tissue of PCOS rats compared with controls. EA restored the expression of leptin and uncoupling protein 2, whereas exercise normalized adipose tissue leptin and IL-6 expression in PCOS rats. Thus, EA and exercise ameliorate insulin resistance in rats with PCOS. This effect may involve regulation of adipose tissue metabolism and production because EA and exercise each partly restore divergent adipose tissue gene expression associated with insulin resistance, obesity, and inflammation. In contrast to exercise, EA improves insulin sensitivity and modulates adipose tissue gene expression without influencing adipose tissue mass and cellularity.
The central melanocortin system is a critical contributor to energy balance control. Melanocortin receptors (MC-Rs) are widely distributed throughout forebrain and caudal brainstem nuclei. To assess the contribution of hindbrain MC-Rs to the control of energy expenditure, the MC3/4R agonist melanotan II (MTII) was delivered to either the fourth ventricle or medullary raphe of neurologically intact rats and chronic decerebrate (CD) rats, and interscapular brown adipose tissue (IBAT) temperature (T(IBAT)), core temperature (T(C)), heart rate (HR), and spontaneous activity were recorded. Fourth ventricular MTII (0.1, 1.0 nmol) significantly increased T(IBAT), T(C), and HR in intact rats (T(C): +0.33 +/- 0.08, +0.41 +/- 0.09 C; HR: +40.84 +/- 7.29, +69.04 +/- 6.83 beats per minute) and in CDs (T(C): +1.39 +/- 0.67, +1.52 +/- 0.37 C; HR: +83.21 +/- 19.2, +107.38 +/- 17.65 beats per minute). Response magnitude was greater in CD rats than in neurologically intact rats. T(IBAT), T(C), and HR were significantly increased after 10 pmol MTII delivery to the medullary raphe of intact rats, and here too, the response magnitude was greater in decerebrate rats. The hyperthermia, IBAT thermogenesis, and tachycardia observed in CD rats after fourth ventricular and hindbrain parenchymal MTII injections support the hypothesis that hindbrain MC-R stimulation engages endemic circuits that link sympathetic outflows to thermogenic and cardiac effectors, and that forebrain processing and forebrain-caudal brainstem communication are not required for response production.
The developing central nervous system of the fetus and neonate is recognized as very sensitive to maternal or gestational hypothyroidism. Despite this recognition, there is still a lack of data concerning the relationship between thyroid-related biomarkers and neurological outcomes. We used propylthiouracil administered at 0, 3, or 10 ppm in drinking water from gestational d 2 until weaning to create hypothyroid conditions to study the relationship between hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis compensation and impaired neurodevelopment. In addition to serum T(3), T(4), free T(4), and TSH concentrations, cerebrocortical T(3) concentration (cT(3)), hepatic type I and cerebrocortical type II (D2) 5'-deiodinase activity, and thyroidal mRNA for thyroglobulin and sodium iodide symporter were measured. Extracellular recordings from the CA1 region in hippocampal slices were obtained from both postnatal d 21-32 (pups) and postnatal d 90-110 (adults) rats to assess neurophysiological effects. Thyroidal mRNA for thyroglobulin and sodium iodide symporter were increased in pups but not in dams. Both propylthiouracil doses increased cerebrocortical D2 activity approximately 5-fold in pups but only 10 ppm increased D2 activity in dams. In dams, cT(3) concentrations were maintained at 3 ppm but fell 75% at 10 ppm. cT(3) concentration in pups fell 50% at 3 ppm and more than 90% at 10 ppm. In both 3 and 10 ppm pups, hippocampal baseline synaptic activity correlated negatively with cerebrocortical D2 activity. In 3 ppm adults, impaired long-term potentiation was evident. In summary, during depletion of serum T(4), D2 activity served as a sensitive marker of tissue thyroid status, an indicator of the brain's compensatory response to maintain cT(3), and correlated with a neurophysiological outcome.
Circulating corticosterone levels show an ultradian rhythm resulting from the pulsatile release of glucocorticoid hormone by the adrenal cortex. Because the pattern of hormone availability to corticosteroid receptors is of functional significance, it is important to determine whether there is also a pulsatile pattern of corticosterone concentration within target tissues such as the brain. Furthermore, it is unclear whether measurements of plasma corticosterone levels accurately reflect corticosterone levels in the brain. Given that the hippocampus is a principal site of glucocorticoid action, we investigated in male rats hippocampal extracellular corticosterone concentrations under baseline and stress conditions using rapid-sampling in vivo microdialysis. We found that hippocampal extracellular corticosterone concentrations show a distinct circadian and ultradian rhythm. The PULSAR algorithm revealed that the pulse frequency of hippocampal corticosterone is 1.03 +/- 0.07 pulses/h between 0900 and 1500 h and is significantly higher between 1500 and 2100 h (1.31 +/- 0.05). The hippocampal corticosterone response to stress is stressor dependent but resumes a normal ultradian pattern rapidly after the termination of the stress response. Similar observations were made in the caudate putamen. Importantly, simultaneous measurements of plasma and hippocampal glucocorticoid levels showed that under stress conditions corticosterone in the brain peaks 20 min later than in plasma but clears concurrently, resulting in a smaller exposure of the brain to stress-induced hormone than would be predicted by plasma hormone concentrations. These data are the first to demonstrate that the ultradian rhythm of corticosterone is maintained over the blood-brain barrier and that tissue responses cannot be reliably predicted from the measurement of plasma corticosterone levels.

In this study, focus groups were used to examine parents' attitudes toward mental health services, use of mental health and other services, as well as service-related and other challenges encountered by parents of children with epilepsy. Both quantitative and qualitative analytic approaches were used to analyze the transcripts of 36 parents grouped into six focus groups by socioeconomic status (SES) (high, low) and ethnicity (African-American, Caucasian, Hispanic). The quantitative analyses demonstrated that, irrespective of SES and ethnicity, the parents were highly aware of their children's behavioral, emotional, and cognitive difficulties and the lack of knowledge about epilepsy among medical, educational, and mental health professionals. The higher-SES parents were significantly more concerned about inadequate educational services and the need for medical services, but less concerned about mental health and medical service use than the lower-SES parents. Insufficient knowledge about epilepsy and about services, parent emotional difficulties, and use of educational services differed significantly by ethnicity. The qualitative analyses highlighted the parents' concerns regarding misconceptions about epilepsy and the stigma toward mental health care among the African-American and Hispanic parents. These findings suggest the need for accessible and better-quality mental health, educational, and medical services for children with epilepsy irrespective of SES and ethnicity. They also underscore the importance of educating parents, service providers, and the general public about epilepsy.
Kindling in rats produces enduring behavioral changes that parallel the psychobehavioral disturbances frequently accompanying temporal lobe epilepsy. Some evidence suggests that the site of kindling is an important determinant of the type of behavioral changes observed following kindling, although this variable has not been systematically investigated. In the present experiments, the effects of amygdaloid kindling were assessed on a battery of behavioral tests we used previously to assess the effects of kindling in dorsal hippocampus or perirhinal cortex. Three generalized seizures were kindled with stimulation in or near the basolateral amygdala. One week later, rats were tested successively on measures of anxiety, activity, object recognition memory, and spatial working memory over a period of 3 weeks. Amygdaloid kindling produced increased anxiety, but spared all other behaviors assessed. This pattern of results is partially distinct from the previously described effects of perirhinal cortical kindling, which increases anxiety but also impairs object recognition memory, and is completely distinct from dorsal hippocampal kindling, which selectively increases activity and impairs spatial working memory. The observations suggest that kindling of distinct highly interconnected temporal lobe sites produces distinct patterns of behavioral comorbidity. The underlying mechanisms are thus most likely localized to intrinsic circuits at the site of seizure origination.
The anticonvulsant effect of the nucleoside uridine has been studied for several decades with controversial results. One of its attractive properties is that as a natural endogenous molecule, it lacks the serious side effects of common antiepileptic drugs used today. In the current study, we examined the potential antiepileptogenic effect of uridine in the hippocampal kindling model, using once-daily stimulations. Uridine was administered once or three times daily; levetiracetam was administered as a positive control; and normal saline was used as a negative control. Rats receiving uridine or levetiracetam had slower kindling rates and shorter afterdischarge durations than the normal saline controls. These results are consistent with previous work using a rapid kindling model and suggest that uridine has antiepileptogenic properties. Because of its combination of low toxicity and efficacy, uridine is a possible candidate for the treatment of epilepsy.

Mutations in the LGI1 gene are linked to autosomal dominant lateral temporal epilepsy (ADTLE) in about half of the families tested, suggesting that ADLTE is genetically heterogeneous. Recently, the Lgi1 protein has been found associated with different protein complexes and two distinct molecular mechanisms possibly underlying ADLTE have been hypothesized: the one recognizes Lgi1 as a novel subunit of the presynaptic Kv1 potassium channel implicated in the regulation of channel inactivation, the other suggests that Lgi1 acts as a ligand that selectively binds to the postsynaptic receptor ADAM22, thereby regulating the glutamate-AMPA neurotransmission. Both mechanisms imply that LGI1 mutations result in alteration of synaptic currents, though of different types. Since their protein products have been found associated with Lgi1, the Kv1 channel subunit genes KCNA1, KCNA4, and KCNAB1 and ADAM22 can be considered strong candidates for ADLTE. We sequenced their coding exons and flanking splice sites in the probands of 9 carefully ascertained ADLTE families negative for LGI1 mutations. We failed to detect any mutation segregating with the disease, but identified several previously unreported polymorphisms. An association study of four non-synonymous variants (three found in ADAM22, one in KCNA4) in a population of 104 non-familial lateral temporal epilepsy cases did not show any modification of susceptibility to this disorder. Altogether, our results suggest that neither ADAM22 nor any of the three Kv1 channel genes are major causative genes for ADLTE.
The interest in different aspects of personality and the neuropsychological basis for behaviour in eating disorder patients has increased over the last decade. The present study aims at exploring personality traits, self-injurious behaviour (SIB) and suicide attempts in a group of severely ill eating disorder patients. Patients with eating disorders (N = 38) and age-matched controls (N = 67) were examined concerning self-reported personality traits by means of the Karolinska scales of personality (KSP). Psychosocial history and SIB was collected from medical records. Depression was rated by means of the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI). Results indicated significantly higher anxiety-related and detachment traits in both anorexia nervosa (AN) and bulimia nervosa (BN) patients and higher hostility in BN patients than controls. No specific personality traits could be defined as typical for self-injurious or suicidal behaviour. The AN group was lower than the BN group on scales measuring impulsivity, guilt and anxiety. Furthermore, presence of SIB and suicide attempts was more frequent among the BN patients.


The core and shell subregions of the nucleus accumbens receive differential projections from areas of the medial prefrontal cortex that have dissociable effects on impulsive and perseverative responding. The contributions of these subregions to simple instrumental behaviour, inhibitory control and behavioural flexibility were investigated using a 'forced choice' task, various parameter manipulations and an omission schedule version of the task. Post-training, selective core lesions were achieved with microinjections of quinolinic acid and shell lesions with ibotenic acid. After a series of behavioural task manipulations, rats were re-stabilized on the standard version of the task and challenged with increasing doses of d-amphetamine (vehicle, 0.5 or 1.0 mg/kg i.p. 30 min prior to test). Neither core- nor shell-lesioned rats exhibited persistent deficits in simple instrumental behaviour or challenges to behavioural flexibility or inhibitory control. Significant differences between lesion groups were unmasked by d-amphetamine challenge in the standard version of the forced task. Core lesions potentiated and shell lesions attenuated the dose-dependent effect of d-amphetamine on increasing anticipatory responses seen in sham rats. These data imply that the accumbens core and shell subregions do not play major roles in highly-trained task performance or in challenges to behavioural control, but may have opposed effects following d-amphetamine treatment. Specifically, they suggest the shell subregion to be necessary for dopaminergic activation driving amphetamine-induced impulsive behaviour and the core subregion for the normal control of this behaviour via conditioned influences.
Chemotherapy-associated memory deficits in adults are prevalent with systemic treatment utilizing 5-fluorouracil (5-Fu). 5-Fu disrupts cell proliferation and readily crosses the blood-brain barrier. Proliferating cells within the adult dentate gyrus of the hippocampus give rise to new neurons involved in memory and learning and require neurotrophic factors such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) to nurture this process of adult neurogenesis. Some of these proliferating cells are anatomically and functionally supported by vascular endothelial cells. We propose that systemically administered 5-Fu chemotherapy will cause deficits in hippocampal memory that are associated with altered BDNF levels and proliferating cells (particularly vascular-associated cells) in the dentate gyrus. This was tested by determining the effect of 5-Fu on spatial working memory as modelled by the object location recognition test. Numbers of vascular-associated (VA) and non-vascular-associated (NVA) proliferating cells in the dentate gyrus were measured using double-labelling immunohistochemistry with markers of proliferation (Ki67) and endothelial cells (RECA-1). 5-Fu-induced changes in hippocampal BDNF and doublecortin (DCX) protein levels were quantified using Western immunoblotting. 5-Fu chemotherapy caused a marginal disruption in spatial working memory and did not alter the total proliferating cell counts or the percentage of VA and NVA proliferating cells in the dentate gyrus. In contrast, 5-Fu significantly reduced BDNF and DCX levels in the hippocampus, indicating alterations in neurotrophin levels and neurogenesis. These findings highlight the usefulness of animal models of 'chemobrain' for understanding the mechanisms that underlie chemotherapy-associated declines in cognitive performance and memory.
Over 30 years ago, Castro [(1972) Brain Res., 37, 173-185] proposed that motor cortex (MtCx) ablation produced deficits in digital usage that contributed to the rat's impairments in a reach-to-eat task, but the impairment was not directly documented. The present study examined digit use in control rats and rats with MtCx lesions using high-speed (1000 f/s) video recording. Temporal and spatial characteristics of individual digits were evaluated by digitizing the tip of the digits and digital joints using the motion measurement system Peak Motus. Control rats displayed differential digital use during grasping actions and MtCx damage reduced individual digit movement, both as the paw was pre-shaped for grasping and in the grasping action itself. The findings show that although grasping is retained following MtCx damage, MtCx is essential for dexterous movement. The results are discussed in relation to the idea that rodent MtCx is not only necessary for rotatory movements of the limb, but also for digital control and in relation to the similarities of rodent digit use to that described for primates.
Interactions between central corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and serotonergic systems are believed to be important for mediating fear and anxiety behaviors. Recently we demonstrated that infusions of CRF into the rat dorsal raphe nucleus result in a delayed increase in serotonin release within the medial prefrontal cortex that coincided with a reduction in fear behavior. The current studies were designed to study the CRF receptor mechanisms and pathways involved in this serotonergic response. Infusions of CRF (0.5 microg/0.5 microL) were made into the dorsal raphe nucleus of urethane-anesthetized rats following either inactivation of the median raphe nucleus by muscimol (25 ng/0.25 microL) or antagonism of CRF receptor type 1 or CRF receptor type 2 in the dorsal raphe nucleus with antalarmin (25-50 ng/0.5 microL) or antisauvagine-30 (2 microg/0.5 microL), respectively. Medial prefrontal cortex serotonin levels were measured using in-vivo microdialysis and high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. Increased medial prefrontal cortex serotonin release elicited by CRF infusion into the dorsal raphe nucleus was abolished by inactivation of the median raphe nucleus. Furthermore, antagonism of CRF receptor type 2 but not CRF receptor type 1 in the dorsal raphe nucleus abolished CRF-induced increases in medial prefrontal cortex serotonin. Follow-up studies involved electrical stimulation of the central nucleus of the amygdala, a source of CRF afferents to the dorsal raphe nucleus. Activation of the central nucleus increased medial prefrontal cortex serotonin release. This response was blocked by CRF receptor type 2 antagonism in the dorsal raphe. Overall, these results highlight complex CRF modulation of medial prefrontal cortex serotonergic activity at the level of the raphe nuclei.
To investigate distributed synaptic plasticity at the cell assembly level, we used dissociated cortical networks from embryonic rats grown on grids of 60 extracellular substrate-embedded electrodes (micro-electrode arrays). We developed a set of experimental plasticity protocols based on the pairing of tetanic bursts (20 Hz) with low-frequency stimuli (&lt; or = 1 Hz), delivered through two separate channels of the array (i.e. associative tetanic stimulation). We tested our protocols on a large data set of 26 stable cultures, selected on the basis of both their initial level of spontaneous firing and the capability of low-frequency test stimuli to evoke spikes. Our main results are summarized as follows: (i) low-frequency stimuli produce neither short- nor long-term changes in the evoked response of the network; (ii) associative tetanic stimulation is able to induce plasticity in terms of a significant increase or decrease of the evoked activity in the whole network; (iii) the amount of change (i.e. increase or decrease of the evoked firing) strongly depends on the specific features of the applied protocols; and (iv) the potentiation induced by a specific associative protocol can last several hours. The results obtained demonstrate that large in vitro cortical assemblies display long-term network potentiation, a mechanism considered to be involved in the memory formation at cellular level. This pilot study could represent a relevant step towards understanding plastic properties at the neuronal population level.
To identify cerebellar regions that are involved in the control of limb muscles, rabies virus was injected into the tibialis anterior (TA), the gastrocnemius (GC) or, for comparison, into the flexor digitorum (FD) muscles of the rat. Progression of retrograde transneuronal infection at supraspinal levels was assessed after variable time spans and was divided into three groups. Initially, infected neurons were observed in the reticular formation, lateral vestibular nucleus, red nucleus and motor cortex (group 1). Group 2 was characterized by labelling within the cerebellar nuclei as well as of two vermal strips of Purkinje cells (PCs). Double-labelling with zebrin enabled identification of these strips as the lateral part of the A1- and B-zone. For TA both zones were ipsilateral, whereas for GC the A1 strip predominated contralaterally. Group 3 infections showed additional labelling of multiple, in part bilateral, identifiable strips of PCs in vermis, paravermis and hemisphere. FD injections resulted in less robust labelling of vermal strips and more pronounced labelling within paravermal and hemispheral zonal regions. Only sporadic labelling in corresponding regions of the inferior olive and no labelling of cortical interneurons or granule cells was observed. Prolonged infection was seen to result in degeneration of PCs and possibly of motoneurons. We conclude that vermal, paravermal as well as hemispheral zones of the cerebellar cortex converge upon motoneurons that innervate a particular muscle. In addition, individual zones may control motorpools of different muscles and thus contribute to muscle synergies.
Although activated spinal cord glia contribute importantly to neuropathic pain, how nerve injury activates glia remains controversial. It has recently been proposed, on the basis of genetic approaches, that toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) may be a key receptor for initiating microglial activation following L5 spinal nerve injury. The present studies extend this idea pharmacologically by showing that TLR4 is key for maintaining neuropathic pain following sciatic nerve chronic constriction injury (CCI). Established neuropathic pain was reversed by intrathecally delivered TLR4 receptor antagonists derived from lipopolysaccharide. Additionally, (+)-naltrexone, (+)-naloxone, and (-)-naloxone, which we show here to be TLR4 antagonists in vitro on both stably transfected HEK293-TLR4 and microglial cell lines, suppressed neuropathic pain with complete reversal upon chronic infusion. Immunohistochemical analyses of spinal cords following chronic infusion revealed suppression of CCI-induced microglial activation by (+)-naloxone and (-)-naloxone, paralleling reversal of neuropathic pain. Together, these CCI data support the conclusion that neuron-to-glia signaling through TLR4 is important not only for initiating neuropathic pain, as suggested previously, but also for maintaining established neuropathic pain. Furthermore, these studies suggest that the novel TLR4 antagonists (+)-naloxone and (-)-naloxone can each fully reverse established neuropathic pain upon multi-day administration. This finding with (+)-naloxone is of potential clinical relevance. This is because (+)-naloxone is an antagonist that is inactive at the (-)-opioid selective receptors on neurons that produce analgesia. Thus, these data suggest that (+)-opioid antagonists such as (+)-naloxone may be useful clinically to suppress glial activation, yet (-)-opioid agonists suppress pain.
Human visual function declines with age. Much of this decline is mediated by changes in the central visual pathways. In this study we compared the spatial and temporal sensitivities of striate cortical cells in young and old paralysed macaque monkeys. Extracellular single-unit recordings were employed. Our results show that cortical neurons in old monkeys exhibit lower optimal spatial and temporal frequencies, lower spatial resolution and lower high temporal frequency cut-offs than do cells in young adult monkeys. These changes in old monkeys are accompanied by increased visually evoked responses, increased spontaneous activities and decreased signal-to-noise ratios. The increased excitability of cells in old animals is consistent with an age-related degeneration of intracortical inhibition. The degradation of spatial and temporal function in old striate cortex should contribute to the decline in visual function that accompanies normal aging.
The abundantly expressed neuropeptide Y (NPY) plays an important role in anxiety and stress reactivity, as exogenous NPY administration reduces anxiety-like behaviour in rodents. However, unlike the potent effects of NPY seen in pharmacological studies, two independent examinations of a genetic mouse model for NPY deficiency have shown only subtle, inconsistent and task-dependent anxiety-related phenotypes for male mutants. Here we present results of a newly developed germline NPY-knockout model, which has been characterized behaviourally using a comprehensive multi-tiered phenotyping strategy. Mice of both sexes were investigated in locomotion and exploration tasks, anxiety-related paradigms, a hippocampus-dependent memory test and a battery of basic tasks screening for sensory and motor functions. Male and female NPY-deficient mice consistently demonstrated suppressed levels of locomotion and exploration. Furthermore, mutant mice exhibited a pronounced anxiogenic-like phenotype when tested in spatiotemporal anxiety-relevant paradigms (i.e. elevated-plus maze, open field and light-dark task). Importantly, this phenotype was more pronounced in male NPY mutants, revealing a moderate sexually dimorphic impact of NPY deficiency on behaviour. Interestingly, lack of NPY did not result in impaired learning and memory in either sex. Our carefully selected comprehensive behavioural phenotyping strategy revealed a consistent hypolocomotive and sex-dependent anxious-like phenotype. This new NPY-knockout mouse model reveals the importance of sex-specific testing. It also offers a potent new model for research into anxiety-related disorders and suggests potential treatment options for these conditions via the NPY system.
The function of the isolectin B4 (IB4+)-binding and GDNF-dependent Ret (Ret+)-expressing non-peptidergic subpopulation of nociceptors remain poorly understood. We demonstrate that acute administration of GDNF sensitizes nociceptors and produces mechanical hyperalgesia in the rat. Intrathecal IB4-saporin, a selective toxin for IB4+/Ret+-nociceptors, attenuates GDNF but not NGF hyperalgesia. Conversely, intrathecal antisense to Trk A attenuated NGF but not GDNF hyperalgesia. Intrathecal administration of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides targeting mRNA for versican, the molecule that renders the Ret-expressing nociceptors IB4-positive (+), also attenuated GDNF but not NGF hyperalgesia, as did ADAMTS-4, a matrix metalloprotease known to degrade versican. Finally, inhibitors for all five signaling pathways known to be activated by GDNF at GFRa1/Ret: PLCc, CDK5, PI3K,MAPK/ERK and Src family kinases, attenuated GDNF hyperalgesia. Our results demonstrate a role of the non-peptidergic nociceptors in pain produced by the neurotrophin GDNF and suggest that the IB4-binding protein versican functions in the expression of this phenotype.
The aim was to investigate the mechanisms of pain referral in patients with whiplash associated disorder. Pain was induced in 12 controls and 12 patients with whiplash associated disorder by intramuscular electrical stimulation in the infraspinatus muscle and the ipsilateral upper arm, i.e., the area where all subjects perceived referred pain during conditioning stimulation in the infraspinatus muscle. Conditioning stimulation amounted to a pain intensity rated as 2/10 and 4/10. During conditioning stimulation in the infraspinatus muscle, sensitivity to test stimuli was assessed in the referred pain area (i.e., upper arm) and vice versa. Test stimuli consisted of intramuscular electrical stimulation corresponding to innocuous perception threshold, electrical pain threshold, and pain intensities rated as 2/10, 4/10 and 6/10, respectively. Compared to controls, patients with whiplash associated disorder had increased pain sensitivity (p&lt; or =0.01) and indicated larger areas of referred pain ((p&lt; or =0.003) during stimulation at the infraspinatus muscle; p&lt; or =0.03 during stimulation at the upper arm), including proximal referral of pain which was never reported by controls (p&lt; or =0.05). During conditioning stimulation in the infraspinatus muscle (4/10) all subjects reported referred pain in the upper arm (corresponding to the test site) and innocuous perception thresholds (p&lt;0.05)(patients) and electrical pain thresholds (p&lt;0.001) (controls) decreased. Conditioning stimulation in the upper arm did not affect sensitivity to test stimuli in the infraspinatus muscle. In conclusion, patients with whiplash associated disorder had increased sensitivity to painful stimulation, reported larger areas of referred pain during the same subjectively painful conditioning stimulation (i.e., lower absolute stimulus intensities), including proximal pain referral which was never seen in controls, indicating aberrant processing of nociceptive input. The perceptual integration of nociceptive stimuli during simultaneous stimulation did not differ between groups suggesting that divergence of nociceptive input from the focal pain area leading to excitation of neurones with projected fields in the referred pain area most likely explains referred pain in both groups alike.
Because of its severity, chronicity, resistance to usual therapy and its consequences on quality of life, neuropathic pain represents a real clinical challenge. Fundamental research on this pathology uses metabolic, pharmacological or traumatic models in rodents that reproduce the characteristic human pain symptoms. In 1996, Mosconi and Kruger morphologically described a model of peripheral neuropathy in which a cuff of polyethylene tubing was placed around the sciatic nerve in rats. In the present study, we evaluated the behavioral consequences of this neuropathic pain model in C57Bl/6J mice which is the main genetic background used for studies in transgenic mice. A short cuff of polyethylene tubing was unilaterally placed around the main branch of the sciatic nerve. It induced an ipsilateral heat thermal hyperalgesia lasting around 3 weeks, and a sustained ipsilateral mechanical allodynia lasting at least 2 months. We showed that this neuropathic pain model is insensitive to ketoprofen, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug. Morphine treatment acutely suppressed the mechanical allodynia, but tolerance to this effect rapidly developed. The analysis of video recordings revealed that most aspects of spontaneous behavior remained unaffected on the long term, excepted for a decrease in the time spent at social interaction for the neuropathic mice. Using the elevated plus-maze and the marble-burying test, we also showed that neuropathic mice develop an anxiety phenotype. Our data indicate that sciatic nerve cuffing in mice is a pertinent model for the study of nociceptive and emotional consequences of sustained neuropathic pain.
Voltage-gated sodium channels play an essential role in regulating the excitability of nociceptive primary afferent neurones. In particular the tetrodotoxin-sensitive (TTX-S) Na(V)1.7 and the tetrodotoxin-resistant (TTX-R) Na(V)1.8 and Na(V)1.9 channels have been suggested to play a role in inflammatory pain. Previous work has revealed acute administration of inflammatory mediators, such as Freund's complete adjuvant (FCA) or carrageenan caused an upregulation in the levels of Na(V)1.7 and Na(V)1.8 protein in DRG (dorsal root ganglia) tissue up to 4 days post-insult. In the present study, the expression of Na(V)1.7, Na(V)1.8 and Na(V)1.9 was examined over a 28 day timecourse during a rat model of FCA-induced chronic inflammatory joint pain. Using the retrograde tracer Fast Blue (FB) and specific Na(V)1.7, Na(V)1.8 and Na(V)1.9 sodium channel antibodies, immunohistochemical staining techniques were used to study sodium channel expression in a distinct population of L3-L5 knee joint afferent DRGs. In the ganglia, counts were made of positively labelled cells in the FB population. The results demonstrate that, following FCA injection, Na(V)1.9 expression is upregulated at days 14, 21 and 28 post-FCA, with Na(V)1.7 and Na(V)1.8 showing increased channel expression at days 14 and 28. These observations are accompanied by a unilateral joint hypersensitivity in the FCA-injected knee indicated by a behavioural shift in weight distribution measured using an incapacitance tester. The increased presence of these channels suggests that Na(V)1.7, Na(V)1.8 and Na(V)1.9 play a role, at least in part, in the maintenance of chronic inflammatory pain several weeks after the initial insult.
We have recently shown that the pharmacological mechanisms through which cannabinoid and opioid drugs influence social play behavior in adolescent rats can be partially dissociated. Here, we characterize the effects of the direct cannabinoid agonist WIN55,212-2, the indirect cannabinoid agonist URB597 and the opioid agonist morphine on social play at the behavioral level. By treating either one or both partners of the test dyad, we show that these drugs differentially affect play solicitation and play responsiveness. By testing these drugs in animals which were either familiar or unfamiliar to the test cage, we show that environmental factors differentially modulate the effects of cannabinoid and opioid drugs on social play. These results support and extend our previous findings suggesting that, although cannabinoid and opioid systems interact in the modulation of social play behavior in adolescent rats, they do so through partially dissociable behavioral and pharmacological mechanisms.
Previously, we have reported that the orexigenic peptide ghrelin activates the cholinergic-dopaminergic reward link, involving nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR). The alpha(3)-alpha(7) and beta(2)-beta(4) subunits of the nAChR can be combined into pentameric nAChRs, with different functional roles. The present experiments show that the locomotor stimulatory effects of ghrelin, either into laterodorsal tegmental area (LDTg) or ventral tegmental area (VTA), are mediated via ventral tegmental nAChR, but neither the alpha(4)beta(2) (using dihydro-beta-erythroidine) nor the alpha(7) (using methyllycaconitine) subtypes appears to be involved. On the other hand, the alpha(3)beta(2), beta(3) and/or alpha(6) (using alpha-conotoxin MII) subtypes in the VTA mediate the stimulatory and DA-enhancing effects of ghrelin, a pattern that ghrelin shares with ethanol (n=5-8). Radioligand-binding experiments shown that ghrelin does not interfere directly with nAChRs (n=26). We therefore suggest that the alpha(3)beta(2), beta(3) and/or alpha(6) subtypes might be pharmacological targets for treatment of addictive behaviours including compulsive overeating and alcoholism.
The effect of phencyclidine (PCP), a non-competitive N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, was examined in the water maze, a spatial learning and memory task dependent on hippocampal functions. Male adult C57Bl/6J mice received daily (s.c.) injections of either saline or PCP (0.25-4.0 mg/kg) for 12 days. During the last 5 days, the injections were followed by water maze training. Repeated PCP treatments disrupted spatial learning and memory in the 0.5-4.0 mg/kg dose range. Severe sensorimotor disturbances, observed at the 2.0 and 4.0 mg/kg doses of PCP, precluded further swim maze testing. The 0.5 mg/kg but not the 1.0 mg/kg dose of PCP impaired spatial learning and memory without any apparent sensorimotor deficits. PCP, at 1.0 mg/kg, produced impairment in non-spatial learning in the swim maze task and motor disturbances in the rotarod test. Repeated daily treatment with either the &quot;atypical&quot; antipsychotic drug clozapine (0.5 mg/kg i.p.) or the &quot;typical&quot; antipsychotic drug haloperidol (0.05 mg/kg i.p.) failed to influence spatial performances. The spatial impairment caused by the 0.5 mg/kg dose of PCP was blocked by concomitant treatment with clozapine (0.5 mg/kg), but not with haloperidol (0.05 mg/kg). The results suggest that it is possible, at low doses of PCP, to dissociate the spatial learning impairment in the water maze from the adverse behavioral effects of NMDA receptor blockade. This model may provide a basis for the analysis of the mechanisms underlying declarative memory disturbances in schizophrenia and the differences in mechanisms between typical and atypical antipsychotic drugs.
The human spine is influenced by mechanical loads. To our knowledge, this is the first study to assess the effect of long-term axial unloading on morphology of healthy vertebras in adults. The objective of this study is to quantify the effects of long-term relative axial unloading on thoracolumbar vertebral body height in adults. In this study, 218 vertebras on 200 plain lateral radiograms of patients with thoracolumbar vertebral body fracture, which underwent long segment instrumentation and fusion and had a relative axial unloading on five vertebrae of thoracolumbar spine were evaluated. Anterior vertebral body height (AVBH) and posterior vertebral body height (PVBH) proximal and distal to the fractured vertebrae were measured before and at least 1 year after the unloading operative procedures. AVBH of the first distal adjacent vertebrae and summative AVBHs of the first distal and proximal adjacent vertebras to the fractured vertebrae were significantly increased after 1 year of unloading, whereas the PVBH changes were not noticeable and the mean of cumulative height of two levels of proximal and distal adjacent vertebras to the fractured vertebrae did not show significant difference. Vertebral body height of lumbar was more influenced by unloading when compared with thoracic spine. Long-term relative axial unloading can affect the height of healthy vertebral bodies in adult spine.
Apoptosis is an essential process that plays a critical role in both tissue development and maintenance. Apoptosis has been shown to be involved in skeletal muscle atrophy resulting from chronic muscular disuse, sarcopenia, and mitochondrial myopathies. Exercise may attenuate some of the proapoptotic adaptations that occur during these conditions. This review will focus on the factors influencing mitochondrially mediated apoptosis in skeletal muscle.

Conus medullaris/cauda equina injuries typically result in loss of bladder, bowel, and sexual functions, partly as a consequence of autonomic and motor neuron death. To mimic these injuries, we previously developed a rodent lumbosacral ventral root avulsion (VRA) injury model, where both autonomic and motor neurons progressively die over several weeks. Here, we investigate whether minocycline, an antibiotic with putative neuroprotective effects, may rescue degenerating autonomic and motor neurons after VRA injury. Adult female rats underwent lumbosacral VRA injuries followed by a 2-week treatment with either minocycline or vehicle injected intraperitoneally. The sacral segment of the spinal cord was studied immunohistochemically using choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and activated caspase-3 at 4 weeks post-operatively. Minocycline increased the survival of motoneurons but not preganglionic parasympathetic neurons (PPNs). Further investigations demonstrated that a larger proportion of motoneurons expressed activated caspase-3 compared to PPNs after VRA injury and indicated an association with minocycline's differential neuroprotective effect. Our findings suggest that minocycline may protect degenerating motoneurons and expand the therapeutic window of opportunity for surgical repair of proximal root lesions affecting spinal motoneurons.
The alpha-motoneurone afterhyperpolarization (AHP) duration correlates with a number of its muscle unit properties in animal preparations. In humans, the interval death rate (IDR) analysis has been used to estimate the time course of human motoneurone AHP based on the pattern of motor unit firing. The purpose of this experiment was first, to examine the relationship between estimated AHP time course and the minimal firing rate of the motor unit and second, to examine the relationship between the AHP and motor unit contractile properties in the tibialis anterior (TA) muscle. Motor unit data were obtained from the TA muscle during low force isometric contractions lasting 600 s. Muscle unit twitch characteristics were determined using spike-triggered averaging (STA) and the motoneurone AHP time course was estimated using the IDR analysis. Minimal discharge rate and derecruitment threshold torque were determined for 2 s preceding motor unit derecruitment. The AHP time constant and minimal discharge rate were negatively correlated, whereas the derecruitment threshold torque was not associated with the AHP time constant. The estimated AHP duration, however, is considerably shorter than the mean ISI of the minimal discharge rate suggesting that synaptic noise and AHP duration are important factors in dictating the minimal discharge rate in low force voluntary contractions in humans. The AHP time constant did not vary significantly with motor unit twitch amplitude; however, significant positive relationships were found between the AHP time constant and the temporal properties of the motor unit twitch. The calculated AHP time course using the IDR analysis, therefore, is a reasonable estimate and coupled with motor unit properties attained with STA, it provides a powerful method to describe low-threshold motor units.
Constant frequency microstimulation of the paramedian pontine reticular formation (PPRF) in head-restrained monkeys evokes a constant velocity eye movement. Since the PPRF receives significant projections from structures that control coordinated eye-head movements, we asked whether stimulation of the pontine reticular formation in the head-unrestrained animal generates a combined eye-head movement or only an eye movement. Microstimulation of most sites yielded a constant-velocity gaze shift executed as a coordinated eye-head movement, although eye-only movements were evoked from some sites. The eye and head contributions to the stimulation-evoked movements varied across stimulation sites and were drastically different from the lawful relationship observed for visually-guided gaze shifts. These results indicate that the microstimulation activated elements that issued movement commands to the extraocular and, for most sites, neck motoneurons. In addition, the stimulation-evoked changes in gaze were similar in the head-restrained and head-unrestrained conditions despite the assortment of eye and head contributions, suggesting that the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) gain must be near unity during the coordinated eye-head movements evoked by stimulation of the PPRF. These findings contrast the attenuation of VOR gain associated with visually-guided gaze shifts and suggest that the vestibulo-ocular pathway processes volitional and PPRF stimulation-evoked gaze shifts differently.
During ischemic nerve block of an extremity the cortical representations of muscles proximal to the block are known to expand, increasing the overlap of different muscle representations. Such reorganization mimics that seen in actual amputees. We investigated whether such changes degrade voluntary control of muscles proximal to the block. Nine subjects produced brief, isometric flexion force selectively with each fingertip before, during, and after ischemic block at the wrist. We recorded the isometric force exerted at the distal phalanx of each digit, along with electromyographic (EMG) activity from intrinsic and extrinsic finger muscles. Despite paralysis of the intrinsic hand muscles, and associated decrements in the flexion forces exerted by the thumb, index, and little fingers, the selectivity of voluntary finger flexion forces and of EMG activity in the extrinsic finger muscles that generated these forces remained unchanged. Our observations indicate that during ischemic nerve block reorganization does not eliminate or degrade motor representations of the temporarily deafferented and paralyzed fingers.
This experiment examined whether the impact of pictorial illusions during the execution of goal-directed reaching movements is attributable to ocular motor signaling. We analyzed eye and hand movements directed toward both the vertex of the Mller-Lyer (ML) figure in a closed-loop procedure. Participants pointed to the right vertex of a visual stimulus in two conditions: a control condition wherein the figure (in-ML, neutral, out-ML) presented at response planning remained unchanged throughout the movement, and an experimental condition wherein a neutral figure presented at response planning was perturbed to an illusory figure (in-ML, out-ML) at movement onset. Consistent with previous work from our group (Heath et al. in Exp Brain Res 158:378-384, 2004; Heath et al. in J Mot Behav 37:179-185, 2005b), action-bias present in both conditions; thus illusory bias was introduced into during online control. Although primary saccades were influenced by illusory configurations (control conditions; see Binsted and Elliott in Hum Mov Sci 18:103-117, 1999a), illusory bias developed within the secondary &quot;corrective&quot; saccades during experimental trials (i.e., following a veridical primary saccade). These results support the position that a unitary spatial representation underlies both action and perception and this representation is common to both the manual and oculomotor systems.
Based on a newly developed method that combines finger position tracking and spectral analysis of the concurrent acoustic record, we studied the accuracy and variability of pitch performance in eight skilled cellists and the role of acoustic feedback in their performance. The tasks required shifting movements between pairs of notes and separated by various distances (pitch intervals) on a single string at the rate of 1 note/s. The same tasks were performed either using the bow, providing acoustic feedback, or without the bow. Overall, our subjects exhibited a high degree of accuracy in executing tasks when using the bow. When using the bow, two types of variability were observed: (1) trial-to-trial variability: in most subjects the mean fundamental frequency of a single nominal note was significantly different from trial to trial; and (2) within-trial variability. The within-trial variability includes two sub-types: (a) the pitch of a given note changed between notes within a 50-note trial; and (b) within a single note there were positional changes that we hypothesize are attempts by the performer to adjust the fundamental pitch within the note. When acoustic feedback was absent, note distributions were shifted, multimodal, and had large variability; error-correction movements within a single note also significantly decreased, indicating that the stability and precision of the motor map depends on constant re-calibration and updating by acoustic information. Our results suggest that a performer's intonation should not be viewed as a fixed entity implied by the score but as a sample from a statistical distribution.
Delivery of viable young requires co-ordination of fetal maturation with the onset of labour at term. In turn, this depends on a cascade of fetal and maternal endocrine events. The sequence of these events is broadly similar in most mammals but there are differences in placental hormone synthesis and in the timing and magnitude of key prepartum endocrine changes between species. In most farm animals, maternal progesterone (P4) levels decline and oestrogen levels increase in the last 5 - 10 days before delivery in response to activation of the fetal hypothalamicpituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and increased fetal cortisol concentrations. This cortisol surge is also responsible for fetal maturation and increasing uteroplacental prostaglandin (PG) synthesis. In the mare, there is little, if any, P4 in the maternal plasma during late gestation and both progestagens and oestrogens are produced by a feto-placental unit which uses precursors supplied by the fetus to synthesise a range of C21 and C18 steroids, many of which are unique to the horse. Regulation of uterine quiescence and activation is, therefore, complex in the mare near term. Indeed, total progestagen concentrations rise and total oestrogen levels fall in the mare during the last 20 - 30 days of gestation and only show the changes typical of impending parturition in other species in the last 24 - 48 h before delivery. Fetal cortisol concentrations also rise late in gestation in the horse compared to other species. In common with other species, the prepartum endocrine cascade appears to begin in the fetal horse with activation of the fetal HPA axis but, initially, the primary product of the fetal equine adrenal appears to be pregnenolone (P5) and not cortisol. This leads to increased progestagen production by the uteroplacental tissues, which maintains uterine quiescence in the face of increasing uterine stretch caused by the rapidly growing fetus. Very close to term in association with increasing fetal ACTH levels, the fetal equine adrenals appear to switch to producing cortisol. This late cortisol surge induces a period of rapid fetal maturation and may also contribute to increased uteroplacental oestradiol-17 beta and PG production. The fall in P5 availability may reduce uteroplacental progestagen production and lift the block on myometrial contractility. Finally, increased PG secretion activates myometrial contractions, which stimulate oxytocin release via a neuroendocrine reflex. The endocrine regulation of equine parturition, therefore, involves progestagens, oestrogens, PGs and oxytocin as in other species. However, further studies are required to establish the causes and consequences of the rise and fall in maternal progestagens and the extent to which initiation of equine labour depends on the fetal HPA axis.
The rubrospinal tract (RST) of the rat is widely used in studies of regeneration and plasticity, but the electrophysiology of its spinal actions has not been described. In anaesthetised rats with neuromuscular blockade, a tungsten microelectrode was located in the region of the red nucleus (RN) by combining stereotaxis with recording of antidromic potentials evoked from the contralateral spinal cord. Single stimuli through this electrode typically elicited two descending volleys in the contralateral dorsolateral funiculus (DLF) separated by about 1 ms, and one volley recorded from the ipsilateral DLF. Latencies of the ipsilateral and the early contralateral volley were similar. The activation of these volleys depended on the location of the stimulation site in or near the RN. Evidence is adduced to show that: (a) the late contralateral volley is carried by fibres of RST neurones, synaptically activated; (b) the early contralateral volley is mostly carried by RST fibres stimulated directly; (c) the ipsilateral volley is sometimes carried by RST fibres from the RN on the side contralateral to the stimulus; (d) otherwise, either early volley may derive from fibres in other tracts. Synaptic potentials related to the volleys were recorded within the cervical enlargement and their distribution plotted on cross-sections of the spinal cord. These measurements suggest that the great majority of RST terminations are on interneurones in the intermediate region contralateral to the RN. Direct synaptic actions on motoneurones are likely to be weak. Stimulation parameters appropriate for specific activation of the RST in future studies are suggested.
Acute exposure of peripheral axons to the free radical Nitric Oxide (NO) may trigger conduction block and, if prolonged, Wallerian degeneration. It was hypothesized that this neurotoxic effect of NO may be due primarily to energy restriction by inhibition of mitochondrial respiration. We compared the neurotoxic effect of NO with the effect of the mitochondrial uncoupler 2,4-dinitrophenol (DNP) on electrically active axons of mouse sciatic nerve. The right tibial nerve was stimulated at the ankle. Muscle responses were recorded from plantar muscles and ascending nerve action potentials were recorded form the exposed sciatic nerve by means of a hook electrode. The sciatic nerve was focally immersed over a length of 1 cm in either phosphate buffered saline (PBS), a solution of approximately 4 microM NO obtained from 10 mM of the NO-donor DETA NONOate, or a solution of up to 1 mM DNP. Following 3 hours of 200 Hz stimulation, the nerves were washed in PBS for 1 hour, the surgical wounds were closed and the mice were left to recover. Following repetitive stimulation in PBS, the nerve responses recovered within 1 hour and the muscle responses within 1 day. The effects of focal acute exposure to NO or DNP were similar: (i) a transient conduction failure that rapidly normalized within one hour of washout and (ii) subsequent Wallerian degeneration of some axons confirmed at morphological studies. Taken together, these data support the hypothesis that neurotoxicity may be caused by energy restriction. Since the pharmacologic effect of NO and DNP was only transient, our data suggest that even a brief period of focal energy restriction can trigger Wallerian degeneration.
MELAS (mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes) is commonly associated with the A3243G mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutation encoding the transfer RNA of leucine (UUR) (tRNA (Leu(UUR))). The pathogenetic mechanisms of this mutation are not completely understood. Neuronal functions are particularly vulnerable to alterations in oxidative phosphorylation, which may affect the function of the neurotransmitter glutamate, leading to excitotoxicity. In order to investigate the possible effects of A3243G upon glutamate homeostasis, we assessed glutamate uptake in osteosarcoma-derived cytoplasmic hybrids (cybrids) expressing high levels of this mutation. High-affinity Na(+)-dependent glutamate uptake was assessed as radioactive [(3)H]-glutamate influx mediated by specific excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs). The maximal rate (V(max)) of Na(+)-dependent glutamate uptake was significantly reduced in all the mutant clones. Although the defect did not relate to either the mutant load or magnitude of oxidative phosphorylation defect, we found an inverse relationship between A3243G mutation load and mitochondrial ATP synthesis, without any evidence of increased cellular or mitochondrial free radical production in these A3243G clones. These data suggest that a defect of glutamate transport in MELAS neurons may be due to decreased energy production and might be involved in mediating the pathogenic effects of the A3243G mtDNA mutation.

Cortical stimulation (CS) as a means to modulate regional activity and excitability in cortex is emerging as a promising approach for facilitating rehabilitative interventions after brain damage, including stroke. In this study, we investigated whether CS-induced functional improvements are linked with synaptic plasticity in peri-infarct cortex and vary with the severity of impairments. Adult rats that were proficient in skilled reaching received subtotal unilateral ischemic sensorimotor cortex (SMC) lesions and implantation of chronic epidural electrodes over remaining motor cortex. Based on the initial magnitude of reaching deficits, rats were divided into severely and moderately impaired subgroups. Beginning two weeks post-surgery, rats received 100 Hz cathodal CS at 50% of movement thresholds or no-stimulation control procedures (NoCS) during 18 days of rehabilitative training on a reaching task. Stereological electron microscopy methods were used to quantify axodendritic synapse subtypes in motor cortical layer V underlying the electrode. In moderately, but not severely impaired rats, CS significantly enhanced recovery of reaching success. Sensitive movement analyses revealed that CS partially normalized reaching movements in both impairment subgroups compared to NoCS. Additionally, both CS subgroups had significantly greater density of axodendritic synapses and moderately impaired CS rats had increases in presumed efficacious synapse subtypes (perforated and multiple synapses) in stimulated cortex compared to NoCS. Synaptic density was positively correlated with post-rehabilitation reaching success. In addition to providing further support that CS can promote functional recovery, these findings suggest that CS-induced functional improvements may be mediated by synaptic structural plasticity in stimulated cortex.



This review deals with the state of the art in knowledge about molecular diagnostics in mitochondrial diseases. A considerable development over the last years of several lines of biological, biochemical and biophysical investigation techniques has enormously enlarged the chance to obtain significant information by their application in the study of mitochondrial diseases in both in vivo and in vitro clinical applied research. The nosography of mitochondrial diseases is, therefore, day by day enriched by reports of new acquisitions that merge with the innovative contribution that novel laboratory and clinical investigative technologies add to the knowledge of the physiopathology and management of these complex diseases. Apart from the molecular genetic characterization of mitochondrial diseases, different experimental laboratory approaches have contributed, from a molecular point of view, to add new insights in this field of medicine. The strategies of these investigations can be targeted to detect and evaluate the significance of molecules that can play a relevant role in the determination of clinical phenotypes, making it possible to better understand several still unexplained mechanisms of cell damage.
The past three decades have seen a great upsurge in studies focusing on the neurobiology of schizophrenia. Early studies, dating back to the start of the previous century, largely relied either on post-mortem examination of the brains of older patients with chronic schizophrenia or on brain scans in patients with established schizophrenia. It was therefore difficult to appraise the effects of the illness separately from those of aging, illness chronicity and medications. Avoiding such difficulties, studies of individuals in the early phases of schizophrenia have greatly enhanced our understanding of the course and predictive value of the neurobiological changes as well as approaches to optimal early interventions. In this paper, we review what we see as key directions in neurobiology research in early schizophrenia. We first provide an overview of alterations in cognition, structural and functional neuroanatomy, and neurochemistry in the early phases of schizophrenia. We conclude by summarizing the current state of understanding of the role of genetic and environmental factors and their interactions in the etiology of schizophrenia.
Cognitive remediation is a type of treatment added recently to the range of tools available to therapists. It includes a number of miscellaneous methods that aim to correct some of the cognitive impairments observed in schizophrenia. These cover the fields of target attention, memory and executive deficits, as well as impaired social cognition. Cognitive remediation acts as a complement to medication and psychological therapies, which constitute the core methods of treatment for schizophrenia. The present paper reviews the state of the art in cognitive remediation. The principle underlying this innovative therapeutic approach is the enhancement of the cognitive resources of patients with schizophrenia in order to improve their cognitive functions, social skills and in some cases alleviate some of the symptoms of the disease. Several programs developed within the past two decades (e.g., IPT, CRT, NEAR, CET, NET, CRT and CAT) are becoming more widely used. Their efficacy on neurocognition and on functional outcome has been demonstrated, with inconstant continuation of benefit after completion of treatment. The sustainability of the cognitive and functional improvements following completion of these programs has to be further studied. Other programs aimed at acting upon altered social cognition (one of the critical facets of schizophrenia) are still in the experimental stages, but the results obtained so far are encouraging. A preliminary study has also demonstrated the effectiveness of board games in improving cognitive functioning, which seems to be a highly promising therapeutic avenue owing to its ease of use.
The 15th Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Neuroscience Society brought together researchers and exhibitors to discuss and present data relevant to the study of the mind using neuroscience methods, especially neuroimaging. A history of interdisciplinary communication, which was the basis of the creation of this society, continues to expand the scope of work presented at the meeting to include research on emotional and social processes as well as various forms of psychopathology. Neurotherapeutics and individual differences in treatment responsivity may be on the horizon.

This paper considers evidence provided by large neuropsychological group studies and meta-analyses of functional imaging experiments on the location in frontal cortex of the subprocesses involved in the carrying out of task-switching paradigms. The function of the individual subprocesses is also considered in the light of analyses of the performance of normal subjects.
Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) are a potential source of dopaminergic neurons for treatment of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Dopaminergic neurons can be derived from hESCs and display a characteristic midbrain phenotype. Once transplanted, they can induce partial behavioral recovery in animal models of PD. However, the potential research field faces several challenges that need to be overcome before clinical application of hESCs in a transplantation therapy in PD can be considered. These include low survival of the hESC-derived, grafted dopaminergic neurons after transplantation; unclear functional integration of the grafted neurons in the host brain; and, the risk of teratoma/tumor formation from the transplanted cells. This review is focused on our recent efforts to improve the survival of hESC-dervied dopaminergic neurons. In a recent study, we examined the effect of fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-20 in the differentiation of hESCs into dopaminergic neurons. We supplemented cultures of hESCs with FGF-20 during differentiation on PA6 mouse stromal cells for 3 weeks. When we added FGF-20 the yield of neurons expressing tyrosine hydroxylase increased. We demonstrated that at least part of the effect is contributed by enhanced cell differentiation towards the dopaminergic phenotype as well as reduced cell death. We compare our results with those obtained in other published protocols using different sets of growth factors. Taken together, our data indicate that FGF-20 has potent effects to generate large number of dopaminergic neurons derived from hESCs, which may be useful for hESC-based therapy in PD.






Lamotrigine is an established anticonvulsant agent and also an effective maintenance therapy for bipolar disorder. In Italy it is approved for the treatment of epilepsy with partial seizures, partial seizures with secondary generalization and generalized seizures, both in monotherapy and as an add-on therapy in patients with refractory epilepsy; it is also approved for the prevention of depressive episodes in patients with bipolar disorder with a predominant depressive component. Lamotrigine is generally well tolerated; however, some psychiatric problems have been reported in patients using the drug to treat mental disorders (mainly bipolar) or epilepsy. The clinical features of these psychiatric side effects are: affective switches, full acute psychotic episodes, and hallucinations. In conclusion, lamotrigine is an effective drug, very useful in the therapy of epilepsy and mood disorders, but clinicians have to be aware of the risk that it can induce psychiatric symptoms or acute episodes.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was introduced nearly 20 years ago and has since been developed as a sophisticated tool for neuroscience research. It is an excellent technique that complements other non-invasive methods for studying human brain physiology. The aim of the present study was to review the basic concepts and principles of the repetitive TMS (rTMS) technique, gathering evidence of its applications in neurorehabilitation. Several clinical studies have reported that sessions of rTMS can improve some or all of the motor symptoms associated with Parkinson's disease, dystonia and stroke. However, since these changes are transient, it is premature to propose these applications as realistic therapeutic options, even though the rTMS technique has shown itself to be, potentially, a modulator of sensorimotor integration and neurogenesis. Future work in this area promises to advance our understanding of the pathophysiology of a wide range of neurological conditions, generate widely applicable diagnostic tools for clinical neurophysiology, and perhaps establish neuromodulation as a viable therapeutic option in neurorehabilitation.
Male Golden-collared manakins (Manacus vitellinus) of Panama perform an acrobatic and noisy courtship display, the result of an intense process of sexual selection. These birds have a lek mating system with the reproductive success of males depending almost entirely on their courtship. We have studied this remarkable behavior and investigated seasonal cycles of testosterone secretion, hormonal activation of courtship and neuromuscular adaptations that underlie the performance of male courtship behavior. We describe these studies in the context of the natural history of this fascinating lowland tropical species. Our studies have shown that manakin courtship requires a series of morphological and physiological specializations and represents an exceptional model system for studying the hormonal control of elaborate courtship displays.
Stress is a known inhibitor of reproductive function. The mechanisms by which stress acts to influence the reproductive axis have been intensely studied and appear to be extremely varied. Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) is a critical component of the vertebrate reproductive axis and directly causes pituitary gonadotropin synthesis and release. A second neuropeptide, gonadotropin-inhibitory hormone (GnIH), directly inhibits pituitary gonadotropin synthesis and release in birds. We hypothesized that stress effects upon reproduction are mediated via the hypothalamic GnIH system. We examined the effects of capture-handling stress in the hypothalamus of male and female adult house sparrows (Passer domesticus) at the start (spring) and end of the breeding season (fall). We quantified numbers of GnIH neurons to provide an estimate of hypothalamic GnIH content. In addition, we quantified the expression of the protein product of the immediate-early gene, EGR-1, using this as an indicator of neuronal activation. We saw an increase in EGR-1 positive cells in the paraventricular nuclei of stressed birds as opposed to controls at both collecting times, but this stress response was more apparent in the spring as opposed to the fall. There were more GnIH-positive neurons in fall birds versus those sampled in the spring, and a significant increase in GnIH positive neurons was seen in stressed birds only in spring. GnIH cells show little to no activation of EGR-1, suggesting that EGR-1 is not involved in GnIH transcription in response to capture-handling stress. These data imply an influence of stress upon the paraventricular nucleus and the GnIH system that changes over the annual cycle of reproduction.

The gene, BTBD9, was recently linked to restless legs syndrome, periodic limb movements and iron status in humans. In a homologous region in mouse, an area containing btbd9 was also identified as being related to iron homeostasis. This finding is important as iron status in brain has been implicated in restless legs syndrome.
Febrile seizures (FS) are the most prevalent seizures in children. Although FS are largely benign, complex FS increase the risk to develop temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Studies in rat models for FS have provided information about functional changes in the hippocampus after complex FS. However, our knowledge about the genes and pathways involved in the causes and consequences of FS is still limited. To enable molecular, genetic and knockout studies, we developed and characterized an FS model in mice and used it as a phenotypic screen to analyze FS susceptibility. Hyperthermia was induced by warm air in 10- to 14-day-old mice and induced FS in all animals. Under the conditions used, seizure-induced behavior in mice and rats was similar. In adulthood, treated mice showed increased hippocampal Ih current and seizure susceptibility, characteristics also seen after FS in rats. Of the seven genetically diverse mouse strains screened for FS susceptibility, C57BL/6J mice were among the most susceptible, whereas A/J mice were among the most resistant. Strains genetically similar to C57BL/6J also showed a susceptible phenotype. Our phenotypic data suggest that complex genetics underlie FS susceptibility and show that the C57BL/6J strain is highly susceptible to FS. As this strain has been described as resistant to convulsants, our data indicate that susceptibility genes for FS and convulsants are distinct. Insight into the mechanisms underlying seizure susceptibility and FS may help to identify markers for the early diagnosis of children at risk for complex FS and TLE and may provide new leads for treatment.
Increased physical activity and decreased motivation to eat are common features in anorexia nervosa. We investigated the development of these features and the potential implication of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and dopaminergic signalling in their development in C57BL/6J and A/J inbred mice, using the 'activity-based anorexia' model. In this model, mice on a restricted-feeding schedule are given unlimited access to running wheels. We measured dopamine receptor D2 and BDNF expression levels in the caudate putamen and the hippocampus, respectively, using in situ hybridization. We found that in response to scheduled feeding, C57BL/6J mice reduced their running wheel activity and displayed food anticipatory activity prior to food intake from day 2 of scheduled feeding as an indication of motivation to eat. In contrast, A/J mice increased running wheel activity during scheduled feeding and lacked food anticipatory activity. These were accompanied by increased dopamine receptor D2 expression in the caudate putamen and reduced BDNF expression in the hippocampus. Consistent with human linkage and association studies on BDNF and dopamine receptor D2 in anorexia nervosa, our study shows that dopaminergic and BDNF signalling are altered as a function of susceptibility to activity-based anorexia. Differences in gene expression and behaviour between A/J and C57BL/6J mice indicate that mouse genetic mapping populations based on these progenitor lines are valuable for identifying molecular determinants of anorexia-related traits.
We recently mapped quantitative trait loci (QTLs) with large effects on predisposition to physical dependence and associated withdrawal severity following chronic and acute alcohol exposure (Alcdp1/Alcw1) to a 1.1-Mb interval of mouse chromosome 1 syntenic with human chromosome 1q23.2-23.3. Here, we provide a detailed analysis of the genes within this interval and show that it contains 40 coding genes, 17 of which show validated genotype-dependent transcript expression and/or non-synonymous coding sequence variation that may underlie the influence of Alcdp1/Alcw1 on ethanol dependence and associated withdrawal. These high priority candidates are involved in diverse cellular functions including intracellular trafficking, oxidative homeostasis, mitochondrial respiration, and extracellular matrix dynamics, and indicate both established and novel aspects of the neurobiological response to ethanol. This work represents a substantial advancement toward identification of the gene(s) that underlies the phenotypic effects of Alcdp1/Alcw1. Additionally, a multitude of QTLs for a variety of complex traits, including diverse behavioral responses to ethanol, have been mapped in the vicinity of Alcdp1/Alcw1, and as many as four QTLs on human chromosome 1q have been implicated in human mapping studies for alcoholism and associated endophenotypes. Thus, our results will be primary to further efforts to identify genes involved in a wide variety of behavioral responses to alcohol and may directly facilitate progress in human alcoholism genetics.
Growth differentiation factor-1 (GDF1), a TGF-beta superfamily member, participates in early embryo patterning. Later functions are implied by the Gdf1 expression in the peripheral and central nervous system. Such roles of the gene have been difficult to study, because Gdf1 null mice die during late embryogenesis. Here, we report the production of a mouse carrying a conditional Gdf1 allele, with exon 2 flanked by loxP sites. Crossing these mice with CaMKIIalpha-Cre mice resulted in Gdf1 ablation in the forebrain postnatally. Such mice displayed no behavioral changes or altered expression levels in a set of hippocampal genes examined. However, excision of the floxed Gdf1 exon caused increased expression of the remaining part of the bicistronic Uog1-Gdf1 transcript in the hippocampus. This indicates that the transcript level is regulated by a negative feedback-loop, sensing presence of either the protein or the mRNA region encoded by Gdf1 exon 2.
We studied the properties of GFAP-expressing cells in adult mouse striatum using acute brain slices from transgenic animals expressing EGFP under GFAP promoter. Under physiological conditions, two distinct populations of GFAP-EGFP cells could be identified: (1) brightly fluorescent cells had bushy processes, passive membrane properties, glutamate transporter activity, and high gap junction coupling rate typical for classical astrocytes; (2) weakly fluorescent cells were characterized by thin, clearly distinguishable processes, voltage-gated currents, complex responses to kainate, and low coupling rate reminiscent of an astrocyte subtype recently described in the hippocampus. Mild focal cerebral ischemia confers delayed neuronal cell death and astrogliosis in the striatum. Following middle cerebral artery occlusion and reperfusion, brightly fluorescent cells were the dominant GFAP-EGFP population observed within the ischemic lesion. Interestingly, the majority of these cells expressed voltage-gated channels, showed complex responses to kainate, and a high coupling rate exceeding that of brightly fluorescent control cells. A minority of cells had passive membrane properties and was coupled less compared with passive control cells. We conclude that, in the adult striatum, astrocytes undergo distinct pathophysiological changes after ischemic insults. The dominant population in the ischemic lesion constitutes a novel physiological phenotype unlike any normal astrocyte and generates a large syncytium which might be a neuroprotective response of reactive astrocytes.
Adenosine, a purine nucleoside, has been reported to suppress the inflammatory responses of microglia in the brain. However, the underlying mechanisms of its anti-inflammatory action are unclear at present. Here we show that adenosine reduces the increase in intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) through expression of an antioxidant enzyme, hemeoxygenase-1 (HO-1). The H(2)O(2)-induced intracellular ROS level was significantly low in microglia pretreated with adenosine for 3-6 h, compared with that in untreated cells. Adenosine induced HO-1 mRNA and protein expression within 3 h, which was maintained for up to 12 h. Nuclear factor E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), a transcription factor, and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) and Akt pathways appear to mediate HO-1 expression. In response to adenosine, Nrf2 translocated from the cytosol to nuclei, and bound to the antioxidant response element (ARE). Adenosine enhanced HO-1 promoter activity in an ARE-dependent manner. Moreover, the nucleoside stimulated Akt phosphorylation, and suppressors of PI3K (LY294002 and wortmannin) reduced adenosine-induced HO-1 expression. However, we propose that the effects of adenosine are independent of adenosine receptors, since agonists and antagonists of A1, A2a, and A3 had little effect on the regulation of intracellular ROS and HO-1 expression. Our results collectively suggest that adenosine acts as an endogenous regulator of brain inflammation via modulation of microglial ROS production.
Extracellular matrix associated Sparc-like 1 (SC1/SPARCL1) can influence the function of astroglial cells in the developing and mature central nervous system (CNS). To examine SC1's significance in the CNS, we generated a BAC transgenic mouse model in which Sc1 is expressed in radial glia and their astrocyte derivatives using the astroglial-specific Blbp (Brain-lipid binding protein; [Feng et al., (1994) Neuron 12:895-908]) regulatory elements. Characterization of these Blbf-Sc1 transgenic mice show elevated Sc1 transcript and protein in an astroglial selective pattern throughout the CNS. This model provides a novel in vivo system for evaluating the role of SC1 in brain development and function, in general, and for understanding SC1's significance in the fate and function of astroglial cells, in particular.

The relationship between epilepsy and migraine is complex and remains to be determined. We report 3 cases that address 2 questions on this topic. The first and second cases showed an association between migraine without aura and the onset of epileptic seizures. The third case report describes a patient in whom migraine with aura occurred and was followed by the development of status epilepticus, which occurred 2 or 3 hours after the attack of migraine with aura. We discuss the present definition of migralepsy and reassess its definition by suggesting possible extensions to its current definition.

Musicians have a variety of perceptual and cortical specializations compared to non-musicians. Recent studies have shown that potentials evoked from primarily brainstem structures are enhanced in musicians, compared to non-musicians. Specifically, musicians have more robust representations of pitch periodicity and faster neural timing to sound onset when listening to sounds or both listening to and viewing a speaker. However, it is not known whether musician-related enhancements at the subcortical level are correlated with specializations in the cortex. Does musical training shape the auditory system in a coordinated manner or in disparate ways at cortical and subcortical levels? To answer this question, we recorded simultaneous brainstem and cortical evoked responses in musician and non-musician subjects. Brainstem response periodicity was related to early cortical response timing across all subjects, and this relationship was stronger in musicians. Peaks of the brainstem response evoked by sound onset and timbre cues were also related to cortical timing. Neurophysiological measures at both levels correlated with musical skill scores across all subjects. In addition, brainstem and cortical measures correlated with the age musicians began their training and the years of musical practice. Taken together, these data imply that neural representations of pitch, timing and timbre cues and cortical response timing are shaped in a coordinated manner, and indicate corticofugal modulation of subcortical afferent circuitry.

FMRI has revealed the presence of correlated low-frequency cerebro-vascular oscillations within functional brain systems, which are thought to reflect an intrinsic feature of large-scale neural activity. The spatial correlations shown by these fluctuations has been their identifying feature, distinguishing them from fluctuations associated with other processes. Major analysis methods characterize these correlations, identifying networks and their interactions with various factors. However, other analysis approaches are required to fully characterize the regional signal dynamics contributing to these correlations between regions. In this study we show that analysis of the power spectral density (PSD) of regional signals can identify changes in oscillatory dynamics across conditions, and is able to characterize the nature and spatial extent of signal changes underlying changes in measures of connectivity. We analyzed spectral density changes in sessions consisting of both resting-state scans and scans recording 2 min blocks of continuous unilateral finger tapping and rest. We assessed the relationship of PSD and connectivity measures by additionally tracking correlations between selected motor regions. Spectral density gradually increased in gray and white matter during the experiment. Finger tapping produced widespread decreases in low-frequency spectral density. This change was symmetric across the cortex, and extended beyond both the lateralized task-related signal increases, and the established &quot;resting-state&quot; motor network. Correlations between motor regions also reduced with task performance. In conclusion, analysis of PSD is a sensitive method for detecting and characterizing BOLD signal oscillations that can enhance the analysis of network connectivity.
Autosomal recessive limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2D (LGMD 2D) is caused by mutations in the alpha-sarcoglycan gene (alpha-SG). The absence of alpha-SG results in the loss of the SG complex at the sarcolemma and compromises the integrity of the sarcolemma. To establish a method for recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV)-mediated alpha-SG gene therapy into alpha-SG-deficient muscle, we constructed rAAV serotypes 2 and 8 expressing the human alpha-SG gene under the control of the ubiquitous cytomegalovirus promoter (rAAV2-alpha-SG and rAAV8-alpha-SG). We compared the transduction profiles and evaluated the therapeutic effects of a single intramuscular injection of rAAVs into alpha-SG-deficient (Sgca(-/-)) mice. Four weeks after rAAV2 injection into the tibialis anterior (TA) muscle of 10-day-old Sgca(-/-) mice, transduction of the alpha-SG gene was localized to a limited area of the TA muscle. On the other hand, rAAV8-mediated alpha-SG expression was widely distributed in the hind limb muscle, and persisted for 7 months without inducing cytotoxic and immunological reactions, with a reversal of the muscle pathology and improvement in the contractile force of the Sgca(-/-) muscle. This extensive rAAV8-mediated alpha-SG transduction in LGMD 2D model animals paves the way for future clinical application.
Methyl-CpG binding proteins (MBDs) are central components of DNA methylation-mediated epigenetic gene regulation. Alterations of epigenetic pathways are known to be associated with several neurodevelopmental disorders, particularly autism. Our previous studies showed that the loss of Mbd1 led to reduced hippocampal neurogenesis and impaired learning in mice. However, whether MBD1 regulates the autism-related cognitive functions remains unknown. Here we show that Mbd1 mutant (Mbd1(-/-)) mice exhibit several core deficits frequently associated with autism, including reduced social interaction, learning deficits, anxiety, defective sensory motor gating, depression and abnormal brain serotonin activity. Furthermore, we find that Mbd1 can directly regulate the expression of Htr2c, one of the serotonin receptors, by binding to its promoter, and the loss of Mbd1 led to elevated expression of Htr2c. Our results, therefore, demonstrate the importance of epigenetic regulation in mammalian brain development and cognitive functions. Understanding how the loss of Mbd1 could lead to autism-like behavioral phenotypes would reveal much-needed information about the molecular pathogenesis of autism.
Mutations in the gene MPZ, encoding myelin protein zero (MPZ), cause inherited neuropathies collectively called Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 1B (CMT1B). Based on the age of onset, clinical and pathological features, most MPZ mutations are separable into two groups: one causing a severe, early-onset, demyelinating neuropathy and a second, causing a late-onset neuropathy with prominent axonal loss. To investigate potential pathomechanisms underlying the two phenotypes, we transiently transfected HeLa cells with two late-onset (T95M, H10P) and two early-onset (H52R, S22_W28 deletion) mutations and analyzed their effects on intracellular protein trafficking, glycosylation, cell viability and intercellular adhesion. We found that the two late-onset mutations were both transported to the cell membrane and moderately reduced MPZ-mediated intercellular adhesion. The two early-onset mutations caused two distinct abnormalities. H52R was correctly glycosylated and trafficked to the plasma membrane, but strongly affected intercellular adhesion. When co-expressed with wild-type MPZ (wtMPZ), a functional dominant negative effect was observed. Alternatively, S22_W28 deletion was retained within the cytoplasm and reduced both adhesion caused by wtMPZ and cellular viability. Since the same trafficking patterns were observed in transfected murine Schwann cells, they are not an artifact of heterologous cell expression. Our results suggest that at least some late-onset mutations cause a partial loss of function in the transfected cells, whereas multiple abnormal gain of function pathways can result in early-onset neuropathy. Further characterization of these pathways will lead to a better understanding of the pathogenesis of CMT1B and a rational basis for treating these debilitating inherited neuropathies.
We previously identified a cis-acting element within the 3' untranslated region of CD40 ligand messenger RNA (mRNA) that is composed of three complex binding sites and acts to increase mRNA stability in both in vitro and in vivo systems. We now demonstrate the functional consequences of the three binding sites with respect to increasing both luciferase activity and mRNA stability in a heterologous transcript expressed in a T-cell line. The internal region B was shown to be a bona fide stability element because its presence increased luciferase activity fourfold over the unmodified transcript and its removal from the XbaI-HaeIII region resulted in rapid degradation of the transcript. Region A contained both a binding site for a polypyrimidine-tract-binding protein (PTB)-mediated complex (Complex I) and an upstream, adjacent sequence that was a negative regulator of mRNA stability. Region C bound Complex II, which contained both PTB and heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteinL (hnRNPL), and was less effective as a stability element on its own compared to region B. Our findings demonstrate differential levels of activity for the three binding sites relative to the turnover of CD40 ligand mRNA, suggesting that the lack of binding of Complex I/II during the early stages of T-cell activation contributes to the rapid degradation of the CD40 ligand mRNA transcript.
The aim of the present study was to analyse the corticosterone response to exogenous ACTH in the circulation of catheterised male rats and to investigate the sensitivity of faecal corticosterone output as a measure of preceding elevated levels in the circulation. A total of 21 adult male Sprague-Dawley rats permanently catheterised (v. jugularis externa for intravenous administration of ACTH and a. carotis communis for blood sampling), were used. Administration of both 10 and 100 microg/kg ACTH resulted in a rapid and pronounced corticosterone increase three minutes after injection (226 and 220 ng/ml, respectively), but the duration of the response was different. In the 10 microg/kg group, corticosterone levels were significantly elevated for 3-90 min after injection, while in the 100 microg/kg group, the levels remained elevated for 240 min after injection. In faeces, a significant increase during eight hours after ACTH injection was found in the group treated with 100 microg/kg, but not in the group treated with 10 microg/kg. In conclusion, quantification of faecal excretion of corticosteroids is a useful non-invasive measure of prior substantial stress (e.g. surgery), but not sufficiently sensitive to reveal minor stress or acute stress of short duration.


When are the precursors of ordinal numerical knowledge first evident in infancy? Brannon (2002) argued that by 11 months of age, infants possess the ability to appreciate the greater than and less than relations between numerical values but that this ability experiences a sudden onset between 9 and 11 months of age. Here we present 5 experiments that explore the changes that take place between 9 and 11 months of age in infants' ability to detect reversals in the ordinal direction of a sequence of arrays. In Experiment 1, we replicate the finding that 11- but not 9-month-old infants detect a numerical ordinal reversal. In Experiment 2 we rule out an alternative hypothesis that 11-month-old infants attended to changes in the absolute numerosity of the first stimulus in the sequence rather than a reversal in ordinal direction. In Experiment 3, we demonstrate that 9-month-old infants are not aided by additional exposure to each numerosity stimulus in a sequence. In Experiment 4 we find that 11-month-old but not 9-month-old infants succeed at detecting the reversal in a nonnumerical size or area-based rule, casting doubt on Brannon's prior claim that what develops between 9 and 11 months of age is a specifically numerical ability. In Experiment 5 we demonstrate that 9-month-old infants are capable of detecting a reversal in ordinal direction but only when there are multiple converging cues to ordinality. Collectively these data indicate that at 11 months of age infants can represent ordinal relations that are based on number, size, or cumulative area, whereas at 9 months of age infants are unable to use any of these dimensions in isolation but instead require a confluence of cues.

The objective of this paper was to assess the effects of switching from typical and/or atypical antipsychotics to ziprasidone, owing to inadequate response or intolerance, in chronic schizophrenic patients. A total of 312 patients were switched to an 8-week, open-label, flexible dose (40-160 mg/day) of ziprasidone. Psychiatric status was evaluated by Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale and Clinical Global Impression Severity scale. Other measures included functioning, subjective response and attitude toward therapy, and cognition. Laboratory tests and electrocardiography with QTc interval were carried out. Extrapyramidal symptoms and sexual dysfunction symptoms were also assessed. Of the 312 enrolled patients, 73.1% completed the study. Olanzapine, risperidone, and haloperidol were the most common psychotropic drugs taken before entry. Poor efficacy was the main reason for change in therapy. Significant improvements from baseline to endpoint were reported for mean Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale scores (P&lt;0.0001), Clinical Global Impression Severity (P&lt;0.0001), Global Assessment of Functioning (P&lt;0.0001), Subjective Well-being scores (P&lt;0.0001), and Trail Making Test (P&lt;0.05). Significant improvements were also found for mean Simpson-Angus scale score (P&lt;0.0001), sexual dysfunction, total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and triglycerides. In addition, mean body weight significantly decreased from baseline (P&lt;0.0001). A favorable profile for ziprasidone was found with regard to improved subjective tolerability, quality of life, and medication adherence behavior.
Sucralfate is a drug used in the treatment of gastric and duodenal ulcer; it is cytoprotective and able to increase the bioavailability of several growth factors, modulating the wound healing process. In this study we tested the possible therapeutic effect of Sucralfate in the treatment of ulcerative lesions occurring in uterine cervix; to investigate such effect we used an experimental rat model of cervicitis in which the uPAR and EGFR expression were evaluated. Cervicitis was induced in wild and ovariectomized Wistar female rats by an acetic acid-soaked tampon. The animals were divided into two main groups (4 and 7 days) and Sucralfate was administered topically until the day they were sacrificed. In order to distinguish physiological and drug-induced healing, quantitative and qualitative uPAR and EGFR expression were evaluated by using Western blot and Immunohistochemistry techniques. Western blot analysis demonstrated an increased expression of both receptors after 4 days from wounding in wild and ovariectomized animals. In particular in ovariectomized animals the expression of uPAR and EGFR increased after 4 days while it reduced following the administration of Sucralfate. In wild rats the same was observed for uPAR expression, while EGFR was different; in fact, its expression increased significantly at day 4 in the animals treated with the drug and only at day 7 in those untreated. Immunohistochemistry highlighted a noteworthy epithelial colocalization of EGFR and uPAR after 4 days in the animals treated with Sucralfate. We conclude that Sucralfate can promote the healing of ulcerative cervicitis and moreover, it reduces the normal healing time because of its modulatory property on uPAR and EGFR expression.
The neurobiology of sexual behavior involves the interrelationships between sex steroids and neurotransmitters that result in both central nervous system (CNS) effects and effects in the genitalia. Tools such as positron emission tomography (PET) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scanning can help determine what areas of the brain are activated under sexual stimulation. Our understanding of the role of various neurotransmitters, neurosteroids and other CNS-acting compounds is improving. The role of CNS-acting compounds such as dopamine agonists in the treatment of male sexual dysfunction is under active investigation. Melanocortins have CNS and peripheral roles in a wide variety of bodily functions. The melanocortin agonist bremelanotide appears to act in the CNS to promote erections in preclinical models, and may also stimulate behaviors that facilitate sexual activity beyond their erectogenic effects.

Successful learning of supraspan word lists such as the California Verbal Learning Test (CVLT) relies more on clustering strategies than rote learning, subserved by the frontal and temporal lobes. The authors studied the effect of word sequence in CVLT learning, in 15 patients with frontal (FLL) and 15 temporal (TLL) lesions, and 33 controls. Experimental measures were: number of clusters, number of first (FI), middle (MI) and last items (LI), in learning trials and in total immediate recall. FLL disclosed significantly lower FI along learning. Clusters were similar among groups. This difficulty is discussed according to the role of frontal lobes in learning and memory.
The present mock-crime study concentrated on the validity of the Guilty Actions Test (GAT) and the role of the orienting response (OR) for differential autonomic responding. N=105 female subjects were assigned to one of three groups: a guilty group, members of which committed a mock-theft; an innocent-aware group, members of which witnessed the theft; and an innocent-unaware group. A GAT consisting of ten question sets was administered while measuring electrodermal and heart rate (HR) responses. For informed participants (guilty and innocent-aware), relevant items were accompanied by larger skin conductance responses and heart rate decelerations whereas irrelevant items elicited HR accelerations. Uninformed participants showed a non-systematic response pattern. The differential electrodermal responses of informed participants declined across the test. With respect to the HR data, however, no habituation was observed. Findings suggest that GAT results could not exclusively be interpreted by referring to the OR.
Coronary heart disease (CHD) has been associated with impaired cognition, but the mechanisms underlying these changes remain unclear. We designed this study to determine whether adults with CHD show regional brain losses of grey matter volume relative to controls. We used statistical parametric mapping (SPM5) to determine regional changes in grey matter volume of T(1)-weighted magnetic resonance images of 11 adults with prior history of myocardial infarction relative to seven healthy controls. All analyses were adjusted for total grey and white matter volume, age, sex and handedness. CHD participants showed a loss of grey matter volume in the left medial frontal lobe (including the cingulate), precentral and postcentral cortex, right temporal lobe and left middle temporal gyrus, and left precuneus and posterior cingulate. CHD is associated with loss of grey matter in various brain regions, including some that play a significant role in cognitive function and behaviour. The underlying causes of these regional brain changes remain to be determined.




Echolocating big brown bats (Eptesicus fuscus) frequently catch insects during aerial pursuits in open spaces, but they also capture prey swarming on vegetation, and from substrates. To evaluate perception of targets on cluttered surfaces, big brown bats were trained in a two-alternative forced-choice task to locate a target, varying in height, that was embedded partway in holes (clutter) cut in a foam surface. The holes were colocalized with the possible positions of the target at distances ranging from 25 to 35 cm. For successful perception of the target, the bat had to detect the echoes contributed by the target in the same time window that contained echoes from the clutter. Performance was assessed in terms of target reflective strength relative to clutter strength in the same time window. The bats detected the target whenever the target strength was greater than 1-2 dB above the clutter.



A growing literature has been exploring the implications of reconciling psychoanalytic understandings of human behavior with the research findings of neuroscience. This essay proposes a new linking perspective--neurodarwinian psychoanalysis--as a way to revise the predominantly disembodied nature of existing analytic theory by grounding it in the biological realities of human nature, development, and psychopathogenesis. Beginning with a focus on the evolutionary significance of the cellular envelope within which all living organisms exist, it provides theoretical and clinical examples of how evolved neural assemblies in the brain play a key role in the representational depictions of both typical and atypical human predicaments. Conventional psychoanalytic concepts of such theoretical entities as the self and tripartite concretizations of intrapsychic tropes are reformulated in terms of naturally selected neural innervations. Accordingly, dynamically unconscious functioning and psychoanalytically-informed therapeutic process are considered as crucial adaptations that warrant natural selection.
Testing for drugs-of-abuse in urine is requested for multiple reasons, including legal and workplace policies. Two cases were studied in which there was a suspicion that the patients continued to abuse diazepam, because of repeatedly positive urine samples. In these cases, diazepam metabolites were measured in urine samples by gas or liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry. The concentrations of diazepam metabolites were subsequently creatinine correlated. Very long elimination times were found in the described cases. None of them had in fact ingested diazepam again during the study period. By the use of pharmacogenetic typing, one of the subjects was found to have a slow metabolism for CYP2C9 as well as for CYP2C19. In the second case, there was a possible drug interaction between diazepam and zolpidem.
Plastic neural changes have been documented in relation to different types of physical activity, but little is known about central nervous system plasticity accompanying reduced physical activity and immobilization. In the present study we investigated whether plastic neural changes occur in relation to 1 wk of immobilization of the nondominant wrist and hand and a corresponding period of recovery in 10 able-bodied volunteers. After immobilization, maximal voluntary contraction torque decreased and the variability of submaximal static contractions increased significantly without evidence of changes in muscle contractile properties. Hoffmann (H)-reflex amplitudes and the ratios of H-slope to M-slope increased significantly in flexor carpi radialis and abductor pollicis brevis at rest and during contraction without changes in corticospinal excitability, estimated from motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) elicited by transcranial magnetic stimulation. Corticomuscular coherence measures were derived from EEG and EMG obtained during static contractions. After immobilization, corticomuscular coherence in the 15- to 35-Hz range associated with maximum negative cumulant values at lags corresponding to MEP latencies decreased. One week after cast removal, all measurements returned to preimmobilization levels. The increased H-reflex amplitudes without changes in MEPs may suggest that presynaptic inhibition or postactivation depression of Ia afferents is reduced following immobilization. Reduced corticomuscular coherence may be caused by changes in afferent input at spinal and cortical levels or by changes in the descending drive from motor cortex. Further studies are needed to elucidate the mechanisms underlying the observed increased spinal excitability and reduced coupling between motor cortex and spinal motoneuronal activity following immobilization.
The aim of the present study is to evaluate role of plasma antioxidants (albumin, bilirubin and uric acid) in patients suffering from type I Bipolar Disorder (BD-I) during different phases of illness: acute mania, euthymia and bipolar depression. Medical records of consecutive 110 BD-I patients (38 patients with acute mania, 35 in euthymic state, full remission, and 37 in depressive phase) were reviewed to evaluate plasma antioxidant levels. Laboratory data of 40 healthy controls were also obtained. The scores of Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS), Bech-Rafaelsen Manic Rating Scale (BRMRS) and Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D) were evaluated. Serum uric acid levels were higher in acute mania than other patient subgroups and healthy controls. Serum uric acid levels directly correlated with BRMRS and YMRS scores. No differences were found between clinical groups during different phases and healthy controls concerning albumin and bilirubin. In conclusion, the results of the present study support the notion that serum uric acid levels may be higher in patients with BP-I (especially during manic phases) which may suggest a dysregulation of the purinergic system. However, limitations should be considered and further studies are needed.
Recently published data indicate that immobilized N-bisphosphonate enhances the pullout force and energy uptake of implanted stainless steel screws at 2 weeks in rat tibia. This study compares titanium screws with and without a bisphosphonate coating in the same animal model. The screws were first coated with an approximately 100-nm thick crosslinked fibrinogen film. Pamidronate was subsequently immobilized into this film via EDC/NHS-activated carboxyl groups within the fibrinogen matrix, and finally another N-bisphosphonate, ibandronate, was physically adsorbed. The release kinetics of immobilized (14)C-alendronate was measured in buffer up to 724 h and showed a 60% release within 8 h. Mechanical tests demonstrated a 32% (p = 0.04) and 48% (p = 0.02) larger pullout force and energy until failure after 2 weeks of implantation, compared to uncoated titanium screws. A control study with physically adsorbed pamidronate showed no effect on mechanical fixation, probably due to a too small adsorbed amount. We conclude that the fixation of titanium implants in bone can be improved by fibrinogen matrix-bound bisphosphonates.
Infection with HIV-1 causes degeneration of neurons leading to motor and cognitive dysfunction in AIDS patients. One of the key viral regulatory proteins, Tat, which is released by infected cells, can be taken up by various uninfected cells including neurons and by dysregulating several biological events induces cell injury and death. In earlier studies, we demonstrated that treatment of neuronal cells with Tat affects the nerve growth factor (NGF) signaling pathway involving MAPK/ERK. Here we demonstrate that a decrease in the level of Egr-1, one of the targets for MAPK, by Tat has a negative impact on the level of p35 expression in NGF-treated neural cells. Further, we demonstrate a reduced level of Egr-1 association with the p35 promoter sequence in NGF-treated cells expressing Tat. As p35, by associating with Cdk5, phosphorylates several neuronal proteins including neurofilaments and plays a role in neuronal differentiation and survival, we examined kinase activity of p35 complexes obtained from cells expressing Tat. Results from H1 kinase assays showed reduced activity of the p35 complex from Tat-expressing cells in comparison to that from control cells. Accordingly, the level of phosphorylated neurofilaments was diminished in Tat-expressing cells. Similarly, treatment of PC12 cells with Tat protein or supernatant from HIV-1 infected cells decreased kinase activity of p35 in these cells. These observations ascribe a role for Tat in altering p35 expression and its activity that affects phosphorylation of proteins involved in neuronal cell survival.
Oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) initiates a cascade of intracellular responses that culminates in cell death in sensitive species. Neurons from Arctic ground squirrels (AGS), a hibernating species, tolerate OGD in vitro and global ischemia in vivo independent of temperature or torpor. Regulation of energy stores and activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathways can regulate neuronal survival. We used acute hippocampal slices to investigate the role of ATP stores and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)1/2 and Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase (JNK) MAPKs in promoting survival. Acute hippocampal slices from AGS tolerated 30 mins of OGD and showed a small but significant increase in cell death with 2 h OGD at 37 degrees C. This tolerance is independent of hibernation state or season. Neurons from AGS survive OGD despite rapid ATP depletion by 3 mins in interbout euthermic AGS and 10 mins in hibernating AGS. Oxygen-glucose deprivation does not induce JNK activation in AGS and baseline ERK1/2 and JNK activation is maintained even after drastic depletion of ATP. Surprisingly, inhibition of ERK1/2 or JNK during OGD had no effect on survival, whereas inhibition of JNK increased cell death during normoxia. Thus, protective mechanisms promoting tolerance to OGD by AGS are downstream from ATP loss and are independent of hibernation state or season. Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow &amp; Metabolism (2008) 28, 1307-1319; doi:10.1038/jcbfm.2008.20; published online 9 April 2008.
This manuscript reviews the chemical ecology of two of the major aquatic animal models, fish and crustaceans, in the study of chemoreception. By necessity, it is restricted in scope, with most emphasis placed on teleost fish and decapod crustaceans. First, we describe the nature of the chemical world perceived by fish and crustaceans, giving examples of the abilities of these animals to analyze complex natural odors. Fish and crustaceans share the same environments and have evolved some similar chemosensory features: the ability to detect and discern mixtures of small metabolites in highly variable backgrounds and to use this information to identify food, mates, predators, and habitat. Next, we give examples of the molecular nature of some of these natural products, including a description of methodologies used to identify them. Both fish and crustaceans use their olfactory and gustatory systems to detect amino acids, amines, and nucleotides, among many other compounds, while fish olfactory systems also detect mixtures of sex steroids and prostaglandins with high specificity and sensitivity. Third, we discuss the importance of plasticity in chemical sensing by fish and crustaceans. Finally, we conclude with a description of how natural chemical stimuli are processed by chemosensory systems. In both fishes and crustaceans, the olfactory system is especially adept at mixture discrimination, while gustation is well suited to facilitate precise localization and ingestion of food. The behaviors of both fish and crustaceans can be defined by the chemical worlds in which they live and the abilities of their nervous systems to detect and identify specific features in their domains. An understanding of these worlds and the sensory systems that provide the animals with information about them provides insight into the chemical ecology of these species.
In this study, we demonstrate the presence of immunoreactive structures containing calcitonin gene-related peptide in the alpaca brainstem. This is the first time that a detailed mapping of the cell bodies and fibers containing this neuropeptide in the alpaca brainstem has been carried out using an immunocytochemical technique. Immunoreactive cell bodies and fibers were widely distributed throughout the alpaca brainstem. A high density of calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive perikarya was found in the superior colliculus, the dorsal nucleus of the raphe, the trochlear nucleus, the lateral division of the marginal nucleus of the brachium conjunctivum, the motor trigeminal nucleus, the facial nucleus, the pons reticular formation, the retrofacial nucleus, the rostral hypoglossal nucleus, and in the motor dorsal nucleus of the vagus, whereas a high density of fibers containing calcitonin gene-related peptide was observed in the lateral division of the marginal nucleus of the brachium conjunctivum, the parvocellular division of the alaminar spinal trigeminal nucleus, the external cuneate nucleus, the nucleus of the solitary tract, the laminar spinal trigeminal nucleus, and in the area postrema. This widespread distribution indicates that the neuropeptide studied might be involved in multiple functions in the alpaca brainstem.
Chicken (Gallus gallus) brains were used to investigate the typology and the immunolabel pattern for the subunits composing the AMPA-type glutamate receptors (GluR) of hindbrain neurons of the dorsal (dND) and ventral nuclei (vND) of the Deiter's vestibular complex (CD), which is the avian correspondent of the lateral vestibular nucleus (LVN) of mammals. Our results revealed that neurons of both divisions were poor in GluR1. The vND, the GluR2/3+ and GluR4+ label presented no area or neuronal size preference, although most neurons were around 75%. The dND neurons expressing GluR2/3 are primarily around 85%, medium to large-sized 85%, and predominantly 60% located in the medial portion of the rostral pole and in the lateral portion of the caudal pole. The majority of dND neurons containing GluR4 are also around 75%, larger (70% are large and giant), exhibiting a distribution that seems to be complementary to that of GluR2/3+ neurons. This distinct arrangement indicates functional differences into and between the DC nuclei, also signaling that such variation could be attributed to the diverse nature of the subunit composition of the GluRs. Discussion addresses the morphological and functional correlation of the avian DC with the LVN of mammals in addition to the high morphological correspondence, To include these data into the modern comparative approach we propose to adopt a similar nomenclature for the avian divisions dND and vND that could be referred as dLVN and vLVN.
Terminal deletion of the long arm of chromosome 2 is a rare chromosomal disorder characterized by low birth weight, delayed somatic and mental development, craniofacial defects, short neck, heart and lung congenital defects, and autistic features. We report on a girl with 46,XX.ish del(2)(q37.1) de novo karyotype, mental retardation, dysmorphic features, gastrointestinal anomalies, and autistic traits and compare her clinical manifestations with patients with the same deletion previously described in literature.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) represents a useful tool for studying brain functions and the neural basis of cognition in healthy children and in those in disease states. Functional magnetic resonance imaging is a relatively new use of existing magnetic resonance imaging technology that allows scientists and practitioners to observe the brain at work. It is based on the observation that local increases in blood flow are related to neural activity. This review considers principles of functional magnetic resonance imaging, issues relevant to imaging children, and research using functional magnetic resonance imaging to examine cognitive processing in pediatric populations. The focus is specifically on language studies to review strengths, limitations, and practical applications of this technology with children. Future directions for functional magnetic resonance imaging are presented.
The dopamine transfer deficit model of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is compared and contrasted with the existing dynamic developmental theory and the extended temporal difference (TD) model. The first two both identify learning deficits as a key problem in ADHD, but this mechanism would seem at least as likely to cause other neurodevelopmental disorders. Learning deficits also do not provide a natural account of ADHD performance worsening in longer trials, nor of stimulant action, nor of the high rate of test-retest inconsistency. The extended TD model is based on the quite different premise that there are very many underlying causes for the disorder, and computational simulation of it has supported the existence of two subtypes that involve no dopamine transfer deficit, as well as several subtypes that do. The three models have markedly different ways of accounting for key aspects of ADHD, including intra-individual variability, stimulant effects, and extinction deficits. The most important shortcoming of all the models is their limited treatment of state-regulation processes, which are very important in ADHD; this is partially addressed by the extended TD model's proposed dopamine appetite.
The extracellular matrix plays a pivotal role in numerous cellular functions during normal and pathological processes. Secretory meningiomas are rare histological meningioma subtypes that have benign behavior, are highly vascularized and are frequently accompanied by massive peritumoral edema. The aim of this study was to assess in secretory meningiomas the immunohistochemical expression of laminin, fibronectin and type IV collagen, proteins found in the extracellular matrix. Extracellular matrix proteins were evaluated in samples from six secretory meningiomas using a semiquantitative scale ranging from not detected (0) to marked (3). Laminin expression was not detected in two cases, but was minimal in one, moderate in one and marked in the remaining cases. Fibronectin expression was absent in two cases, minimal in two, moderate in one and marked with generalized distribution in the remaining case. Type IV collagen expression was minimal in three cases, moderate in two and marked with generalized distribution in the remaining case. Our results are indicative of significant neoangiogenic activity. Meningiomas increase in size through increased production of extracellular matrix; furthermore, the proliferation of cells typically associated with neoplasia requires considerable interaction with the extracellular matrix.


Previous functional neuroimaging studies of temporal-order memory have investigated memory for laboratory stimuli that are causally unrelated and poor in sensory detail. In contrast, the present functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study investigated temporal-order memory for autobiographical events that were causally interconnected and rich in sensory detail. Participants took photographs at many campus locations over a period of several hours, and the following day they were scanned while making temporal-order judgments to pairs of photographs from different locations. By manipulating the temporal lag between the two locations in each trial, we compared the neural correlates associated with reconstruction processes, which we hypothesized depended on recollection and contribute mainly to short lags, and distance processes, which we hypothesized to depend on familiarity and contribute mainly to longer lags. Consistent with our hypotheses, parametric fMRI analyses linked shorter lags to activations in regions previously associated with recollection (left prefrontal, parahippocampal, precuneus, and visual cortices), and longer lags with regions previously associated with familiarity (right prefrontal cortex). The hemispheric asymmetry in prefrontal cortex activity fits very well with evidence and theories regarding the contributions of the left versus right prefrontal cortex to memory (recollection vs. familiarity processes) and cognition (systematic vs. heuristic processes). In sum, using a novel photo-paradigm, this study provided the first evidence regarding the neural correlates of temporal-order for autobiographical events.
In most species, sexes differ in levels of parasitism. These differences have traditionally been believed to be static, but a capacity for adjusting anti-parasite investments would allow sexes to allocate resources adaptively contingent on environmental conditions. During stressful periods, such as a food shortage, allocation decisions would be mandated in males and females, but the biasing of resources may differ depending on the value of various physiological alternatives to the fitness of each sex. To determine whether sexes sacrifice immune or reproductive capacity when stressed, male and female Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus) were pharmacologically deprived of glucose. Glucose deprivation was expected to compromise immune activity (delayed-type hypersensitivity) more than reproductive capacity in males because male fitness is limited by reproductive opportunities. The opposite was predicted for females because of the greater value of surviving to breed in favorable conditions. Contrary to expectations, glucoprivation compromised immune activity in female, but not male, hamsters. Conversely, glucoprivation reduced male, but not female, reproductive organ masses. These results may reflect the adjustments made by wild hamsters during food shortages, or they may be influenced by the study design; neither sex was permitted to incur other behavioral and physiological costs, such as lactation and parental care. Regardless, our results indicate that sex differences in parasitism are likely to be plastic in many circumstances, but further work in free-living animals is critical to ascertain whether results of the present study are naturally representative.
Trigeminal schwannomas are rare, benign tumors. The unique course of the trigeminal nerve allows these tumors to grow into various intracranial compartments. Multicompartmental tumors are infrequent and may present a formidable challenge to the surgeon. Liaison between a neurosurgeon and a craniofacial surgeon ensures optimal surgical outcome. We report one such patient. The tumor was approached via a modified frontotemporal craniotomy with orbitozygomatic osteotomy. It was completely extradural and could be totally excised with minimal morbidity.
Experimental manipulation of foraging costs per food reward can be used to study the plasticity of physiological systems involved in energy metabolism. This approach is useful for understanding adaptations to natural variation in food availability. Earlier studies have shown that animals foraging on a fixed reward schedule decrease energy intake and expenditure. However, the extent to which these changes depend on decreased food intake or increased foraging costs per se has never been tested. We manipulated foraging costs per food reward in female Hsd:ICR(CD-1) laboratory mice, comparing animals faced with low (L) and high (H) foraging costs to non-foraging animals receiving a food restriction (R) matched to the intake of H animals. Mice in the H group ran as much as L mice did but ate significantly less. They concurrently reduced daily energy expenditure and resting metabolic rate, decreased the size of major metabolic organs and utilized body fat stores; mass-specific resting metabolic rate did not differ between groups. We found evidence that these alterations in energy balance may carry fitness costs. As a secondary response to our experimental treatment, H females and, eventually, some R females ceased to show signs of estrous cyclicity. Surprisingly, results of an immune challenge with keyhole limpet hemocyanin showed that primary immune response did not differ between L and H groups, and was actually higher in R mice. Our results demonstrate that high foraging costs per se--the combination of high activity and low food intake--have pronounced physiological effects in female mice.

To investigate the neural basis of age-related source memory (SM) deficits, young and older adults were scanned with fMRI while encoding faces, scenes, and face-scene pairs. Successful encoding activity was identified by comparing encoding activity for subsequently remembered versus forgotten items or pairs. Age deficits in successful encoding activity in hippocampal and prefrontal regions were more pronounced for SM (pairs) as compared with item memory (faces and scenes). Age-related reductions were also found in regions specialized in processing faces (fusiform face area) and scenes (parahippocampal place area), but these reductions were similar for item and SM. Functional connectivity between the hippocampus and the rest of the brain was also affected by aging; whereas connections with posterior cortices were weaker in older adults, connections with anterior cortices, including prefrontal regions, were stronger in older adults. Taken together, the results provide a link between SM deficits in older adults and reduced recruitment of hippocampal and prefrontal regions during encoding. The functional connectivity findings are consistent with a posterior-anterior shift with aging previously reported in several cognitive domains and linked to functional compensation.
The source monitoring framework (SMF; M. K. Johnson, S. Hashtroudi, &amp; D. S. Lindsay, 1993) posits that source monitoring can be supported by varying degrees of recollection. Source judgments were made for words heard at study (male or female voice) followed by remember/know (RK) judgments in order to assess differences in degrees of recollection during source monitoring (J. L. Hicks, R. L. Marsh, &amp; L. Ritschel, 2002). The neural correlate of recollection was examined by contrasting event-related potentials (ERPs) for R and K responses that followed accurate source judgments. The recollection ERP effect was greater for R than K responses but greater for K responses than correct rejections, which reinforces the behavioral evidence that indicates source monitoring can be supported by varying degrees of recollection. A robust late posterior negativity ERP effect was present and began earlier for accurate source judgments given subsequent R than K responses. This is interpreted as reflecting systematic decision processes that are described by the SMF.
Source memory involves recognizing or recalling particular features that cause us to think of a mental experience as representing a particular past event. Research directed at understanding source memory comes from many domains, including cognitive-behavioral psychology, neuroscience, lifespan psychology, clinical psychology, and psychiatry. The authors believe that integrating multiple approaches to investigating source memory--most notably here, cognitive-behavioral and cognitive neuroscience--provides productive cross-fertilization of theory, methods, and analyses that in turn will yield unique constraints to our understanding of human memory. The investigations in this special section demonstrate the promise of such an integrative approach for advancing theories of source memory.
The attribution of personal traits to other persons depends on the actions the observer performs at the same time (Bach &amp; Tipper, 2007). Here, we show that the effect reflects a misattribution of appraisals of the observers' own actions to the actions of others. We exploited spatial compatibility effects to manipulate how fluently-how fast and how accurately-participants identified two individuals performing sporty or academic actions. The traits attributed to each person in a subsequent rating task depended on the fluency of participants' responses in a specific manner. An individual more fluently identified while performing the academic action appeared more academic and less sporty. An individual more fluently identified while performing the sporty action appeared sportier. Thus, social perception is-at least partially-embodied. The ease of our own responses can be misattributed to the actions of others, affecting which personal traits are attributed to them.
Cold water near-drowning is often thought to be neuroprotective in individuals with anoxia of a longer duration than that usually required to produce irreversible neurologic damage. There is a paucity of data in adults with cold water near-drowning that assess neuropsychological outcomes. Information regarding long-term effects of near cold water near-drowning on neuropathology, neuropsychological and neurobehavioral outcomes are uncommon. This paper provides an introduction to two cases of cold water near-drowning reported in this issue of JINS by Sameulson and colleagues and provides background information for interpretation of the findings of these cases in the context of outcomes following anoxia.
Semantic and episodic memory networks function as highly interconnected systems, both relying on the hippocampal/medial temporal lobe complex (HC/MTL). Episodic memory encoding triggers the retrieval of semantic information, serving to incorporate contextual relationships between the newly acquired memory and existing semantic representations. While emotional material augments episodic memory encoding at the time of stimulus presentation, interactions between emotion and semantic memory that contribute to subsequent episodic recall are not well understood. Using a modified oddball task, we examined the modulatory effects of negative emotion on semantic interactions with episodic memory by measuring the free-recall of serially presented neutral or negative words varying in semantic relatedness. We found increased free-recall for words related to and preceding emotionally negative oddballs, suggesting that negative emotion can indirectly facilitate episodic free-recall by enhancing semantic contributions during encoding. Our findings demonstrate the ability of emotion and semantic memory to interact to mutually enhance free-recall.

Major depression is associated with impairments of executive functions and affect perception deficits, both being linked to dysfunction of fronto-subcortical networks. So far, little is known about the relationship between cognitive and affective deficits in major depression. In the present investigation, affect perception and executive functions were assessed in 29 patients with a diagnosis of major depression (Dep) and 29 healthy controls (HC). Both groups were comparable on IQ, age, and gender distribution. Depressed patients showed deficits of perception of affective prosody, which were significantly related to inhibition, set shifting, and working memory. Our findings suggest a significant association between cognitive deficits and affect perception impairments in major depression, which may be of considerable clinical relevance and might be addressed in treatment approaches. Future studies are desirable to investigate the nature of the association in more detail.
Filaggrin is an abundant protein of the outer epidermis that is essential for terminal differentiation of keratinocytes and formation of an effective barrier against water loss and pathogen/allergen/irritant invasion. Recent investigations in Europe and Japan have revealed null mutations in the filaggrin gene (FLG) as the underlying cause of ichthyosis vulgaris (IV), a common skin disorder characterised by dry skin, palmar hyperlinearity and keratosis pilaris. Following the development of a strategy for the comprehensive analysis of FLG, we have identified five unique mutations and one recurrent mutation in Singaporean Chinese IV patients. Mutation 441delA is located in the profilaggrin S100 domain, whereas two additional frameshift mutations, 1249insG and 7945delA, occur in the first partial filaggrin repeat (&quot;repeat 0&quot;) and in filaggrin repeat 7, respectively. Both nonsense mutations Q2147X and E2422X are found in filaggrin repeat 6, whereas R4307X was found on one of the longer size variant alleles of FLG, within duplicated repeat 10.2. Mutation E2422X, previously found in a single Dutch patient, was found in one Singaporean IV patient and at a low frequency in Asian population controls. Our study confirms the presence of population-specific as well as recurrent FLG mutations in Singapore.
The magic asymmetric gradient stimulated echo (MAGSTE) sequence developed to compensate background-gradient cross-terms in the preparation and readout interval independently, assumes identical lengths for the two gradient pulses applied in each interval. However, this approach is rather inefficient if some extra delay time is present in one half of an interval, e.g. as required for special RF excitations or spatial encoding prior to the stimulated echo in MR imaging. Therefore, a generalized version of the sequence is presented that considers different gradient pulse lengths within an interval. It is shown theoretically that (i) for any pulse lengths a &quot;magic&quot; amplitude ratio exists which ensures the desired cross-term compensation in each interval and that (ii) prolonging one of the gradients can deliver a considerably higher diffusion weighting efficiency. These results are confirmed in MR imaging experiments on phantoms and in vivo in the human brain at 3T using an echo-planar trajectory. In the examples shown, typically 10 times higher b values can be achieved or an echo time reduction with a 40% signal gain in brain white matter. Thus, in case of asymmetric timing requirements, the generalized MAGSTE sequence with different gradient pulse lengths may help to overcome signal-to-noise limitations in diffusion weighted MR.
This study investigates the causes of the observed linkage between depression and later onset of cancer. The prevailing view is that cancer in depressed patients results from a weakened immune system. However, molecular biologists have recognized that dysregulation of the ras proto-oncogene results in impaired serotonin and dopamine synthesis manifesting as major depression. A qualitative review of the literature showed that (1) studies using the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory showed a greater correlation between depression and later cancer onset than those employing other measures and (2) the more related the cancer type was to the Ras oncogene family, the greater the correlation between depression and later cancer onset. These results support the hypothesis that the ras proto-oncogene plays a role in the etiology of depression and could be the common denominator in long-observed depression/cancer linkages. Previous depression/cancer linkage studies are confounded in that they failed to analyze cancer type and accurately diagnose depression.
Many animal species use reaching for food to place in the mouth (reach-to-eat) with a hand, and it may be a primitive movement. Although researchers (I. Q. Whishaw, 2005; A. N. Iwaniuk &amp; I. Q. Whishaw, 2000; M. Gentiluci, I. Toni, S. Chieffi, &amp; G. Pavesi, 1994) have described visual guidance of reaching in both normal and brain-injured human and nonhuman primates, researchers have not described the contribution of vision during advance of the limb to grasp food and during withdrawal of the limb with food to the mouth. To evaluate visual contributions, the authors monitored eye movements in young adults as they reached for food with and without vision. Participants visually engaged the target prior to the 1st hand movement and disengaged it as the food was grasped. Visual occlusion slowed limb advance and altered digit shaping but did not affect withdrawal. The dependence on visual control of advance but not withdrawal suggests that the reach-to-eat movement is a composite of 2 basic movements under visual and tactile/proprioceptive guidance, respectively.


Mature striatal medium size spiny neurons express the dopamine and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein, 32 kDa (DARPP-32), but little is known about the mechanisms regulating its levels, or the specification of fully differentiated neuronal subtypes. Cell extrinsic molecules that increase DARPP-32 mRNA and/or protein levels include retinoic acid (RA), brain-derived neurotrophic factor, and estrogen (E(2)). We now demonstrate that RA regulates DARPP-32 mRNA and protein in primary striatal neuronal cultures. Furthermore, DARPP-32 induction by RA in vitro requires phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase, but is independent of tropomyosin-related kinase B, cyclin-dependent kinase 5, and protein kinase B. Using pharmacologic inhibitors of various isoforms of protein kinase C (PKC), we also demonstrate that DARPP-32 induction by RA in vitro is dependent on PKC zeta (PKCzeta). Thus, the signal transduction pathways mediated by RA are very different than those mediating DARPP-32 induction by brain-derived neurotrophic factor. These data support the presence of multiple signal transduction pathways mediating expression of DARPP-32 in vitro, including a novel, important pathway via which phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase regulates the contribution of PKCzeta.
In the developing rat cerebellum functional NMDA receptors (NMDARs) expressing the NR2C subunit have been identified on or after postnatal day 19. We obtained primary cultured cells from 19- to 35-day-old rat cerebellum that expressed few oligodendrocytes or astrocytes. Cultured cells were immunoreactive for neuron-specific proteins thus indicating a neuronal population. The primary neuron present was the granule cell as indicated by immunofluorescence for the GABA(A) alpha 6 subunit. Whole-cell patch-clamp experiments indicated that functional NMDARs were present. Functional characteristics of NMDARs expressed in cerebellar granule cells (CGCs) obtained from adolescent animals were similar to those previously reported for NMDARs expressed in CGCs obtained from neonatal rats. Cultured CGCs obtained from older animals contained NMDARs that were inhibited by EtOH and were less sensitive to the NR2B subunit-specific antagonist Ro 25-6981. Furthermore, NMDA-induced currents were smaller than those observed in CGCs. Western blot analysis indicated the presence of the NMDA NR2A and NR2C subunits, but not the NR2B in cultures obtained from the adolescent rats. CGCs obtained from adolescent rats express functional NMDARs consistent with a developmental profile observed in vivo.
We have shown previously that beta-catenin and cyclin D1 are up-regulated in cortical neurons from homozygous mice carrying the familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) presenilin-1 M146V mutation in a knock-in model (PS1 KI(M146V) mice), leading to cell cycle-associated apoptosis. Here, we have aimed to determine (i) whether this phenotype is present in heterozygous PS1 KI(M146V) mice, which reflects more accurately the PS1 FAD condition in humans and (ii) whether Abeta(1-42), which is invariably present in the PS1 FAD brain and is thought to affect neuronal cell cycle kinetics, may contribute to the abnormal cell cycle/cell death phenotype seen in PS1 KI(M146V) mice. We demonstrate that cell cycle-linked apoptosis occurs in heterozygous PS1 KI(M146V) post-mitotic neurons. In addition, there is a significant Abeta-associated increase in cell cycle and cell death that is not further modified by the PS1 KI(M146V) mutation. Our results are consistent with a cell cycle-associated neurodegeneration model in the PS1 FAD brain in which the loss of PS1-dependent beta-catenin regulatory function is sufficient to commit susceptible neurons to an abortive cell cycle, and may act synergistically with the Abeta cytotoxic challenge present in the PS1 FAD brain to expand the neuronal population susceptible to cell cycle-driven apoptosis.
Mitochondria have been implicated in the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative disorders and, in particular, complex I (NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase, EC 1.6.5.3) activity has been shown to be partially reduced in postmortem studies of the substantia nigra of Parkinson's disease patients. The present study examines the effect of partial inhibition of complex I activity on glutamate release from rat brain synaptosomes. Following a 40% inhibition of complex I activity with rotenone, it was found that Ca(2+)-independent release of glutamate increased from synaptosomes depolarized with 4-aminopyridine. Highest rates of glutamate release were found to occur between 60-90% complex I inhibition. A similar pattern of increase was shown to occur in synaptosomes depolarized with KCl. The increase in glutamate release was found to correlate to a significant decrease in ATP. Inhibition of complex I activity by 40% was also shown to cause a significant collapse in mitochondrial membrane potential (Deltapsi(m)). These results suggest that partial inhibition of complex I activity in in situ mitochondria is sufficient to significantly increase release of glutamate from the pre-synaptic nerve terminal. The relevance of these results in the context of excitotoxicity and the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders is discussed.
We previously demonstrated that NMDA receptors containing the NR2A or NR2B subunits differentially regulate striatal output pathways. We now investigate whether such a differential control is altered under parkinsonian conditions and whether subunit selective antagonists have different abilities to attenuate parkinsonian-like motor deficits. Three microdialysis probes were simultaneously implanted in the dopamine-depleted striatum, globus pallidus and substantia nigra reticulata of 6-hydroxydopamine hemilesioned rats. The NR2A antagonist NVP-AAM077 perfused in the striatum reduced pallidal GABA, but not glutamate, levels whereas the NR2B antagonist Ro 25-6981 was ineffective. Neither antagonist affected striatal or nigral amino acid levels. To investigate whether these neurochemical responses were predictive of different antiparkinsonian activities, antagonists were administered systemically and motor activity evaluated in different motor tasks. Neither antagonist attenuated akinesia/bradykinesia in the bar and drag test. However, NVP-AAM077 dually modulated rotarod performance (low doses being facilitatory and higher ones inhibitory) while Ro 25-6981 monotonically improved it. Microdialysis revealed that motor facilitating doses reduced pallidal GABA levels while motor inhibiting doses increased them. We conclude that, under parkinsonian conditions, the striato-pallidal pathway is driven by striatal NR2A subunits. Motor improvement induced by NVP-AAM077 and Ro 25-6981 is accomplished by blockade of striatal NR2A and extrastriatal NR2B subunits, respectively.
Transglutaminases (TGases) catalyze several reactions with protein substrates, including formation of gamma-glutamyl-epsilon-lysine cross-links and gamma-glutamylpolyamine residues. The resulting gamma-glutamylamines are excised intact during proteolysis. TGase activity is altered in several diseases, highlighting the importance of in situ enzymatic determinations. Previous work showed that TGase activity (as measured by an in vitro assay) and free gamma-glutamyl-epsilon-lysine levels are elevated in Huntington disease (HD) and that gamma-glutamyl-epsilon-lysine is increased in HD CSF. Although free gamma-glutamyl-epsilon-lysine was used in these studies as an index of in situ TGase activity, gamma-glutamylpolyamines may also be diagnostic. We have devised methods for the simultaneous determination of four gamma-glutamylamines in CSF: gamma-glutamyl-epsilon-lysine, gamma-glutamylspermidine, gamma-glutamylputrescine, and bis-gamma-glutamylputrescine and showed that all are present in normal human CSF at concentrations of approximately 150, 670, 40, and 240 nM, respectively. The high gamma-glutamylspermidine/gamma-glutamylputrescine and gamma-glutamylspermidine/bis-gamma-glutamylputrescine ratios presumably reflect in part the large spermidine to putrescine mole ratio in human brain. We also showed that all four gamma-glutamylamines are elevated in HD CSF. Our findings support the hypotheses that (i) gamma-glutamylpolyamines are reflective of TGase activity in human brain, (ii) polyamination is an important post-translational modification of brain proteins, and (iii) TGase-catalyzed modification of proteins is increased in HD brain.
Recently, matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are emerging as important molecules in neuroinflammation as well as neuronal cell death. However, the role of MMPs in activated microglia remains unclear. In the present study, we found that expressions of MMP-1, -3, -8 and -9 were significantly induced by single or combined treatment of immunostimulants lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) in primary cultured microglia and BV2 microglial cells. Inhibition of MMP-3 or -9 significantly suppressed the expression of iNOS and pro-inflammatory cytokines and the activities of NF-kappaB, AP-1, and MAPK in LPS-stimulated microglia. The results suggest that MMP-3 and -9 both mediate LPS-induced inflammatory reactions. Inhibition of reactive oxygen species (ROS) by N-acetyl-cysteine or diphenylene iodonium significantly suppressed the expression of MMP-3, MMP-9, NO and TNF-alpha in LPS-stimulated microglia, suggesting that ROS is an early signaling inducer in LPS-stimulated microglial cells. MMP inhibitors also suppressed ROS production, suggesting a cross-talk between ROS and MMPs. Collectively, the present study demonstrates that MMP-3 and MMP-9 play a role as inflammatory mediators in activated microglia. Pharmacological intervention of MMPs especially MMP-3 and -9 would be a therapeutic strategy for the treatment of inflammatory diseases in the CNS caused by over-activation of microglial cells.
Thiamine deficiency provides an effective model of selective neuronal cell death. (1)H and (13)C-NMR was used to investigate the effects of thiamine deficiency on the synthesis of amino acids derived from [1-(13)C]glucose in vulnerable (medial thalamus; MT) compared to non-vulnerable (frontal cortex; FC) brain regions. Following 11 days of thiamine deficiency, a time-point associated with the absence of significant neuronal cell death, regional concentrations of glutamate, glutamine and GABA remained unaffected in FC and MT; however, decreased levels of aspartate in MT at this time-point were a predictor of regional vulnerability. De novo synthesis of glutamate and GABA were unaffected at 11 days of thiamine deficiency, while synthesis of [2-(13)C]aspartate was significantly impaired. Glucose loading, which has been shown to exacerbate symptoms in patients with thiamine deficiency, resulted in further decreases of TCA cycle flux and reduced de novo synthesis of glutamate, aspartate and GABA in thiamine-deficient (TD) rats. Isotopomer analysis revealed that impaired TCA cycle flux and decreased aspartate synthesis due to thiamine deficiency occurred principally in neurons. Glucose loading deteriorated TD-related decreases in TCA cycle flux, and concomitantly reduced synthesis of aspartate and glutamate in MT.
Recent findings suggest that hypercholesterolemia may contribute to the onset of Alzheimer's disease-like dementia but the underlying mechanisms remain unknown. In this study, we evaluated the cognitive performance in rodent models of hypercholesterolemia in relation to neuroinflammatory changes and amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing, the two key parameters of Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis. Groups of normal C57BL/6 and low density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR)-deficient mice were fed a high fat/cholesterol diet for an 8-week period and tested for memory in a radial arm maze. It was found that the C57BL/6 mice receiving a high fat diet were deficient in handling an increasing working memory load compared with counterparts receiving a control diet while the hypercholesterolemic LDLR-/- mice showed impaired working memory regardless of diet. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed the presence of activated microglia and astrocytes in the hippocampi from high fat-fed C57BL/6 mice and LDLR-/- mice. Consistent with a neuroinflammatory response, the hyperlipidemic mice showed increased expression of cytokines/mediators including tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1beta and -6, nitric oxide synthase 2, and cycloxygenase 2. There was also an induced expression of the key APP processing enzyme i.e. beta-site APP cleaving enzyme 1 in both high fat/cholesterol-fed C57BL/6 and LDLR-/- mice accompanied by an increased generation of C-terminal fragments of APP. Although ELISA for beta-amyloid failed to record significant changes in the non-transgenic mice, a threefold increase in beta-amyloid 40 accumulation was apparent in a strain of transgenic mice expressing wild-type human APP on high fat/cholesterol diet. The findings link hypercholesterolemia with cognitive dysfunction potentially mediated by increased neuroinflammation and APP processing in a non-transgenic mouse model.
Aminopeptidase A (APA) generated brain angiotensin III, one of the main effector peptides of the brain renin angiotensin system, exerting a tonic stimulatory effect on the control of blood pressure in hypertensive rats. The distribution of APA in human brain has not been yet studied. We first biochemically characterized human brain APA (apparent molecular mass of 165 and 130 kDa) and we showed that the human enzyme exhibited similar enzymatic characteristics to recombinant mouse APA. Both enzymes had similar sensitivity to Ca(2+). Kinetic studies showed that the K(m) (190 mumol/L) of the human enzyme for the synthetic substrate-l-glutamyl-beta-naphthylamide was close from that of the mouse enzyme (256 mumol/L). Moreover, various classes of inhibitors including the specific and selective APA inhibitor, (S)-3-amino-4-mercapto-butyl sulfonic acid, had similar inhibitory potencies toward both enzymes. Using (S)-3-amino-4-mercapto-butyl sulfonic acid, we then specifically measured the activity of APA in 40 microdissected areas of the adult human brain. Significant heterogeneity was found in the activity of APA in the various analyzed regions. The highest activity was measured in the choroids plexus and the pineal gland. High activity was also detected in the dorsomedial medulla oblongata, in the septum, the prefrontal cortex, the olfactory bulb, the nucleus accumbens, and the hypothalamus, especially in the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei. Immunostaining of human brain sections at the level of the medulla oblongata strengthened these data, showing for the first time a high density of immunoreactive neuronal cell bodies and fibers in the motor hypoglossal nucleus, the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus, the nucleus of the solitary tract, the Roller nucleus, the ambiguus nucleus, the inferior olivary complex, and in the external cuneate nucleus. APA immunoreactivity was also visualized in vessels and capillaries in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus and the inferior olivary complex. The presence of APA in several human brain nuclei sensitive to angiotensins and involved in blood pressure regulation suggests that APA in humans is an integral component of the brain renin angiotensin system and strengthens the idea that APA inhibitors could be clinically tested as an additional therapy for the treatment of certain forms of hypertension.
We investigated the consequences of transient application of specific stimuli mimicking inflammation to hippocampal tissue on microglia activation and neuronal cell vulnerability to a subsequent excitotoxic insult. Two-week-old organotypic hippocampal slice cultures, from 7-day-old C57BL/6 donor mice, were exposed for 3 h to lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 10 ng/mL) followed by 3 h co-incubation with 1 mM ATP, or 100 microM 2'3'-O-(4-benzoyl-benzoyl) adenosine 5'-triphosphate triethylammonium, a selective P2X(7) receptor agonist. These treatments in combination, but not individually, induced a pronounced activation and apoptotic-like death of macrophage antigen-1 (MAC-1)-positive microglia associated with a massive release of interleukin (IL)-1beta exceeding that induced by LPS alone. Antagonists of P2X(7) receptors prevented these effects. Transient pre-exposure of slice cultures to a combination of LPS and P2X(7) receptor agonists, but not either one or the other alone, significantly exacerbated CA3 pyramidal cell loss induced by subsequent 12 h exposure to 8 microM alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propinate (AMPA). Potentiation of AMPA toxicity was prevented when IL-1beta production or its receptor signaling were blocked by an inhibitor of interleukin-converting-enzyme or IL-1 receptor antagonist during application of LPS + ATP. The same treatments did not prevent microglia apoptosis-like death. These findings show that transient exposure to specific pro-inflammatory stimuli in brain tissue can prime neuronal susceptibility to a subsequent excitotoxic insult. P2X(7) receptor stimulation, and the consequent IL-1beta release, is mandatory for exacerbation of neuronal loss. These mechanisms may contribute to determine cell death/survival in acute and chronic neurodegenerative conditions associated with inflammatory events.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive and chronic neurodegenerative disorder, characterized by progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra. The etiology and pathogenesis of PD is still elusive, however, a large body of evidence suggests a prominent role of oxidative stress, inflammation, apoptosis, mitochondrial dysfunction and proteosomal dysfunction in the pathogenesis of PD. Due to multifactorial nature of the disease, currently available drug therapy cannot halt / slow down the disease progression, and only provides symptomatic relief. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR), a member of nuclear receptor superfamily, regulates development, tissue differentiation, inflammation, mitochondrial function, wound healing, lipid metabolism and glucose metabolism. Recently, several PPAR agonists were shown to exert neuroprotective activity against oxidative damage, inflammation and apoptosis in several neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, Huntington's, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and multiple sclerosis. Similarly, regular intake of PPAR activating non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as indomethacin and ibuprofen was associated with reduced incidence and progression of neurodegenerative disorders in several epidemiological studies. In this article, we review studies relating to the neuroprotective effect of PPAR agonists in in vitro and in vivo models of PD. Similarly, the pharmacological mechanism in neuroprotective actions of PPAR agonists is also reviewed. In conclusion, PPAR agonists exert neuroprotective actions by regulating the expression of a set of genes involved in cell survival processes, and could be a therapeutic target in debilitating neurodegenerative illnesses such as PD.
We previously reported that serotonin (5-HT) increased glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) release in a 5-HT(2) receptor (5-HT(2)R) and mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase/extracellular signal-related kinase (MEK/ERK)-dependent manner in rat C6 glioma cells (C6 cells), a model of astrocytes. We herein found that 5-HT-induced rapid ERK phosphorylation was blocked by 5-HT(2)R antagonists in C6 cells. We therefore examined 5-HT-induced ERK phosphorylation to reveal the mechanism of 5-HT-induced GDNF mRNA expression. As 5-HT-induced ERK phosphorylation was blocked by inhibitors for Galpha(q/11) and fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR), but not for second messengers downstream of Galpha(q/11), 5-HT(2)R-mediated FGFR transactivation was suggested to be involved in the ERK phosphorylation. Although FGFR1 and 2 were functionally expressed in C6 cells, 5-HT selectively phosphorylated FGFR2. Indeed, small interfering RNA for FGFR2, but not for FGFR1, blocked 5-HT-induced ERK phosphorylation. As Src family tyrosine kinase inhibitors and microtubule depolymerizing agents blocked 5-HT-induced FGFR2 phosphorylation, Src family tyrosine kinase and stabilized microtubules were suggested to act upstream of FGFR2. Finally, 5-HT-induced GDNF mRNA expression was also inhibited by the blockade of 5-HT(2)R, FGFR, and Src family tyrosine kinase. In conclusion, our findings suggest that 5-HT induces GDNF mRNA expression via 5-HT(2)R-mediated FGFR2 transactivation in C6 cells.
NMDA-mediated calcium entry and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production are well-recognized perpetrators of ischemic neuronal damage. The current studies show that these events lead to the release of the protein hydrolase, cathepsin B, from lysosomes 2 h following 5-min oxygen-glucose deprivation in the rat hippocampal slice. This release reflects a lysosomal membrane permeabilization (LMP) and was measured as the appearance of diffuse immunolabeled cathepsin B in the cytosol of CA1 pyramidal neurons. Necrotic neuronal damage begins after the release of cathepsins and is prevented by inhibitors of either cathepsin B or D indicating that the release of cathepsins is an important mediator of severe damage. There was an increase in superoxide levels, measured by dihydroethidium fluorescence, at the same time as LMP and reducing ROS levels with antioxidants, Trolox or N-tert-butyl-alpha-phenyl nitrone, blocked LMP. Both LMP and ROS production were blocked by an NMDA channel blocker (MK-801) and by inhibitors of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (U0126), calcium-dependent/independent phospholipases A2 (methyl arachidonyl fluorophosphonate) but not calcium-independent phospholipases A2 (bromoenol lactone) and cyclooxygenase-2 (NS398). A cell-permeant specific inhibitor of calpain (PD150606) prevented LMP, but not ROS production. It is concluded that LMP results in part from calcium-initiated and extracellular signal-regulated kinase-initiated arachidonic acid metabolism, which produces free radicals; it also requires the action of calpain.
Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS), chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP) and multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN) are the major immune neuropathies. Although a detailed understanding of the pathogenesis of these conditions is not yet available, the multiple effects of IVIg on the immune and inflammatory process recommend it as an agent worthy of investigation in these diseases. Following recent research, IVIg is now recommended as a first-line treatment option for moderate or severe GBS to be administered within two weeks of disease onset. With regard to CIDP, a Cochrane review demonstrated significant short-term improvements in disability and impairment with IVIg. The ICE (IGIV CIDP Efficacy trial) study group undertook the largest ever trial of IVIg for CIDP, which demonstrated for the first time the long-term efficacy of IVIg. The results of this ICE trial demonstrated the efficacy of IVIg in CIDP, with a significantly higher response rate versus placebo after 24 weeks of treatment (P = 0.0002). Furthermore, long-term maintenance with IVIg also significantly reduced the rate of relapse (P &lt; 0.011). On the basis of available data, IVIg can be recommended as a first-line treatment option for GBS and CIDP. For MMN, although the evidence for IVIg is limited, there is no evidence to recommend other treatments.

The aim of the present study was to explore variations in functioning and disability--with regard to cognition, manual dexterity, walking, energy, mood, activities of daily living and social/ lifestyle activities--every six months during a 2-year period, in 200 people with MS (PwMS) at an outpatient MS specialist clinic. Symbol Digit Modalities Test, Nine Hole Peg Test, Timed 25 Foot Walk, Fatigue Severity Scale, Beck Depression Inventory, Katz ADL Index Extended and Frenchay Activities Index were used to collect data. For analyses of statistically significant changes in scores during the study period, repeated measures ANOVA was used for ratio data and Friedman ANOVA for ordinal data. In addition, effect size as well as the mean/median change in score during the study period were determined for each functioning. Nearly all functioning studied varied significantly but there was no general deterioration in the sample. Small effect sizes were mainly found for the Frenchay Activities Index and a plausible practice effect was detected for the Symbol Digit Modalities Test. As many as 63% with regard to walking and 46% with regard to manual dexterity demonstrated &gt;20% mean change in scores which has proved to be a reliable and clinically meaningful change. This study illustrates the importance of systematic and regular multidimensional assessment of functioning and disability in PwMS aiming to identify disabilities that could be minimized through timely and appropriate evidence-based interventions. The fluctuation in functioning and the conceivable learning effect inherent in instruments used should be taken into consideration when designing studies and interpreting the results.








There is limited information on the validity of the pathologic criteria of the Third Consortium on Dementia with Lewy bodies (CDLB), and none are based on prospectively diagnosed cases. In this study, the core clinical features of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and the suggestive clinical feature of rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder were assessed using a battery of standardized clinical instruments in 76 patients with the clinical diagnosis of either DLB or Alzheimer disease. At autopsy, 29 patients had high-likelihood, 17 had intermediate-likelihood, and 6 had low-likelihood DLB pathology. The frequency of core clinical features and the accuracy of the clinical diagnosis of probable DLB were significantly greater in high-likelihood than in low-likelihood cases. This is consistent with the concept that the DLB clinical syndrome is directly related to Lewy body pathology and inversely related to Alzheimer pathology. Thus, the Third Consortium on DLB neuropathologic criteria scheme performed reasonably well and are useful for estimating the likelihood of the premortem DLB syndrome based on postmortem findings. In view of differences in the frequency of clinically probable DLB in cases with Braak neurofibrillary tangle stages V (90%) and VI (20%) and diffuse cortical Lewy bodies, a possible modification of the scheme is to consider cases with neurofibrillary tangle stage VI to be low-likelihood DLB.
There is ample evidence from demonstrations such as color induction and stabilized images that information from surface boundaries plays a special role in determining the perception of surface interiors. Surface interiors appear to &quot;fill-in.&quot; Psychophysical experiments also show that surface perception involves a slow scale-dependent process distinct from mechanisms involved in contour perception. The present experiments aimed to test the hypothesis that surface perception is associated with relatively slow scale-dependent neural filling-in. We found that responses in macaque primary visual cortex (V1) are slower to surface interiors than responses to optimal bar stimuli. Moreover, we found that the response to a surface interior is delayed relative to the response to the surface's border and the extent of the delay is proportional to the distance between a receptive field and the border. These findings are consistent with some forms of neural filling-in and suggest that V1 may provide the neural substrate for perceptual filling-in.
Much recent research has shown that the level of perceptual load in a task determines the perception of task-irrelevant stimuli and associated neural activity, but the mediating neural mechanisms remain unclear. Here we show that increasing the level of perceptual load in a static letter search task results in an increase in the intensity of transcranial magnetic stimulation over V5/MT required to elicit the perception of a moving phosphene. These findings suggest that the neural mechanisms mediating the effects of perceptual load involve reduced visual cortex excitability in task-unrelated areas.
Similar motor regions are activated during voluntarily executed or observed movements. We investigated whether observing movements of one's own hand through a mirror will generate activations in the cortical motor regions of both the moving and nonmoving hands. Using the lateralized readiness potential (LRP), an electrophysiological correlate of premotor activation in the primary motor cortex, we recorded evoked responses to movements while subjects were viewing the performing (right) hand through a mirror placed sagittally, giving the impression that the left hand was performing the task. Reliable LRPs were recorded in relation to the seen hand, indicating motor cortex activity in the contralateral hemisphere of the inactive hand while the opposite hand was performing the movement.
Melanopsin (Opn4) is a photopigment found in a subset of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) that project to various brain areas. These neurons are intrinsically photosensitive (ipRGCs) and are implicated in nonimage-forming responses to environmental light such as the pupillary light reflex and circadian entrainment. Recent evidence indicates that ipRGCs respond to light at birth, but questions remain as to whether and when they undergo significant functional changes. We used bacterial artificial chromosome transgenesis to engineer a mouse line in which enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) is expressed under the control of the melanopsin promoter. Double immunolabeling for EGFP and melanopsin demonstrates their colocalization in ganglion cells of mutant mouse retinas. Electrophysiological recordings of ipRGCs in neonatal mice (postnatal day 0 [P0] to P7) demonstrated that these cells responded to light with small and sluggish depolarization. However, starting at P11 we observed ipRGCs that responded to light with a larger and faster onset (&lt;1 s) and offset (&lt;1 s) depolarization. These faster, larger depolarizations were observed in most ipRGCs by early adult ages. However, on application of a cocktail of synaptic blockers, we found that all cells responded to light with slow onset (&gt;2.5 s) and offset (&gt;10 s) depolarization, revealing the intrinsic, melanopsin-mediated light responses. The extrinsic, cone/rod influence on ipRGCs correlates with their extensive dendritic stratification in the inner plexiform layer. Collectively, these results demonstrate that ipRGCs make use of melanopsin for phototransduction before eye opening and that these cells further integrate signals derived from the outer retina as the retina matures.
What is the relationship between retinotopy and object selectivity in human lateral occipital (LO) cortex? We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to examine sensitivity to retinal position and category in LO, an object-selective region positioned posterior to MT along the lateral cortical surface. Six subjects participated in phase-encoded retinotopic mapping experiments as well as block-design experiments in which objects from six different categories were presented at six distinct positions in the visual field. We found substantial position modulation in LO using standard nonobject retinotopic mapping stimuli; this modulation extended beyond the boundaries of visual field maps LO-1 and LO-2. Further, LO showed a pronounced lower visual field bias: more LO voxels represented the lower contralateral visual field, and the mean LO response was higher to objects presented below fixation than above fixation. However, eccentricity effects produced by retinotopic mapping stimuli and objects differed. Whereas LO voxels preferred a range of eccentricities lying mostly outside the fovea in the retinotopic mapping experiment, LO responses were strongest to foveally presented objects. Finally, we found a stronger effect of position than category on both the mean LO response, as well as the distributed response across voxels. Overall these results demonstrate that retinal position exhibits strong effects on neural response in LO and indicates that these position effects may be explained by retinotopic organization.
The malleability of object representations by experience is essential for adaptive behavior. It has been hypothesized that neurons in inferior temporal cortex (IT) in monkeys are pivotal in visual association learning, evidenced by experiments revealing changes in neural selectivity following visual learning, as well as by lesion studies, wherein functional inactivation of IT impairs learning. A critical question remaining to be answered is whether IT neuronal activity is sufficient for learning. To address this question directly, we conducted experiments combining visual classification learning with microstimulation in IT. We assessed the effects of IT microstimulation during learning in cases where the stimulation was exclusively informative, conditionally informative, and informative but not necessary for the classification task. The results show that localized microstimulation in IT can be used to establish visual classification learning, and the same stimulation applied during learning can predictably bias judgments on subsequent recognition. The effect of induced activity can be explained neither by direct stimulation-motor association nor by simple detection of cortical stimulation. We also found that the learning effects are specific to IT stimulation as they are not observed by microstimulation in an adjacent auditory area. Our results add the evidence that the differential activity in IT during visual association learning is sufficient for establishing new associations. The results suggest that experimentally manipulated activity patterns within IT can be effectively combined with ongoing visually induced activity during the formation of new associations.
Considerable research has established that rapid motor responses (traditionally called reflexes), can be modified by a subject's voluntary goals. Here, we expand on past observations using verbal instructions by defining the voluntary goal via visual target position. This approach allowed us to objectively enforce task adherence and explore a richer set of variables, such as target direction and distance, metrics that modify voluntary control and that--according to our hypothesis--will influence rapid motor responses. Our first experiment tested whether upper-limb responses are categorically modulated by target direction by placing targets such that the same perturbation could push the hand into one target and out of the other, a spatial analogue to &quot;resist/yield&quot; verbal instructions. Consistent with these classical results, we found that the short-latency rapid response (R1, 20-45 ms) was not modulated by target direction, whereas long-latency rapid responses (R2/R3, 45-105 ms) were modified in a manner approaching the voluntary response (VOL, 120-180 ms). Our second experiment tested whether upper-limb responses are continuously modulated by target distance by distributing five targets along one axis centered on the hand. Here, the long-latency and voluntary response mirrored the task demands by increasing activity in a graded fashion with increasing target distance. Our final experiment explored how upper-limb responses incorporate two-dimensional spatial information by placing targets radially around the hand. Notably, long-latency responses exhibited smooth tuning functions to target direction that were similar to those observed for the voluntary response. Taken together, these results illustrate the flexibility of long-latency rapid responses and emphasize their similarity to later voluntary responses.
Sensory association and parahippocampal cortex in the ventral temporal lobe plays an important role in sensory object recognition and control of top-down attention. Although layer V neurons located in high-order cortical structures project to multiple cortical and subcortical regions, the architecture and functional organization of this large axonal network are poorly understood. Using a large in vitro slice preparation, we examined the functional organization and spike timing properties of the descending layer V axonal network. We found that most, if not all, layer V neurons in this region can form multiple axonal pathways that project to many brain structures, both proximal and remote. The conduction velocities of different axonal pathways are highly diverse and can vary up to more than threefold. Nevertheless for those axonal projections on the ipsilateral side, the speeds of axonal conduction appear to be tuned to their length. As such, spike delivery becomes nearly isochronic along these pathways regardless of projection distance. In contrast, axons projecting to the contralateral hemisphere are significantly slower and do not participate in this lateralized isochronicity. These structural and functional features of layer V network from the ventral temporal lobe may play an important role in top-down control of sensory cue processing and attention.
Habituation is one of the simplest forms of memory, yet its neurobiological mechanisms remain largely unknown in mammalian systems. This review summarizes recent multidisciplinary analyses of the neurobiology of mammalian odor habituation including in vitro and in vivo synaptic physiology, sensory physiology, behavioral pharmacology, and computational modeling approaches. The findings show that a metabotropic glutamate receptor-mediated depression of afferent synapses to the olfactory cortex is necessary and perhaps sufficient to account for cortical sensory adaptation and short-term behavioral habituation. Furthermore, long-term habituation is an N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-dependent process within the olfactory bulb. Thus there is both a pharmacological and anatomical distinction between short-term and long-term memory for habituation. The differential locus of change underlying short- and long-term memory leads to predictable differences in their behavioral characteristics, such as specificity.
Flufenamic acid (FFA) is a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory agent, commonly used to block nonselective cation channels. We previously reported that FFA potentiated, rather than inhibited, a cation current in Aplysia bag cell neurons. Prompted by this paradoxical result, the present study examined the effects of FFA on membrane currents and intracellular Ca2+ in cultured bag cell neurons. Under whole cell voltage clamp, FFA evoked either outward (I out) or inward (I in) currents. I out had a rapid onset, was inhibited by the K+ channel blocker, tetraethylammonium, and was associated with both an increase in membrane conductance and a negative shift in the whole cell current reversal potential. I in developed more slowly, was inhibited by the cation channel blocker, Gd3+, and was concomitant with both an increased conductance and positive shift in reversal potential. FFA also enhanced the use-dependent inactivation and caused a positive-shift in the activation curve of the voltage-dependent Ca2+ current. Furthermore, as measured by ratiometric imaging, FFA produced a rise in intracellular Ca2+ that persisted in the absence of extracellular Ca2+ and was reduced by depleting either the endoplasmic reticulum and/or mitochondrial stores. Ca2+ appeared to be involved in the activation of I in, as strong intracellular Ca2+ buffering effectively eliminated I in but did not alter I out. Finally, the effects of FFA were likely not due to block of cyclooxygenase given that the general cyclooxygenase inhibitor, indomethacin, failed to evoke either current. That FFA influences a number of neuronal properties needs to be taken into consideration when employing it as a cation channel antagonist.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) triggers a robust inflammatory response that contributes in part to the secondary degeneration of spared tissue. Here, we use flow cytometry to quantify the inflammatory response after SCI. Besides its objective evaluation, flow cytometry allows for levels of particular markers to be documented that further aid in the identification of cellular subsets. Analyses of blood from SCI mice for CD45 (common leukocyte antigen), CD11b (complement receptor-3), Gr-1 (neutrophil/monocyte marker), and CD3 (T-cell marker) revealed a marked increase in circulating neutrophils (CD45(high):Gr-1(high)) at 12 hr compared with controls. Monocyte density in blood increased at 24 hr, and in contrast, lymphocyte numbers were significantly decreased. Mirroring the early increase in neutrophils within the blood, flow analysis of the spinal cord lesion site revealed a significant (P &lt; 0.01) and maintained increase in blood-derived leukocytes (CD45(high):CD11b(high)) from 12 to 96 hr compared with sham-injured and naive controls. Importantly, this technique clearly distinguishes blood-derived neutrophils (CD45:Gr-1(high):F4/80(negative)) and monocyte/macrophages (CD45(high)) from resident microglia (CD45(low)) and revealed that the majority of the blood-derived infiltrate were neutrophils. Our results highlight an assumed, but previously uncharacterized, marked and transient increase in leukocyte populations in blood early after SCI followed by the orchestrated invasion of neutrophils and monocytes into the injured cord. In contrast to mobilization of neutrophils, SCI induces lymphopenia that may contribute negatively to the overall outcome after spinal cord trauma.
We investigated the neurogenic potential of full-term human umbilical cord blood (hUCB)-derived multipotent mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) in response to neural induction media or coculture with rat neural cells. Phenotypic and functional changes were assessed by immunocytochemistry, RT-PCR, and whole-cell patch-clamp recordings. Naive MSCs expressed both mesodermal and ectodermal markers prior to neural induction. Exposure to retinoic acid, basic fibroblast growth factor, or cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) did not stimulate neural morphology, whereas exposure to dibutyryl cAMP and 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine stimulated a neuron-like morphology but also appeared to be cytotoxic. All protocols stimulated increases in expression of the neural precursor marker nestin, but expression of mature neuronal or glial markers MAP2 and GFAP was not observed. Nestin expression increases were serum level dependent. Electrophysiological properties of MSCs were studied with whole-cell patch-clamp recordings. The MSCs possessed no ionic currents typical of neurons before or after neural induction protocols. Coculture of hUCB-derived MSCs and rat neural cells induced some MSCs to adopt an astrocyte-like morphology and express GFAP protein and mRNA. Our data suggest hUCB-derived MSCs do not transdifferentiate into mature functioning neurons in response to the above neurogenic protocols; however, coculture with rat neural cells led to a minority adopting an astrocyte-like phenotype.
Embryonic stem (ES) cells are a promising donor source for transplantation therapy, but several problems must be solved before they can be clinically useful. One of these is the host immune reaction to allogeneic grafts. In this article, we examine the effect of the host immune reaction on survival and differentiation of grafted ES cell-derived neural precursor cells (NPCs). We induced NPCs from mouse ES cells by stromal cell-derived inducing activity and then transplanted them into mouse brains with or without administering the immunosuppressant cyclosporine A (CsA). Two and 8 weeks following transplantation, the accumulation of host-derived microglia/macrophages and lymphocytes was observed around the graft. This effect was reduced by CsA treatment, although no significant difference in graft volume was observed. These data suggest that an immune response occurs in allografts of ES cell-derived NPCs. Intriguingly, however, the ratio of neurons to astrocytes in the graft was higher in immunosuppressed mice. Because inflammatory or immune cells produce various cytokines, we examined the effect of IL-1beta, IL-6, IFN-gamma, and TNF-alpha on the differentiation of NPCs in vitro. Only IL-6 promoted glial cell fate, and this effect could be reversed by the addition of an IL-6 neutralizing antibody. These results suggest that allogeneic ES cell-derived NPCs can cause an immune response by the host brain, but it is not strong enough to reject the graft. More important, activated microglia and lymphocytes can suppress neuronal differentiation of grafted NPCs in vivo by producing cytokines such as IL-6.
Intracellular neurofibrillary tangles, one of the characteristic hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD), are mainly composed of hyperphosphorylated tau. The abnormal tau phosphorylation seems to be related to altered activity of kinases such as glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta). Tau pathology is thought to be a later event during the progression of the disease, and it seems to occur as a consequence of amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide accumulation. The aim of this work was to investigate whether soluble Abeta1-42, particularly oligomers that correspond to the neurotoxic species involved early in the development of AD, triggers tau phosphorylation by a mechanism involving activation of tau-kinase GSK-3beta. Several studies suggest that GSK-3beta plays a central role in signaling the downstream effects of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Therefore, the involvement of ER Ca(2+) release in GSK-3beta activation and tau phosphorylation induced by Abeta1-42 oligomers was evaluated using dantrolene, an inhibitor of Ca(2+) release through channels associated with ER ryanodine receptors. We observed that Abeta1-42 oligomers increase tau phosphorylation and compromises cell survival through a mechanism mediated by GSK-3beta activation. We also demonstrated that oligomeric Abeta1-42 induces ER stress and that ER Ca(2+) release is involved in oligomer-induced GSK-3beta activation and tau phosphorylation. This work suggests that GSK-3beta can be a promising target for therapeutic intervention in AD.
Discovery of treatments to protect axonal function of neurons and prevent permanent disability associated with progressive multiple sclerosis (MS) has faced the uphill challenge of assessing relatively small changes in accumulated axon damage within a background environment that is disorganized by CNS inflammation. We hypothesized that transient immunosuppression after initiation of MS-like autoimmune mechanisms would disassociate development of MS-like myelinated axon pathology from development of CNS inflammation in a rat model of autoimmune optic neuritis (AON). A rat model of myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein peptide-induced AON was transiently treated (on days 3-7 after antigen exposure) with 5-(4-phenylbutoxy)psoralen (PAP-1), an immunomodulatory drug previously shown specifically to suppress proliferation of effector memory T-cells and immunoglobulin class-switched B-cells. Thirteen days after antigen exposure, optic nerves were harvested for quantitative assessment of 12 MS-associated pathologies using microfluorimetry. With one exception, the immunoreactivities (-ir) for eight markers of MS-like neuroinflammation and immune infiltration were significantly reduced (P &lt; 0.05) by transient PAP-1 treatment, often to levels significantly below those detected in normal control rat optic nerves. With one exception, four immunoreactive markers of MS-like myelinated axon pathology were detected at levels indicating increased axon/myelin pathology compared with vehicle-treated rats with AON (P &lt; 0.05). These data suggest the conclusion that early causative mechanisms in CNS autoimmunity initiate signaling mechanisms that diverge into two separate pathways, one that is strongly associated with inflammatory responses and one that is associated predominantly with disturbed axon-myelin interactions and impaired fast axonal transport.
To investigate the psychiatric symptoms accompanying the early phases of Parkinson's disease (PD), we injected adult rats with 10.5 microg 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) bilaterally into the dorsal striatum. The resulting neurodegeneration led, 12 weeks after injection, to a mild (36%) reduction of striatal dopamine. We tested the behavioral response of sham and 6-OHDA-lesioned animals at different time points after injection to evaluate the onset and progression of behavioral abnormalities. The results showed that such a mild reduction of dopamine levels was associated with a decrease in anxiety-like behavior, an increase in &quot;depression&quot;-like behavior, and a marked change in social behavior. Learning and memory abilities were not affected. Overall, the PD rat model used here displays behavioral alterations having face validity with psychiatric symptoms of the pathology and thus appears to be a valuable tool for investigating the neural bases of the early phases of PD.


Near-drowning predisposes one to infection by the fungus Scedosporium apiospermum, and brain abscess is the most common consequence. Vertebral osteomyelitis due to this organism is exceedingly rare. The authors report on a 43-year-old man who developed fungal spondylodiscitis several weeks after a near-drowning event. The rare nature of this infection led to a delay in diagnosis. A combination of surgical debridement, instrumentation, and antifungal therapy resulted in an excellent outcome at 1 year of follow-up.
Krabbe's disease, or globoid cell leukodystrophy (GLD), is an autosomal recessive condition where the commonest presentation is the rapid neurological deterioration typical of the early onset subtype. Later onset subtypes, with more protean presentations and outcomes, also exist. These must be distinguished from other types of leukodystrophies, such as Adrenoleukodystrophy, as the prognosis is extremely variable. We describe a patient with late onset GLD (LOGLD) with imaging findings consistent with a diagnosis of Adrenoleukodystrophy. The importance of interpreting imaging findings in conjunction with the clinical and biochemical information is highlighted.

To assess psychopathology in transsexuals at different phases of sex reassignment, we administered the Spanish adaptation of the MMPI-2 (Avila-Espada &amp; Jimnez-Gmez, 1999) to 107 male-to-female and 56 female-to-male transsexuals. Except for the Mf scale, mean T scores from the Clinical scales were within the normal range and did not differ between sexes. Male-to-female transsexuals seeking sex-reassignment hormonal therapy, but not female-to-male patients, scored significantly higher on the Depression, Hysteria, Psychopathic Deviate, Schizophrenia, and Social Introversion scales than patients seeking sex-reassignment surgery. The results show that the majority of patients were free of psychopathology. Transsexuals in the initial phases of sex reassignment may experience more distress than in later phases; however, these results are unlikely to reflect clinically relevant differences.
Positive modulation of GABA(A) and antagonism of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors mediate the discriminative stimulus effects of ethanol. Endogenous neuroactive steroids produce effects similar to ethanol, suggesting that these steroids may modulate ethanol addiction. The four isomers of the functional esters at C-3 of the 3-hydroxy metabolites of 4-pregnene-3,20-dione (progesterone) [allopregnanolone (3alpha,5alpha-P), pregnanolone (3alpha,5beta-P), epiallopregnanolone (3beta,5alpha-P), and epipregnanolone (3beta,5beta-P)], a synthetic analog of steroids modified by endogenous sulfation [pregnanolone hemisuccinate (3alpha,5beta-P HS)], and a structurally similar, adrenally derived steroid [3alpha-hydroxy-5-androstan-17-one (3alpha,5alpha-A, androsterone)] were assessed for ethanol-like discriminative stimulus effects at 30 or 60 min after administration in male (n = 9) and female (n = 8) cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis) trained to discriminate 1.0 or 2.0 g/kg ethanol (i.g.) with a 30-min pretreatment interval. The 3alpha-hydroxysteroids completely substituted for ethanol (80% of cases), whereas the 3beta-hydroxysteroids and 3alpha,5beta-P HS rarely substituted for ethanol (6% of cases). There were no sex differences. Compared with monkeys trained to discriminate 2.0 g/kg ethanol, 3alpha,5beta-P and 3alpha,5alpha-A substituted more potently in monkeys trained to discriminate 1.0 g/kg ethanol. Compared with the 5beta-reduced isomer (3alpha,5beta-P), the 5alpha isomer of pregnanolone (3alpha,5alpha-P) substituted for ethanol with 3 to 40-fold greater potency but was least efficacious in female monkeys trained to discriminate 2.0 g/kg ethanol. The data suggest that the discriminative stimulus effects of lower doses (1.0 g/kg) of ethanol are mediated to a greater extent by 3alpha,5beta-P- and 3alpha,5alpha-A-sensitive receptors compared with higher doses (2.0 g/kg). Furthermore, the discriminative stimulus effects of ethanol appear to be mediated by activity at binding sites that are particularly sensitive to 3alpha,5alpha-P.
(-)-(1R,4S,5S,6S)-4-amino-2-sulfonylbicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-4,6-dicarboxylic acid (LY404039) is a potent and selective group II metabotropic glutamate [(mGlu)2 and mGlu3] receptor agonist for which its prodrug LY2140023 [(1R,4S,5S,6S)-2-thiabicyclo[3.1.0]-hexane-4,6-dicarboxylic acid,4-[(2S)-2-amino-4-(methylthio)-1-oxobutyl]amino-, 2,2-dioxide monohydrate] has recently been shown to have efficacy in the treatment of the positive and negative symptoms of schizophrenia. In this article, we use mGlu receptor-deficient mice to investigate the relative contribution of mGlu2 and mGlu3 receptors in mediating the antipsychotic profile of LY404039 in the phencyclidine (PCP) and d-amphetamine (AMP) models of psychosis. To further explore the mechanism of action of LY404039, we compared the drugs' ability to block PCP-induced hyperlocomotion to that of atypical antipsychotics in wild-type and mice lacking mGlu2/3 receptors. In wild-type animals, LY404039 (3-30 mg/kg i.p.) significantly reversed AMP (5 mg/kg, i.p.)-induced increases in ambulations, distance traveled, and reduced time spent at rest. LY404039 reversed PCP (7.5 mg/kg i.p.)-evoked behaviors at 10 mg/kg. The antipsychotic-like effects of LY404039 (10 mg/kg i.p.) on PCP and AMP-evoked behavioral activation were absent in mGlu2 and mGlu2/3 but not in mGlu3 receptor-deficient mice, indicating that the activation of mGlu2 and not mGlu3 receptors is responsible for the antipsychotic-like effects of the mGlu2/3 receptor agonist LY404039. In contrast, the atypical antipsychotic drugs clozapine and risperidone inhibited PCP-evoked behaviors in both wild-type and mGlu2/3 receptor-deficient mice. These data demonstrate that the antipsychotic-like effects of the mGlu2/3 receptor agonist LY404039 in psychostimulant models of psychosis are mechanistically distinct from those of atypical antipsychotic drugs and are dependent on functional mGlu2 and not mGlu3 receptors.
Antagonists of the vanilloid receptor TRPV1 (transient receptor potential vanilloid type 1) have been reported to produce antihyperalgesic effects in animal models of pain. These antagonists, however, also caused concomitant hyperthermia in rodents, dogs, monkeys, and humans. Antagonist-induced hyperthermia was not observed in TRPV1 knockout mice, suggesting that the hyperthermic effect is exclusively mediated through TRPV1. Since antagonist-induced hyperthermia is considered a hurdle for developing TRPV1 antagonists as therapeutics, we investigated the possibility of eliminating hyperthermia while maintaining antihyperalgesia. Here, we report four potent and selective TRPV1 modulators with unique in vitro pharmacology profiles (profiles A through D) and their respective effects on body temperature. We found that profile C modulator, (R,E)-N-(2-hydroxy-2,3-dihydro-1H-inden-4-yl)-3-(2-(piperidin-1-yl)-4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)acrylamide (AMG8562), blocks capsaicin activation of TRPV1, does not affect heat activation of TRPV1, potentiates pH 5 activation of TRPV1 in vitro, and does not cause hyperthermia in vivo in rats. We further profiled AMG8562 in an on-target (agonist) challenge model, rodent pain models, and tested for its side effects. We show that AMG8562 significantly blocks capsaicin-induced flinching behavior, produces statistically significant efficacy in complete Freund's adjuvant- and skin incision-induced thermal hyperalgesia, and acetic acid-induced writhing models, with no profound effects on locomotor activity. Based on the data shown here, we conclude that it is feasible to modulate TRPV1 in a manner that does not cause hyperthermia while maintaining efficacy in rodent pain models.
Transglutaminase (TGase)-induced activation of small G proteins via 5-hydroxytryptamine (HT)(2A) receptor signaling leads to platelet aggregation (Cell 115:851-862, 2003). We hypothesize that stimulation of 5-HT(2A) receptors in neurons activates TGase, resulting in transamidation of serotonin to a small G protein, Rac1, thereby constitutively activating Rac1. Using immunoprecipitation and immunoblotting, we show that, in rat cortical cell line A1A1v, serotonin increases TGase-catalyzed transamidation of Rac1. This transamidation occurs in both undifferentiated and differentiated cells. Treatment with a 5-HT(2A/2C) receptor agonist 2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine, but not the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist 5-hydroxy-2-dipropylamino tetralin, increases transamidation of Rac1 by TGase. In A1A1v cells, 5-HT(2A) receptors mediate the transamidation reaction because expression of 5-HT(2C) receptors was not detectable and the selective 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonist blocked transamidation. Time course studies demonstrate that transamidation of Rac1 is significantly elevated after 5 and 15 min of serotonin treatment, but returns it to control levels after 30 min. The activity of Rac1 is also transiently increased following serotonin stimulation. Inhibition of TGase by cystamine or small interfering RNA reduces TGase modification of Rac1, and cystamine also prevents Rac1 activation. Serotonin itself is bound to Rac1 by TGase following 5-HT(2A) receptor stimulation as demonstrated by coimmunoprecipitation experiments and a dose-dependent decrease of serotonin-associated Rac1 by cystamine. These data support the hypothesis that Rac1 activity is transiently increased due to TGase-catalyzed transamidation of serotonin to Rac1 via stimulation of 5-HT(2A) receptors. Activation of Rac1 via TGase is a novel effector and second messenger of the 5-HT(2A) receptor-signaling cascade in neurons.
Ethanol-induced elevations of accumbal dopamine levels have been linked to the reinforcing properties of the drug. However, it has not yet been demonstrated where the primary point of action of ethanol is in the mesolimbic dopamine system, and there appear to be conflicting findings depending on methodology (electrophysiology, microdialysis, or intracranial self-administration). We have suggested that ethanol acts in the nucleus accumbens (nAc), where it activates a neuronal loop involving ventral tegmental nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) to elevate dopamine levels in the nAc. Application of ethanol in the nAc results in elevated dopamine levels in the same brain region, whereas administration in the anterior ventral tegmental area (VTA) fails to influence dopamine output. In the present study, we were able to repeat these findings. In addition, application of ethanol in the posterior VTA also failed to influence nAc dopamine levels. Perfusion of the nAChR antagonist mecamylamine in the anterior VTA completely blocked the elevation of accumbal dopamine levels observed after ethanol perfusion in nAc, whereas mecamylamine in the posterior VTA had no effect. To detect a possible influence on phasic dopamine release, the dopamine transporter inhibitor nomifensine was included in the accumbal perfusate. In addition, under these conditions, ethanol in the anterior or posterior VTA failed to influence dopamine release in the nAc. These results support previous suggestions of distinct functions of the anterior and posterior VTA and give further evidence for our hypothesis of a nAc-anterior VTA-nAc neuronal circuitry involved in the dopamine-activating effects of ethanol.
Anterior pituitary cells express gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-A receptor-channels, but their structure, distribution within the secretory cell types, and nature of action have not been clarified. Here we addressed these questions using cultured anterior pituitary cells from postpubertal female rats and immortalized alphaT3-1 and GH(3) cells. Our results show that mRNAs for all GABA(A) receptor subunits are expressed in pituitary cells and that alpha1/beta1 subunit proteins are present in all secretory cells. In voltage-clamped gramicidin-perforated cells, GABA induced dose-dependent increases in current amplitude that were inhibited by bicuculline and picrotoxin and facilitated by diazepam and zolpidem in a concentration-dependent manner. In intact cells, GABA and the GABA(A) receptor agonist muscimol caused a rapid and transient increase in intracellular calcium, whereas the GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen was ineffective, suggesting that chloride-mediated depolarization activates voltage-gated calcium channels. Consistent with this finding, RT-PCR analysis indicated high expression of NKCC1, but not KCC2 cation/chloride transporter mRNAs in pituitary cells. Furthermore, the GABA(A) channel reversal potential for chloride ions was positive to the baseline membrane potential in most cells and the activation of ion channels by GABA resulted in depolarization of cells and modulation of spontaneous electrical activity. These results indicate that secretory pituitary cells express functional GABA(A) receptor-channels that are depolarizing.
This study is concerned with the origin of backpropagating action potentials in GABAergic, medium ganglionic layer neurones (MG-cells) of the mormyrid electrosensory lobe (ELL). The characteristically broad action potentials of these neurones are required for the expression of spike timing dependent plasticity (STDP) at afferent parallel fibre synapses. It has been suggested that this involves active conductances in MG-cell apical dendrites, which constitute a major component of the ELL molecular layer. Immunohistochemistry showed dense labelling of voltage gated sodium channels (VGSC) throughout the molecular layer, as well as in the ganglionic layer containing MG somata, and in the plexiform and upper granule cell layers of ELL. Potassium channel labelling was sparse, being most abundant in the deep fibre layer and the nucleus of the electrosensory lobe. Intracellular recordings from MG-cells in vitro, made in conjunction with voltage sensitive dye measurements, confirmed that dendritic backpropagation is active over at least the inner half of the molecular layer. Focal TTX applications demonstrated that in most case the origin of the backpropagating action potentials is in the proximal dendrites, whereas the small narrow spikes also seen in these neurones most likely originate in the axon. It had been speculated that the slow time course of membrane repolarisation following the broad action potentials was due to a poor expression of potassium channels in the dendritic compartments, or to their voltage- or calcium-sensitive inactivation. However application of TEA and 4AP confirmed that both A-type and delayed rectifying potassium channels normally contribute to membrane repolarisation following dendritic and axonal spikes. An alternative explanation for the shape of MG action potentials is that they represent the summation of active events occurring more or less synchronously in distal dendrites. Coincidence of backpropagating action potentials with parallel fibre input produces a strong local depolarisation that could be sufficient to cause local secretion of GABA, which might then cause plastic change through an action on presynaptic GABA(B) receptors. However, STP depression remained robust in the presence of GABAB receptor antagonists.
The aims of this study were to identify specific risk factors associated with completed suicide in a sample of suicide victims diagnosed with mental illness and to discriminate completed suicides from attempted suicide in individuals who did not kill themselves for at least the next 2 years after the index attempt. Ninety-four adults (34 women; 60 men; mean age = 50.81 [SD = 18.08]) admitted to the Division of Psychiatry of the Department of Neurosciences of the University of Parma who died by suicide between 1994-2004 were matched for sex and age (+/- 2 years) with 94 outpatients (mean age = 50.70 [SD = 18.08]) who made at least one suicide attempt during the years of the study. Data were gathered by proxy-based interviews with referring psychiatrists and general practitioners and from examination of medical records. Suicide victims were more likely to be not married, have poor social support (OR = 5.28), and have more voluntary and compulsory admissions to hospitals (1 admission: OR = 5.44; &gt; 1 admissions: OR= 8.84) than suicide attempters. Suicide victims were also less likely to have had stressful life events during their childhood and adolescence (OR = 0.09) and to be divorced or widowed than were the attempters.
Most brain imaging studies have showed smaller hippocampal volume in adults with chronic PTSD; however, some other studies have not replicated this finding. Most of these investigations included subjects with other psychiatric comorbidities, such as major depression or alcohol abuse. The prevalence of psychiatric comorbidities in PTSD is generally high and this makes it difficult, if not impossible, to disentangle the contribution of other disorders to hippocampal volume. Therefore, the main goal of the current study is to compare hippocampal volumes of healthy subjects and drug-nave patients with PTSD caused by different types of mixed civilian traumas (i.e. car accident, physical abuse, sudden death of a family member, assault or robbery, natural disaster and traumatic abortion) and without comorbidity conditions. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was used to measure the hippocampi, total cerebrum, gray matter, white matter and cerebrospinal fluid volumes in 34 patients with single diagnosis of PTSD, and 34 case-matched non-PTSD comparison subjects. The patients with single diagnosis of PTSD had an 11.8% smaller left hippocampus (p&lt;0.001) and an 8.7% smaller right hippocampus (p=0.003) than the healthy controls. The results were controlled for the total brain volume and for gray matter volumes. Subjects with PTSD also displayed lower overall gray matter volume (p=0.006). There were no significant correlations between hippocampal volumes and illness duration or severity of PTSD. The findings indicate the presence of smaller hippocampal volumes in drug-nave patients with single diagnosis of PTSD, compared with healthy subjects.
Throughout most of their lives, women are at greater risk for depression than men. Hormones and neurotransmitters share common pathways and receptor sites in areas of the brain linked to mood, particularly through the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis. It has been hypothesized that women presenting with episodes of depression associated with reproductive events (i.e., premenstrual, postpartum, menopausal transition) may be particularly prone to experiencing depression, in part because of a heightened sensitivity to intense hormonal fluctuations. The menopausal transition, for example, appears to represent a window during which some women might be more vulnerable to the development of first onset or recurrent depressive symptoms and major depressive episodes. In this review, we examine the association between hormone changes and increased risk of developing depression. Some of the underlying mechanisms that may contribute to such an increased risk are discussed critically, with a special emphasis on the events occurring during the menopausal transition. Last, we explore some of the clinical and therapeutic implications of hormone-modulated depression in women.
Sex steroids readily pass the blood-brain barrier, and receptors for them are abundant in brain areas important for the regulation of emotions, cognition and behaviour. Animal experiments have revealed both important early effects of these hormones on brain development and their ongoing influence on brain morphology and neurotransmission in the adult organism. The important effects of sex steroids on human behaviour are illustrated by, for example, the effect of reduced levels of these hormones on sexual drive and conditions such as premenstrual dysphoric disorder, perimenopausal dysphoria, postpartum depression, postpartum psychosis, dysphoria induced by oral contraceptives or hormonal replacement therapy and anabolic steroid-induced aggression. The fact that men and women (as groups) differ with respect to the prevalence of several psychiatric disorders, certain aspects of cognitive function and certain personality traits may possibly also reflect an influence of sex steroids on human behaviour. The heritability of most behavioural traits, including personality, cognitive abilities and susceptibility to psychiatric illness, is considerable, but as yet, only few genes of definite importance in this context have been identified. Given the important role of sex steroids for brain function, it is unfortunate that relatively few studies so far have addressed the possible influence of sex steroid-related genes on interindividual differences with respect to personality, cognition and susceptibility to psychiatric disorders. To facilitate further research in this area, this review provides information on several such genes and summarizes what is currently known with respect to their possible influence on brain function.




The potential memory-enhancing properties of two dopamine agonists currently used in patients with Parkinson's disease, piribedil (1, 10 mg/kg/day, subcutaneously) and bromocriptine (5 mg/kg/day, subcutaneously), were evaluated in three experiments. Although piribedil (10 mg/kg) and bromocriptine equally enhanced spontaneous object recognition in young adult rats (experiment A), only piribedil displayed beneficial effects against aging-related memory impairments in two radial-maze experiments in mice. First (experiment B), a two-stage paradigm of spatial discrimination was used to assess relational/declarative memory in aged mice; piribedil (1 and 10 mg/kg) selectively and significantly improved the performances of aged mice in the critical tests for relational/declarative memory, whereas bromocriptine had no effect. Second, in a novel working memory task (experiment C), vehicle- or bromocriptine-treated aged mice displayed, compared with (vehicle) younger controls, a severe and persistent deficit in short-term retention of successive arm-visits, performing close to chance whichever the retention interval. Performances of piribedil (10 mg/kg) group remarkably improved across testing-days and reached young adults' level. The restoration of specific mnemonic impairments, in aged mice, highlights the memory-enhancing properties of piribedil. The efficacy of this drug in treating cognitive impairment of Parkinson's disease should now be assessed in more specific models.This work was published in an abstract form: ECNP Abstracts, 2005 (P8060 &amp; P8065).
A woman who had developed a discontinuation syndrome nine years ago with paroxetine tapered from 10 to 5 mg/day represented the same syndrome recently when she occasionally missed her 75 mg q 12 h venlafaxine doses. The symptoms, comprising agitation, numbness, pricking sensations, sweating, difficulty concentrating, weakness, derealisation and perceived xerophthalmia, immediately subside upon drug dose reinstitution. The patient had used cannabis irregularly before the onset of pauci-symptomatic panic attacks, but none of her panic symptoms were present in her withdrawal symptomatology. Some symptoms waxed and waned during the withdrawal period. The syndrome is compatible with both hyper- and hypoactivity of the central serotonergic system.
The aim of the present study was to determine the impact of the appetite suppressant mazindol on meal pattern in rats. Meal patterns were monitored in adult male rats after mazindol dosing during the first three hours of the dark cycle using automated feeding chambers (BioDAQ). Mazindol (0, 0.25, 1.25 and 2.5 mg/kg, IP) produced a dose-dependent hypophagia and hypodipsia. Meal size and meal number were significantly suppressed by mazindol. The meal pattern findings indicate that mazindol inhibits eating in the rat via a suppression of both meal size and meal number.
The effect of long-term endurance and resistance training on central fatigue has been studied using transcranial magnetic stimulation by exercising the biceps brachii to exhaustion and recording motor-evoked potentials from the non-exercised homologous biceps. Three groups of eight healthy individuals took part: two groups of individuals who had more than 8 years of athletic training in either an endurance or resistance sport, and a group of controls. The size of a motor-evoked potential (area of averaged rectified response) was significantly depressed in all three groups in the non-exercised arm after exhaustive exercise of the opposite arm. Recovery of motor-evoked potentials occurred earlier in endurance athletes (20 min) than in control participants (30 min) and resistance athletes (&gt;30 min). Dexterity and maximum voluntary contraction of the biceps for the non-exercised arm were not depressed in any group. In a separate session, the limit of endurance time for the biceps was reduced significantly following exhaustive exercise of the biceps of the other arm for resistance athletes and control participants, whereas there was no change in the endurance athletes. Our findings suggest that athletic training has an effect on the mechanism of central fatigue that may be specific to the nature of training.
Glucocorticoid (GC) plays a key role in controlling numerous cellular processes during embryogenesis and fetal development. The actions of glucocorticoids are mediated by interaction with their receptors. We previously reported that hippocampal neurons from embryonic day 18 (E18) rats showed silence of glucocorticoid receptor (GR) expression when cultured in serum-free condition. In this study, using western blot, immunofluorescence staining and real-time RT-PCR, we found that while this silence occurred in hippocampal neurons isolated from E16 and E18 rats, it did not happen in those from E20 and neonatal (P0) rats. And when cultured under serum-containing condition, none of them showed GR silence anymore. Corticosterone could not rescue the expression of GR in E16 and E18 neurons in serum-free condition, whereas adding of serum could induce the re-expression of the silenced GR. The absence of GR silence in P0 neurons was not due to the perturbation during parturition. Moreover, the unique expression profile of GR in protein and mRNA level was well reflected in the changes of GR function. These results suggested that under in vitro condition, serum was critical for the maintaining of GR expression in hippocampal neurons of early embryonic stages but less important in later developmental stages. Thus, our data implied that at different developmental stages, the expression of GR in hippocampal neurons might have different susceptibilities to environment changes and there might be a critical time window for the switching of such characteristics during development.

The use of animals in biomedical and other research presents an ethical dilemma: we do not want to lose scientific benefits, nor do we want to cause laboratory animals to suffer. Scientists often refer to the potential human benefits of animal models to justify their use. However, even if this is accepted, it still needs to be argued that the same benefits could not have been achieved with a mitigated impact on animal welfare. Reducing the adverse effects of scientific protocols ('refinement') is therefore crucial in animal-based research. It is especially important that researchers share knowledge on how to avoid causing unnecessary suffering. We have previously demonstrated that even in studies in which animal use leads to spontaneous death, scientists often fail to report measures to minimize animal distress (Olsson et al. 2007). In this paper, we present the full results of a case study examining reports, published in peer-reviewed journals between 2003 and 2004, of experiments employing animal models to study the neurodegenerative disorder Huntington's disease. In 51 references, experiments in which animals were expected to develop motor deficits so severe that they would have difficulty eating and drinking normally were conducted, yet only three references were made to housing adaptation to facilitate food and water intake. Experiments including end-stages of the disease were reported in 14 papers, yet of these only six referred to the euthanasia of moribund animals. If the reference in scientific publications reflects the actual application of refinement, researchers do not follow the 3Rs (replacement, reduction, refinement) principle. While in some cases, it is clear that less-than-optimal techniques were used, we recognize that scientists may apply refinement without referring to it; however, if they do not include such information in publications, it suggests they find it less relevant. Journal publishing policy could play an important role: first, in ensuring that referees seriously consider whether submitted studies were indeed carried out with the smallest achievable negative impact on the animals and, secondly, in encouraging scientists to share refinements through the inclusion of a 3Rs section in papers publishing the results of animal-based research.
Intense immunosuppression followed by autologous haematopoietic stem-cell transplantation has been assessed over the past few years as a possible new therapeutic strategy in severe forms of multiple sclerosis. Pioneering studies began in 1995, and since then, more than 400 patients worldwide have been treated with this procedure. Small uncontrolled studies show that about 60-70% of treated cases do not progress in the follow-up period of at least 3 years. Transplant-related mortality, which was 5-6% in the first reported series, has reduced in the past 5 years to 1-2%. Relapses dramatically decrease and inflammatory MRI activity is almost completely suppressed. Autologous haematopoietic stem-cell transplantation is associated with qualitative immunological changes in the blood, suggesting that, beyond its immunosuppressive potential, it could also have some beneficial effect for the resetting of the immune system. Patients with severe, rapidly worsening multiple sclerosis who are unresponsive to approved therapies could be candidates for this treatment, but its clinical efficacy has still to be shown in large, prospective, controlled studies.


Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) of the cortex is a powerful tool for neuroscience research, and its use has been extended into the brainstem and spinal cord as well. However, there are significant technical challenges with extrapolating the developments that have been achieved in the cortex to their use in the brainstem and spinal cord. Here, we develop a normalized coordinate system for the cervical spinal cord and brainstem, demonstrating a semiautomated method for spatially normalizing and coregistering fMRI data from these regions. fMRI data from 24 experiments in eight volunteers are normalized and combined to create the first anatomical reference volume, and based on this volume, we define a standardized region-of-interest (ROI) mask, as well as a map of 52 anatomical regions, which can be applied automatically to fMRI results. The normalization is demonstrated to have an accuracy of less than 2 mm in 93% of anatomical test points. The reverse of the normalization procedure is also demonstrated for automatic alignment of the standardized ROI mask and region-label map with fMRI data in its original (unnormalized) format. A reliable method for spatially normalizing fMRI data is essential for analyses of group data and for assessing the effects of spinal cord injury or disease on an individual basis by comparing with results from healthy subjects.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) enhancement on fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) images obtained post-gadolinium (Gd)-based agent injection is described in stroke and multiple sclerosis. Blood brain barrier (BBB) disruption with contrast agent extravasation into CSF shortens T(1) relaxation times, reducing fluid suppression. Reduced fluid suppression on FLAIR images was investigated in vitro in the presence of escalating gadopentetate dimeglumine (Gd-DTPA) concentrations mixed with artificial CSF. Low Gd-DTPA concentrations impair fluid suppression of FLAIR imaging in association with progressively reduced T(1) values. At higher concentrations, the prevalent T(2) shortening effect can explain signal intensity (SI) reduction. Post-Gd FLAIR may be useful in detecting subtle BBB leakage.
Double wave vector diffusion weighting uses gradients along two different directions between excitation and acquisition. It has been shown theoretically that for restricted diffusion the signal amplitude in such an experiment can depend on the angle between the two gradient vectors. The highest amplitude is obtained with antiparallel orientation, and the amplitude difference between parallel and antiparallel gradient orientations depends on the compartment size. The validity of this description is experimentally tested for water between polymer beads, for radish, and for porcine spinal cord, using a clinical MR system with limited gradient strength. The results indicate that the phenomenon is observable; however, the size of the signal difference is considerably diminished when compared with theory. This is attributed to violations of the approximating conditions underlying the theoretical description and to free diffusion contributions. It is concluded that the effect could successfully be used as a basis for developing a new noninvasive method for assessing cell size.
Proteomics, the large-scale study of protein expression in organisms, offers the potential to evaluate global changes in protein expression and their post-translational modifications that take place in response to normal or pathological stimuli. One challenge has been the requirement for substantial amounts of tissue in order to perform comprehensive proteomic characterization. In heterogeneous tissues, such as brain, this has limited the application of proteomic methodologies. Efforts to adapt standard methods of tissue sampling, protein extraction, arraying, and identification are reviewed, with an emphasis on those appropriate to smaller samples ranging in size from several microliters down to single cells. The effects of miniaturization on these analyses are highlighted using neuroscience-related examples, as are statistical issues unique to the high-dimensional datasets generated by proteomic experiments.

Mitochondria are organelles which, according to the endosymbiosis theory, evolved from purpurbacteria approximately 1.5 billion years ago. One of the unique features of mitochondria is that they have their own genome. Mitochondria replicate and transcribe their DNA semiautonomously. Like nuclear DNA, mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is constantly exposed to DNA damaging agents. Regarding the repair of mtDNA, the prevailing concept for many years was that mtDNA molecules suffering an excess of damage would simply be degraded to be replaced by newly generated successors copied from undamaged genomes. However, evidence now clearly shows that mitochondria contain the machinery to repair the damage to their genomes caused by certain endogenous or exogenous damaging agents. The link between mtDNA damage and repair to aging, neurodegeneration, and carcinogenesis-associated processes is the subject of this review.
There is a misconception that hypoglycemic nerve cell death occurs easily, and can happen in the absence of coma. In fact, coma is the prerequisite for neuronal death, which occurs via metabolic excitatory amino acid release. The focus on nerve cell death does not explain how most brain neurons and all glia survive. Brain metabolism was interrogated in rats during and following recovery from 40 min of profound hypoglycemia using ex vivo (1)H MR spectroscopy to determine alterations accounting for survival of brain tissue. As previously shown, a time-dependent increase in aspartate was equaled by a reciprocal decrease in glutamate/glutamine. We here show that the kinetics of aspartate formation during the first 30 min (0.36 +/- 0.03 micromol g(-1) min(-1)) are altered such that glutamate, via aspartate aminotransferase, becomes the primary source of carbon when glucose-derived pyruvate is unavailable. Oxaloacetate is produced directly from alpha-ketoglutarate, so that reactions involving the six-carbon intermediates of the tricarboxylic acid cycle are bypassed. These fundamental observations in basic metabolic pathways in effect redraw the tricarboxylic acid cycle from a tricarboxylic to a dicarboxylic acid cycle during hypoglycemia. The basic neurochemical alterations according to the chemical equilibrium of mass action augments flux through a truncated Krebs cycle that continues to turn during hypoglycemic coma. This explains the partial preservation of energy charge and brain cell survival during periods of glucose deficiency.
We aimed to investigate whether metformin protects the brain against the oxidative imbalance promoted by type 2 diabetes. This study analyzed the effect of metformin on oxidative stress markers (thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS), malondialdehyde (MDA) and carbonyl groups), hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) levels, non-enzymatic antioxidant defenses [reduced (GSH) and oxidized (GSSG) glutathione and vitamin E] and enzymatic antioxidant defenses [glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione reductase (GRed) and manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD)] in brain homogenates of diabetic GK rats, a model of type 2 diabetes. For this purpose we compared brain homogenates obtained from untreated GK rats versus GK rats treated with metformin during a period of 4 weeks. Brain homogenates obtained from Wistar rats were used as control. The MDA levels, GPx and GRed activities are significantly higher in untreated GK rats, while TBARS levels, carbonyl groups, glutathione content and vitamin E levels remain statistically unchanged when compared with control rats. In contrast, MnSOD activity and the levels of H(2)O(2) are significantly decreased in untreated GK rats when compared with control animals. However, metformin treatment normalized the majority of the parameters altered by diabetes. We observed that metformin, besides its antihyperglycemic action, induces a significant decrease in TBARS and MDA levels, GPx and GRed activities and a significant increase in GSH levels and MnSOD activity. These results indicate that metformin protects against diabetes-associated oxidative stress suggesting that metformin could be an effective neuroprotective agent.

Macroautophagy is a mechanism of degradation of cytoplasmic components in all eukaryotic cells. In macroautophagy, cytoplasmic components are wrapped by double-membrane structures called autophagosomes, whose formation involves unique membrane dynamics, i.e., de novo formation of a double-membrane sac called the isolation membrane and its elongation. However, the precise regulatory mechanism of isolation membrane formation and elongation remains unknown. In this study, we showed that Golgi-resident small GTPase Rab33B (and Rab33A) specifically interacts with Atg16L, an essential factor in isolation membrane formation, in a guanosine triphosphate-dependent manner. Expression of a GTPase-deficient mutant Rab33B (Rab33B-Q92L) induced the lipidation of LC3, which is an essential process in autophagosome formation, even under nutrient-rich conditions, and attenuated macroautophagy, as judged by the degradation of p62/sequestosome 1. In addition, overexpression of the Rab33B binding domain of Atg16L suppressed autophagosome formation. Our findings suggest that Rab33 modulates autophagosome formation through interaction with Atg16L.
Eribulin (E7389), a synthetic analogue of halichondrin B in phase III clinical trials for breast cancer, binds to tubulin and microtubules. At low concentrations, it suppresses the growth phase of microtubule dynamic instability in interphase cells, arrests mitosis, and induces apoptosis, suggesting that suppression of spindle microtubule dynamics induces mitotic arrest. To further test this hypothesis, we measured the effects of eribulin on dynamics of centromeres and their attached kinetochore microtubules by time-lapse confocal microscopy in living mitotic U-2 OS human osteosarcoma cells. Green fluorescent protein-labeled centromere-binding protein B marked centromeres and kinetochore-microtubule plus-ends. In control cells, sister chromatid centromere pairs alternated under tension between increasing and decreasing separation (stretching and relaxing). Eribulin suppressed centromere dynamics at concentrations that arrest mitosis. At 60 nmol/L eribulin (2 x mitotic IC(50)), the relaxation rate was suppressed 21%, the time spent paused increased 67%, and dynamicity decreased 35% (but without reduction in mean centromere separation), indicating that eribulin decreased normal microtubule-dependent spindle tension at the kinetochores, preventing the signal for mitotic checkpoint passage. We also examined a more potent, but in tumors less efficacious antiproliferative halichondrin derivative, ER-076349. At 2 x IC(50) (4 nmol/L), mitotic arrest also occurred in concert with suppressed centromere dynamics. Although media IC(50) values differed 15-fold between the two compounds, the intracellular concentrations were similar, indicating more extensive relative uptake of ER-076349 into cells compared with eribulin. The strong correlation between suppression of kinetochore-microtubule dynamics and mitotic arrest indicates that the primary mechanism by which eribulin blocks mitosis is suppression of spindle microtubule dynamics.
Protein tyrosine phosphatase zeta (PTPzeta) is a receptor type protein tyrosine phosphatase that uses pleiotrophin as a ligand. Pleiotrophin inactivates the phosphatase activity of PTPzeta, resulting in the increase of tyrosine phosphorylation levels of its substrates. We studied the functional interaction between PTPzeta and DNER, a Notch-related transmembrane protein highly expressed in cerebellar Purkinje cells. PTPzeta and DNER displayed patchy colocalization in the dendrites of Purkinje cells, and immunoprecipitation experiments indicated that these proteins formed complexes. Several tyrosine residues in and adjacent to the tyrosine-based and the second C-terminal sorting motifs of DNER were phosphorylated and were dephosphorylated by PTPzeta, and phosphorylation of these tyrosine residues resulted in the accumulation of DNER on the plasma membrane. DNER mutants lacking sorting motifs accumulated on the plasma membrane of Purkinje cells and Neuro-2A cells and induced their process extension. While normal DNER was actively endocytosed and inhibited the retinoic-acid-induced neurite outgrowth of Neuro-2A cells, pleiotrophin stimulation increased the tyrosine phosphorylation level of DNER and suppressed the endocytosis of this protein, which led to the reversal of this inhibition, thus allowing neurite extension. These observations suggest that pleiotrophin-PTPzeta signaling controls subcellular localization of DNER and thereby regulates neuritogenesis.
The subventricular zone (SVZ) lining the lateral walls of the lateral ventricles is one of the major neurogenic areas in the postnatal brain. Precursor cells in the SVZ migrate via the rostral migratory stream to the olfactory bulb where they differentiate into neurons. Cell replacement strategies utilizing the recruitment of these endogenous progenitors and their progeny to different areas of the brain hold great promise for the future, but much research is needed in order to understand the sequence of molecular signals necessary to induce proliferation, migration and site-specific differentiation of these cells. In this study we show that the SVZ cells can be redirected from their normal migration route and directed towards other brain regions when they are infected with retroviruses encoding the developmentally important transcription factors Islet-1 and Neurogenin-2. After co-transduction with these transcription factors, transduced cells could be detected in several areas of the brain. When located in the striatum, the reprogrammed cells displayed neuroblast-like morphology. Once removed from the striatal parenchyma and allowed to further differentiation in vitro they developed into beta-III-tubulin positive neurons.
BDNF signaling through its TrkB receptor plays a pivotal role in activity-dependent refinement of synaptic connectivity of retinal ganglion cells. Additionally, studies using TrkB knockout mice have suggested that BDNF/TrkB signaling is essential for the development of photoreceptors and for synaptic communication between photoreceptors and second order retinal neurons. Thus the action of BDNF on refinement of synaptic connectivity of retinal ganglion cells could be a direct effect in the inner retina, or it could be secondary to its proposed role in rod maturation and in the formation of rod to bipolar cell synaptic transmission. To address this matter we have conditionally eliminated TrkB within the retina. We find that rod function and synaptic transmission to bipolar cells is not compromised in these conditional knockout mice. Consistent with previous work, we find that inner retina neural development is regulated by retinal BDNF/TrkB signaling. Specifically we show here also that the complexity of neuronal processes of dopaminergic cells is reduced in conditional TrkB knockout mice. We conclude that retinal BDNF/TrkB signaling has its primary role in the development of inner retinal neuronal circuits, and that this action is not a secondary effect due to the loss of visual signaling in the outer retina.
Mammalian HES1 and HES5 are abundant in developing CNS and inhibit neurogenesis, while HES6 promotes neurogenesis. An early serotonergic differentiation marker, the 5-HT1A receptor, is repressed by HES5 and DEAF1 which recognize the C(-1019), but not G(-1019) allele of a human 5-HT1A promoter polymorphism associated with mood disorders. We tested whether HES1 and HES6 regulate transcriptional activity at this element. HES1 strongly repressed 5-HT1A transcription in neuronal and non-neuronal cells, while HES6 reversed HES1- and HES5-mediated repression. Mutation of a putative HES consensus site blocked HES1 and HES5, but, unlike HES5, HES1 repressed at the G(-1019) allele. To address its role in vivo, the temporal expression of 5-HT1A receptor RNA and protein was examined in HES1-/- mice, and elevated levels in E12.5 hindbrain and midbrain were observed. Thus, HES1 and HES6 oppositely regulate 5-HT1A receptor transcription and HES1 is required for its correct developmental expression.
Here we analyzed the light-responsiveness of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) cascade, a key regulator of inducible translation, in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN), the locus of the master circadian clock. Brief light exposure during the subjective night, but not during the subjective day, triggered rapid phosphorylation (a marker of catalytic activity) of the mTOR translation effectors p70 S6K, ribosomal S6 protein (S6) and 4E-BP1. In the absence of photic stimulation, marked S6 and 4E-BP1 phosphorylation was detected, indicating tonic mTOR activity in the SCN. Light stimulated the colocalized activation of p70 S6K and extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK), and pharmacological disruption of ERK signaling abolished light-induced mTOR activity, revealing that the MAPK cascade is an essential intermediate that couples light to mTOR. Together these data identify a light-responsive mTOR cascade in the SCN, and thus, raise the possibility that inducible translation contributes to the clock entrainment process.
Protein palmitoylation is the post-translational addition of the 16-carbon fatty acid palmitate to specific cysteine residues by a labile thioester linkage. Palmitoylation is mediated by a family of at least 23 palmitoyl acyltransferases (PATs) characterized by an Asp-His-His-Cys (DHHC) motif. Many palmitoylated proteins have been identified, but PAT-substrate relationships are mostly unknown. Here we present a method called palmitoyl-cysteine isolation capture and analysis (or PICA) to identify PAT-substrate relationships in a living vertebrate system and demonstrate its effectiveness by identifying CKAP4/p63 as a substrate of DHHC2, a putative tumor suppressor.

Previous studies have demonstrated that heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory (Gi) protein-deficient mice exhibit augmented inflammatory responses to lipopolysaccharide (LPS). These findings suggest that Gi protein agonists will suppress LPS-induced inflammatory gene expression. Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) activates G protein-coupled receptors leading to Gi protein activation. We hypothesized that LPA will inhibit LPS-induced inflammatory responses through activation of Gi-coupled anti-inflammatory signaling pathways. We examined the anti-inflammatory effect of LPA on LPS responses both in vivo and in vitro in CD-1 mice. The mice were injected intravenously with LPA (10 mg/kg) followed by intraperitoneal injection of LPS (75 mg/kg for survival and 25 mg/kg for other studies). LPA significantly increased the mice survival to endotoxemia (P &lt; 0.05). LPA injection reduced LPS-induced plasma TNF-alpha production (69 +/- 6%, P &lt; 0.05) and myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity in lung (33 +/- 9%, P &lt; 0.05) as compared to vehicle injection. LPS-induced plasma IL-6 was unchanged by LPA. In vitro studies with peritoneal macrophages paralleled results from in vivo studies. LPA (1 and 10 microM) significantly inhibited LPS-induced TNFalpha production (61 +/- 9% and 72 +/- 9%, respectively, P &lt; 0.05) but not IL-6. We further demonstrated that the anti-inflammatory effect of LPA was reversed by ERK 1/2 and phosphatase inhibitors, suggesting that ERK 1/2 pathway and serine/threonine phosphatases are involved. Inhibition of phosphatidylinositol 3 (PI3) kinase signaling pathways also partially reversed the LPA anti-inflammatory response. However, LPA did not alter NFkappaB and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) activation. Inhibitors of PPARgamma did not alter LPA-induced inhibition of LPS signaling. These studies demonstrate that LPA has significant anti-inflammatory activities involving activation of ERK 1/2, serine/threonine phosphatases, and PI3 kinase signaling pathways.
The mechanisms by which the GABA and benzodiazepine (BZD) binding sites of the GABA-A receptor are allosterically coupled remain elusive. In this study, we separately monitored ligand-induced structural changes in the BZD binding site (alpha/gamma interface) and at aligned positions in the alpha/beta interface. alpha(1)His101 and surrounding residues were individually mutated to cysteine and expressed with wild-type beta2 and gamma2 subunits in Xenopus laevis oocytes. The accessibilities of introduced cysteines to modification by methanethiosulfonate ethylammonium (MTSEA)-Biotin were measured in the presence and absence of GABA-site agonists, antagonists, BZDs, and pentobarbital. The presence of flurazepam or the BZD-site antagonist flumazenil (Ro15-1788) decreased the rate of modification of alpha(1)H101C at the BZD binding site. GABA and muscimol each increased MTSEA-Biotin modification of alpha(1)H101C located at the BZD-site, gabazine (SR-95531, a GABA binding site antagonist) decreased the rate, whereas pentobarbital had no effect. Modification of alpha(1)H101C at the alpha/beta interface was significantly slower than modification of alpha(1)H101C at the BZD site, and the presence of GABA or flurazepam had no effect on its accessibility, indicating the physicochemical environments of the alpha/gamma and alpha/beta interfaces are different. The data are consistent with the idea that GABA-binding site occupation by agonists causes a GABA binding cavity closure that is directly coupled to BZD binding cavity opening, and GABA-site antagonist binding causes a movement linked to BZD binding cavity closure. Pentobarbital binding/gating resulted in no observable movements in the BZD binding site near alpha(1)H101C, indicating that structural mechanisms underlying allosteric coupling between the GABA and BZD binding sites are distinct.
Accessory subunits in heteromeric nicotinic receptors (AChRs) do not take part in forming ACh binding sites. alpha5 and beta3 subunits can function only as accessory subunits. We show that both alpha5 and beta3 efficiently assemble in human alpha4beta2(*) AChRs expressed in permanently transfected human embryonic kidney (HEK) cell lines. Only (alpha4beta2)(2)alpha5, not (alpha4beta2)(2)beta3 AChRs, have been detected in brain. The alpha4beta2alpha5 line expressed 40% more AChRs than the parent alpha4beta2 line and was equally sensitive to up-regulation by nicotine. The alpha4beta2beta3 line expressed 25-fold more AChRs than the parental line and could not be further up-regulated by nicotine. Relative sensitivity to activation by ACh depends on the accessory subunit, beta2 conferring the greatest sensitivity, alpha5 less, and beta3 and alpha4 much less. Accessory subunits form binding sites for positive allosteric modulators, as illustrated by the observation that alpha5 conferred high sensitivity to galanthamine. In the presence of alpha5 or beta3, stable, partially degraded, dead end intermediates accumulated within the cells. These may have the form alpha5alpha4beta2alpha5. The efficiency with which alpha5 and beta3 assemble with alpha4 and beta2 and the necessity of avoiding formation of potentially toxic intermediates may explain why alpha5 and beta3 seem to be transcribed at low levels in brain. Autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy can be caused by the alpha4 mutation S247F. This mutant did not produce functional AChRs unless cells were cotransfected with alpha5, beta3, or alpha6 to replace alpha4 as accessory subunit.
Free radicals have been found in high concentrations within inflammatory multiple sclerosis (MS) lesions. The superoxide anion (O(2)(-)) reacts rapidly with nitric oxide (NO), producing peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)). Glatiramer acetate (GA) is a specific MS immunomodulator that induces the synthesis of Th2 cytokines, and reduces the frequency of relapses and the formation of active brain lesions. Proinflammatory cytokines could play a role in free radicals production in the peripheral immune system as well as in the central nervous system (CNS). The effect of GA on iNOS, superoxide radicals (O(2)(-)) and 3-nitrotyrosine production by peripheral blood adherent mononuclear cells (PBAMs) was assessed. Our findings demonstrate that in vitro GA reduced spontaneous and LPS-induced iNOS, 3-nitrotyrosine, NO and O(2)(-) production, and that similar inhibition can be demonstrated ex vivo in mononuclear cells obtained from GA-treated patients. The inhibition of the production of free radicals in PBAMs may represent a new therapeutic mechanism against inflammation during MS.
The bladder has only two essential functions. It stores and periodically empties liquid waste. Yet it is unique as a visceral organ, allowing integrated volitional and autonomous control of continence and voiding. Normal function tests the integrity of the nervous system at all levels, extending from the neuroepithelium of the bladder wall to the frontal cortex of the brain. Thus, dysfunction is common with impairment of either the central or peripheral nervous system. This monograph presents an overview of the neural control of the bladder as it is currently understood. A description of pertinent peripheral anatomy and neuroanatomy is provided, followed by an explanation of common neurophysiological tests of the lower urinary tract and associated structures, including both urodynamic and electrodiagnostic approaches. Clinical applications are included to illustrate the impact of nervous system dysfunction on the bladder and to provide indications for testing.
In up to 50% of chronic idiopathic axonal neuropathies, an underlying diagnosis may be identified, including hereditary neuropathy. Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT) is clinically and genetically heterogeneous. Several mutations in the myelin protein zero (MPZ) gene have been associated with different CMT phenotypes, including classical demyelinating CMT1B and the axonal form of the disease. Primary amyloidosis, a rare disease where the amyloid is formed by the N-terminal portion of a monoclonal immunoglobulin light chain, may be complicated by polyneuropathy. We report a patient who was incorrectly diagnosed with amyloid neuropathy, but was found to have axonal CMT1B only after sural nerve biopsy ruled out an acquired amyloid neuropathy.
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is generally associated with proximal weakness and muscle wasting. An X-linked variant with calf hypertrophy has been reported. We describe a young man with SMA type 4 with prominent calf hypertrophy in whom DNA analysis showed a homozygous deletion of exons 7 and 8 in the telomeric copy of the survival motor neuron gene. Calf hypertrophy may be seen uncommonly in autosomally inherited SMA.
Besides its role in glycolysis, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) initiates a cell death cascade. Diverse apoptotic stimuli activate inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) or neuronal NOS (nNOS), with the generated nitric oxide (NO) S-nitrosylating GAPDH, abolishing its catalytic activity and conferring on it the ability to bind to Siah1, an E3-ubiquitin-ligase with a nuclear localization signal (NLS). The GAPDH-Siah1 protein complex, in turn, translocates to the nucleus and mediates cell death; these processes are blocked by procedures that interfere with GAPDH-Siah1 binding. Nuclear events induced by GAPDH to kill cells have been obscure. Here we show that nuclear GAPDH is acetylated at Lys 160 by the acetyltransferase p300/CREB binding protein (CBP) through direct protein interaction, which in turn stimulates the acetylation and catalytic activity of p300/CBP. Consequently, downstream targets of p300/CBP, such as p53 (Refs 10,11,12,13,14,15), are activated and cause cell death. A dominant-negative mutant GAPDH with the substitution of Lys 160 to Arg (GAPDH-K160R) prevents activation of p300/CBP, blocks induction of apoptotic genes and decreases cell death. Our findings reveal a pathway in which NO-induced nuclear GAPDH mediates cell death through p300/CBP.
Recent efforts have revealed that numerous protein-coding messenger RNAs have natural antisense transcript partners, most of which seem to be noncoding RNAs. Here we identify a conserved noncoding antisense transcript for beta-secretase-1 (BACE1), a crucial enzyme in Alzheimer's disease pathophysiology. The BACE1-antisense transcript (BACE1-AS) regulates BACE1 mRNA and subsequently BACE1 protein expression in vitro and in vivo. Upon exposure to various cell stressors including amyloid-beta 1-42 (Abeta 1-42), expression of BACE1-AS becomes elevated, increasing BACE1 mRNA stability and generating additional Abeta 1-42 through a post-transcriptional feed-forward mechanism. BACE1-AS concentrations were elevated in subjects with Alzheimer's disease and in amyloid precursor protein transgenic mice. These data show that BACE1 mRNA expression is under the control of a regulatory noncoding RNA that may drive Alzheimer's disease-associated pathophysiology. In summary, we report that a long noncoding RNA is directly implicated in the increased abundance of Abeta 1-42 in Alzheimer's disease.
The transient receptor potential canonical (TRPC) channels are Ca2+-permeable, nonselective cation channels with different biological functions, but their roles in brain are largely unknown. Here we report that TRPC6 was localized to excitatory synapses and promoted their formation via a CaMKIV-CREB-dependent pathway. TRPC6 transgenic mice showed enhancement in spine formation, and spatial learning and memory in Morris water maze. These results reveal a previously unknown role of TRPC6 in synaptic and behavioral plasticity.
Although short-term plasticity is believed to play a fundamental role in cortical computation, empirical evidence bearing on its role during behavior is scarce. Here we looked for the signature of short-term plasticity in the fine-timescale spiking relationships of a simultaneously recorded population of physiologically identified pyramidal cells and interneurons, in the medial prefrontal cortex of the rat, in a working memory task. On broader timescales, sequentially organized and transiently active neurons reliably differentiated between different trajectories of the rat in the maze. On finer timescales, putative monosynaptic interactions reflected short-term plasticity in their dynamic and predictable modulation across various aspects of the task, beyond a statistical accounting for the effect of the neurons' co-varying firing rates. Seeking potential mechanisms for such effects, we found evidence for both firing pattern-dependent facilitation and depression, as well as for a supralinear effect of presynaptic coincidence on the firing of postsynaptic targets.
Purines have key roles in neurotransmission and neuromodulation, with their effects being mediated by the purine and pyrimidine receptor subfamilies, P1, P2X and P2Y. Recently, purinergic mechanisms and specific receptor subtypes have been shown to be involved in various pathological conditions including brain trauma and ischaemia, neurodegenerative diseases involving neuroimmune and neuroinflammatory reactions, as well as in neuropsychiatric diseases, including depression and schizophrenia. This article reviews the role of purinergic signalling in CNS disorders, highlighting specific purinergic receptor subtypes, most notably A(2A), P2X(4) and P2X(7), that might be therapeutically targeted for the treatment of these conditions.
Several psychiatric disorders--such as bipolar disorder, schizophrenia and autism--are highly heritable, yet identifying their genetic basis has been challenging, with most discoveries failing to be replicated. However, inroads have been made by the incorporation of intermediate traits (endophenotypes) and of environmental factors into genetic analyses, and through the identification of rare inherited variants and novel structural mutations. Current efforts aim to increase sample sizes by gathering larger samples for case-control studies or through meta-analyses of such studies. More attention on unique families, rare variants, and on incorporating environment and the emerging knowledge of biological function and pathways into genetic analysis is warranted.
Neuroscience produces a vast amount of data from an enormous diversity of neurons. A neuronal classification system is essential to organize such data and the knowledge that is derived from them. Classification depends on the unequivocal identification of the features that distinguish one type of neuron from another. The problems inherent in this are particularly acute when studying cortical interneurons. To tackle this, we convened a representative group of researchers to agree on a set of terms to describe the anatomical, physiological and molecular features of GABAergic interneurons of the cerebral cortex. The resulting terminology might provide a stepping stone towards a future classification of these complex and heterogeneous cells. Consistent adoption will be important for the success of such an initiative, and we also encourage the active involvement of the broader scientific community in the dynamic evolution of this project.
Neuroeconomics is the study of the neurobiological and computational basis of value-based decision making. Its goal is to provide a biologically based account of human behaviour that can be applied in both the natural and the social sciences. This Review proposes a framework to investigate different aspects of the neurobiology of decision making. The framework allows us to bring together recent findings in the field, highlight some of the most important outstanding problems, define a common lexicon that bridges the different disciplines that inform neuroeconomics, and point the way to future applications.
Systemic osmoregulation is a vital process whereby changes in plasma osmolality, detected by osmoreceptors, modulate ingestive behaviour, sympathetic outflow and renal function to stabilize the tonicity and volume of the extracellular fluid. Furthermore, changes in the central processing of osmosensory signals are likely to affect the hydro-mineral balance and other related aspects of homeostasis, including thermoregulation and cardiovascular balance. Surprisingly little is known about how the brain orchestrates these responses. Here, recent advances in our understanding of the molecular, cellular and network mechanisms that mediate the central control of osmotic homeostasis in mammals are reviewed.
A fast and accurate computational scheme for simulating nonlinear dynamic systems is presented. The scheme assumes that the system can be represented by a combination of components of only two different types: first-order low-pass filters and static nonlinearities. The parameters of these filters and nonlinearities may depend on system variables, and the topology of the system may be complex, including feedback. Several examples taken from neuroscience are given: phototransduction, photopigment bleaching, and spike generation according to the Hodgkin-Huxley equations. The scheme uses two slightly different forms of autoregressive filters, with an implicit delay of zero for feedforward control and an implicit delay of half a sample distance for feedback control. On a fairly complex model of the macaque retinal horizontal cell, it computes, for a given level of accuracy, one to two orders of magnitude faster than the fourth-order Runge-Kutta. The computational scheme has minimal memory requirements and is also suited for computation on a stream processor, such as a graphical processing unit.
We present an online version of the expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm for hidden Markov models (HMMs). The sufficient statistics required for parameters estimation is computed recursively with time, that is, in an online way instead of using the batch forward-backward procedure. This computational scheme is generalized to the case where the model parameters can change with time by introducing a discount factor into the recurrence relations. The resulting algorithm is equivalent to the batch EM algorithm, for appropriate discount factor and scheduling of parameters update. On the other hand, the online algorithm is able to deal with dynamic environments, i.e., when the statistics of the observed data is changing with time. The implications of the online algorithm for probabilistic modeling in neuroscience are briefly discussed.
APP(751SL) mice of 5-6- and 7-8-month-old and their wild-type littermates were submitted to one-session learning in a water-maze with three levels of training (4, 12 or 22 trials). Training consisted in finding a submerged platform with a fixed location and marked by a cue. During testing two platforms were presented: one consistent with the spatial location allowing place-response (PR) and the other signaled by the cue enabling cued-response (CR). When testing occurred 24h after training, wild-type and 5-6-month-old APP(751SL) mice exhibited a shift in response strategy as a function of training level, by executing CR when trained with 4 trials and PR when trained with 12 trials, but 7-8-month-old APP(751SL) mice executed only CR. However, they displayed PR when tested 1h after 12- and 22-trial, suggesting a consolidation deficit. Zif268 imaging showed plasticity impairment of the hippocampal-dependent memory system but not of the dorsolateral caudate nucleus. Moreover, in these APP(751SL) mice, the deficit selectively affecting hippocampal function cannot be directly related to the onset of beta-amyloid deposits.

Rett Syndrome (RTT), the second most common cause of mental retardation in girls, is associated with mutations of an X-linked gene encoding the transcriptional repressor protein MeCP2. Mecp2(1lox) mutant mice express no functional MeCP2 protein and exhibit behavioral abnormalities similar to those seen in RTT patients. Here we monitor the development of both whole brain and regional volumes between 21 and 42 days of age in this model of RTT using MRI. We see decreases in whole brain volumes in both male and female mutant mice. Cerebellar and ventricular volumes are also decreased in RTT males. Previous work has suggested that perinatal choline supplementation alleviates some of the behavioral deficits in both male and female Mecp2(1lox) mutant mice. Here we show that perinatal choline supplementation also positively affects whole brain volume in heterozygous females, and cerebellar volume in male RTT mice.
In the last decade, multiple lines of transgenic APP overexpressing mice have been created that recapitulate certain aspects of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, none of the previously reported transgenic APP overexpressing rat models developed AD-like beta-amyloid (Abeta) deposits, or age-related learning and memory deficits. In the present study, we have characterized a transgenic rat model overexpressing transgenes with three, familial AD mutations (two in APP and one in PS1) that were developed by Flood et al. [Flood, D.G., et al., Abeta deposition in a transgenic rat model of Alzheimer's disease. Society for Neuroscience 2003, Washington, DC, 2003]. From the age of 9 months, these rats develop Abeta deposits in both diffuse and compact forms, with the latter being closely associated with activated microglia and reactive astrocytes. Impaired long-term potentiation (LTP) was revealed by electrophysiological recordings performed on hippocampal slices from rats at 7 months of age, which is 2 months before the appearance of amyloid plaques. The deficit in LTP was accompanied by impaired spatial learning and memory in the Morris water maze, which became more pronounced in transgenic rats of 13 months of age. For Tg rats of both ages, there was a trend for cognitive impairment to correlate with total Abeta42 levels in the hippocampus. The rat model therefore recapitulates AD-like amyloid pathology and cognitive impairment. The advantage of the rat model over the available mouse models is that rats provide better opportunities for advanced studies, such as serial CSF sampling, electrophysiology, neuroimaging, cell-based transplant manipulations, and complex behavioral testing.
Low-frequency stimulation (LFS) has been considered as a new option for the treatment of intractable epilepsy. The present study was designed to determine whether LFS of the kindling focus given at different time points after seizures exert different roles on kindling seizures. Our results showed that: (i) In kindling animals, LFS delivered immediately after cessation of the kindling stimulus inhibited the seizure stage during kindling acquisition, whereas LFS delivered after the cessation of afterdischarge accelerated the kindling progression to stages 1 and 2. (ii) In fully kindled animals, when using the generalized seizure threshold current as the kindling stimulus, immediate LFS decreased the incidence of generalized seizures and the average seizure stage as well as shortened the cumulative generalized seizure duration (GSD). However, delayed LFS prolonged the cumulative GSD and afterdischarge duration. Our study indicates that there is a time-dependent aspect of LFS treatment, and immediate LFS has anti-epileptogenic action.
The current study examined the effects of temporary inactivation of the DH on freezing, rearing, ambulating, grooming, and whisking behavior in an explicitly nonspatial contextual fear conditioning paradigm in which olfactory stimuli served as temporally and spatially diffuse contexts. Prior either to training, testing, or both, male Sprague-Dawley rats received bilateral microinfusions of saline or the GABA(A) agonist muscimol into the DH. Results indicate that temporary inactivation of DH produced both anterograde and retrograde deficits in contextually conditioned freezing, while sparing the acquisition and expression of freezing to a discrete auditory or olfactory CS. These data suggest that there is a decidedly nonspatial component to the role of DH in contextual conditioning, and that olfactory contextual conditioning is a fruitful means of further exploring this function.
The current study investigated whether, for spatial reference memory, age impacts (1) sensitivity to surgical ovarian hormone loss (Ovx), (2) response to estradiol therapy (ET), and (3) the relation between circulating estradiol levels and memory scores in ovary-intact sham and Ovx plus ET rats. Young, middle-aged and aged Fischer-344 rats received sham, Ovx or Ovx plus ET treatments, and were then tested on the Morris maze. After the last test trial, a probe trial was given whereby the platform was removed. Circulating estradiol levels were then determined and correlated with performance. In Study 1, Ovx facilitated learning on day one, but impaired performance after day one, in young rats. Ovx did not influence performance in middle-aged rats. In young and middle-aged Ovx rats, ET enhanced performance with higher exogenous estradiol levels correlating with better performance during testing and the probe trial. There was no relationship between endogenous estradiol levels and performance in sham young or middle-aged rats. Study 2 showed that, like middle-aged rats, aged rats were not impacted by Ovx. Further, for aged Ovx rats, the ET regimen that was beneficial at earlier ages was no longer effective during test trials, and had only minor benefits for platform localization as assessed by the probe trial. Collectively, the findings suggest that the effects of Ovx as well as responsivity to the currently utilized ET regimen changes with age. Further, there appears to be a distinction between sensitivity to Ovx and responsiveness to ET after Ovx for spatial reference memory performance.
Bilateral intradentate injections of 3.0microg of colchicine induced a substantial loss of granule cells and damage to the overlying pyramidal cell layer in region CA1 in adult male Long-Evans rats. All rats with such lesions showed a significant associative learning deficit in an olfactory discrimination task, while being unimpaired in the procedural component of this task. Injection of a partial selective 5-HT(4) agonist (SL65.0155; 0.01mg/kg, i.p., vs. saline) before the third of six training sessions enabled complete recovery of associative learning performance in the lesioned rats. Activation of 5-HT(4) receptors by a selective agonist such as SL65.0155 might therefore provide an opportunity to reduce learning and memory deficits associated with temporal lobe damage, and could be useful for the symptomatic treatment of memory dysfunctions related to pathological aging such as Alzheimer's disease.
Diencephalic amnesia manifests itself through a host of neurological and memory impairments. A commonly employed animal model of diencephalic amnesia, pyrithiamine-induced thiamine deficiency (PTD), results in brain lesions and impairments similar in nature and distribution to those observed in humans with Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome (WKS). In the current investigation, 2 separate experiments were conducted in which acetylcholine (ACh) efflux was assessed in the hippocampus and striatum of PTD-treated and pair-fed (PF) control male Sprague-Dawley rats. The goal was to determine under what behavioral conditions and in which brain structures ACh efflux was spared, impaired, or adaptively enhanced. In Experiment 1, rats were assessed on a spontaneous alternation task; in Experiment 2, rats were tested on a T-maze discrimination task that could be learned via a hippocampal- or striatal-based strategy. In Experiment 1, PTD-treated rats were impaired on the spontaneous alternation task and ACh efflux in the hippocampus during testing was significantly reduced, but spared in the striatum. In Experiment 2, PTD- and PF-treated rats did not differ in the number of trials to criterion, but PTD-treated rats demonstrated greater reliance upon egocentric cues to solve the task. Furthermore, ACh efflux in the striatum was greater during maze learning in the PTD-treated animals when compared to the PF animals. These results suggest that there is behavioral and systems level plasticity that can facilitate the use of alternative strategies to solve a task following diencephalic damage and WKS.
Ethanol is a frequently abused drug that impairs cognitive processes such as learning. Varenicline, an alpha4beta2 nicotinic receptor partial agonist and alpha7 nicotinic receptor full agonist prescribed for smoking cessation, has been shown to decrease ethanol consumption. The current study investigated whether varenicline could ameliorate ethanol-induced deficits in learning and whether varenicline alters blood alcohol concentration in C57BL/6 mice. Conditioning consisted of two auditory conditioned stimulus (CS; 30s, 85dB white noise)-foot shock unconditioned stimulus (US; 2s, 0.57mA) pairings. For all studies, saline or ethanol (1.0, 1.5, 2.0g/kg i.p.) was administered 15min before training, and saline or varenicline (0.05, 0.1, 0.2mg/kg i.p.) was administered 60min before either training or testing. For blood alcohol analysis, saline or varenicline (0.1mg/kg) was administered 60min before collection, and saline or ethanol (1.0, 1.5, 2.0g/kg) was administered 15min before collection. Varenicline dose-dependently ameliorated ethanol-induced conditioning deficits for all three doses of ethanol when administered before training but not when administered 24h later, before testing. In addition, varenicline did not alter blood alcohol concentration. The smoking cessation aid varenicline may have therapeutic uses for treating ethanol-associated disruptions in cognitive processes.
Memory persistence is a dynamic process involving the reconsolidation of memories after their reactivation. Reconsolidation impairments have been demonstrated for many types of memories in rats, and signaling at N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors appears often to be a critical pharmacological mechanism. Here we investigated the reconsolidation of appetitive pavlovian memories reinforced by natural rewards. In male Lister Hooded rats, systemic administration of the NMDA receptor antagonist (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-SH-dibenzo{a,d}cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate (MK-801, 0.1mg/kg i.p.) either before or immediately following a brief memory reactivation session abolished the subsequent acquisition of a new instrumental response with sucrose conditioned reinforcement. However, only when injected prior to memory reactivation was MK-801 effective in disrupting the maintenance of a previously-acquired instrumental response with conditioned reinforcement. These results demonstrate that NMDA receptor-mediated signaling is required for appetitive pavlovian memory reconsolidation.
The Morris water maze is frequently used to evaluate the acquisition and retrieval of spatial memories. Few experiments, however, have investigated the effects of environmental cue saliency on the strength or persistence of such memories after a short vs. long post-acquisition interval. Using a Morris water maze, we therefore tested in rats the effect of the saliency of distal cues on the vividness of a recent (5 days) vs. remote (25 days) memory. Rats trained in a cue-enriched vs. a cue-impoverished context showed a better overall level of performance during acquisition. Furthermore, the probe trials revealed that the rats trained and tested in the cue-impoverished context (1) spent less time in the target quadrant at the 25-day delay, and (2) swam shorter distances in the target area, with fewer crossings at both 5- and 25-day delays, as compared to their counterparts trained and tested in the cue-enriched context. Thus, the memory trace formed in the cue-enriched context shows better resistance to time, suggesting an implication of cue saliency in the vividness of a spatial memory.
Most studies of long-term potentiation (LTP) have focused on potentiation induced by the activation of postsynaptic NMDA receptors (NMDARs). However, it is now apparent that NMDAR-dependent signaling processes are not the only form of LTP operating in the brain [Malenka, R. C., &amp; Bear, M. F. (2004). LTP and LTD: An embarrassment of riches. Neuron, 44, 5-21]. Previously, we have observed that LTP in leech central synapses made by the touch mechanosensory neurons onto the S interneuron was NMDAR-independent [Burrell, B. D., &amp; Sahley, C. L. (2004). Multiple forms of long-term potentiation and long-term depression converge on a single interneuron in the leech CNS. Journal of Neuroscience, 24, 4011-4019]. Here we examine the cellular mechanisms mediating T-to-S (T--&gt;S) LTP and find that its induction requires activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs), voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels (VDCCs) and protein kinase C (PKC). Surprisingly, whenever LTP was pharmacologically inhibited, long-term depression (LTD) was observed at the tetanized synapse, indicating that LTP and LTD were activated at the same time in the same synaptic pathway. This co-induction of LTP and LTD likely plays an important role in activity-dependent regulation of synaptic transmission.
alpha-Synuclein has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). Previous studies have shown that alpha-synuclein is involved in the regulation of dopamine (DA) metabolism, possibly by down-regulating the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the rate-limiting enzyme in DA biosynthesis. In this study, we constructed alpha-synuclein stably silenced MN9D/alpha-SYN(-) cells by vector mediated RNA interference and examined its effects on DA metabolism. We found that there were no significant differences in TH protein and mRNA levels between MN9D, MN9D/alpha-SYN(-) and MN9D/CON cells, suggesting that silencing alpha-synuclein expression does not affect TH gene expression. However, significant increases in phosphorylated TH, cytosolic 3, 4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) and DA levels were observed in MN9D/alpha-SYN(-) cells. Our data show that TH activity and DA biosynthesis were enhanced by down-regulation of alpha-synuclein, suggesting that alpha-synuclein may act as a negative regulator of cytosolic DA. With respect to PD pathology, a loss of functional alpha-synuclein may result in increased DA levels in neurons that may lead to cell injury or even death.
Glutathione (GSH) is one of the major antioxidants in the brain. GSH is secreted by astrocytes and this extracellular GSH is used by neurones to maintain and increase their intracellular GSH levels. For efficient GSH trafficking between astrocytes and neurones, GSH needs to be maintained in the reduced form. In model systems, GSH trafficking has been shown to be essential for neuroprotection against a variety of stress conditions. Previously we and others have shown that GSH and thiols are unstable in cell culture media and are easily oxidised. In the present study it is shown that nanomolar concentrations of copper (II) ions can cause decay of GSH in cell culture media. Increased free or redox active copper has been implicated in a variety of diseases and degradation of extracellular GSH is a possible mechanism by which it exerts its harmful effects. Rat astrocytes, a human astrocytoma cell line and astrocyte-conditioned media, in the absence of cells, are able to retard this copper-catalysed decay of GSH and maintain GSH in its reduced form. The protective effect of astrocytes appears to be a combination of copper removing and antioxidant mechanisms. The importance of these protective mechanisms is discussed with regards to neurodegenerative diseases.
Thiamine deficiency (TD) is a model of neurodegeneration induced by mild impairment of oxidative metabolism. TD produces time-dependent glial activation, inflammation, oxidative stress, altered metabolism of amyloid precursor protein (APP), exacerbation of plaque formation from APP, and finally, selective neuron death in specific brain regions. The sub-medial thalamic nucleus (SmTN) is the most sensitive region to TD. Alteration in APP metabolism and nuclear translocation of carboxy-terminal fragments (CTF) of APP has been implicated in neuron death in other models of neurodegeneration. These experiments tested whether TD causes translocation of CTF into the nucleus of neurons in the SmTN that are destined to die after 9 days of TD by examining overlapping immunoreactivity (IR) of antibody APP 369 with either Alz90, 6E10 or 4G8 epitopes in the nuclei of the neurons in the SmTN. TD caused the accumulation of the CTF of APP in nuclei of SmTN neurons within 3 days of TD. These changes did not occur in the cortex which is spared in TD. Western blot analysis of nuclear fractions revealed a significant (61%; P &lt; 0.026) increase in CTF 12 levels in TD SmTN (2.08 +/- 0.56) compared to control SmTN (1.29 +/- 0.41). Although TD increased CTF 15 levels in TD SmTN (1.95 +/- 0.73) compared to control SmTN (0.62 +/- 0.52) by 214%; P &lt; 0.665 and decreased the full-length holo-APP levels in TD SmTN (0.32 +/- 0.30) compared to control SmTN (0.47 +/- 0.18) by 34%; P &lt; 0.753, the differences were statistically insignificant. TD did not alter CTF 15 or CTF 12 levels in cortex. These findings demonstrate that changes in APP metabolism occur in early stages of TD, and they may play an important role in TD-induced selective neuronal loss.
microRNAs (miRNAs) are approximately 21 nt transcripts capable of regulating the expression of many mRNAs and are abundant in the brain. miRNAs have a role in several complex diseases including cancer as well as some neurological diseases such as Tourette's syndrome and Fragile x syndrome. As a genetically complex disease, dysregulation of miRNA expression might be a feature of autism spectrum disorders (ASDs). Using multiplex quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR), we compared the expression of 466 human miRNAs from postmortem cerebellar cortex tissue of individuals with ASD (n = 13) and a control set of non-autistic cerebellar samples (n = 13). While most miRNAs levels showed little variation across all samples suggesting that autism does not induce global dysfunction of miRNA expression, some miRNAs among the autistic samples were expressed at significantly different levels compared to the mean control value. Twenty-eight miRNAs were expressed at significantly different levels compared to the non-autism control set in at least one of the autism samples. To validate the finding, we reversed the analysis and compared each non-autism control to a single mean value for each miRNA across all autism cases. In this analysis, the number of dysregulated miRNAs fell from 28 to 9 miRNAs. Among the predicted targets of dysregulated miRNAs are genes that are known genetic causes of autism such Neurexin and SHANK3. This study finds that altered miRNA expression levels are observed in postmortem cerebellar cortex from autism patients, a finding which suggests that dysregulation of miRNAs may contribute to autism spectrum phenotype.
X-linked Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMTX) disease is a common inherited degenerative disorder of the peripheral nerve. Previously, our laboratory identified a large New Zealand/United Kingdom (NZ/UK) family mapping to the CMTX3 locus (Xq26.3-27.1). We have now identified a second large, Australian X-linked CMT family that links to the CMTX3 locus. This new family has the same phenotype as our previously described CMTX3 family, with slightly milder disease in males than CMTX1 and asymptomatic carrier females. This study also includes the re-analysis of one of the original US pedigrees reporting the CMTX3 locus. The large Australian family shared the complete disease haplotype with our original NZ/UK family, while the American family shared only the distal portion of the disease haplotype. Comparison of the frequency of the CMTX3 haplotype to the normal population showed strong statistical evidence (p &lt; 0.0001) indicating that the smaller shared haplotype is identical by descent. This suggests that the new CMTX3 family, our previously reported family, and the original American CMTX3 family have a common ancestor, and the disease in these families is caused by a founder mutation. The ancestral recombination observed in the American family refines the CMTX3 interval to a 2.5 Mb region between DXS984 and DXS8106. In this region, 11 out of the 15 annotated genes have been excluded for pathogenic mutations.
There is increasing evidence that the pathophysiology of hepatic encephalopathy is tightly associated with low-grade cerebral oedema; however, no method has yet specifically and unambiguously confirmed this hypothesis in vivo. The current study describes the quantitative measurement of localised water content using MRI in a cohort of 38 patients suffering from hepatic encephalopathy. A significant global increase in cerebral water content was observed in white matter whereas water content in grey matter was globally unaffected. However, significant spatial variations in the water content distribution, especially in grey matter, were observed and were correlated with disease grade and critical flicker frequency. In addition, regions-of-interest were defined and a significant change in water content with disease grade was found in the frontal and occipital white matter, the globus pallidus, the anterior limb of the internal capsule and the putamen. No association of water content and HE grade was established for the occipital visual and frontal cortices, the thalamus, the posterior limb of the internal capsule, the caudate nucleus and the coronal white matter. In conclusion, the measurements presented here are the first direct and quantitative demonstration of the presence of low-grade cerebral oedema in patients with hepatic encephalopathy. Further, absolute changes in tissue water content were quantified for various brain regions.
This note presents a simple Bayesian filtering scheme, using variational calculus, for inference on the hidden states of dynamic systems. Variational filtering is a stochastic scheme that propagates particles over a changing variational energy landscape, such that their sample density approximates the conditional density of hidden and states and inputs. The key innovation, on which variational filtering rests, is a formulation in generalised coordinates of motion. This renders the scheme much simpler and more versatile than existing approaches, such as those based on particle filtering. We demonstrate variational filtering using simulated and real data from hemodynamic systems studied in neuroimaging and provide comparative evaluations using particle filtering and the fixed-form homologue of variational filtering, namely dynamic expectation maximisation.
Lesion overlap difference maps have been used in studies designed to test anatomical hypotheses regarding brain systems critical for various cognitive and behavioral tasks, including naming and recognition of concrete entities [Damasio, H., Tranel, D., Grabowski, T., Adolphs, R., Damasio, A., 2004. Neural systems behind word and concept retrieval. Cognition 92, 179-229]. To date, the interpretation of these results has focused on areas of maximum lesion overlap differences. Here we explore formal methods for statistical thresholding and power analysis. We derive exact voxel-wise statistics describing the behavior of lesion overlap difference maps and lesion proportion difference maps under the null hypothesis of no association between lesion and deficit, and we apply the statistics to a large subset of the subjects previously reported in [Damasio, H., Tranel, D., Grabowski, T., Adolphs, R., Damasio, A., 2004. Neural systems behind word and concept retrieval. Cognition 92, 179-229], in order to reassess the lesion correlates of deficits in naming and recognition for five categories of concrete entities. The thresholded maps confirmed many of the results reported previously, but also revealed some differences. Differences in spatial distribution of the lesion correlates of impaired naming of unique versus nonunique entities were confirmed in the inferotemporal region (IT), although overlapping components across categories became apparent in left IT. Additionally, the left inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) was implicated in naming both categories of nonunique natural entities (animals and fruits/vegetables). In corresponding power analyses, we estimated where significant effects could be found under an assumption of maximal effect size given the observed spatial distribution of lesions. Such &quot;effective coverage maps&quot; are valuable for the interpretation of the results, notably because of heterogeneity in lesion coverage encountered in lesion studies. We strongly suggest that when inferential statistics are used in voxel-wise lesion-deficit statistical mapping, these or other power maps be included in the reports.
This paper presents a variational treatment of dynamic models that furnishes time-dependent conditional densities on the path or trajectory of a system's states and the time-independent densities of its parameters. These are obtained by maximising a variational action with respect to conditional densities, under a fixed-form assumption about their form. The action or path-integral of free-energy represents a lower bound on the model's log-evidence or marginal likelihood required for model selection and averaging. This approach rests on formulating the optimisation dynamically, in generalised coordinates of motion. The resulting scheme can be used for online Bayesian inversion of nonlinear dynamic causal models and is shown to outperform existing approaches, such as Kalman and particle filtering. Furthermore, it provides for dual and triple inferences on a system's states, parameters and hyperparameters using exactly the same principles. We refer to this approach as dynamic expectation maximisation (DEM).
All the protocols currently implemented in brain computer interface (BCI) experiments are characterized by different structural and temporal entities. Moreover, due to the lack of a unique descriptive model for BCI systems, there is not a standard way to define the structure and the timing of a BCI experimental session among different research groups and there is also great discordance on the meaning of the most common terms dealing with BCI, such as trial, run and session. The aim of this paper is to provide a unified modeling language (UML) implementation of BCI systems through a unique dynamic model which is able to describe the main protocols defined in the literature (P300, mu-rhythms, SCP, SSVEP, fMRI) and demonstrates to be reasonable and adjustable according to different requirements. This model includes a set of definitions of the typical entities encountered in a BCI, diagrams which explain the structural correlations among them and a detailed description of the timing of a trial. This last represents an innovation with respect to the models already proposed in the literature. The UML documentation and the possibility of adapting this model to the different BCI systems built to date, make it a basis for the implementation of new systems and a mean for the unification and dissemination of resources. The model with all the diagrams and definitions reported in the paper are the core of the body language framework, a free set of routines and tools for the implementation, optimization and delivery of cross-platform BCI systems.
Molecular biology and genomics have made notable strides in the sharing of primary data and resources. In other domains of neuroscience research, however, there has been resistance to adopting formalized strategies for data exchange, archiving, and availability. In this article, we discuss how neuroscience domains might follow the lead of molecular biology on what has been successful and what has failed in active data sharing. This considers not only the technical challenges but also the sociological concerns in making it possible. Though, not a pain-free process, with increased data availability, scientists from multiple fields can enjoy greater opportunity for novel discoveries about the brain in health and disease.



The term congenital myopathy is applied to muscle disorders presenting with generalized muscle weakness and hypotonia from early infancy with delayed developmental milestones. The congenital myopathies have been classified into various categories based on morphological findings on muscle biopsy. Although the clinical symptoms may seem homogenous, the genetic basis is remarkably variable. This review will focus on myotubular myopathy, centronuclear myopathy, central core disease, and congenital neuromuscular disease with uniform Type 1 fiber, myopathies that are subjects of our ongoing examinations.
Distal myopathies are a group of heterogeneous disorders classified into one broad category due to the presentation of weakness involving the distal skeletal muscles. The recent years have witnessed increasing efforts to identify the causative genes for distal myopathies. The identification of few causative genes made the broad classification of these diseases under &quot;distal myopathies&quot; disputable and added some enigma to why distal muscles are preferentially affected. Nevertheless, with the clarification of the molecular basis of specific conditions, additional clues have been uncovered to understand the mechanism of each condition. This review will give a synopsis of the common distal myopathies, presenting salient facts regarding the clinical, pathological, and molecular aspects of each disease. Distal myopathy with rimmed vacuoles, or Nonaka myopathy, will be discussed in more detail.
The neuromuscular junction (NMJ) is a specialized synapse with a complex structural and functional organization. It is a target for a variety of immunological disorders and these diseases usually respond well to immunotherapies. The understanding of the immunological basis of myasthenia gravis, the most common neuromuscular junction disorder, has improved in the recent years. Most patients have antibodies to the acetylcholine receptor (AChR), but around 10% have AChR antibodies that are only identified by novel methods, and up to 5% have muscle-specific kinase antibodies which define a different subgroup of myasthenia. The spectrum of antibodies and their pathophysiological aspects are being elucidated. Even though less common, Lambert Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS) is important to recognize. The abnormality in LEMS is a presynaptic failure to release enough packets of ACh, caused by antibodies to the presynaptic voltage-gated calcium channels. More than half these patients have a small cell carcinoma of lung. Acquired neuromyotonia (NMT) is a condition associated with muscle hyperactivity. Clinical features include muscle stiffness, cramps, myokymia, pseudomyotonia and weakness. The immune mechanisms of acquired NMT relate to loss of voltage-gated potassium channel function. This review will focus on the important recent developments in the immune-mediated disorders of the NMJ.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), an X-linked disorder, is the most common muscular dystrophy in children, presenting in early childhood and characterized by proximal muscle weakness and calf hypertrophy in affected boys. Patients usually become wheelchair-bound by the age of 12 years, and die of cardiorespiratory complications in their late teens to early twenties. Advances in the management of DMD, including treatment with corticosteroids and the use of intermittent positive pressure ventilation have provided improvements in function, ambulation, quality of life and life expectancy, although novel therapies still aim to provide a cure for this devastating disorder. The clinical features, investigations, and management of DMD are reviewed, as well as the latest in some of the novel therapies.
Objectives. Motor cortex stimulation has been used as a treatment for intractable pain. However, the mechanisms underlying its effects remain unclear. In this study, neuroplasticity induced by chronic sensorimotor cortex stimulation was investigated experimentally on the basis of c-Fos expression. Materials and Methods. The experimental animals employed were adult male Wistar rats. A quadripolar stimulation electrode was positioned over the sensorimotor cortex. We examined the neural activation in response to chronic stimulation using c-Fos immunopositivity. Results. The results are as follows: 1) c-Fos was significantly expressed immediately after the stimulation compared with that in the control; 2) c-Fos expression became extensive over the various regions with an increase in stimulation duration; and 3) after twomonths of stimulation, c-Fos was expressed not only on the stimulation side, but also within the contralateral cerebral hemisphere. Conclusions. Changes in c-Fos expression induced by long-term stimulation indicate the existence of a time-dependent neural plasticity.
Objective. This study assessed 3-Tesla magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) issues for a programmable infusion pump and associated catheters. Methods. A programmable infusion pump and associated catheters (MedStream Programmable Infusion Pump, 40mL; SureStream TI Coil-Reinforced Intraspinal Catheter; SureStream TI Connector; and SureStream Silicone Catheter; Codman and Shurtleff Inc., a Johnson &amp; Johnson Company, Raynham, MA, USA) underwent evaluation for magnetic field interactions (deflection angle and torque), heating (transmit/receive body radiofrequency coil; whole-body averaged specific absorption rate, 3W/kg for 15min), functional changes (before and after MRI using eight different MRI conditions), and artifacts (T1-weighted spin-echo and gradient-echo pulse sequences) at 3-Tesla. Results. The programmable infusion pump and associated catheters exhibited minor magnetic field interactions. Heating was not excessive (1.9), especially considering the experimental conditions used for this evaluation (ie, relatively high radiofrequency power/specific absorption rate level and use of a nonperfused phantom). The function of three out of six pumps was temporarily altered by exposures to 3-Tesla MRI conditions. Reset was achieved in each case. Artifacts were relatively large for the pump and minor for the catheter. Conclusions. The programmable infusion pump and catheters will not pose increased risk to a patient examined using 3-Tesla MRI as long as specific safety guidelines are followed, which includes interrogation of the pump post-MRI to ensure proper settings. Artifacts for the programmable infusion pump may impact the diagnostic use of MRI if the area of interest is in the same area or near the device.
This case report describes a young boy with concomitant genetically-confirmed Duchenne muscular dystrophy and facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy with a novel dystrophin mutation in exon 6 and a D4Z4 fragment of 31 kb. This child presented with a more severe phenotype than expected for either individual disease process and underscores the role for thorough diagnostic investigation in identifying atypical clinical presentations.
Lysosomes are membrane-bound acidic organelles that contain hydrolases used for intracellular digestion of various macromolecules in a process generally referred to as autophagy. In normal skeletal and cardiac muscles, lysosomes usually appear morphologically unremarkable and thus are not readily visible on light microscopy. In distinct neuromuscular disorders, however, lysosomes have been shown to be structurally abnormal and functionally impaired, leading to the accumulation of autophagic vacuoles in myofibers. More specifically, there are myopathies in which buildup of these autophagic vacuoles seem to predominate the pathological picture. In such conditions, autophagy is considered not merely a secondary event, but a phenomenon that actually contributes to disease pathomechanism and/or progression. At present, there are two disorders in the muscle which are associated with primary defect in lysosomal proteins, namely Danon disease and Pompe disease. Other myopathies which have prominent autophagy in the skeletal muscle include X-linked myopathy with excessive autophagy (XMEA). In this review, these disorders are briefly characterized, and the role of autophagy in the context of the pathomechanism of these disorders is highlighted.
The goal of this study was to develop and validate ex vivo binding assays for serotonin (SERT), norepinephrine (NET) and dopamine (DAT) transporters, and to use these assays to evaluate the binding site occupancy of triple and double monoamine reuptake inhibitors in rat brains. This study demonstrated that while autoradiographic methods provided anatomic precision and regional resolution, the homogenate binding method for site occupancy assessment yielded comparable sensitivity with markedly improved throughput. For ex vivo binding assays, the reduction of temperature and time during the in vitro process (primarily incubation with a radioligand) markedly decreased the dissociation of test agents from binding sites in brain tissues. This reduction, in turn, minimized the potential for underestimation of site occupancy in vivo especially for test compounds with affinity &gt;10nM. The ratios of measured occupancy ED(50) values (doses at which 50% occupancy occurs) among SERT, NET and DAT sites for duloxetine, venlafaxine, nomifensine, indatraline, DOV 21,947 and DOV 216,303 were consistent with the ratios of the in vitro affinities between these target binding sites. The biological relevance of the monoamine transporter occupancy for these compounds is discussed.
Decision-making plays an important role in everyday life and is often disturbed in psychiatric conditions affected by the common human serotonin transporter promoter length polymorphism (5-HTTLPR). This raises the hypothesis that decision-making is modulated by the serotonergic system, but currently it is unclear how the 5-HTTLPR affects central serotonergic functioning. We tested healthy human volunteers genotyped for the 5-HTTLPR in the Iowa Gambling Task (IGT), which is one of the most frequently used neuropsychological tasks to assess decision-making. Furthermore, we tested female homozygous (SERT(-/-)) and heterozygous (SERT(+/-)) serotonin transporter knockout rats in a rodent version of the IGT. Women homozygous for the short (s) allele of the 5-HTTLPR were found to choose more disadvantageously than women homozygous for the long allele of the 5-HTTLPR as the IGT progressed. In the rat, SERT(-/-) and SERT(+/-) were associated with advantageous decision-making compared to SERT(+/+) as the IGT progressed. Combining the human and rat observations, we show that SERT dosage affects the maintenance of a once established choice option, irrespective of the choice (advantageous or disadvantageous) that has been made. We postulate that the SERT-mediated effects relate to deficits in the processing of choice outcome to guide subsequent choices in this gamble-based test, and that SERT(-/-) and SERT(+/-) rodent models in combination with studies in humans can be used to provide insight in the modulatory effects of 5-HTTLPR.
The antinociceptive effects of the endocannabinoids (ECs) are enhanced by inhibiting catabolic enzymes such as fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH). The physiological relevance of the metabolism of ECs by other pathways, such as cyclooxygenase-2 (COX2) is less clear. To address this question we compared the effects of local inhibition of FAAH versus COX2 (URB597 and nimesulide, respectively) on inflammatory hyperalgesia and levels of endocannabinoids and related molecules in the hindpaw. Inflammatory hyperalgesia was measured following intraplantar injection of carrageenan. Effects of intraplantar injection of URB597 (25 microg and 100 microg) or nimesulide (50 microg) on hyperalgesia and hindpaw levels of anandamide (AEA), 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2AG) and N-palmitoylethanolamine (PEA) were determined. Although both doses of URB597 increased levels of AEA and 2AG in the carrageenan inflamed hindpaw, only the lower dose of URB597 attenuated hyperalgesia (P&lt;0.05). Nimesulide attenuated both hyperalgesia and hindpaw oedema (P&lt;0.001, P&lt;0.01, respectively) and increased levels of PEA (P&lt;0.05) in the hindpaw. Since both AEA and PEA are ligands for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha (PPARalpha), the effects of the PPARalpha antagonist GW6471 on nimesulide- and URB597-mediated effects were studied. GW6471, but not a PPARgamma antagonist, blocked the inhibitory effects of nimesulide and URB597 on hyperalgesia. Our data suggest that both COX2 and FAAH play a role in the metabolism of endocannabinoids and related molecules. The finding that PPARalpha antagonism blocked the inhibitory effects of nimesulide and URB597 suggests that PPARalpha contributes to their antinociceptive effects in the carrageenan model of inflammatory hyperalgesia.
It is well established that cAMP counteracts myelin inhibition to permit axon regeneration in the central nervous system. On the other hand, the role of cAMP in axonal growth on permissive substrates remains controversial because the evidence available is contradictory. In view that elevation of cAMP represents an attractive therapeutic target to promote nerve regeneration in vivo, we investigated the effect of cAMP on neurite outgrowth and extension in motoneurons. We manipulated cAMP levels pharmacologically in cultured motoneurons and investigated targets downstream of cAMP of neurite outgrowth and extension on a permissive substrate. Reduction of cAMP by the adenylyl cyclase inhibitor SQ22536 inhibited, and elevation of cAMP by forskolin, dibutyryl cAMP, IBMX and rolipram increased outgrowth and extension of neurites. The cAMP-mediated effects occur via activation of protein kinase A (PKA) and were reduced by the inhibitors, H89 and Rp-cAMP. However, cAMP elevation did not lead to Erk activation that is an essential downstream component of neurotrophin signaling. These findings provide evidence for a key role of cAMP in promoting peripheral nerve regeneration after nerve injuries and indicate that this effect is unusual in not being mediated via Erk phosphorylation.
Eight adolescents (ages 13-18 years) who sustained traumatic brain injury (TBI) and eight gender- and age-matched typically developing (TD) adolescents underwent event-related functional MRI (fMRI) while performing a Sternberg letter recognition task. Encoding, maintenance, and retrieval were examined with memory loads of one or four items during imaging. Both groups performed above a 70% accuracy criterion and did not differ in performance. TD adolescents showed greater increase in frontal and parietal activation during high-load relative to low-load maintenance than the TBI group. The TBI patients showed greater increase in activation during high-load relative to low-load encoding and retrieval than the TD group. Results from this preliminary study suggest that the capability to differentially allocate neural resources according to memory load is disrupted by TBI for the maintenance subcomponent of working memory. The overrecruitment of frontal and extrafrontal regions during encoding and retrieval following TBI may represent a compensatory process.
Amphetamine abuse and dependence is a global health concern with a collateral increase in medical and social problems. Although some of the neurobiological mechanisms underlying amphetamine dependence and its devastating effects in humans are known, the development of rational and evidence-based treatment is lagging. There is evidence from preclinical studies suggesting that the endogenous opioid system plays a role in mediating some of the behavioral and neurochemical effects of amphetamine in a variety of controlled settings. In the present study we assessed the effects of naltrexone, an opioid antagonist (50 mg) on the subjective physiological and biochemical response to dexamphetamine (30 mg) in 20 amphetamine-dependent patients. Patients received naltrexone/amphetamine followed by placebo/amphetamine, 1 week apart in a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled design. The primary objective of the study was to evaluate the effect of pretreatment with naltrexone on the subjective response to amphetamine, using a Visual Analog Scale. The secondary objective was to investigate the effects of naltrexone on physiological and biochemical responses to amphetamine, as measured by changes in blood pressure, heart rate, skin conductance, and cortisol. Naltrexone significantly attenuated the subjective effects produced by dexamphetamine in dependent patients (p&lt;0.001). Pretreatment with naltrexone also significantly blocked the craving for dexamphetamine (p&lt;0.001). There was no difference between the groups on the physiological measures. The results suggest that the subjective effects of amphetamine could be modulated via the endogenous opioid system. The potential of naltrexone as an adjunct pharmaceutical for amphetamine dependence is promising.
Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, or 5-HT) is strongly implicated in the ability to shift behavior in response to changing stimulus-reward contingencies. However, there is little information on the contribution of different 5-HT receptors in reversal learning. Thus, we investigated the effects of systemic administration of the 5-HT(2A) antagonist M100907 (0, 0.01, 0.03, and 0.1 mg/kg, i.p.) and the 5-HT(2C) antagonist SB 242084 (0, 0.1, 0.3, and 1.0 mg/kg, i.p.) on the performance of an instrumental two-lever spatial discrimination and serial spatial reversal learning task, where both levers were presented and only one was reinforced. The rat was required to respond on the reinforced lever under a fixed ratio 3 schedule of reinforcement. Following attainment of criterion, a series of within-session reversals was presented. Neither M100907 nor SB 242084 altered performance during spatial discrimination and retention of the previously reinforced contingencies. M100907 significantly impaired reversal learning by increasing both trials to criterion (only at the highest dose) and incorrect responses to criterion in Reversal 1, a pattern of behavior manifested as increased perseverative responding on the previously reinforced lever. In contrast, SB 242084 improved reversal learning by decreasing trials and incorrect responses to criterion in Reversal 1, with significantly fewer perseverative responses. These data support the view that 5-HT(2A) and 5-HT(2C) receptors have distinct roles in cognitive flexibility and response inhibition. The improved performance in reversal learning observed following 5-HT(2C) receptor antagonism suggests these receptors may offer the potential for therapeutic advances in a number of neuropsychiatric disorders where cognitive deficits are a feature, including obsessive-compulsive disorder.
Contextual stimuli present during a single lifetime cocaine self-administration experience acquire occasion-setting actions sufficient to persistently elicit cocaine-seeking behavior in rats, with effects lasting nearly 1 year. The goal of this study was to identify neural substrates mediating the acquisition of drug-related conditioning taking place during a single cocaine self-administration experience with focus on the subicular formation, a brain site that has been implicated in associative learning relevant for conditioned reward-seeking including conditioned reinstatement. Male Wistar rats were given 2 h of response-contingent access to intravenous cocaine or saline in the presence of distinct stimuli that served as contextual stimuli associated with the availability and subjective effects of cocaine (S(+)) vs saline (S(-)). Before onset of the sessions, rats received bilateral microinjections of tetrodotoxin (TTX) into the ventral subiculum (VSUB) or dorsal subiculum (DSUB). Following extinction of responding by withholding cocaine, rats were subjected to reinstatement tests in which exposure to the cocaine- (but not saline) associated stimulus produced strong recovery of responding. This effect was completely abolished in rats with transient TTX inactivation of the DSUB during the conditioning session. TTX inactivation of the VSUB during conditioning did not alter the response-reinstating effects of the cocaine cue. The results suggest that functional integrity of the DSUB, but not VSUB, is critical for the acquisition of conditioned cocaine-seeking controlled by contextual stimuli under conditions where such learning occurs during a single conditioning trial.
Several studies have suggested that neurokinin-1 (NK1) receptor antagonists may have therapeutic potential as novel antidepressant drugs. To test these compounds preclinically, gerbils have become one of the preferred species in that they demonstrate close NK1 receptor homology with humans and bind NK1 antagonists with higher affinity than rats and mice. The intent of the present study was to determine whether the forced-swim test (FST), one of the most commonly used animal tests of antidepressant-like activity, could be adapted for use with the gerbil. Critical factors in the establishment of this assay included swim tank diameter, weight, and sex of the animals tested. Pharmacological validation of the FST using standard antidepressant compounds (eg fluoxetine, paroxetine, desipramine) resulted in decreased immobility time during the test, indicative of an antidepressant-like effect. Similar to results reported for the rat and mouse FST, the antipsychotic drug haloperidol increased immobility, whereas the psychostimulant, amphetamine decreased immobility, and anxiolytic drugs (eg buspirone) had no effect. Investigation into the locomotor effects of all compounds tested was consistent with previous reports in other species, with the exception of paroxetine, which produced hyperactivity at therapeutically effective doses in gerbils. In addition to standard antidepressants, NK1 antagonists (L-733060, MK-869, and CP-122721) all reduced immobility in the gerbil FST without affecting locomotor activity. Overall, these results suggest that the gerbil is an ideal species for use in the FST, and that this paradigm may have predictive validity for identifying novel antidepressant compounds.
The prefrontal cortex (PFC) is believed to play an important role in the cognitive impairments observed in schizophrenia and has also been shown to be involved in the modulation of prepulse inhibition (PPI), a measure of preattentive information processing that is impaired in schizophrenic individuals. Phencyclidine (PCP), a noncompetitive inhibitor of the NMDA receptor, exerts psychotomimetic effects in humans, disrupts PPI, and causes hypofrontality in rodents and monkeys. We have previously demonstrated that interfering with the production of nitric oxide (NO) can prevent a wide range of PCP-induced behavioral deficits, including PPI disruption. In the present study, the role of NO signaling for the behavioral and biochemical effects of PCP was further investigated. Dialysate from the medial PFC of mice receiving systemic treatment with PCP and/or the NO synthase inhibitor, N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 40 mg/kg), was analyzed for cGMP content. Furthermore, a specific inhibitor of NO-sensitive soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC), 1H-(1,2,4)oxadiazolo(4,3-a)quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ, 0.01-1 mM), was administered into the medial PFC of mice in combination with systemic injections of PCP, followed by PPI and locomotor activity testing. PCP (5 mg/kg) caused an increase in prefrontal cGMP that could be attenuated by pretreatment with the NO synthase inhibitor, L-NAME. Moreover, bilateral microinjection of the sGC inhibitor, ODQ, into the medial PFC of mice attenuated the disruption of PPI, but not the hyperlocomotion, caused by PCP. The present study shows that NO/sGC/cGMP signaling pathway in the medial PFC is involved in specific behavioral effects of PCP that may have relevance for the disabling cognitive dysfunction found in patients with schizophrenia.
Metabotropic glutamate 2/3 receptors (mGluR2/3) are emerging targets for the reduction of stress that contributes to drug relapse. The effect of a history of cocaine escalation on stress reactivity during abstinence and the role of mGlu2/3 receptors in stress in these animals were tested. Experiment 1-Rats trained to self-administer cocaine, under short (ShA, 1-h) or long (LgA, 6-h) access conditions, or noncaloric food pellets (Ctrl, 1-h), were tested for stress reactivity in the shock-probe defensive burying test following 1, 14, 42, or 84 days of abstinence. Experiment 2-Experimentally naive rats receiving the mGlu2/3 receptor agonist LY379268 (0, 0.3, 1.0, or 3.0 mg/kg) were tested in the defensive burying test to establish the anxiolytic efficacy of this compound in this model. Experiment 3-Rats with a history of ShA vs LgA cocaine self-administration, or a history of operant responding reinforced by noncaloric food pellets, were tested in the defensive burying test, following administration of LY379268 (0.3, 1.0, or 3.0 mg/kg) at 14 days of abstinence. LgA rats exhibited a two- to threefold increase in defensive burying at 1, 14, and 42 days of abstinence compared to ShA or control animals. LY379268 (3.0 mg/kg) reduced burying in all groups, whereas the 1.0-mg/kg dose reduced burying only in the LgA group. A robust and enduring increase in stress reactivity developed in rats with a history of daily 6-h access to cocaine. The anxiolytic-like effects of LY379268 identify mGlu2/3 receptors as targets for ameliorating stress-associated relapse risk, and point toward the possibility that a history of cocaine escalation in rats may modify glutamatergic function.
The processing of affective material is known to be modulated by serotonin (5-HT), but few studies have used neurophysiological measures to characterize the effect of changes in 5-HT on neural responses to emotional stimuli. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to investigate the effect of acute tryptophan depletion, which reduces central 5-HT synthesis, on neural responses to emotionally valenced verbal stimuli. Though no participants experienced significant mood change, emotional information processing was substantially modified following 5-HT depletion. A behavioral bias toward positive stimuli was attenuated following depletion, which was accompanied by increased hemodynamic responses during the processing of emotional words in several subcortical structures. Inter-individual differences in tryptophan depletion-elicited anxiety correlated positively with the caudate bias toward negative stimuli. These data suggest that 5-HT may play an important role in mediating automatic negative attentional biases in major depression, as well as resilience against negative distracting stimuli in never-depressed individuals.
Alcohol-related cues may induce relapse to heavy alcohol drinking and promote molecular adaptations in discrete brain regions. An exact nature of these molecular alterations is still unknown. In the present study, rats trained to self-administer ethanol were tested for cue-induced reinstatement of ethanol seeking after 30 days of abstinence. Next, a detailed immunocytochemical analysis of c-Fos activation was performed within seven nuclei of the amygdala. In the second experiment, c-Fos activation after reinstatement of ethanol seeking induced by discrete cues was compared with the activation pattern of its putative partner (c-Jun) and regulators (extracellular signal-regulated kinases and c-Jun N-terminal kinases). Reexposure to ethanol-associated context cues (an extinction session) potentiated c-Fos expression within the basolateral and central amygdala. Repeated presentation of ethanol-associated discrete cues in an extinction/reinstatement session led to even stronger c-Fos activation in the latter nuclei. In the second experiment, reexposure to the ethanol-associated context and discrete cues activated both c-Jun and extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK1/2) in the basolateral amygdala. Our observations suggest that the basolateral and central amygdala may be specifically involved in alcohol-seeking behavior induced by discrete cues.

The dichotic listening paradigm using verbal stimulus material typically yields a right ear advantage (REA) which indicates the left-hemisphere dominance for speech processing. Although this interpretation is widely accepted, the cerebral hemispheres also interact through the corpus callosum. Moreover, the two most influential theoretical models of dichotic listening, the structural and the attentional model, both refer to the functional integrity of the corpus callosum, when explaining the REA. However, the current review of the available data reveals several aspects that can not be explained by the dichotic listening models. For example, an individual's ability to direct attention to either ear is mediated by callosal fibers. Consequently, the corpus callosum not only has to be considered as a channel for the automatic exchange of information between the cerebral hemispheres, it rather allows for a dynamic and flexible interaction in supporting both bottom-up and top-down stimulus processing. The review has also revealed how inter-individual variability in callosal fiber structure affects both bottom-up and top-down performance on the dichotic listening task.
The benchmark discovery of the cingulate gyrus as a brain structure receiving stimuli from muscles and viscera (proprioception and interoception) is traced to a 1907/1908 article by neuropathologist Christfried Jakob. Further, the involvement of the mamillary bodies, anterior thalamic nucleus, cingulate cortex and hippocampus in the circuitry of the emotive brain (i.e. all elements of the 1937 'circuit of Papez') was published by Jakob in his 1911 and 1913 monographs on human and comparative neuroanatomy. In those works, Jakob also described the thalamocingulate projection, commonly attributed to a 1933 study by Le Gros Clark and Boggon, and introduced the term 'visceral brain', commonly attributed to a 1949 paper by MacLean. The present article includes the first English translations of Jakob's relevant passages, which incontrovertibly document his chronological priority in discovering the visceral brain and some of its key constituent elements.
The crucial role of neurological indicators in schizophrenia has been recognized as among the &quot;target features&quot; that encompass the idea that genetic and non-genetic processes lead to neurointegrative defects later manifested in neurocognitive systems. In addition, aberrant neurological indicators have also been suggested as potential endophenotypes in schizophrenia. In the current paper, we review evidence for the utility of quantifiable neurological soft signs as potential endophenotypes for schizophrenia spectrum disorders. We start by defining endophenotypes and justifying their utility. We highlight the key criteria that must be met for an endophenotype to be useful and assess the extent to which the manifestations of neurological soft signs meet these criteria. Finally, we recommend areas in which additional research should be done to further elucidate the potential use of neurological soft signs for schizophrenia research.
There are roughly 30-40 million HIV-infected individuals in the world as of December 2007, and drug abuse directly contributes to one-third of all HIV infections in the United States. Antiretroviral therapy has increased the lifespan of HIV-seropositives, but CNS function often remains diminished, effectively decreasing quality of life. A modest proportion may develop HIV-associated dementia, the severity and progression of which is increased with drug abuse. HIV and drugs of abuse in the CNS target subcortical brain structures and DA systems in particular. This toxicity is mediated by a number of neurotoxic mechanisms, including but not limited to, aberrant immune response and oxidative stress. Therefore, novel therapeutic strategies must be developed that can address a wide variety of disparate neurotoxic mechanisms and apoptotic cascades. This paper reviews the research pertaining to the where, what, and how of HIV and cocaine/methamphetamine toxicity in the CNS. Specifically, where these toxins most affect the brain, what aspects of the virus are neurotoxic, and how these toxins mediate neurotoxicity.
The hippocampus is a remarkable neural structure that displays a variety of synchronous oscillations that may be physiological or pathophysiological, such as theta rhythms and epileptic seizures. Electrically induced seizure-like afterdischarges are an excellent system for elucidating the network mechanisms underlying neuronal synchronization and rhythm generation of epileptic synchronous oscillations in extremely hyperactive hippocampal networks. In this Update Article, we review key findings of studies on these electrically induced seizure-like afterdischarges in vitro. During these afterdischarges, GABAergic responses become transiently depolarizing and even excitatory as chloride rapidly accumulates postsynaptically in pyramidal cells. Glutamate and potassium enhance this transient GABAergic excitation. Neuronal synchronization of afterdischarge is achieved by GABAergic and glutamatergic excitation of pyramidal cells and interneurons localized in the stratum pyramidale and stratum oriens. Rhythm generation in seizure-like synchronous oscillations is not yet understood but is the subject of intensive study.









Multiple sclerosis is an autoimmune demyelinating disease that is rarely associated with aseptic meningitis. However, certain syndromes causing aseptic meningitis are often associated with central nervous system demyelination that mimics multiple sclerosis (MS). Since many of these syndromes are potentially treatable, unmasking an alternative diagnosis is essential whenever an MS-like illness and recurrent meningitis are encountered in the same patient. Yet, the search for an alternative diagnosis may be elusive sometimes, despite extensive and appropriate investigations. We present a young woman with an MS-like illness associated with recurrent meningitis over a 7-year period. After an exhaustive evaluation, we conclude that recurrent meningitis is an atypical manifestation of MS. If neurologists would appreciate this point, unrewarding and costly investigations may be avoided and appropriate therapy instituted when similar cases are encountered in clinical practice.
We have here, a case report of an infant who presented with subdural and intracerebral hematoma distantly from the site of insertion of a ventriculoperitoneal shunt 6 days after operation. Though this complication has been previously reported, it remains a rare event. Both pathogenesis and treatment still represent a problem.
Merosin-deficient congenital muscular dystrophy is an autosomal recessive disease that can manifest differently in different ethnic groups. This often presents as a floppy infant, and normal mental development. The creatine kinase is usually elevated with white matter abnormalities on brain imaging. In this report, we describe an infant with Merosin-deficient congenital muscular dystrophy who presented with delayed motor milestones and hypotonia. The clinical features, biopsy findings, and neuroimaging abnormalities in our patient are described.
Hemiplegic migraine is a rare form of migraine variant. It is characterized by recurrent attacks of headache associated with temporary neurological deficit, usually unilateral hemiparesis or hemiplegia. It can be difficult to distinguish from migrainous stroke clinically, and a full neurological work-up and careful review of medical history and symptoms are necessary for the diagnosis. Two forms of hemiplegic migraine are known: familial and sporadic, phenotypically similar, differentiated by the absence of family history of similar attacks in the sporadic form. We report a case of sporadic hemiplegic migraine with unusually prolonged deficit and progression to quadriplegia with complete return to baseline 7 days after onset. Diffusion weighted images helped in excluding infarction.
Neurobrucellosis (NB) is a rare clinical presentation of brucellosis. This form is hard to diagnose because of a lack of definite diagnostic criteria, and its treatment is also hard. The clinical spectrum may cover a span between non-specific neurological symptoms to a severe meningoencephalitis. We report 3 patients with NB, whose main complaint was sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) who were followed up at our hospital for 3 years. We diagnosed NB by positive CSF cultures in 2 patients and by a positive brucella IgG agglutination titer in blood and CSF in the third. Sensorineural hearing loss is a rare complication of NB, which has not attracted enough attention among known manifestations. Neurologists and otologists should be aware of this symptom as a probable clinical presentation of brucellosis.
We report a 25-year-old female with a recent diagnosis of gastric B-cell lymphoma based on imaging and pathological findings. She was discharged against medical advice after it was recommended to her, by an &quot;alternative medicine practitioner,&quot; to restrict her diet to excessive ingestion of the &quot;Holy water Zamzam&quot; (natural well water in Makkah). She presented back with altered level of awareness and severe, new-onset hyponatremia. The hyponatremia was corrected rapidly and her condition improved. Six days later, she developed the classical pyramidal and extrapyramidal features of central pontine myelinolysis, documented by MRI. The patient succumbed to her original disease 3 months later.















The clinical and economic consequences of generic antiepileptic drug (AED) substitution are not yet fully understood. Generic substitution may increase pharmacy utilization, but it may not always save health care costs for AEDs. The AEDs are relatively cheap, but high volumes of prescriptions mean that substantial drug-budget savings may be possible by switching from innovator brands to cheaper generic drugs. Such savings have been achieved in many other treatment areas. However, more caution may be needed for epilepsy because of the narrow therapeutic index, low solubility, and non-linear pharmacokinetics of some AEDs. This means that the ranges of bioequivalence that are authorized for generic formulations do not offer the same results regarding effectiveness and safety as those obtained by brand name drugs. This is why seizure control should not be sacrificed on the basis of cost alone, as the major endpoint in treating epilepsy with AEDs is seizure control without adverse effects. Switching to the cheapest generic AED may offer drug-budget savings that outweigh any risk to patient safety. But to date, this cost-benefit analysis has not been carried out. We propose that all changes to established principles of treating epilepsy are evidence based and that the risks of switching are clearly defined.
Spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) has the highest mortality of all cerebrovascular events. Thirty-day mortality approaches 50%, and only 20% of survivors achieve meaningful functional recovery at 6 months. Many clinicians believe that effective therapies are lacking; however, this is changing because of new data on the pathophysiology and treatment of ICH, particularly research establishing the role of medical therapies to promote hematoma stabilization. This article provides updates to a recent publication discussing basic principles of ICH management, including initial stabilization, the prevention of hematoma growth, treatment of complications, and identification of the underlying etiology. Minimally invasive surgery (MIS) to reduce clot size is also discussed, with the goal of preserving neurologic function through reduction in parenchymal damage from edema formation.


The discovery of the Bell-Magendie Law, which states that the ventral spinal roots transmit motor impulses and the posterior roots sensory impulses, established a major landmark in the history of neuroscience. It led to further elucidation of brain function and served as a starting point for virtually all of electrophysiology. During the past two centuries, there has been an intense debate as to which of the two scientists deserves the credit for the discovery itself and the prominent claim to the discovery. Extensive literature exists in this regard, and the goal of the authors is not to dwell on it further but rather to summarize the arguments. The major objective of this work, however, is to elaborate on the two medicosocial issues that were brought into focus by the discovery of the Bell-Magendie Law, namely, the provision of adequate numbers of cadavers for the sound anatomic education of medical students, so that the despicable practice of &quot;body-snatching&quot; could be abolished, and the prevention of cruelty to the experimental animals used for biomedical research. Public opinion prevailing at the time of the postulation of the Bell-Magendie Law promoted the establishment of the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, and other similar societies were established worldwide. The authors summarize the current status of these two issues.
Historical observations and interpretations regarding the treatment of components of the nervous system can be found in the writings of the Bible and Talmud. A review of topics germane to modern neuroanatomy, neurology, and neurosurgery from these early, rich writings is presented herein. These historic writings provide a glimpse into the early understanding, description, and treatment of pathologies of the nervous system.


Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the deposition of beta-amyloid within the brain parenchyma and is accompanied by the impairment of neuronal metabolism and function, leading to extensive neuronal loss. The disease involves the perturbation of synaptic function, energy, and lipid metabolism. The development of amyloid plaques results in the induction of a microglial-mediated inflammatory response. The nuclear receptor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) is a ligand-activated transcription factor whose biological actions are to regulate glucose and lipid metabolism and suppress inflammatory gene expression. Thus, agonists of this receptor represent an attractive therapeutic target for AD. There is now an extensive body of evidence that has demonstrated the efficacy of PPARgamma agonists in ameliorating disease-related pathology and improved learning and memory in animal models of AD. Recent clinical trials of the PPARgamma agonist rosiglitazone have shown significant improvement in memory and cognition in AD patients. Thus, PPARgamma represents an important new therapeutic target in treating AD.
Arsenic is one of the most common heavy metal contaminants found in the environment, particularly in water. We examined the impact of perinatal exposure to relatively low levels of arsenic (50 parts per billion, ppb) on neuroendocrine markers associated with depression and depressive-like behaviors in affected adult C57BL/6J mouse offspring. Whereas most biomedical research on arsenic has focused on its carcinogenic potential, a few studies suggest that arsenic can adversely affect brain development and neural function. Compared to controls, offspring exposed to 50 parts per billion arsenic during the perinatal period had significantly elevated serum corticosterone levels, reduced whole hippocampal CRFR 1 protein level and elevated dorsal hippocampal serotonin 5HT 1A receptor binding and receptor-effector coupling. 5HT 1A receptor binding and receptor-effector coupling were not different in the ventral hippocampal formation, entorhinal or parietal cortices, or inferior colliculus. Perinatal arsenic exposure also significantly increased learned helplessness and measures of immobility in a forced swim task. Taken together, these results suggest that perinatal arsenic exposure may disrupt the regulatory interactions between the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and the serotonergic system in the dorsal hippocampal formation in a manner that predisposes affected offspring to depressive-like behavior. These results are the first to demonstrate that relatively low levels of arsenic exposure during development can have long-lasting adverse effects on behavior and neurobiological markers associated with these behavioral changes.
Manganese (Mn) is a transition metal that is essential for normal cell growth and development, but is toxic at high concentrations. While Mn deficiency is uncommon in humans, Mn toxicity is known to be readily prevalent due to occupational overexposure in miners, smelters and possibly welders. Excessive exposure to Mn can cause Parkinson's disease-like syndrome; patients typically exhibit extrapyramidal symptoms that include tremor, rigidity and hypokinesia [Calne DB, Chu NS, Huang CC, Lu CS, Olanow W. Manganism and idiopathic parkinsonism: similarities and differences. Neurology 1994;44(9):1583-6; Dobson AW, Erikson KM, Aschner M. Manganese neurotoxicity. Ann NY Acad Sci 2004;1012:115-28]. Mn-induced motor neuron diseases have been the subjects of numerous studies; however, this review is not intended to discuss its neurotoxic potential or its role in the etiology of motor neuron disorders. Rather, it will focus on Mn uptake and transport via the orthologues of the divalent metal transporter (DMT1) and its possible implications to Mn toxicity in various categories of eukaryotic systems, such as in vitro cell lines, in vivo rodents, the fruitfly, Drosophila melanogaster, the honeybee, Apis mellifera L., the nematode, Caenorhabditis elegans and the baker's yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
This paper assesses the reliability of the infinite cylinder model used previously in the literature to simulate blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) signal changes. A three-dimensional finite element method was applied to a realistic model of the cortical vasculature, and the results compared with those generated from a simple model of the vasculature as a set of independent, randomly oriented, infinite cylinders. The realistic model is based on scanning electron microscopy measurements of the terminal vascular bed in the superficial cortex of the rat. Good agreement is found between the two models with regard to the extravascular R(2)* and R(2) dependence on the cerebral blood volume and blood oxygenation fraction. Using the realistic model, it is also possible to gain further understanding of the relative importance of intravascular and extravascular BOLD contrast. A simple parameterisation of the dependence of the relaxation rates on relative cerebral blood volume and blood-tissue susceptibility difference was carried out, allowing discussion of the variation in the form of the haemodynamic response with field strength.

Recently, local morphologic alterations of the brain in areas ascribable to the transmission of pain were detected in patients suffering from phantom pain, chronic back pain, irritable bowl syndrome, fibromyalgia and two types of frequent headaches. These alterations were different for each pain syndrome, but overlapped in the cingulate cortex, the orbitofrontal cortex, the insula and dorsal pons. These regions function as multi-integrative structures during the experience and the anticipation of pain. As it seems that chronic pain patients have a common &quot;brain signature&quot; in areas known to be involved in pain regulation, the question arises whether these changes are the cause or the consequence of chronic pain. The author suggests that the gray matter change observed in chronic pain patients are the consequence of frequent nociceptive input and should thus be reversible when pain is adequately treated.




Four experiments explored the effect of cognitive load on the time course of top-down guidance of attention from working memory (WM). Observers had to search for a target presented among several distractors, with the target and distractor stimuli embedded inside different objects. On half of the trials, one of the distractor objects was cued by a matching item held in WM. When a single item was maintained in memory, search performance was impaired relative to a neutral baseline, where the memory and search displays did not match. These effects of WM on subsequent search were reduced by including a verbal suppression task during the WM and search displays, and by varying the WM load. The degree of competition for resources in WM is a key factor in determining the time course and magnitude of the interaction between WM and visual selection.
How the elements of a visual scene are grouped into objects is one of the most fundamental but still poorly understood questions in visual neuroscience. Most investigations of perceptual grouping focus on static stimuli, neglecting temporal aspects. Using a masking paradigm, we show that the neural mechanisms underlying grouping seem to be both fast and complex. For example, a vernier target was followed by, first, a briefly presented grating and, then, a long-lasting, extended grating. Under these conditions, the briefly presented grating is hardly visible. Still, vernier discrimination strongly changed with the number of elements of the briefly displayed grating being worst for small gratings. In accordance with a neural network model of masking, we propose that the edges of the briefly presented grating and the vernier interfere in spite of the short presentation time. We suggest that this fast edge processing is a first step for unconscious grouping processes.
Theoretical neuroscience, which characterizes neural mechanisms using mathematical and computational models, is highly relevant to central problems in the philosophy of psychiatry. These models can help to solve the explanation problem of causally connecting neural processes with the behaviors and experiences found in mental illnesses. Such explanations will also be useful for generating better classifications and treatments of psychiatric disorders. The result should help to eliminate concerns that mental illnesses such as depression and schizophrenia are not objectively real. A philosophical approach to mental illness based on neuroscience need not neglect the inherently social and historical nature of mental phenomena.
The promise of subtype-selective GABA(A) receptor drugs with anxiolytic properties but with a much reduced side-effect burden (compared to benzodiazepines) is an attainable goal. However, its achievement necessitates the availability of in vivo preclinical assays capable of demonstrating differences as well as similarities between subtype-selective agents and non-selective benzodiazepines. In this study, we have compared three mouse strains (NMRI, C57BL/6J and DBA/2) in four models of anxiety-like behaviour (plus-maze, zero-maze, light-dark, and Vogel conflict). Furthermore, in each model, we have contrasted in detail the behavioural responses of each strain to the non-selective benzodiazepine chlordiazepoxide (CDP; 5-20 mg/kg), and the subtype-selective agents L-838,417 (GABA(A)-alpha(2/3/5); 3-30 mg/kg) and zolpidem (GABA(A)-alpha1; 0.3-3.0 mg/kg). The data show a complex mouse strainxmodelxpharmacological agent interaction. Most importantly, not all mouse strainxmodel test systems showed a positive response to CDP or predicted the response to L-838,417. This dissociation between CDP and L-838,417 opens up opportunities for preclinical test systems that differentiate subtype-selective and non-selective GABA(A) receptor agents, an attribute that might well be important in providing the necessary confidence for further drug development. Present findings suggest the need for a much greater focus on defining test systems appropriate for screening novel chemical entities, rather than self-selection of models or genotypes based on responses to known pharmacological agents. For example, if current data with L-838,417 are confirmed with compounds showing similar selectivity profiles, such agents may in future be best identified and characterised using test systems comprising NMRI mice in the zero-maze and/or C57 mice in the Vogel conflict and/or light-dark tests.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether chronic exercise alters sensitivity to the conditioned rewarding effects of cocaine. Female rats were obtained at weaning and randomly assigned to either sedentary or exercise conditions. After 6 weeks under these conditions, the effects of cocaine were examined in the conditioned place preference procedure. Cocaine produced a dose-dependent conditioned place preference in both groups of rats. Exercising rats were more sensitive than sedentary rats to cocaine in this procedure, and this effect was most pronounced at the highest dose of cocaine. These data suggest that chronic exercise increases sensitivity to the conditioned rewarding effects of cocaine.
The aim of the present study was to examine the effect of the selective 5-HT(7) receptor antagonist (2R)-1-[(3-hydroxyphenyl)sulfonyl]-2-[2-(4-methyl-1-piperidinyl)ethyl]pyrrolidine (SB-269970), administered alone or in combination with imipramine, on the immobility time of rats in the forced swim test as well as on the extracellular levels of dopamine (DA), noradrenaline (NA), serotonin (5-HT) and their metabolites in the prefrontal cortex of freely moving rats. Both compounds were administered intraperitoneally (ip). Like imipramine (30 mg/kg, but not 20 mg/kg), SB-269970 (1.25 and 2.5 mg/kg, but not 0.625 mg/kg) significantly shortened the immobility time of rats without affecting their exploratory locomotor activity measured in the open field test. SB-269970 (0.625 and 1.25 mg/kg) raised the extracellular levels of DA, NA, 5-HT and their metabolites in rat prefrontal cortex. In that structure, imipramine (20 mg/kg) produced an increase in all the neurotransmitters measured, but failed to affect the levels of their metabolites. A combination of the inactive doses of SB-269970 (0.625 mg/kg) and imipramine (20 mg/kg) found in the forced swim test produced antidepressant-like effect, which did not stem from the increased exploratory locomotor activity. At the same time, that combination voked a vast increase in the output of NA - but not DA and 5-HT - compared to the effects of both those drugs given alone. These results open up a possibility that the stimulating effect of SB-269970 on DA, NA and 5-HT transmission in the prefrontal cortex plays some role in the antidepressant-like activity of this compound. Moreover, these findings suggest that the increase in cortical NA level seems to account for the anti-immobility action observed after joint administration of the selective 5-HT(7) receptor antagonist and imipramine in rats.
Very little is known about the processes regulating the cellular uptake of the endogenous cannabinoid 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG). In the present study, we investigated whether inhibition of 2-AG hydrolysis reduced its uptake, i.e. whether this compound behaves in a manner analogous to the related endocannabinoid anandamide. The selective fatty acid amide hydrolase inhibitor URB597 (3'-(aminocarbamoyl)[1,1'-biphenyl]-3-yl)-cyclohexylcarbamate) completely blocked the hydrolysis of anandamide and reduced its uptake by about half in RBL2H3 basophilic leukaemia cells. In contrast, in these cells, in PC3 and R3327AT-1 prostate cancer cells and in Neuro-2a neuroblastoma cells, the compound had more modest effects upon the hydrolysis of 2-AG and did not affect its cellular uptake at all, indicating that in these cells fatty acid amide hydrolase does not regulate the uptake of 2-AG. The serine hydrolase inhibitor methylarachidonoyl fluoronophosphonate behaved like URB597 with respect to anandamide uptake by RBL2H3 and Neuro-2a cells, and inhibited the hydrolysis of 2-AG with IC50 values of 0.014, 0.052, 0.41 and approximately 1 microM for RBL2H3, PC3, AT-1 and Neuro-2a cells, respectively. MAFP (1 microM) did not significantly reduce the uptake of 2-AG by RBL2H3, PC3 and AT-1 cells but did reduce the uptake of this endocannabinoid by Neuro-2a cells. Arachidonoyl trifluoromethyl ketone and URB602 ([1,1'-biphenyl]-3-yl-carbamic acid, cyclohexyl ester) reduced the uptake of 2-AG by both RBL2H3 and Neuro-2a cells, but at the high concentrations needed, the compound also blocked the retention of these ligands by wells. It is concluded that unlike the situation for anandamide, hydrolysis of 2-AG does not regulate its cellular uptake in RBL2H3, AT-1 and PC3 cells, but may gate the uptake in Neuro-2a cells.
Glycyrrhizin is a triterpene glycoside, a major active constituent of licorice (Glycyrrhiza glabra) root and numerous pharmacological effects like anti-inflammatory, anti-viral, anti-tumour and hepatoprotective activities has been attributed to it. In this study we evaluated the anti-inflammatory activities of glycyrrhizin in mice model of acute inflammation, carrageenan-induced pleurisy. We report here that glycyrrhizin (given at 10 mg/kg i.p. 5 min prior to carrageenan) exerts potent anti-inflammatory effects in this model. Injection of carrageenan into the pleural cavity of mice elicited an acute inflammatory response characterized by fluid accumulation in the pleural cavity which contained a large number of neutrophils (PMNs) as well as an infiltration of PMNs in lung tissues and subsequent lipid peroxidation (as determinated by thiobarbituric acid-reactant substances measurement) and increased production of tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta). All these parameters were attenuated by glycyrrhizin. Furthermore, carrageenan induced an upregulation of the expression of intercellular cell adhesion molecule (ICAM-1), P-selectin, as well as an increase in the amounts of nitrotyrosine and poly(ADP-ribose) (PAR), as determined by immunohistochemical analysis of lung tissues. The degree of staining for the ICAM-1, P-selectin, nitrotyrosine and PAR was significantly reduced by glycyrrhizin. Additionally, we demonstrate that these inflammatory events were associated with the activation of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) and signal transducer and activator transcription-3 (STAT-3) activation in the lung. NF-kappaB and STAT-3 activation were significantly reduced by glycyrrhizin treatment. Taken together, our results indicate that prevention of the activation of NF-kappaB and STAT-3 by glycyrrhizin reduces the development of acute inflammation.
A path-integral approach is developed for the analysis of spike-triggered average quantities in neurons with voltage-gated subthreshold currents. Using a linearization procedure to reduce the models to the generalized integrate-and-fire form, analytical expressions are obtained in an experimentally relevant limit of fluctuation-driven firing. The influences of voltage-gated channels as well as excitatory and inhibitory synaptic filtering are shown to affect significantly the neuronal dynamics prior to the spike. Analytical forms are given for all relevant physiological quantities, such as the mean voltage triggered to the spike, mean current flowing through voltage-gated channels, and the mean excitatory and inhibitory conductance waveforms prior to a spike. The mathematical results are shown to be in good agreement with numerical simulations of the underlying nonlinear conductance-based models. The method promises to provide a useful analytical tool for the prediction and interpretation of the temporal structure of spike-triggered averages measured experimentally.
The aim of the study was to explore the outcome of a physiotherapy program targeted to improve the quality of life of people with cervical dystonia (CD) by reducing pain, improving awareness of postural orientation, increasing muscle strength, and reducing the effort of moving the head and neck. In six single case studies, the primary outcome measure for each case was the Cervical Dystonia Questionnaire (CDQ) to measure the impact of the program on the individuals' quality of life. Secondary outcome measures were identified for the different components of the physiotherapy program: Visual Analogue Scale (pain); Postural Orientation Index (postural orientation awareness); and Movement Energy Index (effort of moving head and neck). Each of the cases had the severity of their problems scored on the Toronto Western Spasmodic Torticollis Scale. The study period was 26 weeks: 2 weeks' baseline period, 4 weeks' treatment period, and 20 weeks' follow-up. All measures except the Movement Energy Index (MEI) and CDQ-24 were taken three times per week for the first 6 weeks of the study and then once at 3 and 6 months. The MEI was taken once a week during the pretreatment and the treatment periods and during the first 2 weeks of follow-up and also after 3 and 6 months of follow-up. The CDQ-24 was taken once in the pretreatment period, once after completion of treatment, once 2 weeks after treatment, and once at 3 and 6 months of follow-up. Five of the six case studies reported an increase in quality of life at 6-month follow-up, as measured on the CDQ-24. Three of the six cases reported a reduction in pain and severity of the dystonia and had improved scores on the postural orientation measure at 6-month follow-up. All six patients had a reduction in the movement energy scores, but this was not significant. The outcomes of the six case studies would suggest that further investigation is required to show the effectiveness of physiotherapy programs in the management of CD.
It has long been known that the brain is limited in the amount of sensory information that it can process at any given time. A well-known form of capacity limitation in vision is the set-size effect, whereby the time needed to find a target increases in the presence of distractors. The set-size effect implies that inputs from multiple objects interfere with each other, but the loci and mechanisms of this interference are unknown. Here we show that the set-size effect has a neural correlate in competitive visuo-visual interactions in the lateral intraparietal area, an area related to spatial attention and eye movements. Monkeys performed a covert visual search task in which they discriminated the orientation of a visual target surrounded by distractors. Neurons encoded target location, but responses associated with both target and distractors declined as a function of distractor number (set size). Firing rates associated with the target in the receptive field correlated with reaction time both within and across set sizes. The findings suggest that competitive visuo-visual interactions in areas related to spatial attention contribute to capacity limitations in visual searches.
An experiment was conducted to investigate the effects of feeding grains naturally contaminated with Fusarium mycotoxins on brain regional neurochemistry of turkeys. The possible preventative effect of a poly-meric glucomannan mycotoxin adsorbent (GMA) was also determined. Forty-five 1-d-old male turkey poults were fed wheat-, corn-, and soybean meal-based diets up to wk 6, formulated with control grains, contaminated grains, or contaminated grains + 0.2% GMA. Deoxynivalenol was the major contaminant, and the concentrations were 2.2 and 3.3 mg/kg of feed during starter and grower phases, respectively. Concentrations of brain monoamine neurotransmitters and metabolites were measured in discrete regions of the brain including the pons, hypothalamus, and cortex by HPLC with electrochemical detection. Neurotransmitters and metabolites analyzed included norepinephrine, dopamine, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT), and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA). The concentration of 5-HIAA and the 5-HIAA:5-HT-ratio were significantly decreased in pons after feeding contaminated grains. Dietary supplementation with GMA prevented these effects. In the pons, a significant positive correlation (r = 0.52, P &lt; 0.05) was observed between the concentration of 5-HT and BW gain after feeding contaminated diets. The feeding of contaminated diet had no significant effects on the concentrations of neurotransmitters and metabolites in hypothalamus and cortex. It was concluded that consumption of grains naturally contaminated with Fusarium mycotoxins adversely altered the pons serotonergic system of turkeys. Supplementation with GMA partially inhibited these effects.
A common expression of neuroadaptations induced by repeated exposure to addictive drugs is a persistent sensitized behavioral response to their stimulant properties. Neuroplasticity underlying drug-induced sensitization has been proposed to explain compulsive drug pursuit and consumption characteristic of addiction. The hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis-activating neuropeptide, corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), may be the keystone in drug-induced neuroadaptation. Corticosterone-activated glucocorticoid receptors (GRs) mediate the development of sensitization to ethanol (EtOH), implicating the HPA axis in this process. EtOH-induced increases in corticosterone require CRF activation of CRF1 receptors. We posited that CRF1 signaling pathways are crucial for EtOH-induced sensitization. We demonstrate that mice lacking CRF1 receptors do not show psychomotor sensitization to EtOH, a phenomenon that was also absent in CRF1 + 2 receptor double-knockout mice. Deletion of CRF2 receptors alone did not prevent sensitization. A blunted endocrine response to EtOH was found only in the genotypes showing no sensitization. The CRF1 receptor antagonist CP-154,526 attenuated the acquisition and prevented the expression of EtOH-induced psychomotor sensitization. Because CRF1 receptors are also activated by urocortin-1 (Ucn1), we tested Ucn1 knockout mice for EtOH sensitization and found normal sensitization in this genotype. Finally, we show that the GR antagonist mifepristone does not block the expression of EtOH sensitization. CRF and CRF1 receptors, therefore, are involved in the neurobiological adaptations that underlie the development and expression of psychomotor sensitization to EtOH. A CRF/CRF1-mediated mechanism involving the HPA axis is proposed for acquisition, whereas an extrahypothalamic CRF/CRF1 participation is suggested for expression of sensitization to EtOH.
Categorical perception is common in humans, but it is not known whether animals perceive continuous variation in their own multidimensional social signals categorically. There are two components to categorical perception: labeling and discrimination. In the first, continuously variable stimuli on each side of a category boundary are labeled. In the second, there is strong discrimination between stimuli from opposite sides of the boundary, whereas stimuli on the same side of the boundary are not discriminated. Here, we show that female tngara frogs respond categorically to complex mating calls that vary simultaneously along multiple dimensions and are within the natural range of signal variation. In response to a transect of synthetic stimuli that varied continuously and systematically in seven dimensions, female tngara frogs label mating calls as either conspecific or not conspecific. For pairs of stimuli that differed by the same magnitude, females discriminate those in different categories but not those in the same category. In addition, latency to respond was significantly shorter when stimuli were in the same versus different categories. Because responses to mating calls are critical in generating species recognition and sexual selection, this finding has implications for both animal perception and the influences of mate choice on the tempo and mode of evolution.




Recent postmortem brain and imaging studies provide evidence for disturbances of structural and synaptic plasticity in patients with mood disorders. Several lines of evidence suggest that the cell adhesion molecules (CAMs), neural cell adhesion molecules (NCAM) and L1, play important roles in both structural and synaptic plasticity. Although postmortem brain studies have indicated altered expression levels of NCAM and L1, it is still unclear whether these changes are state- or trait-dependent. In this study, the mRNA levels for various CAMs, including NCAM and L1, were measured using quantitative real-time PCR in peripheral blood cells of major depressive disorder patients, bipolar disorder patients and normal healthy subjects. Reduced expression levels of NCAM-140 mRNA were observed in bipolar disorder patients in a current depressive state. In contrast, L1 mRNA levels were increased in bipolar disorder patients in a current depressive state. NCAM-140 and L1 mRNA levels were not changed in bipolar disorder patients in a remissive state, or in major depressive disorder patients. In addition, there were no significant changes in the expression levels of intercellular adhesion molecule -1, vascular cell adhesion molecule -1, E-cadherin, or integrin alphaD among healthy controls, major depressive or bipolar disorder patients. Our results suggest that the reciprocal alteration in the expression of NCAM-140 and L1 mRNAs could be state-dependent and associated with the pathophysiology of bipolar disorder.
Molecular chaperones facilitate and regulate protein conformational change within cells. This encompasses many fundamental cellular processes: including the correct folding of nascent chains; protein transport and translocation; signal transduction and protein quality control. Chaperones are, therefore, important in several forms of human disease, including neurodegeneration. Within the retina, the highly specialized photoreceptor cell presents a fascinating paradigm to investigate the specialization of molecular chaperone function and reveals unique chaperone requirements essential to photoreceptor function. Mutations in several photoreceptor proteins lead to protein misfolding mediated neurodegeneration. The best characterized of these are mutations in the molecular light sensor, rhodopsin, which cause autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa. Rhodopsin biogenesis is likely to require chaperones, while rhodopsin misfolding involves molecular chaperones in quality control and the cellular response to protein aggregation. Furthermore, the specialization of components of the chaperone machinery to photoreceptor specific roles has been revealed by the identification of mutations in molecular chaperones that cause inherited retinal dysfunction and degeneration. These chaperones are involved in several important cellular pathways and further illuminate the essential and diverse roles of molecular chaperones.
The participation of attentional and associative mechanisms in extinction, spontaneous recovery, external disinhibition, renewal, reinstatement, and reacquisition was evaluated through computer simulations with an extant computational model of classical conditioning (N. A. Schmajuk, Y. Lam, &amp; J. A. Gray, 1996; N. A. Schmajuk &amp; J. A. Larrauri, 2006). The model assumes that attention to stimuli (controlled by environmental novelty) and associations between stimuli interact during memory storage (learning) and retrieval (performance). Computer simulations indicated that a combination of attentional and associative mechanisms might be sufficient to describe most of the properties of extinction. However, configural mechanisms seem necessary to describe the properties of cues that precede the target stimulus during extinction (extinction cues) and might improve the description of some experimental results regarding the associative properties of the extinction context. These configural mechanisms can be easily integrated into the present version of the model.

Prior research revealed sex differences in the processing of unattended changes in speaker prosody. The present study aimed at investigating the role of estrogen in mediating these effects. To this end, the electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded while participants watched a silent movie with subtitles and passively listened to a syllable sequence that contained occasional changes in speaker prosody. In one block, these changes were neutral, whereas in another block they were emotional. Estrogen values were obtained for each participant and correlated with the mismatch negativity (MMN) amplitude elicited in the EEG. As predicted, female listeners had higher estrogen values than male listeners and showed reduced MMN amplitudes to neutral as compared to emotional change in speaker prosody. Moreover, in both, male and female listeners, MMN amplitudes were negatively correlated with estrogen when the change in speaker prosody was neutral, but not when it was emotional. This suggests that estrogen is associated with reduced distractibility by neutral, but not emotional, events. Emotional events are spared from this reduction in distractibility and more likely to penetrate voluntary attention directed elsewhere. Taken together, the present findings provide evidence for a role of estrogen in human cognition and emotion.
Stressful stimuli evoke neuronal and neuroendocrine responses helping an organism to adapt to changed environmental conditions. Chronic stressors may induce maladaptive responses leading to psychiatric diseases, such as anxiety and major depression. A suitable animal model to unravel mechanisms involved in the control of adaptation to chronic stress is the psychological subordination stress in the male tree shrew. Subordinate male tree shrews exhibit chronic hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) activation as reflected in continuously elevated cortisol secretion, and structural changes in the hippocampal formation. Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) is the major peptide released upon activation of the HPA axis in response to stress. Recent evidence suggests that besides CRF, urocortin 1 (Ucn1) also plays a role in stress adaptation. We have tested the significance of CRF and Ucn1 in adaptation to chronic psychosocial stress in male tree shrews exposed for 35 days to daily psychosocial conflict, by performing semi-quantitative immunocytochemistry for CRF in the parvocellular hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (pPVN), extended amygdala, viz. central extended amygdala (CeA) and dorsolateral nucleus of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNSTdl) as well as that for Ucn1 in the non-preganglionic Edinger-Westphal nucleus (npEW). Compared to unstressed animals, psychosocial stress resulted in an immediate and sustained activation of the HPA axis and sympathetic tone as well as reduced testosterone concentration and decreased body and testis weights vs. non-stressed tree shrews. In the pPVN, the number of CRF-immunoreactive neurons and the specific signal density of CRF-immunoreactive fiber terminals in the CeA were strongly reduced (-300 and -40%, respectively; P&lt;0.05), whereas no significant difference in CRF fiber density was found in BNSTdl. The npEW revealed 4 times less Ucn1-immunoreactive neurons (P&lt;0.05). These clear effects on both Ucn1- and CRF-neuropeptide contents may reflect a crucial mechanism enabling the animal to adapt successfully to the stressors, and point to the significance of the pPVN, CeA and npEW in stress-induced brain diseases.



Attention to internal body sensations is practiced in most meditation traditions. Many traditions state that this practice results in increased awareness of internal body sensations, but scientific studies evaluating this claim are lacking. We predicted that experienced meditators would display performance superior to that of nonmeditators on heartbeat detection, a standard noninvasive measure of resting interoceptive awareness. We compared two groups of meditators (Tibetan Buddhist and Kundalini) to an age- and body mass index-matched group of nonmeditators. Contrary to our prediction, we found no evidence that meditators were superior to nonmeditators in the heartbeat detection task, across several sessions and respiratory modulation conditions. Compared to nonmeditators, however, meditators consistently rated their interoceptive performance as superior and the difficulty of the task as easier. These results provide evidence against the notion that practicing attention to internal body sensations, a core feature of meditation, enhances the ability to sense the heartbeat at rest.
Neurovascular diseases are major causes of disability and death in the elderly; many present as medical emergencies. With the continuing growth of the geriatric population, there has been increasing interest in the impact of aging on the cerebrovascular system. Recent advances in the clinical neurosciences have demonstrated that neurovascular emergencies in the elderly often are amenable to treatment; neuroimaging plays a critical role in diagnosis and neurointerventional techniques are becoming increasingly important therapeutic options. This article provides an overview of some of the common neurovascular disorders in the elderly that require urgent evaluation and treatment, with an emphasis on the expanding role for interventional neuroradiology in their management.

The aim of this study is to evaluate the myocardial response in the preterm and near-term fetal lamb with infection. Chronically instrumented fetal lambs were exposed to lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and the fetal electrocardiogram (FECG) ST waveform was examined using STAN. Fetal heart rate variability (FHRV) was automatically analyzed by adapting a polynomial function to the RR sequence in the FECG. Preterm fetuses exposed to &gt;90 ng/kg LPS died within 8 hours of LPS administration, a response not seen in near-term fetuses. In both surviving and nonsurviving preterm fetuses, cardiovascular responses were characterized by decreased arterial pressure, negative T waves, and tachycardia accompanied by an increase in FHRV. Similar changes were not observed in the near-term fetuses after LPS. The study shows that preterm lambs are more sensitive to LPS in terms of myocardial/cardiovascular response than the more mature fetuses are. High FHRV and negative ST waveform seem to characterize the LPS-induced stress response in preterm fetuses.
The care of critically ill neurologic patients is not a simple combination of critical care and neurological assessment, but an amalgamated treatment plan that is specific to the cause of injury. Many of the intensive care principles apply to acutely ill neurologic patients, but some specific interventions are available for this category of patients. There is now a better understanding of medical and neurosurgical care of critically ill neurologic patients, and several of the new clinical parameters that impact on our day-to-day care are discussed here.
Atherosclerotic stenosis of the major intracranial arteries is an important cause of ischemic stroke. Antiplatelet agents and aggressive management of atherosclerotic risk factors, including hypertension, should play a central role in the prevention of vascular events in patients with intracranial arterial stenosis. Angioplasty and stenting are also among current therapeutic options. A randomized controlled trial of intracranial stenting plus aggressive medical therapy versus aggressive medical therapy alone is needed to determine the optimal treatment for patients with severe symptomatic intracranial stenosis.
We report a 36-year-old man who admitted due to brain infarctions of the pons and cerebellum. He had a history of brain infarction 4 years ago. Chest radiograph and enhanced CT showed an abnormal shadow in the superior mediastinum. Chest enhanced CT showed dilated right and persistent left superior vena cava (PLSVC), and venous thrombus was detected in the thorax. The PLSVC connected directly to the left atrium. Abdominal CT showed surface irregularity of the bilateral kidney, suggesting that renal infarctions had occurred. There was no risk factor of systemic embolism except for PLSVC thrombosis. We thought that retention of blood flow caused the formation of thrombus in the PLSVC, and the thrombus flowed into directly the systemic circulation through the left atrium and caused multiple embolisms.

This overview describes the goals and objectives of the second conference conducted as part of the Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia (CNTRICS) initiative. This second conference was informed by a series of online surveys and brought together basic and clinical scientists from academia and industry to address the concerns central to each field of research. Our goal was to develop recommendations for future research addressing the psychometric and practical challenges involved in translating paradigms from cognitive neuroscience into tasks that are feasible for use in the treatment discovery and development process. In this overview article, we describe the series of talks that were presentations at the conference. This article serves as an introduction to the set of articles included in this special issue that provide overviews and discussions of the issues raised and the recommendations made in these talks and in the subsequent discussions at the meeting. In addition, we describe the online surveys conducted in the month before the conference that were used to obtain suggestions from the field as to important task selection criteria and to generate initial benchmark goals for psychometric development for cognitive neuroscience tasks.
Multisite clinical trials aimed at cognitive enhancement across various neuropsychiatric conditions have employed standard neuropsychological tests as outcome measures. While these tests have enjoyed wide clinical use and have proven reliable and predictive of functional disability, a number of implementation challenges have arisen when these tests are used in clinical trials. These issues are likely to be magnified in future studies when cognitive neuroscience (CN) procedures are explored in these trials, because in their current forms CN procedures are less standardized and more difficult to teach and monitor. For multisite trials, we anticipate that the most challenging issues will include assuring tester competence, monitoring tester performance, specific challenges with complex assessment methods, and having resources available for adequate monitoring of data quality. Suggestions for overcoming these implementation challenges are offered.
Social cognition in schizophrenia is a rapidly emerging area of study. Because the number and diversity of studies in this area have increased, efforts have been made to better define terms and provide organizing frameworks. A key challenge confronting the study of social cognition in schizophrenia is building bridges between clinical scientists and social neuroscientists. The articles in this theme summarize data-based studies that have attempted to build or strengthen such bridges to better understand the neural bases of social cognitive impairment in schizophrenia.

Tasks developed for basic cognitive neuroscience are often ill suited for experimental psychopathology. The development of the expectancy variant of AX continuous performance task to test theories about context processing in schizophrenia is used as an illustration of how this has been done in one research program. Four design principles are recommended: tasks should (1) have a foundation in existing literature and therefore stay as close as possible to an existing task; (2) be simple, which is frequently accomplished by paring down a task to evaluate the function of interest; (3) probe a mechanism of interest, with conditions that selectively manipulate this mechanism; and (4) have the potential to distinguish a specific deficit on the mechanism of interest from a generalized impairment. Data from a number of studies support several aspects of context-processing theory; however unpredicted results have also been reported. The development of the expectancy AX paradigm continues, and future developments that may enhance its usefulness are also described.


The NMDA receptor co-agonists D-serine and glycine are thought to contribute to glutamatergic dysfunction in schizophrenia. They are removed from the synapse by specific neuronal and glial transporters, the status of which is clearly relevant to theories of D-serine and glycine function in the disorder. D-serine is primarily transported by Asc-1, and glycine by GlyT1 but maybe also by SNAT2. As a first step to addressing this issue, we studied Asc-1, GlyT1 and SNAT2 expression in dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and cerebellum of 18 subjects with schizophrenia and 20 controls, using immunoblotting and in situ hybridization. Asc-1 protein and SNAT2 mRNA were decreased in schizophrenia in both regions. GlyT1 mRNA and protein, and Asc-1 mRNA, were not altered. Antipsychotic administration for 14 days did not alter expression of the genes in rat brain. Unchanged GlyT1 suggests that glycine transport is not markedly affected in schizophrenia, and therefore that increased synaptic removal is not the basis for the putative deficit in glycine modulation of NMDA receptors in the disorder. Lowered Asc-1 in schizophrenia implies that D-serine reuptake is reduced, perhaps as a response to decreased synaptic D-serine availability. However, this interpretation remains speculative. Further investigations will be valuable in the evaluation of these transporters as potential therapeutic targets in psychosis.



The certainty of the initial diagnosis of epilepsy was assessed prospectively by one neurologist in outpatients. One hundred and fifty-eight consecutive referrals with loss of consciousness or possible epilepsy were seen. The relative contributions to the initial diagnosis from the referral letter, history taking in clinic, physical examination, and investigation were compared. There was a referring diagnosis in 28.5%. The neurologist reached a diagnosis in 87% of the 158 cases: in 43% epilepsy, 25% syncope, 12% non-epileptic seizures and in 7% other diagnoses. There was a low correlation between referral and specialist diagnosis. Physical examination did not change the diagnosis in any patient. Investigations changed the diagnosis in one patient. Neuro-imaging revealed a relevant abnormality in 12/43 (27.9%) scanned. The yield from EEG was 7/25 (28%), but the EEG changed the diagnosis in only one case. Cardiac testing confirmed the type of syncope in 2/47 (4.3%) of patients. Blood tests did not contribute to the diagnosis in any patient. The neurology consultation significantly increased diagnostic certainty. The diagnosis of epilepsy remains largely clinical. It is important that patients are aware of this prior to investigation.
The advent of multiple new antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) in the past 15 years has provided new options for clinicians treating patients with epilepsy, but has also created a need for guidelines in AED use. For selection of the most appropriate AED, the neurologist must know the pharmacological properties of the AEDs and has to balance their benefits and potential risks for the individual patient. A key consideration in AED selection is spectrum of efficacy for seizure types and epileptic syndrome. Other factors in AED selection include safety and tolerability, ease of use and titration rate, potential interactions, and efficacy in coexisting nonepileptic conditions. Comorbid conditions may favor or exclude the use of certain AEDs in a particular patient. Special considerations apply in specific epilepsy populations, such as women of childbearing age, children, and the elderly. This article analyzes the various factors involved in choosing an AED.
Recurrent supratentorial extraventricular ependymoma in a four-year-old Malay boy treated twice surgically in combination with cranial radiotherapy is reported. He presented with symptoms of raised intracranial pressure and a history of focal seizure. Computed tomography of the brain showed a left supratentorial extraventricular cystic lesion causing a mass effect. The tumour histology was ependymoma (WHO grade II). The clinical course, radiological characteristics and management of this tumour are discussed. Molecular genetic analysis of p53 and p27 genes revealed substitution of nucleotide G to C at location nucleotide 12139, exon 4 of gene p53. No alteration was detected at exon 5-6 and 8 of p53 gene and exon 1 and 2 of p27 gene.


Pax6 is a highly conserved transcription factor among vertebrates and is important in various developmental processes in the central nervous system (CNS), including patterning of the neural tube, migration of neurons, and formation of neural circuits. In this review, we focus on the role of Pax6 in embryonic and postnatal neurogenesis, namely, production of new neurons from neural stem/progenitor cells, because Pax6 is intensely expressed in these cells from the initial stage of CNS development and in neurogenic niches (the subgranular zone of the hippocampal dentate gyrus and the subventricular zone of the lateral ventricle) throughout life. Pax6 is a multifunctional player regulating proliferation and differentiation through the control of expression of different downstream molecules in a highly context-dependent manner.




A critical role of the Gbetagamma dimer in heterotrimeric G-protein signaling is to facilitate the engagement and activation of the Galpha subunit by cell-surface G-protein-coupled receptors. However, high-resolution structural information of the connectivity between receptor and the Gbetagamma dimer has not previously been available. Here, we describe the structural determinants of Gbeta1gamma2 in complex with a C-terminal region of the parathyroid hormone receptor-1 (PTH1R) as obtained by X-ray crystallography. The structure reveals that several critical residues within PTH1R contact only Gbeta residues located within the outer edge of WD1- and WD7-repeat segments of the Gbeta toroid structure. These regions encompass a predicted membrane-facing region of Gbeta thought to be oriented in a fashion that is accessible to the membrane-spanning receptor. Mutation of key receptor contact residues on Gbeta1 leads to a selective loss of function in receptor/heterotrimer coupling while preserving Gbeta1gamma2 activation of the effector phospholipase-C beta.
Hydranencephaly is a rare neurological condition in which the cerebral hemispheres are either absent or severely compromised. It is widely believed that children with hydranencephaly are not conscious; and therefore, are routinely classified into the diagnostic criteria of vegetative state. However, there are several pieces of behavioral evidence clearly indicating the presence of consciousness in such patients. Here, I review these behavioral evidence and argue how misclassification of these patients and assigning them a lack of consciousness have far-reaching implications in terms of both clinical and theoretical neuroscience.
The sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) of skeletal muscle cells is a convoluted structure composed of a variety of tubules and cisternae, which share a continuous lumen delimited by a single continuous membrane, branching to form a network that surrounds each myofibril. In this network, some specific domains basically represented by the longitudinal SR and the junctional SR can be distinguished. These domains are mainly dedicated to Ca(2+) homeostasis in relation to regulation of muscle contraction, with the longitudinal SR representing the sites of Ca(2+) uptake and storage and the junctional SR representing the sites of Ca(2+) release. To perform its functions, the SR takes contact with other cellular elements, the sarcolemma, the contractile apparatus and the mitochondria, giving rise to a number of interactions, most of which are still to be defined at the molecular level. This review will describe some of the most recent advancements in understanding the organization of this complex network and its specific domains. Furthermore, we shall address initial evidence on how SR proteins are retained at distinct SR domains.

The recognition that computational ideas from reinforcement learning are relevant to the study of neural circuits has taken the cognitive neuroscience community by storm. A central tenet of these models is that discrepancies between actual and expected outcomes can be used for learning. Neural correlates of such prediction-error signals have been observed now in midbrain dopaminergic neurons, striatum, amygdala and even prefrontal cortex, and models incorporating prediction errors have been invoked to explain complex phenomena such as the transition from goal-directed to habitual behavior. Yet, like any revolution, the fast-paced progress has left an uneven understanding in its wake. Here, we provide answers to ten simple questions about prediction errors, with the aim of exposing both the strengths and the limitations of this active area of neuroscience research.
The nature of the self has been one of the central problems in philosophy and most recently in neuroscience. Here, we suggest that animals and humans share a 'core self' represented in homologous underlying neural networks. We argue that the core self might be constituted by an integrative neuronal mechanism that enables self-related processing (SRP). Because mammalian organisms are capable of relating bodily states, intrinsic brain states (e.g. basic attentional, emotional and motivational systems) and environmental stimuli to various life-supporting goal-orientations, SRP appears to be a core ability preserved across numerous species. Recent data suggest that SRP is operating via a central integrative neural system made up of subcortical-cortical midline structures (SCMSs), that are homologous across mammalian species.
An aspect of gaze processing, which so far has been given little attention, is the influence that intentional gaze processing can have on object processing. Converging evidence from behavioural neuroscience and developmental psychology strongly suggests that objects falling under the gaze of others acquire properties that they would not display if not looked at. Specifically, observing another person gazing at an object enriches that object of motor, affective and status properties that go beyond its chemical or physical structure. A conceptual analysis of available evidence leads to the conclusion that gaze has the potency to transfer to the object the intentionality of the person looking at it.
Synaesthesia is a heritable condition of involuntary sensory cross-activation whereby the presentation of a particular stimulus elicits a secondary sensory-perceptual experience. It is thought to be caused by aberrant cross-activation of one cortical area by another, but models differ as to whether this reflects functional or structural differences in the brains of synaesthetes. Here we consider these models in light of recent experimental findings and argue for structural differences in the brains of synaesthetes, which might be more widespread than expected. We also discuss several plausible developmental mechanisms that could link a putative genetic variant to altered cortical connectivity and illustrate how synaesthesia could be an informative model to investigate how patterns of connectivity between cortical areas are established.
Neurocysticercosis, involvement of the central nervous system by taenia solium, is one of the most common parasitic diseases worldwide. However, isolated spinal involvement by neurocysticercosis, either intramedullary or extramedullary, is uncommon. The authors report a case of C1-C2 intradural extramedullary neurocysticercosis in a young male that presented initially with signs of raised intracranial pressure followed by high cervical myelopathy. Transventricular migration of the neurocysticercal cyst along the cerebrospinal pathways leading to clinical pleomorphism as described by the authors can perplex the best of clinicians leading to a missed diagnosis as in the present case. Diagnosis was confirmed after surgical excision and the patient is doing well at six months follow up with no neurological deficits. Spinal neurocysticercosis should be considered in the differential diagnosis in high-risk populations with new symptoms suggestive of a spinal mass lesion.
Though craniopharyngioma remains the most common sellar suprasellar tumor with calcification, it can be seen very rarely in pituitary adenomas and Rathke's cleft cysts. Appreciation of the pattern of calcification in a sellar suprasellar lesion can give a clue to the nature of the lesion. The authors describe a 53-yearold male with a cystic sellar suprasellar lesion and curvilinear calcification that was managed by successful transsphenoidal surgery. The present case highlights the occurrence of calcification in a pituitary adenoma and the importance of recognizing the calcification pattern for pre-operative diagnosis of sellar suprasellar lesions that can help plan the surgical strategy and management.
For an accurate estimate of volumetric coronary flow reserve (CFR) using Doppler-assessed flow velocity measurement, it is important to take into consideration potential diameter change during coronary hyperemia. Using ultrasound techniques, left coronary artery (LCA) flow velocity and LCA lumen diameter (LCA(D)) were measured simultaneously for the first time to measure coronary flow during baseline and adenosine-induced hyperemic condition in isoflurane-anesthetized C57BL/6 (n = 38) and in old apolipoprotein E-gene deficient (ApoE(-/-)) mice (n = 44) mice. LCA(D) increased significantly and to a similar extent during adenosine infusion in both groups (3.7 +/- 1.1 %, p &lt; 0.003 for C57BL/6; 4.2 +/- 0.9 %, p &lt; 0.00003 for ApoE(-/-)). Yet, a positive correlation was still found between velocity-based coronary flow velocity reserve (CFVR) and volumetric CFR in both strains (R(2) = 0.77, p &lt; 0.001 for C57BL/6; R(2) = 0.80, p &lt; 0.001 for ApoE(-/-)). Coronary reserve was higher in C57BL/6 mice than in ApoE(-/-) mice (CFR 1.93 +/- 0.17 vs. 1.47 +/- 0.07, p &lt; 0.05; CFVR 1.73 +/- 0.13 vs. 1.28 +/- 0.07, p &lt; 0.01). Thus, ultrasound techniques can be used to measure volumetric flow in the LCA and flow-based CFR measurements of intact, living mice. The positive correlation between CFR and CFVR, together with the lower method variability of the latter, makes CFVR a more robust protocol for assessing mouse in-vivo coronary artery function. Therefore, the CFVR protocol will probably work well in most settings.

Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a major cause of visual impairment in people older than 50 years in Western countries, affecting essential tasks such as reading and face recognition. Here we investigated the mechanisms underlying the deficit in recognition of facial expressions in an AMD population with low vision. Pictures of faces displaying different emotions with the mouth open or closed were centrally displayed for 300 ms. Participants with AMD with low acuity (mean 20/200) and normally sighted age-matched controls performed one of two emotion tasks: detecting whether a face had an expression or not (expressive/non expressive (EXNEX) task) or categorizing the facial emotion as happy, angry, or neutral (categorization of expression (CATEX) task). Previous research has shown that healthy observers are mainly using high spatial frequencies in an EXNEX task while performance at a CATEX task was preferentially based on low spatial frequencies. Due to impaired processing of high spatial frequencies in central vision, we expected and observed that AMD participants failed at deciding whether a face was expressive or not but categorized normally the emotion of the face (e.g., happy, angry, neutral). Moreover, we observed that AMD participants mostly identified emotions using the lower part of the face (mouth). Accuracy did not differ between the two tasks for normally sighted observers. The results indicate that AMD participants are able to identify facial emotion but must base their decision mainly on the low spatial frequencies, as they lack the perception of finer details.

Retinal prostheses attempt to restore some amount of vision to totally blind patients. Vision evoked this way will be however severely constrained because of several factors (e.g., size of the implanted device, number of stimulating contacts, etc.). We used simulations of artificial vision to study how such restrictions of the amount of visual information provided would affect performance on simple pointing and manipulation tasks. Five normal subjects participated in the study. Two tasks were used: pointing on random targets (LEDs task) and arranging wooden chips according to a given model (CHIPs task). Both tasks had to be completed while the amount of visual information was limited by reducing the resolution (number of pixels) and modifying the size of the effective field of view. All images were projected on a 10 degrees x 7 degrees viewing area, stabilised at a given position on the retina. In central vision, the time required to accomplish the tasks remained systematically slower than with normal vision. Accuracy was close to normal at high image resolutions and decreased at 500 pixels or below, depending on the field of view used. Subjects adapted quite rapidly (in less than 15 sessions) to performing both tasks in eccentric vision (15 degrees in the lower visual field), achieving after adaptation performances close to those observed in central vision. These results demonstrate that, if vision is restricted to a small visual area stabilised on the retina (as would be the case in a retinal prosthesis), the perception of several hundreds of retinotopically arranged phosphenes is still needed to restore accurate but slow performance on pointing and manipulation tasks. Considering that present prototypes afford less than 100 stimulation contacts and that our simulations represent the most favourable visual input conditions that the user might experience, further development is required to achieve optimal rehabilitation prospects.

The comparisons of food consumption and locomotor activity among Taiwan native rodents, Formosan wood mice (Apodemus semotus), and laboratory mice, C57BL/6, were examined in this study. The food consumption exhibited the circadian rhythmicity, e.g. higher in the lights-off period and lower in the lights-on period, in either Formosan wood mice (WM) or C57BL/6 mice. We also found that Formosan WM ate more food than C57BL/6 mice in the lights-off period and the whole day in males, but not in females. Similarly, the male Formosan WMs had more locomotor activities than the male C57BL/6 mice in the lights-off period, but this phenomenon did not appear in female mice. These results indicated that even though the Formosan WMs have been successfully inbred in the laboratory, they still keep more native paradigm than the laboratory C57BL/6 mice do. This study is the first report to provide basic physiological comparisons on native and common laboratory mice.
Rapid nerve impulse conduction in myelinated axons requires the concentration of voltage-gated sodium channels at nodes of Ranvier. Myelin-forming oligodendrocytes in the central nervous system (CNS) induce the clustering of sodium channels into nodal complexes flanked by paranodal axoglial junctions. However, the molecular mechanisms for nodal complex assembly in the CNS are unknown. Two isoforms of Neurofascin, neuronal Nfasc186 and glial Nfasc155, are components of the nodal and paranodal complexes, respectively. Neurofascin-null mice have disrupted nodal and paranodal complexes. We show that transgenic Nfasc186 can rescue the nodal complex when expressed in Nfasc(-/-) mice in the absence of the Nfasc155-Caspr-Contactin adhesion complex. Reconstitution of the axoglial adhesion complex by expressing transgenic Nfasc155 in oligodendrocytes also rescues the nodal complex independently of Nfasc186. Furthermore, the Nfasc155 adhesion complex has an additional function in promoting the migration of myelinating processes along CNS axons. We propose that glial and neuronal Neurofascins have distinct functions in the assembly of the CNS node of Ranvier.
Recently, human brain activity during a resting-state has attracted increasing attention. Several studies have found that there are two networks: the default mode network and its anti-correlation network. Some studies have subsequently showed that the functions of brain areas within the default mode network are crucial in human mental activity. To further discern the brain default mode network as well as its anti-correlation network during resting-state, we used three methods to analyze resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data; regional homogeneity analysis, linear correlation and independent component analysis, on four groups of dataset. Our results showed the existence of these two networks prominently and consistently during a resting- and conscious-state across the three methods. This consistency was exhibited in four independent groups of normal adults. Moreover, the current results provided evidences that the brain areas within the two anti-correlated networks are highly integrated at both the intra- and inter-regional level.
Study of neuronal networks requires an inventory of the neurons, knowledge of fiber in- and output, and qualitative and quantitative data on the intrinsic connectivity. For this purpose we combined in rat hippocampus fluorescence neuroanatomical tracing and intracellular fluorochrome injection of neurons. Multichannel confocal laser scanning microscopy was followed by computer assisted 3D object- and contact recognition. We describe the factors involved in scanning ('from biological object to voxel') and we compare operator-mediated manual recognition of small 3D objects and contacts with 'objective' processing through software. As in all digital object recognition, thresholding is pivotal. We obtained reproducible, 'objective' thresholds via 3D object-threshold analysis with ImageJ. Objective thresholds were subsequently used in SCIL_Image scripts to identify 3D objects, and to identify and count contacts between labeled fibers and intracellularly injected target neurons. At the extreme magnification necessary to distinguish contacts, Abbe diffraction causes voxels that belong to the pre-contact structure to overlap voxels belonging to the post-contact structure. We call this overlap the 'footprint' and we introduce such footprints and their size as criteria to recognize contacts. Automated contact recognition, applying footprints of 100 voxels (involved structures imaged in their specific channel) gave the highest correlation with findings using the manual approach. We conclude that computer identification and counting of contacts is the method of choice, since it combines reduced human bias with good reproducibility of results and saving of time. Of major importance is that threshold selection is not dependent on the human computer operator.
The influence of Fen1 loss on trinucleotide-repeat expansion varies between species. In yeast, loss or haploinsufficiency of the Fen1 homolog Rad27 leads to triplet expansion. In mice, haploinsufficiency of Fen1 leads to expansion of a Huntingtin locus CAG repeat. However, no expansion was seen of a (CTG)(n).(CAG)(n) repeat in a Myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1) knock-in model. In contrast, in Drosophila, a SCA7 CAG90 repeat was completely stable in a series of strains with mutations of DNA repair genes, among them PCNA, MutS and Fen1. In light of the apparent species dependence of triplet expansion, we have investigated in human cells the effect of Fen1 loss on the Huntingtin CAG repeat. We constructed a cell line, Fen-Rex, which in a reversible manner allows regulation of endogenous Fen1 expression, by using RNA interference (RNAi). Keeping the Fen1 protein knocked down 10-fold over 27 successive cell passages (10(17)-fold expansion in total) and measuring the Huntingtin triplet expansion by both length profiling of PCR products on PAGE gels, and cloning and sequencing of the repeat region, we find the Huntingtin locus completely stable. Our results argue against a role for Fen1 in triggering Huntingtin triplet expansion in human cells.
Numerous studies indicate that perceiving global object motion results from the integration of local component motions across space and time. Less attention has been paid to the issue of motion selection, necessary to avoid spurious associations of component motions belonging to different objects and to solve the so-called &quot;superposition catastrophe problem&quot; (F. Rosenblatt, 1961). We address this issue using outlines of geometrical shapes moving behind apertures that concealed their vertices such that recovering their global motion requires the selection and integration of some, but not all, component motions. Depending on which local motions are selected for motion integration, these stimuli yield the perception of either expansion/contraction, of global translation, or of segments moving independently. We show that the selection process depends on local and global stimulus parameters, including the local direction of figure's line-endings or the spatial configuration of component motions. In contrast, motion selection depends less on the width-i.e., spatial frequency content-or polarity of the edges. Finally, synchronous temporal modulation of component motions in the gamma range has little effect on motion selection. These results indicate that selecting component motions for motion integration is primarily determined by form constraints. As a consequence, current models assuming that mutually consistent component motions are bounded in a velocity space-lacking spatial organization should be revised to account for the present data. Alternately, interactions between visual areas selectively processing form and motion could be introduced in order to account for the perceptual binding of moving objects.
Central coherence is a key concept in research on autism spectrum disorders (ASD). It refers to the process in which diverse information is integrated and higher meaning is constructed in context. A malfunction in this process could result in abnormal attention to partial information in preference to the whole. To verify this hypothesis, we studied the performance of two visual tasks by 10 patients with autistic disorder or Asperger's disorder and by 26 (experiment 1) or 25 (experiment 2) normal subjects. In experiment 1, the subjects memorized pictures, some pictures with a change related to the main theme (D1) and others with a change not related to the main theme (D2); then the same pictures were randomly presented to the subjects who were asked to find the change. In experiment 2, the subjects were presented pictures of a normal (N) or a Thatcherized (T) face arranged side by side inversely (I) or uprightly (U) and to judge them as the same or different. In experiment 1, ASD subjects exhibited significantly lower rates of correct responses in D1 but not in D2. In experiment 2, ASD subjects exhibited significantly longer response times in NT-U but not in TN-I. These results showed a deficit in holistic processing, which is consistent with weak central coherence in ASD.
Irritability is an important symptom in patients with neuropsychiatric disorders. It is a major source of distress to patients and their carers and can lead to social and family dysfunction. Despite this, there has been little systematic research on irritability in psychiatry. The development of an instrument that captures the various components of irritability is a prerequisite to more detailed research in this area. The aim of this study was to design a scale to measure irritable mood and to explore its nature and subtypes. Following a review of the literature and examination of current theories in affective neuroscience, a new self-rating questionnaire was developed covering a range of subjective experiences, judgements and behaviours deemed to encompass the components of irritability. The items were rated along intensity and frequency dimensions. The questionnaire was administered to patients with affective disorders (n=22), Huntington's disease (n=23), Alzheimer's disease (n=19) and a control group (n=46). The new questionnaire shows good reliability and validity. Preliminary differences in irritability were identified between the diagnostic groups.
Recent advances in understanding the progression of Parkinson's disease (PD) implicate perturbations in astrocyte function and induction of constitutively expressed neuronal nitric oxide synthase (NOS1) in both human PD and in the MPTP model of the disease. Transcriptional regulation of NOS1 is complex but recent data suggest that nuclear factor kappa-B (NF-kappaB) is an important transcription factor involved in inducible expression of the gene. The data presented here demonstrate that mild activation of primary astrocytes with low or 'sub-optimal' concentrations of MPTP (1 microM) and the inflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor alpha (10 pg/ml) and interferon gamma (1 ng/ml) results in selective induction of Nos1 mRNA and protein, increased production of nitric oxide (NO), and a significant elevation in global protein nitration. This mild inflammatory stimulus also resulted in activation and recruitment of p65 to a putative NF-kappaB response element located in the Nos1 promoter region flanking exon 1. A role for NF-kappaB in MPTP-dependent induction of NOS1 was confirmed through overexpression of a mutant IkappaBalpha super repressor of NF-kappaB that prevented induction of NOS1. The data presented here thus demonstrate a role for NF-kappaB in selective induction of NOS1 during early inflammatory activation of astrocytes stimulated by low-dose MPTP and inflammatory cytokines.
The present study describes in primates the effects of a spinal cord injury on the number and size of the neurons in the magnocellular part of the red nucleus (RNm), the origin of the rubrospinal tract, and evaluates whether a neutralization of Nogo-A reduces the lesioned-induced degenerative processes observed in RNm. Two groups of monkeys were subjected to unilateral section of the spinal cord affecting the rubrospinal tract; one group was subsequently treated with an antibody neutralizing Nogo-A; the second group received a control antibody. Intact animals were also included in the study. Counting neurons stained with a monoclonal antibody recognizing non-phosphorylated epitopes on neurofilaments (SMI-32) indicated that their number in the contralesional RNm was consistently inferior to that in the ipsilesional RNm, in a proportion amounting up to 35%. The lesion also induced shrinkage of the soma of the neurons detected in the contralesional RNm. Infusing an anti-Nogo-A antibody at the site of the lesion did not increase the proportion of SMI-32 positive rubrospinal neurons in the contralesional RNm nor prevent shrinkage.
Progenitor cells generated in the subventricular zone (SVZ) migrate toward the olfactory bulb (OB), where they differentiate into neurons. Growth factors have been shown to promote neurogenesis in the SVZ/OB-system while dopaminergic lesion exerts an opposite effect. As carotid body (CB) cells express growth factors here we study the impact of intrastriatal CB graft on migration and differentiation of neural progenitor cells in the hemiparkinsonian rat SVZ/OB-system. Bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) was given to intact, 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned and 6-OHDA-lesioned animals transplanted with vehicle or rat CB cells. The migration of progenitor cells was assessed by the quantification of BrdU-labeled cells in the SVZ/OB-system and the neuronal differentiation by the proportion of newborn neurons in the OB. The graft survival was confirmed by CB cell morphology and their tyrosine hydroxylase expression. Some of these CB cells were stained with BrdU, thus indicating their ability for self-renewal. Grafted glomus cells also expressed brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), glial derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), epidermal growth factor (EGF) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). The migration of neural progenitor cells was significantly decreased in 6-OHDA-lesioned respect to intact animals. We found a similar number of BrdU-labeled cells in sham-operated than in CB-grafted animals, suggesting that CB graft has no effect on progenitor cell migration. CB-grafted animals exhibited a significantly larger percentage of newborn cells (BrdU/Neuronal Nuclei-labeled cells) respect to 6-OHDA-lesioned and sham-operated animals. This study suggests that striatal CB graft might promote differentiation of SVZ progenitor cells into neurons, probably by the growth factors contained in CB cells.
Circadian involvement in Parkinson's disease (PD) and more specifically in nigro-striatal dopamine (NSD) function is of increasing interest to the neurosciences. Given that bright light therapy is of therapeutic value in PD, possible mechanisms underlying retinal involvement in this phenomenon was explored further by administering anti-Parkinsonian chemotherapies into the vitreus humour directly adjacent to the retina. 2 microl of a 100 mM solution of L-Dopa significantly improved motor function in the later stages of degeneration and during the day while the injection of 2 microl of a 10 mM solution of the melatonin receptor antagonist ML-23 improved motor function in the early stages of PD and during the dark phase of the light/dark cycle. The results suggest that the function of nigral cells is regulated by a more global system embracing circadian physiology that extends from the retina to the pineal. Furthermore, the induction of PD is characterised by an imbalance between melatonin and dopamine (DA) whereby this ratio is elevated at least 6 to 1 in favour of melatonin. The commonly observed treatment failures and side effects of DA replacement therapy probably result from increasing endogenous DA without taking parallel melatonin dysfunction into account. The proposed integrated function of the NSD and circadian systems may permit therapeutic targeting at a level which is safer, more effective and without the side effects of systemically administered regimens of DA replacement.
Previously, using brain slices, we reported NO-mediated cGMP synthesis in all cholinergic fibers in the rat neocortex. In order to answer the question whether this property of cholinergic fibers was present before or developed after birth, we investigated properties of NO-responsiveness of cultured cholinergic forebrain neurons. Basal forebrain neurons of E16 fetal rat were cultured. Under the conditions chosen and after one day of culturing, all cells had attained a cholinergic phenotype using choline acetyltransferase or the vesicular acetylcholine transporter molecule as markers. Between 95-99% of the cells also expressed neuronal NOS. In the presence of 1 mM IBMX, a non-selective phosphodiesterase (PDE) inhibitor, 10 microM of the NO donor diethylamine-NONOate (DEANO) increased cGMP synthesis in 80% of the cells. cGMP levels in the cultured forebrain neurons were also increased when cells were stimulated with DEANO in the presence of the selective PDE inhibitors BAY 60-7550 (PDE2), sildenafil (PDE5), or the mixed type inhibitor papaverine (PDE2,5,10). Subpopulations of cells from the basal forebrain expressed mRNA for PDE2, PDE5, and PDE9. Atropine increased cGMP levels in an NO-dependent manner in a small population of cultured forebrain cells in the presence of IBMX. In conclusion, cultured cholinergic basal forebrain neurons present a heterogeneous cell population in the magnitude of their response to NO. NO-responsiveness of the cultured cholinergic neurons is already detectable after one day of culturing and indicates that NO-sensitivity of the cholinergic neurons of the rat basal forebrain is present well before birth.
Restraint procedures have been shown to influence the neural processes in the brain (dendritic changes or changes in the expression of neurotrophines, etc.) as well as to alter the behavioural performance. While many report deleterious effects of this procedure in normal animals, there are also indications of positive effects in the context of brain injury. In order to address the issue from the perspective of functional posttraumatic recovery, we studied 6 experimental groups of rats--3 groups undergoing a fimbria-fornix transection, and 3 groups remaining neurally intact. Within the lesioned and intact groups, respectively, one group of animals was subjected to an 8-day long restraint procedure (2 h daily) that ended immediately prior to the infliction of trauma; another group was subjected to the same procedure starting immediately after the infliction of trauma; and one group was not subjected to the restraint procedure at all. After a brief period of postoperative pause, the animals were tested on their acquisition of an 8-arm radial maze based place learning task and the effects of the restraint procedure on the task acquisition were evaluated. The results show that within the neurally intact groups, the administration of this procedure had no effect at all. However, the lesioned groups that were subjected to the restraint procedure showed significantly improved acquisition of the studied task compared to the lesioned animals that did not undergo the restraint procedure. The improved task performance suggests a therapeutic effect of this manipulation on the functional recovery after a mechanical trauma.
Calmodulin (CaM) in complex with Ca(2+) channels constitutes a prototype for Ca(2+) sensors that are intimately colocalized with Ca(2+) sources. The C-lobe of CaM senses local, large Ca(2+) oscillations due to Ca(2+) influx from the host channel, and the N-lobe senses global, albeit diminutive Ca(2+) changes arising from distant sources. Though biologically essential, the mechanism underlying global Ca(2+) sensing has remained unknown. Here, we advance a theory of how global selectivity arises, and we experimentally validate this proposal with methodologies enabling millisecond control of Ca(2+) oscillations seen by the CaM/channel complex. We find that global selectivity arises from rapid Ca(2+) release from CaM combined with greater affinity of the channel for Ca(2+)-free versus Ca(2+)-bound CaM. The emergence of complex decoding properties from the juxtaposition of common elements, and the techniques developed herein, promise generalization to numerous molecules residing near Ca(2+) sources.
Mutation of the p53 gene is a common event during tumor pathogenesis. Other mechanisms, such as mdm2 amplification, provide alternative routes through which dysfunction of the p53 pathway is promoted. Here, we address the hypothesis that elevated expression of pim oncogenes might suppress p53 by regulating Mdm2. At a physiological level, we show that endogenous Pim-1 and Pim-2 interact with endogenous Mdm2. Additionally, the Pim kinases phosphorylate Mdm2 in vitro and in cultured cells at Ser(166) and Ser(186), two previously identified targets of other signaling pathways, including Akt. Surprisingly, at high levels of Pim expression, as would occur in tumors, active, but not inactive, Pim-1 or Pim-2 blocks the degradation of both p53 and Mdm2 in a manner that is independent of Mdm2 phosphorylation, leading to increased p53 levels and, proportionately, p53-dependent transactivation. Additionally, Pim-1 induces endogenous ARF, p53, Mdm2, and p21 in primary murine embryo fibroblasts and stimulates senescence-associated beta-galactosidase levels, consistent with the induction of senescence. Immunohistochemical analysis of a cohort of 33 human mantle cell lymphomas shows that elevated expression of Pim-1 occurs in 42% of cases, with elevated Pim-2 occurring in 9% of cases, all of which also express Pim-1. Notably, elevated Pim-1 correlates with elevated Mdm2 in MCL with a p value of 0.003. Taken together, our data are consistent with the idea that Pim normally interacts with the p53 pathway but, when expressed at pathological levels, behaves as a classic dominant oncogene that stimulates a protective response through induction of the p53 pathway.
Collapsin response mediator protein 2 (CRMP2) binds to microtubules and regulates axon outgrowth in neurons. This action is regulated by sequential phosphorylation by the kinases cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) and glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) at sites that are hyperphosphorylated in Alzheimer disease. The increased phosphorylation in Alzheimer disease could be due to increases in Cdk5 and/or GSK3 activity or, alternatively, through decreased activity of a CRMP phosphatase. Here we establish that dephosphorylation of CRMP2 at the residues targeted by GSK3 (Ser-518/Thr-514/Thr-509) is carried out by a protein phosphatase 1 family member in vitro, in neuroblastoma cells, and primary cortical neurons. Inhibition of GSK3 activity using insulin-like growth factor-1 or the highly selective inhibitor CT99021 causes rapid dephosphorylation of CRMP2 at these sites. In contrast, pharmacological inhibition of Cdk5 using purvalanol results in only a gradual and incomplete dephosphorylation of CRMP2 at the site targeted by Cdk5 (Ser-522), suggesting a distinct phosphatase targets this residue. A direct comparison of dephosphorylation at the Cdk5 versus GSK3 sites in vitro shows that the Cdk5 site is comparatively resistant to phosphatase treatment. The presence of the peptidyl-prolyl isomerase enzyme, Pin1, does not affect dephosphorylation of Ser-522 in vitro, in cells, or in Pin1 transgenic mice. Instead, the relatively high resistance of this site to phosphatase treatment is at least in part due to the presence of basic residues located nearby. Similar sequences in Tau are also highly resistant to phosphatase treatment. We propose that relative resistance to phosphatases might be a common feature of Cdk5 substrates and could contribute to the hyperphosphorylation of CRMP2 and Tau observed in Alzheimer disease.
Down syndrome (DS) is the leading non-heritable cause of mental retardation and is due to the effects of an extra chromosome 21. Mouse models of DS have been developed which parallel many of the cognitive and behavioral deficits of DS individuals. Of these, Ts65Dn mice show abnormal hippocampal properties including learning and memory deficits, altered synaptic plasticity and irregular dendritic spines. We assessed synaptic function of cultured postnatal Ts65Dn hippocampal neurons through examination of spontaneous miniature excitatory post-synaptic currents (mEPSCs) and compared them to those from diploid neurons. Averaged amplitudes and frequency of mEPSC events were similar to diploid suggesting presynaptic function is not overtly disrupted in Ts65Dn hippocampal neurons. However, both averaged decay and rise times (10-90% of peak) were significantly faster (approximately 20% for both rise and decay) in Ts65Dn neurons compared to diploid. The distribution of both decay and rise times, indicates global scaling of all percentile groups and is independent of amplitude suggesting normal electrotonic filtering in spite of abnormal expression of GIRK2 channel in Ts65Dn mouse. Western blot analysis suggests overexpression of GluR4 subunit of AMPA receptors which may contribute to faster mEPSC in Ts65Dn neurons. Intrinsic synaptic properties influenced by genetics or epigenetics factors in Ts65Dn postnatal cultured neurons are therefore disrupted and may contribute to the cognitive deficits associated with DS.
Several lines of investigation show that the rostral ventromedial medulla is a critical relay for midbrain regions, including the nucleus cuneiformis (CnF), which control nociception at the spinal cord. There is some evidence that local stimulation or morphine administration into the CnF produces the effective analgesia through the nucleus raphe magnus (NRM). The present study tries to determine the effect of morphine-induced analgesia following microinjection into the CnF in the absence of NRM. Seven days after the cannulae implantation, morphine was microinjected bilaterally into the CnF at the doses of 0.25, 1, 2.5, 5, 7.5 and 10 microg/0.3 microl saline per side. The morphine-induced antinociceptive effect measured by tail-flick test at 30, 60, 90 and 120 min after microinjection. The results showed that bilateral microinjection of morphine into the CnF dose-dependently causes increase in tail-flick latency (TFL). The 50% effective dose of morphine was determined and microinjected into the CnF (2.5 microg/0.3 microl saline per side) in rats after NRM electrolytic lesion (1 mA, 30 s). Lesion of the NRM significantly decreased TFLs, 30 (P&lt;0.01) and 60 (P&lt;0.05) but not 90-120 min after morphine microinjection into the CnF, compared with sham-lesion group. We concluded that morphine induces the analgesic effects through the opioid receptors in the CnF. It is also appeared that morphine-induced antinociception decreases following the NRM lesion but it seems that there are some other descending pain modulatory pathways that activate in the absence of NRM.
We trained Japanese macaque monkeys to use tools, an advanced cognitive function monkeys do not exhibit in the wild, and then examined their brains for signs of modification. Following tool-use training, we observed neurophysiological, molecular genetic and morphological changes within the monkey brain. Despite being 'artificially' induced, these novel behaviours and neural connectivity patterns reveal overlap with those of humans. Thus, they may provide us with a novel experimental platform for studying the mechanisms of human intelligence, for revealing the evolutionary path that created these mechanisms from the 'raw material' of the non-human primate brain, and for deepening our understanding of what cognitive abilities are and of those that are not uniquely human. On these bases, we propose a theory of 'intentional niche construction' as an extension of natural selection in order to reveal the evolutionary mechanisms that forged the uniquely intelligent human brain.
Ten years have passed since the Japanese 'Century of the Brain' was promoted, and its most notable objective, the unique 'creating the brain' approach, has led us to apply a humanoid robot as a neuroscience tool. Here, we aim to understand the brain to the extent that we can make humanoid robots solve tasks typically solved by the human brain by essentially the same principles. I postulate that this 'Understanding the Brain by Creating the Brain' approach is the only way to fully understand neural mechanisms in a rigorous sense. Several humanoid robots and their demonstrations are introduced. A theory of cerebellar internal models and a systems biology model of cerebellar synaptic plasticity is discussed. Both models are experimentally supported, but the latter is more easily verifiable while the former is still controversial. I argue that the major reason for this difference is that essential information can be experimentally manipulated in molecular and cellular neuroscience while it cannot be manipulated at the system level. I propose a new experimental paradigm, manipulative neuroscience, to overcome this difficulty and allow us to prove cause-and-effect relationships even at the system level.
The cerebellum is a brain structure involved in the coordination, control and learning of movements, and elucidation of its function is an important issue. Japanese scholars have made seminal contributions in this field of neuroscience. Electrophysiological studies of the cerebellum have a long history in Japan since the pioneering works by Ito and Sasaki. Elucidation of the basic circuit diagram of the cerebellum in the 1960s was followed by the construction of cerebellar network theories and finding of their neural correlates in the 1970s. A theoretically predicted synaptic plasticity, long-term depression (LTD) at parallel fibre to Purkinje cell synapse, was demonstrated experimentally in 1982 by Ito and co-workers. Since then, Japanese neuroscientists from various disciplines participated in this field and have made major contributions to elucidate molecular mechanisms underlying LTD. An important pathway for LTD induction is type-1 metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR1) and its downstream signal transduction in Purkinje cells. Sugiyama and co-workers demonstrated the presence of mGluRs and Nakanishi and his pupils identified the molecular structures and functions of the mGluR family. Moreover, the authors contributed to the discovery and elucidation of several novel functions of mGluR1 in cerebellar Purkinje cells. mGluR1 turned out to be crucial for the release of endocannabinoid from Purkinje cells and the resultant retrograde suppression of transmitter release. It was also found that mGluR1 and its downstream signal transduction in Purkinje cells are indispensable for the elimination of redundant synapses during post-natal cerebellar development. This article overviews the seminal works by Japanese neuroscientists, focusing on mGluR1 signalling in cerebellar Purkinje cells.

Many lines of evidence indicate that theta rhythm, a prominent neural oscillatory mode found in the mammalian hippocampus, plays a key role in the acquisition, processing, and retrieval of memories. However, a predictive neurophysiological feature of the baseline theta rhythm that correlates with the learning rate across different animals has yet to be identified. Here we show that the mean theta rhythm speed observed during baseline periods of immobility has a strong positive correlation with the rate at which rats learn an operant task. This relationship is observed across rats, during both quiet waking (r=0.82; p&lt;0.01) and paradoxical sleep (r=0.83; p&lt;0.01), suggesting that the basal theta frequency relates to basic neurological processes that are important in the acquisition of operant behavior.
This study assesses the effectiveness of a new virtual task to evaluate human place learning. This test was based on the hole-board maze, developed for rodent research. Its design provides an easy set of levels of difficulty. Sixty-three undergraduate students (30 men and 33 women) were randomly distributed into three testing conditions; they had to find 3, 5 and 7 rewards, respectively, in a virtual room with 16 possible rewarded positions. Subjects were asked to use the minimum amount of attempts to discover all the rewards in 10 trials. In the initial trial subjects needed to visit almost all the positions to discover the rewards. However, in the last trial an important percentage of subjects did not err. Results showed that all subjects acquired the task but with different amounts of mistakes directly related to the level of difficulty of the condition. In addition, women were slower and less accurate than men. These results agree with previous results in other virtual tasks, and support the spatial component of this test.
It is known that animals decerebrated at the premammillary level are capable of standing and walking without losing balance, in contrast to postmammillary ones which do not exhibit such behavior. The main goals of the present study were, first, to characterize the postural performance in premammillary rabbits, and, second, to activate the postural system in postmammillary ones by brainstem stimulation. For evaluation of postural capacity of decerebrated rabbits, motor and EMG responses to lateral tilts of the supporting platform and to lateral pushes were recorded before and after decerebration. In addition, the righting behavior (i.e., standing up from the lying position) was video recorded. We found that, in premammillary rabbits, responses to lateral tilts and pushes were similar to those observed in intact ones, but the magnitude of responses was reduced. During righting, premammillary rabbits assumed the normal position slower than intact ones. To activate the postural system in postmammillary rabbits, we stimulated electrically two brainstem structures, the mesencephalic locomotor region (MLR) and the ventral tegmental field (VTF). The MLR stimulation (prior to elicitation of locomotion) and the VTF stimulation caused an increase of the tone of hindlimb extensors, and enhanced their responses to lateral tilts and to pushes. These results indicate that the basic mechanisms for maintenance of body posture and equilibrium during standing are present in decerebrated animals. They are active in the premammillary rabbits but need to be activated in the postmammillary ones.

Theta-phase precession in hippocampal place cells is one of the best-studied experimental models of temporal coding in the brain. Theta-phase precession is a change in spike timing in which the place cell fires at progressively earlier phases of the extracellular theta rhythm as the animal crosses the spatially restricted firing field of the neuron. Within individual theta cycles, this phase advance results in a compressed replication of the firing sequence of consecutively activated place cells along the animal's trajectory, at a timescale short enough to enable spike-time-dependent plasticity between neurons in different parts of the sequence. The neuronal circuitry required for phase precession has not yet been established. The fact that phase precession can be seen in hippocampal output stuctures such as the prefrontal cortex suggests either that efferent structures inherit the precession from the hippocampus or that it is generated locally in those structures. Here we show that phase precession is expressed independently of the hippocampus in spatially modulated grid cells in layer II of medial entorhinal cortex, one synapse upstream of the hippocampus. Phase precession is apparent in nearly all principal cells in layer II but only sparsely in layer III. The precession in layer II is not blocked by inactivation of the hippocampus, suggesting that the phase advance is generated in the grid cell network. The results point to possible mechanisms for grid formation and raise the possibility that hippocampal phase precession is inherited from entorhinal cortex.
The organization of postthalamic auditory areas remains unclear in many respects. Using a stimulus based on properties of natural sounds, we mapped spectro-temporal receptive fields (STRFs) of neurons in the primary auditory area field L of unanesthetized zebra finches. Cells were sensitive to only a subset of possible acoustic features: nearly all neurons were narrowly tuned along the spectral dimension, the temporal dimension, or both; broadly tuned and strongly orientation-sensitive cells were rare. At high stimulus intensities, neurons were sensitive to differences in sound energy along their preferred dimension, while at lower intensities, neurons behaved more like simple detectors. Finally, we found a systematic relationship between neurons' STRFs, their electrophysiological properties, and their location in field L input or output layers. These data suggest that spectral and temporal processing are segregated within field L, and provide a unifying account of how field L response properties depend on stimulus intensity.
Neuromodulators such as acetylcholine, serotonin, and noradrenaline are powerful regulators of neocortical activity. Although it is well established that cortical inhibition is the target of these modulations, little is known about their effects on GABA release from specific interneuron types. This knowledge is necessary to gain a mechanistic understanding of the actions of neuromodulators because different interneuron classes control specific aspects of excitatory cell function. Here, we report that GABA release from fast-spiking (FS) cells, the most prevalent interneuron subtype in neocortex, is robustly inhibited following activation of muscarinic, serotonin, adenosine, and GABA(B) receptors--an effect that regulates FS cell control of excitatory neuron firing. The potent muscarinic inhibition of GABA release from FS cells suppresses thalamocortical feedforward inhibition. This is supplemented by the muscarinic-mediated depolarization of thalamo-recipient excitatory neurons and the nicotinic enhancement of thalamic input onto these neurons to promote thalamocortical excitation.
The cellular basis of brain imaging is emerging as a new frontier in current neuroscience. In this issue of Neuron, Petzold et al. analyze a model system, the olfactory glomerulus, to show how neurovascular coupling involves an elaborate dance between axon terminals, presynaptic and postsynaptic dendrites, glial cells, and the capillary network.
Activation of the archetypal Transient Receptor Potential (TRP) channel, which is essential for Drosophila phototransduction, depends on a phospholipase C (PLC). However, the precise mechanism linking PLC to the gating of TRP has been elusive. In this issue of Neuron, Leung et al. provide compelling evidence that a diacylglycerol (DAG) lipase (INAE), acting downstream of the PLC, is essential for opening TRP. These results strongly support the model that a DAG metabolite is critical for TRP activation and suggest that mammalian DAG lipases may play similar roles.
Mechanisms underlying cold hypersensitivity in neuropathic states are unclear. Recent data indicate both transient receptor potential (TRP) M8 and TRPA1 play a role. In relation to TRPA1, there are reported increases in mRNA. However, it is unknown whether TRPA1 mRNA is translated into functional receptors, whether these receptors are found on peripheral nociceptors and what population of primary afferents expresses the receptors. The present study provides several lines of evidence that TRPA1 receptors are expressed on intact primary sensory neurons and contribute to cold hypersensitivity following spinal nerve ligation (SNL). Immunohistochemical studies show that expression of TRPA1 is significantly increased in the ipsilateral compared with the contralateral L4 dorsal root ganglion (DRG). Using mustard oil (MO, selective TRPA1 agonist), Ca(2+) imaging demonstrates an increase in the percentage of MO-sensitive L4 DRG cells in SNL compared with sham and naive rats. The magnitude of the Ca(2+) response evoked by MO is also significantly larger in SNL compared with sham and naive rats. Behavioral studies demonstrate that SNL results in increased nocifensive behaviors to mechanical and cold stimulation that is not seen in sham or naive rats. Behavioral responses in sham rats are no different from naive rats. In vitro single fiber recordings demonstrate Adelta-fibers (intact L4 axons) in the nerve-injured hind paw have conduction velocities no different from naive rats. In contrast, compared with naive rats, mechanical thresholds of the Adelta-fibers in SNL rats are significantly decreased, the proportion of cold-sensitive and MO-sensitive Adelta-fibers is significantly increased and the response magnitude of Adelta-fibers to MO is significantly increased. MO-induced activity in Adelta-fibers is significantly reduced by Ruthenium Red (TRPA1 receptor antagonist). These results demonstrate that TRPA1 is expressed on peripheral nociceptors, and they are up-regulated on intact Adelta-fibers following nerve injury, contributing to cold hypersensitivity.
Recent studies have demonstrated nicotinamide (NAM), a soluble B-group vitamin, to be an effective treatment in experimental models of traumatic brain injury (TBI). However, research on this compound has been limited to administration regimens starting shortly after injury. This study was conducted to establish the window of opportunity for NAM administration following controlled cortical impact (CCI) injury to the frontal cortex. Groups of rats were assigned to NAM (50 mg/kg), saline (1 ml/kg), or sham conditions and received contusion injuries or sham procedures. Injections of NAM or saline were administered at 15 min, 4 h, or 8 h post-injury, followed by five boosters at 24 h intervals. Following the last injection, blood was taken for serum NAM analysis. Animals were tested on a variety of tasks to assess somatosensory performance (bilateral tactile adhesive removal and vibrissae-forelimb placement) and cognitive performance (reference and working memory) in the Morris water maze. The results of the serum NAM analysis showed that NAM levels were significantly elevated in treated animals. Behavioral analysis on the tactile removal test showed that all NAM-treated groups facilitated recovery of function compared with saline treatment. On the vibrissae-forelimb placing test all NAM-treated groups also were significantly different from the saline-treated group. However, the acquisition of reference memory was only significantly improved in the 15-min and 4-h groups. In the working memory task both the 15-min and 4-h groups also improved working memory compared with saline treatment. The window of opportunity for NAM treatment is task-dependent and extends to 8 h for the sensorimotor tests but only extends to 4 h post-injury in the cognitive tests. These results suggest that a 50 mg/kg treatment regimen starting at the clinically relevant time point of 4 h may result in attenuated injury severity in the human TBI population.
Perinatal estrogens increase the number of vasopressin-expressing cells and the density of vasopressin-immunoreactive fibers observed in adult male rodents. The mechanism of action of estrogens on sexual differentiation of the extra-hypothalamic vasopressin system is unknown. We hypothesized that the sexually dimorphic expression of progestin receptors (PRs) during development would masculinize vasopressin expression in mice. We compared the number of vasopressin-expressing cells in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) and medial amygdala and the density of vasopressin-immunoreactive fibers in several brain regions of male and female wild type and PRKO mice using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. As expected, sex differences in vasopressin cell number were observed in the BNST and medial amygdaloid nucleus. Vasopressin-immunoreactive fiber density was sexually dimorphic in the lateral septum, lateral habenular nucleus, medial amygdaloid nucleus, and mediodorsal thalamus. Sex differences were also observed in the principal nucleus of the BNST and medial preoptic area but not in the dorsomedial hypothalamus, which are thought to receive vasopressin innervation from the suprachiasmatic nucleus. Deletion of PRs did not alter the sex difference in vasopressin mRNA expression and vasopressin fiber immunoreactivity in any area examined. However, deletion of PRs increased the density of vasopressin fiber immunoreactivity in the lateral habenular nucleus. Our data suggest that PRs modulate vasopressin levels, but not sexual differentiation of vasopressin innervation in mice.
In neuronal cultures it has been demonstrated that neurotrophins can elicit neuronal death through the p75 neurotrophic receptor (p75ntr) in the absence of concomitant Trk signaling. However, it was suggested that p75ntr induces neuronal death after status epilepticus (SE) in neuronal populations that express relatively high quantities of tropomyosin receptor kinase B (TrkB). Here, using Western blot and immunohistochemistry analyses in the hippocampus, we found that 3-h SE caused a remarkable decrease in TrkB expression and phosphorylation, and a significant increase in p75ntr. TrkB modification occurs before the overexpression of the tumor suppressor protein p53, accompanies the cell damage taking place in the dentate gyrus, and precedes the CA1 neuronal injury as assessed by Fluoro-Jade B and Nissl staining. Co-immunoprecipitation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) or its immature form proBDNF showed increased interaction with p75ntr after its binding to TrkB was reduced. Interestingly, proBDNF also increases its binding with p75ntr after seizures that do not cause neuronal death (animals injected with pilocarpine that fail to enter SE). However, in those animals, TrkB protein levels remained unchanged and its phosphorylation increased. Our results indicate an intrinsic capacity of neurons in vivo to modify final neurotrophin output by changing the proportion of their receptors' expression and the receptors' interaction with their ligands. These early events support the idea that neurotrophins may be involved in the induction of neuronal death in vivo under pathological conditions.
Dopamine increases in the nucleus accumbens after ethanol administration in rats, but the contributions of the core and shell subregions to this response are unclear. The goal of this study was to determine the effect of various doses of i.v. ethanol infusions on dopamine in these two subregions of the nucleus accumbens. Male Long-Evans rats were infused with either acute i.v. ethanol (0.5, 1.0, 1.5 g/kg), repeated i.v. ethanol (four 1.0 g/kg infusions resulting in a cumulative dose of 4.0 g/kg), or saline as a control for each condition. Dopamine and ethanol were measured in dialysate samples from each experiment. The in vivo extraction fraction for ethanol of probes was determined using i.v. 4-methylpyrazole, and was used to estimate peak brain ethanol concentrations after the infusions. The peak brain ethanol concentrations after the 0.5, 1.0 and 1.5 g/kg ethanol infusions were estimated to be 20, 49 and 57 mM, respectively. A significant dopamine increase was observed for the 0.5 g/kg ethanol group when collapsed across subregions. However, both the 1.0 g/kg and 1.5 g/kg ethanol infusions produced significant increases in dopamine levels in the shell that were significantly higher than those in the core. An ethanol dose-response effect on dopamine in the shell was observed when saline controls, 0.5, 1.0, and 1.5 g/kg groups were compared. For the cumulative-dosing study, the first, second, and fourth infusions resulted in significant increases in dopamine in the shell. However, these responses were not significantly different from one another. The results of this study show that the shell has a stronger response than the core to i.v. ethanol, that dopamine in the shell increases in a dose-dependent manner between 0.5-1.0 g/kg doses, but that the response to higher ethanol doses reaches a plateau.
Activation of the spinal phospholipase A(2) (PLA(2)) -cyclooxygenase (COX) -prostaglandin signaling pathway is widely implicated in nociceptive processing. Although the role of spinal COX isoforms in pain signal transmission has been extensively characterized, our knowledge of PLA(2) enzymes in this cascade is limited. Among all PLA(2) groups, cytosolic calcium-dependent PLA(2) group IVA (cPLA(2)IVA) appears to be the predominant PLA(2) enzyme in the spinal cord. In the present study we sought to (i) characterize anatomical and cellular distribution and localization of cPLA(2)IVA in dorsal horn of rat spinal cord, (ii) verify efficacy and selectivity of intrathecal (IT) delivery of an antisense oligonucleotide (AS) targeting rat cPLA(2)IVA mRNA on spinal expression of this enzyme, and (iii) examine the effect of down-regulation of spinal cPLA(2)IVA on peripheral tissue injury-induced pain behavior. Here we demonstrate that cPLA(2)IVA is constitutively expressed in rat spinal cord, predominantly in dorsal horn neurons and oligodendrocytes but not in astrocytes or microglia. Intrathecal injection of AS significantly down-regulated both protein and gene expression of cPLA(2)IVA in rat spinal cord, while control missense oligonucleotide (MS) had no effect. Immunocytochemistry confirmed that the reduction occurred in neurons and oligodendrocytes. cPLA(2)IVA AS did not alter expression of several other PLA(2) isoforms, such as secretory PLA(2) (groups IIA and V) and calcium-independent PLA(2) (group VI), indicating that the AS was specific for cPLA(2)IVA. This selective knockdown of spinal cPLA(2)IVA did not change acute nociception (i.e. paw withdrawal thresholds to acute thermal stimuli and intradermal formalin-induced first phase flinching), however, it significantly attenuated formalin-induced hyperalgesia (i.e. second phase flinching behavior), which reflects spinal sensitization. Thus the present findings suggest that cPLA(2)IVA may specifically participate in spinal nociceptive processing.
Hippocampal functions vary across the estrous cycle but metabolic changes at the protein level have not been systematically studied so far. It was therefore the aim of the study to screen expression of metabolic proteins mainly represented by metabolic enzymes in the hippocampus over the estrous cycle and in males. Female and male OFA Sprague-Dawley rats were used and female estrous phases were determined by vaginal smears, according to which females were separated into groups of proestrous, estrous, early and late metestrous and diestrous. Proteins were extracted from hippocampal tissue and separated on two-dimensional gel electrophoresis followed by identification with mass spectrometry methods (MALDI-TOF-TOF and nano-LC-ESI-MS/MS). Comparative analysis of protein levels was carried out by quantifying protein spot volumes by means of specific software. Levels of one expression form of gamma-enolase were different between diestrous and early metestrous; C-1-tetrahydrofolate synthase levels were elevated in proestrous as compared with estrous and serotransferrin levels were increased in diestrous as compared with proestrous, estrous, metestrous and in males. The outcome of estrous cycle- and gender-dependent protein fluctuations is relevant for the interpretation of previous and future work as well as for the design of further studies at the protein level in the hippocampus.
Dopaminergic innervation of the frontal cortex in adults is important for a variety of cognitive functions and behavioral control. However, the role of frontal cortical dopaminergic innervation for neurobehavioral development has received little attention. In the current study, rats were given dopaminergic lesions in the frontal cortex with local micro-infusions of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) at 1 week of age. The long-term behavioral effects of neonatal frontal cortical 6-OHDA lesions were assessed in a series of tests of locomotor activity, spatial learning and memory, and i.v. nicotine self-administration. In addition, neurochemical indices were assessed with tissue homogenization and HPLC in the frontal cortex, striatum, and nucleus accumbens of neonatal and adult rats after neonatal 6-OHDA lesions. In neonatal rats, frontal 6-OHDA lesions as intended caused a significant reduction in frontal cortical dopamine without effects on frontal cortical 5-HT and norepinephrine. The frontal cortical dopamine depletion increased 5-HT and norepinephrine levels in the nucleus accumbens. Locomotor activity assessment during adulthood in the figure-8 maze showed that lesioned male rats were hyperactive relative to sham-lesioned males. Locomotor activity of female rats was not significantly affected by the neonatal frontal 6-OHDA lesion. Learning and memory in the radial-arm maze was also affected by neonatal frontal 6-OHDA lesions. There was a general trend toward impaired performance in early maze acquisition and a paradoxical improvement at the end of cognitive testing. Nicotine self-administration showed significant lesion x sex interactions. The sex difference in nicotine self-administration with females self-administering significantly more nicotine than males was reversed by neonatal 6-OHDA frontal cortical lesions. Neurochemical studies in adult rats showed that frontal cortical dopamine and DOPAC levels significantly correlated with nicotine self-administration in the 6-OHDA-lesioned animals but not in the controls. Frontal cortical 5-HT and 5HIAA showed inverse correlations with nicotine self-administration in the 6-OHDA-lesioned animals but not in the controls. These results show that interfering with normal dopamine innervation of the frontal cortex during early postnatal development has persisting behavioral effects, which are sex-specific.
3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, ecstasy) is a powerful releaser of 5-HT and chronic use of this drug can cause depletion of monoamines. Recently, concerns about the risk of adult brain damage due to fetal exposure to MDMA have been raised. We investigated whether developmental MDMA exposure affected adult neurogenesis in C57 black/6 mice. MDMA (1.25 or 20 mg/kg, p.o.) or vehicle was administered daily to the mother from prenatal 6th day to postnatal 21st day. When the offspring were 11 weeks old, they were injected with 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) (120 mg/kg, i.p.) once a day for 4 days. After 24 h or 28 days, the animals were killed to count the BrdU-positive cells in the dentate gyrus. At 24 h after the last BrdU injection, the number of BrdU-positive cells in the offspring developmentally exposed to MDMA was significantly lower than that of the control group. At 28 days post-BrdU labeling, BrdU-positive cells in the dentate gyrus of female offspring with developmental exposure to high dose MDMA were significantly fewer compared with the control group. In addition, most BrdU-positive cells were co-labeled with the mature neuronal marker, neuronal nuclei, while a few BrdU-labeled cells were merged with an astrocyte marker. Our results suggest that developmental exposure to MDMA can result in decreases in the proliferation and survival of mature newborn cells in the adult dentate gyrus.
Opiate withdrawal leads to the emergence of an aversive state that can be conditioned to a specific environment. Reactivation of these withdrawal memories has been suggested to be involved in relapse to drug-seeking of abstinent opiate addicts. Among the limbic areas that are likely to mediate these features of opiate dependence, amygdala nuclei represent critical neural substrates. Using a conditioned place aversion paradigm (CPA), we have previously shown specific opposite patterns of reactivity in the basolateral (BLA) and the central (CeA) amygdala, when comparing the experience of acute opiate withdrawal with the re-exposure to a withdrawal-paired environment. These data gave clues about the potential mechanisms by which amygdala nuclei may be involved in withdrawal memories. To extend these results, the present study aimed to assess the cellular reactivity and plasticity of amygdala nuclei during the opiate withdrawal conditioning process. For this, we have quantified c-fos and arc expression using in situ hybridization in rats, following each of the three conditioning sessions during CPA, and after re-exposure to the withdrawal-paired environment. BLA output neurons showed an increase in the expression of the plasticity-related arc gene during conditioning that was also increased by re-exposure to the withdrawal-paired environment. Interestingly, the CeA showed an opposite pattern of responding, and the intercalated cell masses (ITC), a possible inhibitory interface between the BLA and CeA, showed a persistent activation of c-fos and arc mRNA. We report here specific c-fos and arc patterns of reactivity in amygdala nuclei during withdrawal conditioning. These findings improve our understanding of the involvement of the amygdala network in the formation and retrieval of withdrawal memories. Plasticity processes within BLA output neurons during conditioning, may participate in increasing the BLA reactivity to conditioned stimuli, which could in turn (by the control of downstream nuclei) reinforce and drive the motivational properties of withdrawal over drug consumption.
Statins are increasingly being used for the treatment of a variety of conditions beyond their original indication for cholesterol lowering. We previously reported that simvastatin affected the dopaminergic system in the rat brain. This study aims to investigate regional changes of muscarinic M1/4 receptors in the rat brain after 4-week administration of simvastatin (1 or 10 mg/kg/day). M1/4 receptor distribution and alterations in the post-mortem rat brain were detected by [(3)H]pirenzepine binding autoradiography. Simvastatin (1 mg/kg/day) increased [(3)H]pirenzepine binding, predominantly in the prefrontal cortex (171%, P&lt;0.001), primary motor cortex (153%, P=0.001), cingulate cortex (109%, P&lt;0.001), hippocampus (138%, P&lt;0.001), caudate putamen (122%, P=0.002) and nucleus accumbens (170%, P&lt;0.001) compared with controls; while lower but still significant increases of [(3)H]pirenzepine binding were observed in the examined regions following simvastatin (10 mg/kg/day) treatment. Our results also provide strong evidence that chronic simvastatin administration, especially at a low dosage, up-regulates M1/4 receptor binding, which is likely to be independent of its muscarinic agonist-like effect. Alterations in [(3)H]pirenzepine binding in the examined brain areas may represent the specific regions that mediate the clinical effects of simvastatin treatment on cognition and memory via the muscarinic cholinergic system. These findings contribute to a better understanding of the critical roles of simvastatin in treating neurodegenerative disorders, via muscarinic receptors.

The appropriate level of microtubule stability is fundamental in neurons to assure correct polarity, migration, vesicles transport and to prevent axonal degeneration. In the present study, we have identified Notch pathway as an endogenous microtubule stabilizer. Stimulation of Notch receptors by exposure of mouse cortical neurons to the Notch ligand Jagged1 resulted in increased microtubule stability, as measured by using antibodies against post-translationally modified alpha tubulin, and changes in axonal morphology and branching, with varicosity loss, thicker neurites and enlarged growth cones. Similar effects were found after exposure of the cells to different doses of Taxol. However, contrary to Taxol, Jagged1 induced downregulation of the microtubule severing protein Spastin. We suggest that a fine-tuned manipulation of Notch signaling may represent a novel approach to modulate neuronal cytoskeleton plasticity.
Voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels are important and diverse determinants of neuronal excitability and exhibit specific expression patterns throughout the brain. Among Kv channels, Kv4 channels are major determinants of somatodendritic A-type current and are essential in controlling the amplitude of backpropagating action potentials (BAPs) into neuronal dendrites. BAPs have been well studied in a variety of neurons, and have been recently described in hippocampal and cortical interneurons, a heterogeneous population of GABAergic inhibitory cells that regulate activity of principal cells and neuronal networks. We used well-characterized mouse monoclonal antibodies against the Kv4.3 and potassium channel interacting protein (KChIP) 1 subunits of A-type Kv channels, and antibodies against different interneuron markers in single- and double-label immunohistochemistry experiments to analyze the expression patterns of Kv4.3 and KChIP1 in hippocampal Ammon's horn (CA1) neurons. Immunohistochemistry was performed on 40 mum rat brain sections using nickel-enhanced diaminobenzidine staining or multiple-label immunofluorescence. Our results show that Kv4.3 and KChIP1 component subunits of A-type channels are co-localized in the soma and dendrites of a large number of GABAergic hippocampal interneurons. These subunits co-localize extensively but not completely with markers defining the four major interneuron subpopulations tested (parvalbumin, calbindin, calretinin, and somatostatin). These results suggest that CA1 hippocampal interneurons can be divided in two groups according to the expression of Kv4.3/KChIP1 channel subunits. Antibodies against Kv4.3 and KChIP1 represent an important new tool for identifying a subpopulation of hippocampal interneurons with a unique dendritic A-type channel complement and ability to control BAPs.
Activation and injury of microglial cells are involved in a broad range of brain diseases including stroke, brain infection and neurodegenerative diseases. However, there is very little information regarding how to reduce microglial reaction and preserve these cells to provide neuroprotection. Here, we showed that the incubation of C8-B4 mouse microglial cells with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) plus interferon-gamma (IFNgamma) for 24 h decreased the viability of these cells. Pretreatment of these cells with 1%, 2% or 3% isoflurane, a commonly used volatile anesthetic, for 1 h at 30 min before the exposure to LPS plus IFNgamma attenuated the reduction of cell viability (preconditioning effect). LPS plus IFNgamma also activated these microglial cells to express inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and to induce accumulation of nitrite, a stable oxidation product of nitric oxide, in the incubation medium. Isoflurane preconditioning attenuated these LPS plus IFNgamma effects on the iNOS expression and nitrite accumulation. Aminoguanidine, an iNOS inhibitor, attenuated the LPS plus IFNgamma-induced glutamate release and decrease of microglial viability. Isoflurane preconditioning also reduced LPS plus IFNgamma-induced glutamate release. Exogenous glutamate decreased microglial viability. Finally, the isoflurane preconditioning-induced protection was abolished by chelerythrine, a protein kinase C inhibitor. These results suggest that LPS plus IFNgamma activates the iNOS-nitric oxide-glutamate pathway to induce microglial injury and that this activation is attenuated by isoflurane preconditioning. Protein kinase C may be involved in the isoflurane preconditioning effects.
We used comparative proteomic techniques to identify aging-related brain proteins in normal mice from neonate to old age. By 2-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE), matrix assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry (MS) and peptide mass fingerprint (PMF) analysis, 39 proteins were identified, among which 6 stayed unchanged since 3 months, 6 increased and 27 decreased in various manners during aging. They are mainly involved in processes usually with destructive changes during aging, such as metabolism, transport, signaling, stress response and apoptosis. The 27 proteins' decrease may be responsible for brain aging. In particular, decrease of proteasome alpha subunits 3/6, ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal esterase L3, valosin-containing protein and calreticulin may be responsible for the declination of protein quality control; glutamate dehydrogenase 1, isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 and ubiquinol cytochrome c reductase core protein 2 for the shortage of energy and reducing agent; ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2N and heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein A2/B1 for the increase of DNA damage and transcription detuning; calbindin 1 and amphiphysin for the disturbance of synaptic transport and ion signals. The six proteins' increase may be involved in anti-aging processes. In particular, transketolase, mitochondrial creatine kinase 1 and ribosomal protein L37 may help to enhance energy metabolism; triosephosphate isomerase 1 may help to resist oxidative stress. Moreover, most of these proteins were found for the first time to be involved in the natural senescence of brain, which would provide new clues about the mechanism of brain aging.
It is unclear which nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subtypes are involved in the nicotinic activation of cells in the subfornical organ (SFO). We investigated the nAChR subtype using molecular biological, electrophysiological, pharmacological and immunohistochemical techniques. The use of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction in rats demonstrated the presence of mRNAs for the alpha2, alpha3, alpha4, alpha6, alpha7, beta2 and beta4 subunits in the SFO. The characteristics and dose-dependency of nicotine-induced inward currents in many dissociated SFO neurons were similar to those induced by acetylcholine in the presence of atropine. The nicotine-induced currents were larger than those induced by cytisine in most responding cells, suggesting the predominance of the beta2- rather than the beta4-containing nAChR. NIC-induced currents were significantly inhibited by dihydro-beta-erythroidine (a relatively selective antagonist for alpha4-containing nAChRs, and a partial antagonist for alpha2 or alpha3) at 300 nM in all responding cells. Additionally, the currents were significantly inhibited by alpha-conotoxin MII at 10 nM (a selective antagonist for alpha3- and/or alpha6-containing nAChRs) in some but not all responding cells. Methyllycaconitine at 10 nM (a selective alpha7-nAChR antagonist) reduced the nicotine-induced current significantly, but to a lesser extent. Fluorescence-labeled alpha-bungarotoxin (a homomeric alpha7 subtype selective binding drug) binding and immunofluorescence for the alpha7 subunit showed that positive images almost overlapped with those immunopositive for an astrocyte marker. These results suggest that the alpha4beta2 subtype is the main functional receptor in SFO neurons while alpha2, alpha3, alpha6, and beta4 subunits have some effect, and homomeric the alpha7 subtype exists in SFO astrocytes.
Striatal projection neurons use GABA as their neurotransmitter and express the rate-limiting synthesizing enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) and the vesicular GABA transporter vGAT. The chronic systemic administration of an agonist of dopamine D1/D5-preferring receptors is known to alter GAD mRNA levels in striatonigral neurons in intact and dopamine-depleted rats. In the present study, the effects of a single or subchronic systemic administration of the dopamine D1/D5-preferring receptor agonist SKF-81297 on GAD65, GAD67, PPD and vGAT mRNA levels in the striatum and GABA(A) receptor alpha1 subunit mRNA levels in the substantia nigra, pars reticulata, were measured in rats with a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion. After a single injection of SKF-81297, striatal GAD65 mRNA levels were significantly increased at 3 but not 72 h. In contrast, striatal GAD67 mRNA levels were increased and nigral alpha1 mRNA levels were decreased at 72 but not 3 h. Single cell analysis on double-labeled sections indicated that increased GAD or vGAT mRNA levels after acute SKF-81297 occurred in striatonigral neurons identified by their lack of preproenkephalin expression. Subchronic SKF-81297 induced significant increases in striatal GAD67, GAD65, preprodynorphin and vGAT mRNA levels and decreases in nigral alpha1 mRNA levels. In the striatum contralateral to the 6-OHDA lesion, subchronic but not acute SKF-81297 induced a significant increase in GAD65 mRNA levels. The other mRNA levels were not significantly altered. Finally, striatal GAD67 mRNA levels were negatively correlated with nigral alpha1 mRNA levels in the dopamine-depleted but not dopamine-intact side. The results suggest that different signaling pathways are involved in the modulation by dopamine D1/D5 receptors of GAD65 and GAD67 mRNA levels in striatonigral neurons. They also suggest that the down-regulation of nigral GABA(A) receptors is linked to the increase in striatal GAD67 mRNA levels in the dopamine-depleted striatum.
Endothelin-1 (ET-1) plays an important role in peripheral pain processing. However, the mechanisms of the nociceptive action of ET-1 have not been fully elucidated. In this study, we investigated the contribution of transient receptor potential vanilloid subfamily 1 (TRPV1) to ET-1-induced thermal hyperalgesia. Intraplantar ET-1-induced thermal hyperalgesia was examined by assessing the paw withdrawal latency to noxious heat stimuli. In electrophysiological study, whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were performed to investigate the interaction of ET-1 and TRPV1 using human embryonic kidney 293 (HEK293) cells expressing endothelin type A receptor (ET(A)) and TRPV1. Intraplantar ET-1 (3, 10 and 30 pmol) produced thermal hyperalgesia in a dose-dependent manner. Thermal hyperalgesia was attenuated by the inhibition of ET(A) and protein kinase C (PKC) but not that of ET(B). ET-1-induced thermal hyperalgesia was significantly attenuated in TRPV1-deficient mice compared with that in wild-type mice. In voltage-clamp experiments, 10 nM capsaicin evoked small inward currents in HEK293 cells expressing TRPV1 and ET(A). In the presence of ET-1, capsaicin produced much larger current responses (P&lt;0.05). Mutation at PKC-specific TRPV1 phosphorylation sites (S800A/S502A) and PKC inhibitors inhibited the potentiating effect of ET-1. In addition, ET-1 decreased the temperature threshold for TRPV1 activation in a PKC-dependent manner (from 41.0+/-0.4 degrees C to 32.6+/-0.6 degrees C). In addition, Western blot analysis was also performed to confirm ET-1-induced phosphorylation of TRPV1. Incubation of ET-1 and intraplantar ET-1 evoked phosphorylation of TRPV1 in HEK293 cells expressing TRPV1 and ET(A) and the skin, respectively. These results suggest that the sensitization of TRPV1 activity through an ET(A)-PKC pathway contributes to ET-1-induced thermal hyperalgesia.
It has previously been reported that dopamine (DA) responses observed in the core and dorsomedial shell parts of the nucleus accumbens (Nacc) in latent inhibition (LI) are dependent on the left entorhinal cortex (ENT). The present study was designed to investigate the influence of the left ventral subiculum (SUB) closely linked to the ENT on the DA responses obtained in the Nacc during LI, using an aversive conditioned olfactory paradigm and in vivo voltammetry in freely moving rats. In the first (pre-exposure) session, functional blockade of the left SUB was achieved by local microinjection of tetrodotoxin (TTX). In the second session, rats were aversively conditioned to banana odor, the conditional stimulus (CS). In the retention (test) session the results were as follows: (1) pre-exposed (PE) conditioned animals microinjected with TTX, displayed aversion toward the CS; (2) in the core part of the Nacc, for PE-TTX-conditioned rats as for non-pre-exposed (NPE) conditioned animals, DA levels remained close to the baseline whereas DA variations in both groups were significantly different from the DA increases observed in PE-conditioned rats microinjected with the solvent (phosphate-buffered saline (PBS)); (3) in the shell part of the Nacc, for PE-TTX-conditioned rats, DA variations were close to or above the baseline. They were situated between the rapid DA increases observed in NPE-conditioned animals and the transient DA decreases obtained in PE-PBS-conditioned animals. These findings suggest that, in parallel to the left ENT, the left SUB controls DA LI-related responses in the Nacc. The present data may also offer new insight into the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.
Reinstatement of previously extinguished instrumental responding for drug-related cues has been used as an animal model for relapse of drug abuse, and is differentially affected by inactivation of the core and shell subregions of the nucleus accumbens (NAc). To compare the roles of these subregions in reinstatement induced by cues associated with natural and drug rewards, the present study assessed the effects of inactivation of the NAc core and shell on cue-induced reinstatement of food-seeking behavior. Rats acquired a lever pressing response for food reward paired with a light/tone conditioned stimulus (CS). They were then subjected to extinction, where both food and the CS were withheld. Reinstatement of responding was measured during response-contingent presentations of the CS. Following saline infusions into the NAc core or shell, rats displayed a significant increase in lever pressing during reinstatement sessions. Inactivation of the core, induced by infusion of GABA agonists muscimol and baclofen, attenuated responding for the CS, but did not affect pavlovian approach toward the food receptacle. In contrast, inactivation of the shell had the opposite effect, potentiating responding relative to vehicle treatments. These data suggest that the NAc core and shell play opposing, yet complementary roles in mediating the influence that food-associated conditioned stimuli exert over behavior. The core enables reward-related stimuli to bias the direction and vigor of instrumental responding. In contrast, the shell facilitates alterations in behavior in response to changes in the incentive value of conditioned stimuli. The fact that the NAc core appears to play a similar role in cue-induced reinstatement induced by both natural and drug rewards suggests that this region of the ventral striatum may be a final common pathway through which both drug- and food-associated stimuli may influence the direction and magnitude of ongoing behavior.
Sensorimotor gating as measured by prepulse inhibition (PPI) to startle-evoking auditory stimulation (AS) is disrupted in schizophrenia and in rodents receiving systemic administration of apomorphine, a dopamine D1/D2 receptor agonist, or MK-801, an N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist. The functional analogies and our prior results showing apomorphine- and AS-induced relocation of the dopamine D1 receptor (D1R) in the nucleus accumbens (Acb) shell suggest that apomorphine and AS may affect the subcellular distribution of the NMDA receptor NR1 subunit, a protein that forms protein-protein interactions with the D1R. We quantitatively compared the electron microscopic immunogold labeling for NR1 in dendritic profiles distinguished with respect to presence of D1R immunoreactivity and location in the Acb shell or core of rats receiving a single s.c. injection of vehicle (VEH) or apomorphine (APO) alone, or combined with AS (VEH+AS, APO+AS). The rats in the APO+AS group were previously shown to have PPI deficits, whereas the rats in the VEH+AS group had normal PPI. A significantly higher percentage of plasmalemmal and a lower percentage of cytoplasmic NR1 immunogold particles were seen in D1R-labeled dendritic spines in the Acb shell of the APO+AS group compared with all other groups. D1R-containing small dendrites in the Acb shell of the APO+AS group also showed a significantly higher density of plasmalemmal and a lower density of cytoplasmic NR1 immunogold particles compared with VEH or APO groups. In the Acb core, the APO+AS group had significantly fewer dendritic spines co-expressing NR1 and D1R compared with VEH or VEH+AS groups. These results, together with our earlier findings, suggest that NMDA receptors are preferentially mobilized in D1R-containing Acb neurons of rats showing apomorphine-induced disruption of PPI in a paradigm using acoustic stimulation.
Considerable evidence suggests that dynorphin participates in the regulation of energy balance. In this study, we have used immunohistochemistry to investigate in detail the cellular localization of pro-dynorphin (DYN) immunoreactive cell bodies in the mediobasal hypothalamus with special reference to neurons producing orexigenic or anorexigenic transmitters. In colchicine-treated rats, DYN immunoreactivity was demonstrated in many cell bodies of the arcuate nucleus (Arc). Double-labeling revealed that DYN immunoreactivity was present in approximately 30% of pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) neurons in the ventrolateral Arc as shown by presence of alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) and cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART). In contrast, DYN immunoreactivity was not demonstrated in agouti-related peptide (AgRP)- or neuropeptide Y (NPY) -containing neurons in the ventromedial aspect of the Arc. Dynorphin immunoreactivity was also colocalized with the vesicular acetylcholine (ACh) transporter (VAChT; a marker for cholinergic neurons) in the cell soma of Arc POMC neurons. Brainstem POMC neurons in the commissural part of the solitary tract nucleus (NTS) were devoid of DYN immunoreactivity, whereas DYN immunoreactivity was detected in a few NPY-containing NTS neurons and cholinergic DMX neurons. Our results showing presence of DYN together with alpha-MSH in a subpopulation of hypothalamic POMC neurons further point to the neurochemical heterogeneity of hypothalamic POMC neurons. The results suggest a role for DYN in control of energy balance by mediating the effect of peripheral hormones such as leptin and insulin.
While the onset and extent of epilepsy increases in the aged population, the reasons for this increased incidence remain unexplored. The present study used two inbred strains of mice (C57BL/6J and FVB/NJ) to address the genetic control of age-dependent neurodegeneration by building upon previous experiments that have identified phenotypic differences in susceptibility to hippocampal seizure-induced cell death. We determined if seizure induction and seizure-induced cell death are affected differentially in young adult, mature, and aged male C57BL/6J and FVB/NJ mice administered the excitotoxin, kainic acid. Dose response testing was performed in three to four groups of male mice from each strain. Following kainate injections, mice were scored for seizure activity and brains from mice in each age group were processed for light microscopic histopathologic evaluation 7 days following kainate administration to evaluate the severity of seizure-induced brain damage. Irrespective of the dose of kainate administered or the age group examined, resistant strains of mice (C57BL/6J) continued to be resistant to seizure-induced cell death. In contrast, aged animals of the FVB/NJ strain were more vulnerable to the induction of behavioral seizures and associated neuropathology after systemic injection of kainic acid than young or middle-aged mice. Results from these studies suggest that the age-related increased susceptibility to the neurotoxic effects of seizure induction and seizure-induced injury is regulated in a strain-dependent manner, similar to previous observations in young adult mice.
There is conflicting evidence concerning the role of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) in fear and anxiety-elicited behavior. Most of the studies investigating this role, however, employed irreversible lesions of this nucleus. The objective of the present study was to investigate the effects of an acute and reversible inactivation of the BNST in rats submitted to the Vogel conflict test (VCT) and contextual fear conditioning, two widely employed animal models that are responsive to prototypal anxiolytic drugs. Male Wistar rats were submitted to stereotaxic surgery to bilaterally implant cannulae into the BNST. Ten minutes before the test they received bilateral microinjections of cobalt chloride (CoCl(2)) (1 mM/100 nL), a nonselective synapse blocker. CoCl(2) produced anxiolytic-like effects in tests, increasing the number of punished licks in the VCT and decreasing freezing behavior and the increase in mean arterial blood pressure and heart rate of animals re-exposed to the context where they had received electrical foot shocks 24 h before. The results indicate that the BNST is engaged in behavioral responses elicited by punished stimuli and aversively conditioned contexts, reinforcing its proposed role in anxiety.
In the current studies we investigated the timing of onset and the conditions needed for the maintenance of the upregulation of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in the cingulate cortex area 2 (Cg2) that occurs in postpartum animals. We have previously shown that this upregulation is present from day 4 to day 24, and is not seen late in pregnancy (days 21-22). In the current studies, we demonstrate that bFGF and GFAP are both upregulated in Cg2 as early as 3 h postpartum, and are maintained until at least day 24 postpartum in animals deprived of pup stimulation for 8 days prior to perfusion. bFGF and GFAP immunoreactivity returns to prepartum levels by 5-6 weeks post-weaning, and the typical postpartum increase is not further enhanced in multiparous rats. We also show that, although there are significant changes in levels of bFGF immunoreactivity across the phases of the estrous cycle, peak cycling levels remain much lower than those observed in lactating rats. Possible stimuli involved in the induction of bFGF and GFAP in Cg2, and the potential relevance of these changes to the maternal state are discussed.
Individuals engaged in shift- or night-work show disturbed diurnal rhythms, out of phase with temporal signals associated to the light/dark (LD) cycle, resulting in internal desynchronization. The mechanisms underlying internal desynchrony have been mainly investigated in experimental animals with protocols that induce phase shifts of the LD cycle and thus modify the activity of the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). In this study we developed an animal model of night-work in which the light-day cycle remained stable and rats were required to be active in a rotating wheel for 8 h daily during their sleeping phase (W-SP). This group was compared with rats that were working in the wheel during their activity phase (W-AP) and with undisturbed rats (C). We provide evidence that forced activity during the sleeping phase (W-SP group) alters not only activity, but also the temporal pattern of food intake. In consequence W-SP rats showed a loss of glucose rhythmicity and a reversed rhythm of triacylglycerols. In contrast W-AP rats did not show such changes and exhibited metabolic rhythms similar to those of the controls. The three groups exhibited the nocturnal corticosterone increase, in addition the W-SP and W-AP groups showed increase of plasma corticosterone associated with the start of the working session. Forced activity during the sleep phase did not modify SCN activity characterized by the temporal patterns of PER1 and PER2 proteins, which remained in phase with the LD cycle. These observations indicate that a working regimen during the sleeping period elicits internal desynchronization in which activity combined with feeding uncouples metabolic functions from the biological clock which remains fixed to the LD cycle. The present data suggest that in the night worker the combination of work and eating during working hours may be the cause of internal desynchronization.
The main objective was to test the preventive and treatment effects of central injection of estrogen (ES) on muscular rigidity and pallidal EEG in menopausal rats' model of Parkinson's disease (PD). We hypothesized that intrastriatal pretreatment and post-lesion treatment by estrogen improve the pallidal local EEG and muscular stiffness in animal model of menopause with PD. Forty-eight female Wistar rats (300-350 g) were ovariectomized (OVX) and divided into two main groups: Non-pretreated subgroups; sham (S), lesioned (L), post-lesion treated (LT) and pretreated subgroups; pretreated (Pt), pretreated and then lesioned (PtL), pretreated and post-lesion treated (PtLT). Pallidal local EEG was recorded by a bipolar recording electrode and muscle stiffness was scored by Dekundy's test in freely moving rats. Muscle stiffness and pallidal local EEG were indicated as main outcome measures. In pretreated group the local pallidal EEG was decreased in sham-operated rats compared with non-pretreated group (P&lt;0.01), and SNc lesioning decreased EEG in the non-pretreated (P&lt;0.01), while it increased the EEG in the pretreated group (P&lt;0.01). In both groups administration of ES restore the EEG to the respective sham-operated group (P&lt;0.01). Regarding muscle stiffness, it increased after SNc lesioning in both pretreated and non-pretreated groups and ES administration decreased the rigidity significantly (P&lt;0.05, P&lt;0.001 respectively). However, the lesion-induced rigidity in pretreated groups was significantly less than non-pretreated groups (P&lt;0.05). Because of its modulatory effect estrogen may protect dopaminergic neurons from injury and may interfere with the uptake of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) into the nigral dopaminergic neurons or alter dopamine release and uptake in remaining neurons.


Neurofilaments are synthesised in neuronal cell bodies and then transported through axons. Damage to neurofilament transport is seen in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Here, we show that PKN1, a neurofilament head-rod domain kinase is cleaved and activated in SOD1G93A transgenic mice that are a model of ALS. Moreover, we demonstrate that glutamate, a proposed toxic mechanism in ALS leads to caspase cleavage and disruption of PKN1 in neurons. Finally, we demonstrate that a cleaved form of PKN1 but not wild-type PKN1 disrupts neurofilament organisation and axonal transport. Thus, deregulation of PKN1 may contribute to the pathogenic process in ALS.

Rapid eye movement (REM) sleep has been considered a paradoxical state because, despite the high behavioral threshold to arousing perturbations, gross physiological patterns in the forebrain resemble those of waking states. To understand how intrahippocampal networks interact during REM sleep, we used 96 site silicon probes to record from different hippocampal subregions and compared the patterns of activity during waking exploration and REM sleep. Dentate/CA3 theta and gamma synchrony was significantly higher during REM sleep compared with active waking. In contrast, gamma power in CA1 and CA3-CA1 gamma coherence showed significant decreases in REM sleep. Changes in unit firing rhythmicity and unit-field coherence specified the local generation of these patterns. Although these patterns of hippocampal network coordination characterized the more common tonic periods of REM sleep (approximately 95% of total REM), we also detected large phasic bursts of local field potential power in the dentate molecular layer that were accompanied by transient increases in the firing of dentate and CA1 neurons. In contrast to tonic REM periods, phasic REM epochs were characterized by higher theta and gamma synchrony among the dentate, CA3, and CA1 regions. These data suggest enhanced dentate processing, but limited CA3-CA1 coordination during tonic REM sleep. In contrast, phasic bursts of activity during REM sleep may provide windows of opportunity to synchronize the hippocampal trisynaptic loop and increase output to cortical targets. We hypothesize that tonic REM sleep may support off-line mnemonic processing, whereas phasic bursts of activity during REM may promote memory consolidation.
Homeostatic plasticity mechanisms stabilize the activity of a neuron or neuronal circuit during prolonged periods of increased network activity and have been proposed to function in the prevention of epilepsy. How homeostatic plasticity is achieved at the molecular level during hyperactivity states in general, and during epileptiform activity in particular, is unclear. Using organotypic hippocampal slice cultures as a model system, we found that the protein kinase Polo-like kinase 2 (Plk2) was induced during prolonged epileptiform activity and was required for the activity-dependent reduction in membrane excitability of pyramidal neurons. Disruption of Plk2 function by dominant-negative or RNA interference not only blocked the downregulation of membrane excitability during epileptiform activity, but also unmasked a slow and progressive potentiation in synaptic strength that prevented the ability of the slice to undergo long-term potentiation. Thus, Plk2 function is required to prevent escalating potentiation and maintain synapses in a plastic state during epileptiform activity in hippocampal slice cultures.
Cell-based therapies require a reliable source of cells that can be easily grown, undergo directed differentiation, and remain viable after transplantation. Here, we generated stably transformed murine ES (embryonic stem) cells that express a constitutively active form of myocyte enhancer factor 2C (MEF2CA). MEF2C has been implicated as a calcium-dependent transcription factor that enhances survival and affects synapse formation of neurons as well as differentiation of cardiomyocytes. We now report that expression of MEF2CA, both in vitro and in vivo, under regulation of the nestin enhancer effectively produces &quot;neuronal&quot; progenitor cells that differentiate into a virtually pure population of neurons. Histological, electrophysiological, and behavioral analyses demonstrate that MEF2C-directed neuronal progenitor cells transplanted into a mouse model of cerebral ischemia can successfully differentiate into functioning neurons and ameliorate stroke-induced behavioral deficits.

The hair follicle is a repository of different types of somatic stem cells. However, even though the hair follicle is both a prominent target organ and a potent, non-classical site of production and/or metabolism of numerous polypetide- and steroid hormones, neuropeptides, neurotransmitters and neurotrophins, the (neuro-)endocrine controls of hair follicle epithelial stem cell (HFeSC) biology remain to be systematically explored. Focussing on HFeSCs, we attempt here to offer a &quot;roadmap through terra incognita&quot; by listing key open questions, by exploring endocrinologically relevant HFeSC gene profiling and mouse genomics data, and by sketching several clinically relevant pathways via which systemic and/or locally generated (neuro-)endocrine signals might impact on HFeSC. Exemplarily, we discuss, e.g. the potential roles of glucocorticoid and vitamin D receptors, the hairless gene product, thymic hormones, bone morphogenic proteins (BMPs) and their antagonists, and Skg-3 in HFeSC biology. Furthermore, we elaborate on the potential role of nerve growth factor (NGF) and substance P-dependent neurogenic inflammation in HFeSC damage, and explore how neuroendocrine signals may influence the balance between maintenance and destruction of hair follicle immune privilege, which protects these stem cells and their progeny. These considerations call for a concerted research effort to dissect the (neuro-)endocrinology of HFeSCs much more systematically than before.
Neuropeptides are emerging as key components in the hippocampal neurogenic niche in health and disease, regulating many aspects of neurogenesis and the synaptic integration of newly generated neurons. This review focuses on the role of neuropeptide Y in the control of stem/precursor cells in the postnatal and adult hippocampus. It is likely that neuropeptide Y releasing interneurons are key sensors of neural activity, modulating neurogenesis appropriately. This is likely to be a fruitful area of research for extending our understanding of the control of stem cells in the normal and diseased brain.
Recently, there has been upsurge of interest in the neural mechanisms of time perception. A central question is whether the representation of time is distributed over brain regions as a function of stimulus modality, task and length of the duration used or whether it is centralized in a single specific and supramodal network. The answers seem to be converging on the former, and many areas not primarily considered as temporal processing areas remain to be investigated in the temporal domain. Here we asked whether the superior temporal gyrus, an auditory modality specific area, is involved in processing of auditory timing. Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation was applied over left and right superior temporal gyri while participants performed either a temporal or a frequency discrimination task of single tones. A significant decrease in performance accuracy was observed after stimulation of the right superior temporal gyrus, in addition to an increase in response uncertainty as measured by the Just Noticeable Difference. The results are specific to auditory temporal processing and performance on the frequency task was not affected. Our results further support the idea of distributed temporal processing and speak in favor of the existence of modality specific temporal regions in the human brain.

A progressive model of Parkinson's disease has been recently developed in the rat where a unilateral excitotoxic injection into the globus pallidus leads to a gradual loss of dopaminergic neurons in the ipsilateral substantia nigra over a period of at least 6 weeks. In this model microglial activation is observed in the ipsilateral substantia nigra 3 weeks after the lesion and could contribute to neuronal death at this time. The immunosuppressant drug tacrolimus (FK506) reduces dopamine cell death at 3 weeks following a globus pallidus lesion, but not thereafter. Tacrolimus-mediated neuroprotection could result from suppression of microglial activation but the microglial activation at three weeks post-lesion was not much reduced. Microglial activation was observed even in the apparent absence of neuronal death, prompting the suggestion that tacrolimus may prevent, or at least delay, the release of toxic cytokines from activated microglia. By 6 weeks after the GP lesion, even this mechanism fails to protect the dopamine cells from damage.
A new study shows that the nervous system has the flexibility to learn dynamics in object-centered coordinates - up to a limit.
The ability to initiate movements can be impaired in some brain injuries even though motor actions proceed normally once they are begun. The effects of venom that wasps use in preying upon cockroaches could provide insights into this problem.

The parasitoid wasp A. compressa hunts cockroaches as a live food supply for its offspring. The wasp selectively injects venom into the cerebral ganglia of the prey to induce long-term hypokinesia [1-5], during which the stung cockroach, although not paralyzed, does not initiate spontaneous walking and fails to escape aversive stimuli. This allows the wasp to grab the cockroach by the antenna and walk it to a nest much like a dog on a leash. There, the wasp lays an egg on the prey, seals the nest, and leaves. The stung cockroach, however, does not fight to escape its tomb but rather awaits its fate, being consumed alive by the hatching larva over several days. We investigated whether the venom-induced hypokinesia is a result of an overall decrease in arousal or, alternatively, a specific decrease in the drive to initiate or maintain walking. We found that the venom specifically affects both the threshold for the initiation and the maintenance of walking-related behaviors. Nevertheless, the walking pattern generator itself appears to be intact. We thus report that the venom, rather than decreasing overall arousal, manipulates neuronal centers within the cerebral ganglia that are specifically involved in the initiation and maintenance of walking.

For over half a century, the echolocating bat has served as a valuable model in neuroscience to elucidate mechanisms of auditory processing and adaptive behavior in biological sonar. Our article emphasizes the importance of the bat's vocal-motor system to spatial orientation by sonar, and we present this view in the context of three problems that the echolocating bat must solve: (i) auditory scene analysis, (ii) sensorimotor transformations, and (iii) spatial memory and navigation. We summarize our research findings from behavioral studies of echolocating bats engaged in natural tasks and from neurophysiological studies of the bat superior colliculus and hippocampus, brain structures implicated in sensorimotor integration, orientation, and spatial memory. Our perspective is that studies of neural activity in freely vocalizing bats engaged in natural behaviors will prove essential to advancing a deeper understanding of the mechanisms underlying perception and memory in mammals.
Endocannabinoids (eCBs) have recently been identified as axon guidance cues shaping the connectivity of local GABAergic interneurons in the developing cerebrum. However, eCB functions during pyramidal cell specification and establishment of long-range axonal connections are unknown. Here, we show that eCB signaling is operational in subcortical proliferative zones from embryonic day 12 in the mouse telencephalon and controls the proliferation of pyramidal cell progenitors and radial migration of immature pyramidal cells. When layer patterning is accomplished, developing pyramidal cells rely on eCB signaling to initiate the elongation and fasciculation of their long-range axons. Accordingly, CB(1) cannabinoid receptor (CB(1)R) null and pyramidal cell-specific conditional mutant (CB(1)R(f/f,NEX-Cre)) mice develop deficits in neuronal progenitor proliferation and axon fasciculation. Likewise, axonal pathfinding becomes impaired after in utero pharmacological blockade of CB(1)Rs. Overall, eCBs are fundamental developmental cues controlling pyramidal cell development during corticogenesis.
The amyloid hypothesis states that a variety of neurotoxic beta-amyloid (Abeta) species contribute to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Accordingly, a key determinant of disease onset and progression is the appropriate balance between Abeta production and clearance. Enzymes responsible for the degradation of Abeta are not well understood, and, thus far, it has not been possible to enhance Abeta catabolism by pharmacological manipulation. We provide evidence that Abeta catabolism is increased after inhibition of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) and may constitute a viable therapeutic approach for lowering brain Abeta levels. PAI-1 inhibits the activity of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), an enzyme that cleaves plasminogen to generate plasmin, a protease that degrades Abeta oligomers and monomers. Because tPA, plasminogen and PAI-1 are expressed in the brain, we tested the hypothesis that inhibitors of PAI-1 will enhance the proteolytic clearance of brain Abeta. Our data demonstrate that PAI-1 inhibitors augment the activity of tPA and plasmin in hippocampus, significantly lower plasma and brain Abeta levels, restore long-term potentiation deficits in hippocampal slices from transgenic Abeta-producing mice, and reverse cognitive deficits in these mice.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) is a nontraditional Cdk that is primarily active in postmitotic neurons. Its best known substrates are cytoskeletal proteins. Less appreciated is its role in the maintenance of a postmitotic state. We show here that in cycling cells (NIH 3T3), the localization of Cdk5 changes from predominantly nuclear to cytoplasmic as cells reenter a cell cycle after serum starvation. Similarly, when beta-amyloid peptide is used to stimulate cultured primary neurons to reenter a cell cycle, they too show a loss of nuclear Cdk5. Blocking nuclear export pharmacologically abolishes cell cycle reentry in wild-type but not Cdk5(-/-) neurons, suggesting a Cdk5-specific effect. Cdk5 overexpression targeted to the nucleus of Cdk5(-/-) neurons effectively blocks the cell cycle, but cytoplasmic targeting is ineffective. Further, in both human Alzheimer's disease as well as in the R1.40 mouse Alzheimer's model and the E2f1(-/-) mouse, neurons expressing cell cycle markers consistently show reduced nuclear Cdk5. Thus, both in vivo and in vitro, neurons that reenter a cell cycle lose nuclear Cdk5. We propose that the nuclear Cdk5 plays an active role in allowing neurons to remain postmitotic as they mature and that loss of nuclear Cdk5 leads to cell cycle entry.

Circadian behavioral rhythms in mammals are controlled by a central clock located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). PER2, the protein product of the clock gene, Period 2 (Per2), is expressed rhythmically in the SCN [Beaule C, Houle LM, Amir S (2003) Expression profiles of PER2 immunoreactivity within the shell and core regions of the rat suprachiasmatic nucleus: Lack of effect of photic entrainment and disruption by constant light. J Mol Neurosci 21:133-148] and has been implicated in the control of circadian behavioral rhythms based on the evidence that genetic mutations in Per2 abolish free running locomotor activity rhythms in mice [Zheng B, Larkin DW, Albrecht U, Sun ZS, Sage M, Eichele G, Lee CC, Bradley A (1999) The mPer2 gene encodes a functional component of the mammalian circadian clock. Nature 400:169-173; Bae K, Jin X, Maywood ES, Hastings MH, Reppert SM, Weaver DR (2001) Differential functions of mPer1, mPer2, and mPer3 in the SCN circadian clock. Neuron 30:525-536]. Such mutations eradicate PER2 expression in the SCN and disrupt the SCN molecular clockwork, however, they also affect PER2 in the rest of the brain and body leaving open the possibility that the changes in behavioral rhythms might be influenced, at least in part, by disruptions in PER2 functioning outside the SCN. We used RNA interference-mediated transient knockdown of Per2 to study the effect of selective suppression of PER2 expression in the SCN, per se, on behavioral circadian rhythms. We found that transient suppression of PER2 in the SCN disrupted free running locomotor activity rhythms for up to 10 days in rats. Infusions of control dsRNA into the SCN or infusions of dsRNA to Per2 immediately dorsal to the SCN had no effect. These results constitute evidence for a direct link between PER2 expression in the SCN and the expression of behavioral circadian rhythms in mammals.
Inflammation following ischemic stroke is known to contribute to injury. NADPH oxidase (NOX) is a major enzyme system originally studied in immune cells that leads to superoxide (O.*) generation. Apocynin is a NOX inhibitor that has been studied as a potential treatment in experimental stroke. Here we explored the effect of different doses of apocynin in a mouse model of 2 h transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (tMCAO) followed by 22 h reperfusion. Apocynin, given i.v. at a dose of 2.5 mg/kg 30 min before reperfusion, improved neurological function (P&lt;0.01), reduced infarct volume (P&lt;0.05), and reduced the incidence of cerebral hemorrhage (P&lt;0.05), but not at higher doses of 3.75 and 5 mg/kg, where it actually increased brain hemorrhage. Apocynin also tended to reduce mortality at the lower dose, but not at higher doses. Using hydroethine fluorescence to delineate O.* in the brain, neurons and some microglia/macrophages, but not vascular endothelial cells were found to contain O.*. Apocynin at protective doses markedly prevented ischemia-induced increases in O.*. Our data suggested that apocynin can protect against experimental stroke, but with a narrow therapeutic window.
Excessive elevation of intracellular Ca2+ levels and, subsequently, hyperactivation of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent processes might play an important role in the pathologic events following cerebral ischemia. PEP-19 is a neuronally expressed polypeptide that acts as an endogenous negative regulator of calmodulin by inhibiting the association of calmodulin with enzymes and other proteins. The aims of the present study were to investigate the effect of PEP-19 overexpression on cell death triggered by Ca2+ overload and how the polypeptide levels are affected by glutamate-induced excitotoxicity and cerebral ischemia. Expression of PEP-19 in HEK293T cells suppressed calmodulin-dependent signaling and protected against cell death elicited by Ca2+ ionophore. Likewise, primary cortical neurons overexpressing PEP-19 became resistant to glutamate-induced cell death. In immunoprecipitation assay, wild type PEP-19 associated with calmodulin, whereas mutated PEP-19, which contains mutations within the calmodulin binding site of PEP-19, failed to associate with calmodulin. We found that the mutation abrogates both the ability to suppress calmodulin-dependent signaling and to protect cells from death. Additionally, the endogenous PEP-19 levels in neurons were significantly reduced following glutamate exposure, this reduction precedes neuronal cell death and can be blocked by treatment with calpain inhibitors. These data suggest that PEP-19 is a substrate for calpain, and that the decreased PEP-19 levels result from its degradation by calpain. A similar reduction of PEP-19 also occurred in the hippocampus of gerbils subjected to transient global ischemia. In contrast to the reduction in PEP-19, no changes in calmodulin occurred following excitotoxicity, suggesting the loss of negative regulation of calmodulin by PEP-19. Taken together, these results provide evidence that PEP-19 overexpression enhances resistance to Ca2+-mediated cytotoxicity, which might be mediated through calmodulin inhibition, and also raises the possibility that PEP-19 degradation by calpain might produce an aberrant activation of calmodulin functions, which in turn causes neuronal cell death.
Regulation of adult hippocampal neurogenesis in mice responds to behavioral stimuli, including physical activity (RUN) and the exposure to enriched environments (ENR). If studied after days or weeks, these stimuli and the pathological stimulus of kainic acid-induced seizures (KA) show differential effects on different developmental stages of adult neurogenesis. The question thus arose, whether such differential effects would also be apparent under very acute conditions. To further refine our method for identifying key restriction points in adult neurogenesis we here used the first expression of granule cell-specific transcription factor prospero-related homeobox 1 (Prox1) to identify lineage-determined progenitor cells in a nestin-green fluorescent protein (GFP) reporter gene mouse and labeled proliferating precursor cells with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU). Twenty-four hours after the stimulus adult neurogenesis showed a very similar response to the three paradigms, in that cell proliferation increased. Detailed analysis, however, revealed the following new results: (1) KA, but not RUN and ENR stimulated the division of radial glia-like type-1 cells, (2) KA led to the disappearance of proliferative undetermined progenitor cells (type-2a), (3) only RUN increased proliferation of type-2a cells, (4) ENR and KA, in contrast, acted on lineage-determined progenitor cells (type-2b and type-3) even under acute conditions, and (5) only in the case of KA the short-term stimulus resulted in measurably increased survival of newborn neurons 4 weeks later. These results confirm and specify the idea that in the course of neuronal development in the adult hippocampus, precursor cells acutely sense and distinguish various forms of &quot;activity&quot; differentially and translate these stimuli into defined responses based on their stage of development.
Sleep mechanisms and synaptic plasticity are thought to interact to regulate homeostasis and memory formation. However, the influences of molecules that mediate synaptic plasticity on sleep are not well understood. In this study we demonstrate that mice lacking Rab3 interacting molecule 1 alpha (RIM1 alpha) (Rim1 alpha KO), a protein of the synaptic active zone required for certain types of synaptic plasticity and learning, had 53+/-5% less baseline rapid eye movement (REM) sleep compared with their wild type littermates. Also, compared with wild type littermates, exposure of the mice to an open field or to a novel object induced more robust and longer lasting locomotion suggesting altered habituation. This difference in exploratory behavior correlated with genotype specific changes in REM and deregulated release of norepinephrine in the cortex and basal amygdala of the Rim1 alpha KO mice. Also, moderate sleep deprivation (4 h), a test of the homeostatic sleep response, induced REM sleep rebound with different time course in Rim1 alpha KO and their wild type littermates. As norepinephrine plays an important role in regulating arousal and REM sleep, our data suggest that noradrenergic deficiency in Rim1 alpha KO animals impacts exploratory behavior and sleep regulation and contributes to impairments in learning.
Due to the cognitive-enhancing properties of alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (alpha7 nAChR) agonists, they have attracted interest for the treatment of cognitive disturbances in schizophrenia. Schizophrenia typically presents in late adolescence or early adulthood. It is therefore important to study whether alpha7 nAChR stimulation activates brain regions involved in cognition in juvenile as well as adult individuals. Here, we compared the effects of the novel and selective alpha7 nAChR agonist 2-methyl-5-(6-phenyl-pyridazin-3-yl)-octahydro-pyrrolo[3,4-c]pyrrole (A-582941) in the juvenile and adult rat forebrain using two markers, activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein (Arc) and c-Fos, to map neuronal activity. Acute administration of A-582941 (1, 3, 10 mg/kg) induced a dose-dependent increase in Arc mRNA expression in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and the ventral/lateral orbitofrontal (VO/LO) cortex of juvenile, but not adult rats. This effect was mitigated by the alpha7 nAChR antagonist methyllycaconitine. A-582941 also increased c-Fos mRNA expression in the mPFC of juvenile, but not adult rats. Furthermore, A-582941 increased the number of Arc and c-Fos immunopositive cells in the mPFC, VO/LO, and shell of the nucleus accumbens, in both juvenile and adult rats. The A-582941-induced c-Fos protein expression was significantly greater in the mPFC and VO/LO of juvenile compared with adult rats. These data indicate that A-582941-induced alpha7 nAChR stimulation activates brain regions critically involved in working memory and attention. Furthermore, this effect is more pronounced in juvenile than adult rats, indicating that the juvenile forebrain is more responsive to alpha7 nAChR stimulation. This observation may be relevant in the treatment of juvenile-onset schizophrenia.
Maternal infection during pregnancy is an environmental risk factor for the offspring to develop severe brain disorders, including schizophrenia and autism. However, only little is known about the neurodevelopmental mechanisms underlying the association between prenatal exposure to infection and the emergence of brain and behavioral dysfunctions in later life. Using a mouse model of prenatal immune challenge by the viral mimic polyriboinosinic-polyribocytidilic acid (PolyI:C), we explored the acute effects of maternal immune activation during pregnancy on the development of the fetal dopaminergic system, a neurotransmitter system known to be affected in schizophrenia and related disorders. We found that maternal immunological stimulation in early/middle pregnancy increased the number of mesencephalic dopamine neurons in the fetal brain at middle/late and late gestation. This effect was paralleled by changes in fetal expression of several genes known to be involved in dopamine neuron development, including the inductive signals sonic hedgehog (Shh) and fibroblast growth factor 8 (Fgf8), as well as transcription factors Nurr1 and Pitx3. These findings provide initial in vivo evidence for a modulation of fetal dopaminergic development by maternal immune activation during pregnancy. Additional investigations of the neurodevelopmental effects of prenatal immune challenge are thus clearly warranted in order to further validate whether abnormal dopaminergic development may be a critical neuropathological mechanism underlying the precipitation of schizophrenia-like brain and behavioral dysfunctions emerging after in utero exposure to infection.
Manganese-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MEMRI) is receiving increased interest as a valuable tool for monitoring the physiological functions in the animal brain based on the ability of manganese ions to mimic calcium ions entering to excitable cells. Here the possibility that in vivo MEMRI can detect the entry of manganese ions (Mn2+) in the brain of rats behaving without intended stimulation is tested. This hypothesis was a result of the unexpected observation that Mn2+-dependent signal enhancement was dramatically suppressed in ketamine-anesthetized rats compared with other anesthetics, such as urethane, pentobarbital and isoflurane. The effects of noncompetitive N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonists, ketamine and MK-801, on MEMRI for MnCl2 injected rats were examined. Treatment with MK-801 suppressed the signal enhancement more effectively than with ketamine. NMDAR agonists, glutamate (100 mg/kg) and N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) (35 mg/kg), enhanced the signal intensities on MEMRI, and this signal enhancement was completely antagonized by MK-801. The systemic administration of the competitive NMDAR antagonist, D-2-amino-5-phosphono-pentanoate (D-AP5), which does not cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB), showed no effects on the signal enhancement induced by NMDA and glutamate. A selective AMPA receptor (AMPAR) antagonist, 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6-nitro-2,3-dioxo-benzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide (NBQX), did not block the signal enhancement. These data indicated that the Mn2+-dependent signal enhancement took place as a result of the activation of glutamatergic neurons through NMDAR, but not through AMPAR in the brain.
Brain injury can often result in the subsequent appearance of seizures, suggesting an alteration in neural excitability associated with the balance between neuronal excitation and inhibition. The process by which this occurs has yet to be fully elucidated. The specific nature of the changes in excitation and inhibition is still unclear, as is the process by which the seizures appear following injury. In this study, we investigated the effects of focal cortical compression on electrically-induced localized seizure threshold in rats. Male Long Evans rats were implanted with stimulating screw electrodes in their motor cortices above the regions controlling forelimb movement. Initial seizure threshold was determined in the animals using a ramped electrical stimulation procedure prior to any compression. Following initial threshold determination, animals underwent sustained cortical compression and then following a 24 h recovery period had their seizure thresholds tested again with electrical stimulation. Reliability of threshold measurements was confirmed through repeated measurements of seizure threshold. Localized seizure threshold was significantly lowered following sustained cortical compression as compared with control cases. Taken together, the results here suggest a change in global brain excitability following localized, focal compression.
Several lines of evidence indicate that Group II metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) activation can depress sensory transmission. We have reported the expression of Group II mGluRs on unmyelinated axons, many of which were presumed to be nociceptors, in the rat digital nerve [Carlton SM, Hargett GL, Coggeshall RE (2001b) Localization of metabotropic glutamate receptors 2/3 on primary afferent axons in the rat. Neuroscience 105:957-969]. The goals of the present study are to further our understanding of Group II modulation of nociceptor processing in the periphery, documenting behavioral changes using inflammatory models and documenting, for the first time, cutaneous single fiber activity following exposure to a Group II agonist (2R,4R)-4-aminopyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate (APDC) and antagonist (2S)-2-amino-2-[(1S,2S)-2-carboxycycloprop-1-yl]-3-(xanth-9-yl) propanoic acid (LY341495, LY). The data indicate that peripheral Group II mGluR activation does not depress nociceptive behaviors or nociceptor fiber responses in the non-sensitized state (i.e. following brief nociceptive mechanical or thermal stimulation) but can depress these responses when nociceptors are sensitized by exposure to formalin or inflammatory soup. Group II mGluR agonist-induced inhibition can be blocked by a selective Group II antagonist. Peripheral Group II mGluR-induced inhibition evoked in these studies occurs through activation of local receptors and not through spinal or supraspinal mechanisms. The data indicate that administration of selective Group II agonists may be potent therapeutic agents for prevention of peripheral sensitization and for treatment of inflammatory pain.
There is no adequate animal model of restless legs syndrome (RLS) and periodic leg movements disorder (PLMD), disorders affecting 10% of the population. Similarly, there is no model of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavior disorder (RBD) that explains its symptoms and its link to Parkinsonism. We previously reported that the motor inhibitory system in the brainstem extends from the medulla to the ventral mesopontine junction (VMPJ). We now examine the effects of damage to the VMPJ in the cat. Based on the lesion sites and the changes in sleep pattern and behavior, we saw three distinct syndromes resulting from such lesions; the rostrolateral, rostromedial and caudal VMPJ syndromes. The change in sleep pattern was dependent on the lesion site, but was not significantly correlated with the number of dopaminergic neurons lost. An increase in wakefulness and a decrease in slow wave sleep (SWS) and REM sleep were seen in the rostrolateral VMPJ-lesioned animals. In contrast, the sleep pattern was not significantly changed in the rostromedial and caudal VMPJ-lesioned animals. All three groups of animals showed a significant increase in periodic and isolated leg movements in SWS and increased tonic muscle activity in REM sleep. Beyond these common symptoms, an increase in phasic motor activity in REM sleep, resembling that seen in human RBD, was found in the caudal VMPJ-lesioned animals. In contrast, the increase in motor activity in SWS in rostral VMPJ-lesioned animals is similar to that seen in human RLS/PLMD patients. The proximity of the VMPJ region to the substantia nigra suggests that the link between RLS/PLMD and Parkinsonism, as well as the progression from RBD to Parkinsonism may be mediated by the spread of damage from the regions identified here into the substantia nigra.
The posterior parahippocampal gyrus (PPHG) of the non-human primate brain has a distinct dual role in cortical neural systems. On the one hand, it is a critical link in providing the entorhinal cortex and hippocampal formation with cortical input, while on the other hand it receives output from these structures and projects widely by disseminating the medial temporal lobe output to the cortex. Layer III of TF and TH areas largely mediate the former (input) while layer V mediates the latter (output). We have examined areas TF and TH in the normal human brain and in Alzheimer's disease (AD) using pathological stains (Nissl, Thioflavin S) and phenotype specific stains non-phosphorylated neurofilament protein (SMI32) and parvalbumin (PV). Seven clinically and pathologically confirmed AD cases have been studied along with six age-compatible normal cases. Our observations reveal that neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) heavily invest the area TF and TH neurons that form layers III and V. In both cortical areas, the large pyramids that form layer V contain a greater number of NFTs. These changes, and possibly, pyramidal cell loss, greatly alter the cytoarchitectural picture and diminish SMI32 staining patterns. Layer III of area TH loses the majority of SMI32 immunoreactivity, whereas this change is more conspicuous in layer V of area TF. PV-staining in both areas is largely unaffected. Normal cases contained no evidence of pathology or altered cytoarchitecture. These observations reveal a further disruption of memory-related temporal neural systems in AD where pathology selectively alters both the input to the hippocampal formation and its output to the cortex.
Using a nonhuman primate model of surgical menopause, our laboratory has shown that ovarian hormone treatment (HT) improves 5-HT neural function in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN). We further hypothesize that HT may increase 5-HT neuronal resilience. Recent data from microarray analysis indicated that HT regulates gene expression in pathways that lead to apoptosis. In this study, we questioned whether HT alters protein expression in caspase-dependent and independent pathways. Ovariectomized monkeys received Silastic implants containing placebo (empty), estrogen (E) or E+ progesterone (P). A small block of the midbrain containing the DRN was dissected and subjected to subcellular fractionation, yielding cytosolic, nuclear and mitochondrial fractions (n=4/group). The pro-apoptotic protein, c-jun n-terminal kinase (JNK1) and its phosphorylation were decreased by E+P treatment in the cytosolic fraction. Downstream of JNK are proteins in the caspase-dependent and -independent pathways. First, in the caspase-dependent pathway, cytoplasmic and mitochondrial fractions were immunoblotted for Bcl-2 family members, cytochrome c, Apaf1 and XIAP. However, the expression of these proteins did not differ among treatments. Pro-caspase 3 was decreased by E+P, but there was no evidence of active caspase in any group. Then, we examined the involvement of a protein in the caspase-independent pathway, called apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF). AIF mRNA (n=3/group) and AIF mitochondrial protein tended to decrease with hormone treatment. However, AIF protein in the nuclear fraction in E+P treated monkeys was significantly reduced. This indicates that HT is reducing the translocation of AIF from mitochondria to nucleus, thus inhibiting AIF-mediated apoptosis. AIF was immunocytochemically localized to large 5-HT-like neurons of the dorsal raphe. These data suggest that in the absence of global trauma or ischemia, HT may act through the caspase-independent pathway to promote neuroprotection in the 5-HT system.
Thalamo-cortical networks generate specific patterns of oscillations during distinct vigilance states and epilepsy, well characterized by electroencephalography (EEG). Oscillations depend on recurrent synaptic loops, which are controlled by GABAergic transmission. In particular, GABA A receptors containing the alpha3 subunit are expressed predominantly in cortical layer VI and thalamic reticular nucleus (nRT) and regulate the activity and firing pattern of neurons in relay nuclei. Therefore, ablation of these receptors by gene targeting might profoundly affect thalamo-cortical oscillations. Here, we investigated the role of alpha3-GABA A receptors in regulating vigilance states and seizure activity by analyzing chronic EEG recordings in alpha3 subunit-knockout (alpha3-KO) mice. The presence of postsynaptic alpha3-GABA A receptors/gephyrin clusters in the nRT and GABA A-mediated synaptic currents in acute thalamic slices was also examined. EEG spectral analysis showed no difference between genotypes during non rapid-eye movement (NREM) sleep or at waking-NREM sleep transitions. EEG power in the spindle frequency range (10-15 Hz) was significantly lower at NREM-REM sleep transitions in mutant compared with wild-type mice. Enhancement of sleep pressure by 6 h sleep deprivation did not reveal any differences in the regulation of EEG activities between genotypes. Finally, the waking EEG showed a slightly larger power in the 11-13-Hz band in alpha3-KO mice. However, neither behavior nor the waking EEG showed alterations suggestive of absence seizures. Furthermore, alpha3-KO mice did not differ in seizure susceptibility in a model of temporal lobe epilepsy. Strikingly, despite the disruption of postsynaptic gephyrin clusters, whole-cell patch clamp recordings revealed intact inhibitory synaptic transmission in the nRT of alpha3-KO mice. These findings show that the lack of alpha3-GABA(A) receptors is extensively compensated for to preserve the integrity of thalamo-cortical function in physiological and pathophysiological situations.
In most everyday settings, speech is heard in the presence of competing sounds and understanding speech requires skills in auditory streaming and segregation, followed by identification and recognition, of the attended signals. Ageing leads to difficulties in understanding speech in noisy backgrounds. In addition to age-related changes in hearing-related factors, cognitive factors also play a role but it is unclear to what extent these are generalized or modality-specific cognitive factors. We examined how ageing in normal-hearing decade age cohorts from 20 to 69 years affected discrimination of open-set speech in background noise. We used two types of sentences of similar structural and linguistic characteristics but different masking levels (i.e. differences in signal-to-noise ratios required for detection of sentences in a standard masker) so as to vary sentence demand, and two background maskers (one causing purely energetic masking effects and the other causing energetic and informational masking) to vary load conditions. There was a decline in performance (measured as speech reception thresholds for perception of sentences in noise) in the oldest cohort for both types of sentences, but only in the presence of the more demanding informational masker. We interpret these results to indicate a modality-specific decline in cognitive processing, likely a decrease in the ability to use acoustic and phonetic cues efficiently to segregate speech from background noise, in subjects aged &gt;60.
In the present study, we examined whether exposing rats to a high-dose regimen of manganese chloride (Mn) during the postnatal period would depress presynaptic dopamine functioning and alter nonassociative and associative behaviors. To this end, rats were given oral supplements of Mn (750 microg/day) on postnatal days (PD) 1-21. On PD 90, dopamine transporter (DAT) immunoreactivity and [3H]dopamine uptake were assayed in the striatum and nucleus accumbens, while in vivo microdialysis was used to measure dopamine efflux in the same brain regions. The effects of postnatal Mn exposure on nigrostriatal functioning were evaluated by assessing rotorod performance and amphetamine-induced stereotypy in adulthood. In terms of associative processes, both cocaine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) and sucrose-reinforced operant responding were examined. Results showed that postnatal Mn exposure caused persistent declines in DAT protein expression and [3H]dopamine uptake in the striatum and nucleus accumbens, as well as long-term reductions in striatal dopamine efflux. Rotorod performance did not differ according to exposure condition, however Mn-exposed rats did exhibit substantially more amphetamine-induced stereotypy than vehicle controls. Mn exposure did not alter performance on any aspect of the CPP task (preference, extinction, or reinstatement testing), nor did Mn affect progressive ratio responding (a measure of motivation). Interestingly, acquisition of a fixed ratio task was impaired in Mn-exposed rats, suggesting a deficit in procedural learning. In sum, these results indicate that postnatal Mn exposure causes persistent declines in various indices of presynaptic dopaminergic functioning. Mn-induced alterations in striatal functioning may have long-term impact on associative and nonassociative behavior.
Nasal chemical sensations are mediated principally by the olfactory and the trigeminal systems. Over the last few years brain structures involved in processing of trigeminal stimuli have been more and more documented. However, the exact role of individual regions in stimulus intensity processing is unclear. The present study set out to examine the neural network involved in encoding stimulus intensity in the trigeminal system and the olfactory system of humans. Participants were presented with two concentrations of relatively specific trigeminal stimuli (CO2) and olfactory (H2S), respectively. Responses were assessed by functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Whereas brain responses to stimulus intensity in the olfactory modality involved a wide neural network including cerebellum, entorhinal cortex, visual areas, and frontal regions, contrasting high and low CO2 concentrations revealed activation in a less complex network including various sub-regions of the cingulate cortex. Taken together, these results suggest separate but overlapping neural networks involved in encoding stimulus intensity in the two chemosensory systems.
There is significant pharmacological and behavioral evidence that group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR1a and mGluR5) in the nucleus accumbens play an important role in the neurochemical and pathophysiological mechanisms that underlie addiction to psychostimulants. To further address this issue, we undertook a detailed ultrastructural analysis to characterize changes in the subcellular and subsynaptic localization of mGluR1a and mGluR5 in the core and shell of nucleus accumbens following acute or chronic cocaine administration in rats. After a single cocaine injection (30 mg/kg) and 45 min withdrawal, there was a significant decrease in the proportion of plasma membrane-bound mGluR1a in accumbens shell dendrites. Similarly, the proportion of plasma membrane-bound mGluR1a was decreased in large dendrites of accumbens core neurons following chronic cocaine exposure (i.e. 1-week treatment followed by 3-week withdrawal). However, neither acute nor chronic cocaine treatments induced significant change in the localization of mGluR5 in accumbens core and shell, which is in contrast with the significant reduction of plasma membrane-bound mGluR1a and mGluR5 induced by local intra-accumbens administration of the group I mGluR agonist, (RS)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG). In conclusion, these findings demonstrate that cocaine-induced glutamate imbalance has modest effects on the trafficking of group I mGluRs in the nucleus accumbens. These results provide valuable information on the neuroadaptive mechanisms of accumbens group I mGluRs in response to cocaine administration.
Neuropeptide signaling plays key roles in coordinating cellular activity within the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN), site of the master circadian oscillator in mammals. The neuropeptide angiotensin II (ANGII) and its cognate receptor AT1, are both expressed by SCN cells, but unlike other SCN neurochemicals, very little is known about the cellular actions of ANGII within this circadian clock. We used multi-electrode, multiunit, extracellular electrophysiology, coupled with whole-cell voltage and current clamp techniques to investigate the actions of ANGII in mouse SCN slices. ANGII (0.001-10 microM) dose dependently stimulated and inhibited extracellularly recorded neuronal discharge in many SCN neurons ( approximately 60%). Both actions were blocked by pre-treatment with the AT1 receptor antagonist ZD7155 (0.03 microM), while suppressions but not activations were prevented by pre-treatment with the GABA A receptor antagonist bicuculline (20 microM). AT1 receptor blockade itself suppressed discharge in a subset ( approximately 30%) of SCN neurons, and this action was not blocked by bicuculline. In voltage-clamped SCN neurons (-70 mV), AT1 receptor activation dose-dependently enhanced the frequency of action potential-driven, GABA A receptor-mediated currents, but did not alter their responses to exogenously applied GABA. In current-clamped SCN neurons perfused with tetrodotoxin, ANGII induced a membrane depolarization with a concomitant decrease in input resistance. In conclusion we show that AT1 receptor activation by ANGII depolarizes SCN neurons and stimulates action potential firing, leading to increased GABA release in the mouse SCN. Additionally we provide the first evidence that endogenous AT1 receptor signaling tonically regulates the activities of some SCN neurons.
Prior work has shown that d-amphetamine (AMPH) treatment or voluntary exercise improves cognitive functions after traumatic brain injury (TBI). In addition, voluntary exercise increases levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). The current study was conducted to determine how AMPH and exercise treatments, either alone or in combination, affect molecular events that may underlie recovery following controlled cortical impact (CCI) injury in rats. We also determined if these treatments reduced injury-induced oxidative stress. Following a CCI or sham injury, rats received AMPH (1 mg/kg/day) or saline treatment via an ALZET pump and were housed with or without access to a running wheel for 7 days. CCI rats ran significantly less than sham controls, but exercise level was not altered by drug treatment. On day 7 the hippocampus ipsilateral to injury was harvested and BDNF, synapsin I and phosphorylated (P) -synapsin I proteins were quantified. Exercise or AMPH alone significantly increased BDNF protein in sham and CCI rats, but this effect was lost with the combined treatment. In sham-injured rats synapsin I increased significantly after AMPH or exercise, but did not increase after combined treatment. Synapsin levels, including the P-synapsin/total synapsin ratio, were reduced from sham controls in the saline-treated CCI groups, with or without exercise. AMPH treatment significantly increased the P-synapsin/total synapsin ratio after CCI, an effect that was attenuated by combining AMPH with exercise. Exercise or AMPH treatment alone significantly decreased hippocampal carbonyl groups on oxidized proteins in the CCI rats, compared with saline-treated sedentary counterparts, but this reduction in a marker of oxidative stress was not found with the combination of exercise and AMPH treatment. These results indicate that, whereas exercise or AMPH treatment alone may induce plasticity and reduce oxidative stress after TBI, combining these treatments may cancel each other's therapeutic effects.
Substance P (SP) and glutamate are implicated in cardiovascular regulation by the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS). Our earlier studies suggest that SP, which acts at neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptors, is not a baroreflex transmitter while glutamate is. On the other hand, our recent studies showed that loss of NTS neurons expressing NK1 receptors leads to loss of baroreflex responses and increased blood pressure lability. Furthermore, studies have suggested that SP may interact with glutamate in the NTS. In this study, we sought to test the hypothesis that NK1 receptors colocalize with glutamate receptors, either N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors or AMPA receptors or both in the NTS. We performed double-label immunofluorescent staining for NK1 receptors and either N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor subunit 1 (NMDAR1) or AMPA specific glutamate receptor subunit 2 (GluR2) in the rat NTS. Because vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (VGLUT2) containing fibers are prominent in portions of the NTS where cardiovascular afferent fibers terminate, we also performed double-label immunofluorescent staining for NK1 receptors and VGLUT2. Confocal microscopic images showed that NK1 receptors-immunoreactivity (IR) and NMDAR1-IR colocalized in the same neurons in many NTS subnuclei. Almost all NTS neurons positive for NK1 receptor-IR also contained NMDAR1-IR, but only 53.4% to 74.8% of NMDAR1-IR positive neurons contained NK1 receptors-IR. NK1 receptor-IR and GluR2-IR also colocalized in many neurons in NTS subnuclei. A majority of NK1 receptor-IR positive NTS neurons also contained GluR2-IR, but only 45.8% to 73.9% of GluR2-IR positive NTS neurons contained NK1 receptors-IR. Our results also showed that fibers labeled for VGLUT2-IR were in close apposition to fibers and neurons labeled for NK1 receptor-IR. The data support our hypothesis, provide an anatomical framework for glutamate and SP interactions, and may explain the loss of baroreflexes when NTS neurons, which could respond to glutamate as well as SP, are killed.
Necdin, a member of the MAGE family, is expressed abundantly in postmitotic neurons and is required for their differentiation and survival. In mammals, the MAGE family consists of more than 30 genes, whereas only one MAGE gene exists in the genome of nonmammalian vertebrates such as zebrafish and chicken. These nonmammalian MAGE genes are expressed in developing nervous system, and the primary structures of the encoded proteins resemble those of necdin-like MAGE proteins. Fruit fly Drosophila also carries a single necdin-like MAGE gene, which is highly expressed in neural stem cells (neuroblasts) during nervous system development. In the present study, we investigated the function of MAGE in Drosophila neurogenesis in vivo using an RNA interference (RNAi) -mediated gene knockdown system. Ubiquitous knockdown of Drosophila MAGE by double-stranded RNA injection into embryos was lethal at early stages of organogenesis. MAGE was then knocked down in developing mushroom bodies by RNAi-mediated gene silencing using the OK107-GAL4 driver. MAGE RNAi increased the population of proliferative neural precursors in larval mushroom bodies. At the pupal stage, RNAi-mediated MAGE knockdown led to a significant enlargement of the mushroom bodies as a result of increased neuronal population, presumably by accelerating the asymmetric division of neural stem cells. MAGE RNAi mushroom bodies of adult flies showed neurodegenerative changes such as vacuolation and nuclear DNA breaks, implying that supernumerary neurons undergo apoptosis during postpupal development. These results suggest that evolutionally conserved necdin-like MAGE is involved in both neural stem cell proliferation and neuronal survival during nervous system development.
The aim of the present study was to investigate whether basal forebrain lesions were able to impair a task requiring cognitive flexibility abilities and analyzing the effect of the rearing in an enriched environment on such form of flexibility in rats with or without basal forebrain cholinergic lesions. In adult rats reared in enriched or standard conditions of the cholinergic projection to the neocortex damage was inflicted by 192 IgG-saporin injection into Ch4 region of basal forebrain. Their performance was compared with those of intact animals reared in analogous conditions in a four-choice serial learning task which taps flexibility in adapting to changing response rules. The results underlined the crucial role of the basal forebrain in mediating cognitive flexibility behaviors and revealed that the increase in social interactions, cognitive stimulation and physical activity of the rearing in enriched environment attenuated impairments caused by the cholinergic lesion. These findings demonstrate that rearing in an enriched environment can improve the ability to cope with brain damage suffered in adulthood.
There are experimental evidences indicating that the non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist ketamine impairs cognition and produces a series of schizophrenia-like symptoms in rodents (hyperactivity, stereotypies and ataxia). The present study was designed to investigate the effects of ketamine on rats' non-spatial and spatial recognition memory. For this purpose the object recognition and the object location task were selected. Pre- or post-training systemic administration of ketamine (0.3, 1 and 3 mg/kg; i.p.) in a dose-dependent manner disrupted animals' performance in both these recognition memory paradigms, suggesting that this compound affected pre- and post-training memory components. The current results indicate that the non-competitive NMDA antagonist ketamine may modulate either spatial or non-spatial recognition memory.
Cation chloride cotransporters have been reported to be expressed in neurons in the hippocampus and to regulate intracellular Cl(-) concentration. The neuron-specific K-Cl cotransporter 2 (KCC2) is necessary for maintaining the low intracellular chloride concentration required for the hyperpolarizing actions of GABA. In this study we examined the vulnerability of KCC2-containing neurons as well as the changes in the pattern of KCC2 distribution in the rat hippocampus following 15 min ischemia induced by four-vessel occlusion. Immunostaining for the 72 kDa heat shock protein (HSP-72) was used to investigate the extent of damage in neuronal populations previously shown to be vulnerable to ischemia. At 6-24 h after ischemia, when the pyramidal cells in the CA1 (subfield of cornu Ammonis) region showed no morphological signs of damage, a small rise of KCC2 immunoreactivity was already observed. After 2 days, when the CA1 pyramidal cells started to degenerate, a progressive downregulation of the KCC2 protein was visible. Interestingly, in the same areas, the parvalbumin containing interneurons showed no signs of ischemic damage, and KCC2 immunoreactivity was retained on their membrane surface. In CA1 pyramidal cells, the reduction in KCC2 expression may lead to an elevation of intracellular Cl(-) concentration, which causes a shift in equilibrium potential toward more positive levels. Consequently, the reduction of the inhibitory action of GABA through downregulation of KCC2 function may be involved in the pathomechanisms of delayed neuronal death in the CA1 subfield.
To obtain a direct sensorimotor integration assessment in primary hand cortical areas (M1) of patients suffering from focal task-specific hand dystonia, magnetoencephalographic (MEG) and opponens pollicis electromyographic (EMG) activities were acquired during a motor task expressly chosen not to induce dystonic movements in our patients, to disentangle abnormalities indicating a possible substrate on which dystonia develops. A simple isometric contraction was performed either alone or in combination with median nerve stimulation, i.e. when a non-physiological sensory inflow was overlapping with the physiological feedback. As control condition, median nerve stimulation was also performed at rest. The task was performed bilaterally both in eight patients and in 16 healthy volunteers. In comparison with results in controls we found that in dystonic patients: i) MEG-EMG coherence was higher; ii) it reduced much less during galvanic stimulation in the hemisphere contralateral to the dystonic arm, simultaneously with iii) stronger inhibition of the sensory areas responsiveness due to movement; iv) the cortical component including contributions from sensory inhibitory and motor structures was reduced and v) much more inhibited during movement. It is documented that a simultaneous cortico-muscular coherence increase occurs in presence of a reduced M1 responsiveness to the inflow from the sensory regions. This could indicate an unbalance of the fronto-parietal functional impact on M1, with a weakening of the parietal components. Concurrently, signs of a less differentiated sensory hand representation--possibly due to impaired inhibitory mechanisms efficiency--and signs of a reduced repertoire of voluntary motor control strategies were found.
S100B (member of a family of proteins that are 100% soluble in ammonium sulfate at neutral pH) has been widely used as astrocyte marker in animal models and in human brain diseases. Recent studies revealed S100B-immunopositivity in oligodendrocytes and O2A oligodendroglial progenitor cells. It is unknown, however, if oligodendrocytes produce S100B themselves, or if the S100B-immunolabeling is caused by binding or absorption of the protein. To address this question, S100B expression and protein release were analyzed in a highly pure oligodendrocytic OLN-93 cell line (from rat), in the astrocytic C6 cell line (from rat) and primary astrocytes. S100B was gene expressed in all cultures, as revealed by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis. OLN-93 cells and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-negative astrocytes expressed the multiligand receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE). S100B protein levels were determined in supernatants and cell homogenates by immunoluminometry under normal conditions and after serum and glucose deprivation (SGD). SGD led to a several-fold increased release of S100B (after 6 and 24 h), which was particularly pronounced in primary astrocytes. Increased S100B in cell homogenates was most notable in OLN-93 cells under SGD, indicating activated S100B synthesis. These cells also showed the highest percentage of dead cells, as determined by propidium iodide-positivity, after SGD. Incubation with 0.5, 2 and 5 microg/l exogenous S100B was not toxic to OLN-93 cells. In conclusion, OLN-93 cells produce more S100B under SGD than astrocytes and are more susceptible to cell death upon SGD, which provokes leakage of S100B. Our data indicate active S100B secretion from astrocytes under SGD since highly elevated levels of S100B were detected in the supernatant despite a low percentage of dead cells. The experimental results provide further evidence for a production/release of S100B in/from oligodendrocytes, e.g. in metabolic stress conditions like cerebral ischemia. Studies on S100B in bodily fluids should be carefully interpreted in order to avoid misleading hypotheses concerning the specific involvement of astrocytes, due to the various cellular sources of S100B.
The pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD) involves ongoing apoptotic loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Local delivery of the trophic factors can rescue dopaminergic neurons and halt the progression of PD. In this study we show that fetal E11 striatum-derived neurospheres and E14.5 ventral mesencephalon (VM) -derived neurospheres (NS E11 and NSvm, respectively) are a source of factors that rescue dopaminergic neurons. First, long-term expanded NS E11 and NSvm rescued primary dopaminergic neurons from serum-deprivation induced apoptosis and promoted survival of dopaminergic neurons for 14 days in vitro and this effect was due to soluble contact-independent factor/s. Second, green fluorescent protein-expressing NS E11 and NSvm grafted into the midbrain of mice with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine-induced Parkinsonism resulted in partial rescue of the nigro-striatal system and improvement of the hypo-dopaminergic behavioral deficit. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis demonstrated that intact NS E11 and NSvm expressed fibroblast growth factor-2, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), pleiotrophin, neurotrophin-3, but not glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF). GDNF expression was also undetectable in vivo in grafted NS E11 and NSvm suggesting that NS-derived factor/s other than GDNF mediated the rescue of nigral dopaminergic neurons. Identification of NS-derived soluble factor(s) may lead to development of novel neuroprotective therapies for PD. An unexpected observation of the present study was the detection of the ectopic host-derived tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) -expressing cells in sham-grafted mice and NS E11- and NSvm -grafted mice. We speculate that injury-derived signals (such as inflammatory cytokines that are commonly released during transplantation) induce TH expression in susceptible cells.
Recent data have indicated that the neuropeptide cocaine amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) may be a downstream mediator of the effect of CB1 receptor antagonist on appetite regulation. In order to identify possible interactions between CART and central CB1R expressing neurons, a detailed mapping of CART and CB1R expression and immunoreactivity in the brain was initiated. Single radioactive in situ hybridizations revealed a predominant overlap between CART and CB1R mRNA in hypothalamic and lower brainstem nuclei. Using double in situ hybridization, co-localization between CART and CB1R mRNA expressing neurons was observed to be most pronounced in the retrochiasmatic and lateral hypothalamic areas, as well as in all parts of the dorsal vagal complex. Further attempts to immunohistochemically characterize the distribution of CB1R were, however, deemed impossible as any of eight commercially available antibodies/antisera gave rise to non-specific staining patterns. Furthermore, the staining pattern obtained was not discriminate between CB1R knockout mice and wild type mice. Collectively, we demonstrate at the messenger level that CB1R expressing perikarya colocalize with CART expressing neurons in hypothalamic and brainstem areas known to be important in appetite control, whereas interactions at the protein level necessitate a demand for cautious interpretations of immunohistochemical results.
It has previously been reported that dopaminergic grafts derived from early donor age, embryonic age 12-day-old (E12) rat embryos produced a fivefold greater yield of dopamine neurons than those derived from conventional E14 donors. The present study addresses whether E12 grafts are able to ameliorate lesion-induced behavioral deficits to the same extent as E14 grafts. In a unilateral rat model of Parkinson's disease, animals received grafts derived from either E12 or E14 donor embryos, dispersed at four sites in the lesioned striatum. Both E12 and E14 grafts were able to induce recovery on both amphetamine and apomorphine rotation tests, and to ameliorate deficits in the cylinder, stepping test, and corridor tests, but were unable to restore function in the paw reaching task. E12 grafts were equivalent to E14 grafts in their effects on lesion-induced deficits. However, E12 grafts resulted in cell yields greater than previously reported for untreated primary tissue, with mean TH-positive cell counts in excess of 25,000 neurons, compared with E14 TH cell counts of 4000-5000 cells, representing survival rates of 75% and 12.5%, respectively, based on the expected adult complement. The equivalence of graft induced behavioral recovery between the two graft groups is attributed to a threshold number of cells, above which no further improvement is seen. Such high dopamine cell survival rates should mean that multiple, functioning grafts can be derived from a single embryonic donor, and if similar yields could be obtained from human tissues then the goal of one embryo per patient would be achieved.
Learning and memory improvement by post-training intracranial self-stimulation has been observed mostly in implicit tasks, such as active avoidance, which are acquired with multiple trials and originate rigid behavioral responses, in rats. Here we wanted to know whether post-training self-stimulation is also able to facilitate a spatial task which requires a flexible behavioral response in the Morris water maze. Three experiments were run with Wistar rats. In each of them subjects were given at least five acquisition sessions, one daily, consisting of 2-min trials. Starting from a random variable position, rats had to swim in a pool until they located a hidden platform with a cue located on its opposite site. Each daily session was followed by an immediate treatment of intracranial self-stimulation. Control subjects did not receive the self-stimulation treatment but were instead placed in the self-stimulation box for 45 min after each training session. In the three successive experiments, independent groups of rats were given five, three and one trial per session, respectively. Temporal latencies and trajectories to locate the platform were measured for each subject. Three days after the last acquisition session, the animals were placed again in the pool for 60 s but without the platform and the time spent in each quadrant and the swim trajectories were registered for each subject. A strong and consistent improvement of performance was observed in the self-stimulated rats when they were given only one trial per session, i.e. when learning was more difficult. These findings agree with our previous data showing the capacity of post-training self-stimulation to improve memory especially in rats with little training or low conditioning levels, and clearly prove that post-training self-stimulation can also improve spatial learning and memory.
The brainstem nucleus hypoglossus innervates the tongue which must contract rhythmically during respiration, chewing and swallowing. Such rhythmic discharges are due to network bursting mediated by AMPA receptor-dependent glutamatergic transmission. The contribution by hypoglossal motoneurons themselves to rhythmicity remains, however, unclear as they might simply express cyclic patterns produced by premotoneurons or, in analogy to spinal motoneurons, might participate to bursting due to activation of their N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. Using patch clamp recording from hypoglossal motoneurons in slice preparations of neonatal rat brainstem, we observed that NMDA directly depolarized motoneurons to generate various discharge patterns. Most motoneurons produced transient bursts which were consistently restored by repolarizing membrane potential to rest. Fewer motoneurons generated either sustained bursting or random firing. Rhythmic bursts were recorded from XII nerve rootlets even when single motoneuron bursting required hyperpolarization. NMDA evoked bursts were blocked by the Ca2+ antagonist Cd2+, the gap junction blocker carbenoxolone, or Mg2+ free solution, and partially inhibited by tetrodotoxin or nifedipine. Under voltage clamp, NMDA-induced bursting persisted at negative or positive potentials and was resistant to high extracellular Mg2+ in accordance with the observation of widespread motoneuron expression of NMDA 2D receptor subunits that confer poor Mg2+ sensitivity. It is proposed that NMDA depolarized motoneurons with the contribution of Mg2+ insensitive channels, and triggered bursting via cyclic activation/deactivation of voltage-dependent Na+, Ca2+ and K+ currents spread through gap junctions. The NMDA-evoked bursting pattern was similar to the rhythmic discharges previously recorded from the XII nerve during milk sucking by neonatal rats.
In skeletal muscle, alpha-dystrobrevin (alphaDB) is expressed throughout the sarcolemma with high concentrations at the neuromuscular junction. Mice lacking alphaDB display a mild muscular dystrophy and perturbations at the neuromuscular junction that include disruptions to acetylcholine receptor (AChR) cluster stability and patterning. In adult skeletal muscle, three alternatively spliced isoforms (alphaDB1, alphaDB2, alphaDB3) are expressed, while two other splice variants (alphaDB1(-) and alphaDB2(-)) are expressed only during early development. alphaDB is clearly important in AChR stabilization; however, the degree to which individual alphaDB isoforms and their specific functional domains contribute to AChR cluster stability is not fully understood. To investigate this, we established a primary muscle cell culture system from alphaDB knockout mice and stably expressed individual alphaDB isoforms using retroviral infection. A comparison between wild-type and alphaDB knockout muscle cells showed that in the absence of alphaDB, fewer AChR clusters formed in response to agrin treatment, and these AChR clusters were very unstable. Retroviral expression studies revealed that the largest isoforms (alphaDB1, alphaDB1(-), alphaDB2, alphaDB2(-)) colocalized with agrin-induced AChR clusters and rescued the AChR cluster formation defects back to wild-type levels, while only the first three isoforms fully rescued AChR cluster stability back to wild-type levels. alphaDB2(-) conferred an intermediate level of stability to the AChR clusters. In contrast, alphaDB3 showed no specific colocalization with AChR clusters and little effect on AChR cluster formation or stabilization. Twice as much syntrophin was found associated with alphaDB2 compared with alphaDB2(-) in myotubes suggesting that increased recruitment of syntrophin by alphaDB may enhance the stability of AChR clusters. Taken together, these data demonstrate that different alphaDB isoforms have different functional capabilities in the formation and maintenance of AChR clusters in muscle cells, and that these differences are likely due to the presence of different functional domains in each isoform.
This study is to explore and compare the features of the cells and cancer stem-like cells (CSCs) isolated from both glioblastoma and astrocytoma on expression of anti-apoptotic and multidrug resistance-associated protein (MRP) genes. As a result, the mRNA expression of livin, livinalpha and MRP1 was up-regulated in human CSCs from 2 times to 85 times, but the gene expression of MRP3 was down-regulated from 0.09 times to 0.5 times. After just differentiation the mRNA expression of livin, livinalpha and MRP3 was up-regulated from 9 times to 64 times, but the mRNA expression of MRP1 was down-regulated from 0.01 times to 0.03 times. It is a rare report that glioma stem-like cells can be induced successfully from a grade 2-3 astrocytoma tissue. The properties of glioblastoma and astrocytoma stem-like cells on anti-apoptotic and MRP genes are: anti-apoptotic gene livin and survivin are elevated in CSCs but are the most increased in just differentiated CSCs; MRP1 gene is significantly increased and MRP3 is decreased in CSCs, but when differentiating the MRP3 gene starts a remarkable increase in CSCs; the expression of anti-apoptotic and MRP genes shows no differences between the CSCs isolated from glioblastoma and astrocytoma tissues.
Dopamine (DA) released from lateral olivocochlear (LOC) terminals may have a neuroprotective effect in the cochlea. To explore the role of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and nitric oxide (NO) in the modulation of a cochlear DA release, we measured the release of [3H]DA from isolated mouse cochlea in response to the application of NMDA. NMDA at 100 muM significantly increased the electrical-field stimulation-evoked and resting release of DA from the cochlea. The NO donor sodium nitroprusside enhanced the basal outflow of DA but failed to influence the evoked release. The administration of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) alone was ineffective, but it significantly inhibited the initial phase of the NMDA-induced elevation of DA outflow, which suggested the role of NO in the NMDA-induced DA release. The DA uptake inhibitor nomifensine increased the electrically evoked release of DA. Nomifensine failed to change the effect of NMDA on the resting or electrically-evoked DA release, which suggested that the uptake mechanism does not play a role in NMDA-evoked and NO-mediated DA release. In summary, we provide evidence that NO can modulate the release of DA from the cochlea following NMDA receptor activation, but does not affect the uptake of DA.
Acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs), which are widely distributed in the mammalian brain, the spinal cord and the peripheral sensory organs, are ligand-gated cation channels activated by extracellular protons. Abundant experimental evidence shows that ASICs play important roles in physiological/pathological conditions, such as sensory transduction, learning/memory, retinal function, seizure and ischemia. In the auditory system, however, there are only a few studies available describing ASICs in hair cells, the spiral ganglion and the vestibular ganglion. In particular, functional ASICs have not been assessed in the central auditory region, although there is evidence to show their transcription in the inferior colliculus (IC). In the present study, we characterized ASIC-like currents in cultured IC neurons of rats with whole-cell patch-clamp techniques. A rapidly decaying inward current was induced by exogenous application of acidic solution in cultured IC neurons with a response threshold around pH 6.9 and a half activation pH value at 5.92. The current was sensitive to amiloride half-maximal inhibition concentration (IC50)=20.4+/-0.4 microM), an ASIC blocker, and its reversal potential was close to the theoretical Na+ equilibrium potential, indicating that the recorded current was mediated by ASICs. Further experiments revealed the presence of homomeric ASIC1a channels in IC neurons: (1) the ASIC-like current was partially carried by Ca2+ as demonstrated with an ion-substitution protocol and Ca2+ imaging; (2) the current was inhibited by the tarantula venom Psalmotoxin (PcTX1), a specific blocker for homomeric ASIC1a channels; (3) the current could be inhibited by extracellular Ca2+ (IC50=2.31 mM) and Pb2+ (10 microM), confirming the presence of ASIC1a subunit. The presence of functional ASIC2a containing channels was revealed by the Zn2+ (300 microM)-induced enhancement of ASIC-like currents and the absence of functional ASIC3 channels was indicated by the insensitivity of ASIC-like currents to salicylate (1 mM), an ASIC3 subunit blocker. Finally, we show that activation of ASICs by a pH drop could induce membrane depolarization and evoke neuronal firing in IC neurons. Our study clearly demonstrates that functional homomeric ASIC1a channels and ASIC2a-containing channels, but not ASIC3 channels, are present in the IC. We suggest that ASICs should be taken into consideration for their possible functional roles in information processing and pathological processes in the central auditory system.
The cerebellar cortex contributes to the control of movement, coordination, and certain cognitive functions. The cerebellar network is composed of five different types of neurons that are wired together in a repetitive module. Given that four of these five neurons synthesize and release GABA, this inhibitory neurotransmitter plays a central role in regulation of the excitability and correct functioning of the cerebellar cortex. We have now used isoniazid, an inhibitor of glutamic acid decarboxylase, the enzyme responsible for the synthesis of GABA, to evaluate the contribution of GABAergic transmission in different types of cerebellar cortical neurons to the functioning of the cerebellar circuit. Parasagittal cerebellar slices were prepared from 28- to 40-day-old male rats and were subjected to patch-clamp recording in the voltage- or current-clamp mode. Exposure of the tissue slices to isoniazid (10 mM) resulted in a decrease in the level of GABAergic transmission in Purkinje cells and a consequent increase in the firing rate of spontaneous action potentials that was apparent after 40 min. In granule neurons, isoniazid reduced both tonic and phasic GABAergic currents and thereby altered the flow of information across the cerebellar cortex. Our data support the notion that the amount of GABA at the synaptic level is a major determinant of the excitability of the cerebellar cortex, and they suggest that isoniazid may be a useful tool with which to study the function of the cerebellar network.
To evaluate the potential for neuronal replacement following destruction of vagal afferent neurons, we examined nodose ganglia following i.p. capsaicin treatment of adult rats. Rats received capsaicin or vehicle followed by a regimen of 5'-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine injections (BrdU) to reveal DNA replication. Nodose ganglia were harvested at various times post-treatment and processed for 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) nuclear staining and immunofluorescence to estimate neuronal numbers and to determine vanilloid receptor, cleaved caspase 3, TUNEL, BrdU, the neuron-selective marker protein gene product (PGP) -9.5 and neurofilament-M-immunoreactivity. Twenty-four hours after capsaicin approximately 40% of nodose ganglion neurons expressed cleaved caspase 3-immunoreactivity and 16% revealed TUNEL staining, indicating that primary sensory neurons are killed by the capsaicin treatment of adult rats. The occurrence of neuronal death was confirmed by counts of DAPI-stained neuronal nuclei, which revealed &gt;or=50% reduction of nodose neuron number by 30 days post-capsaicin. However, by 60 days post-capsaicin, the total numbers of neuronal nuclei in nodose ganglia from capsaicin-treated rats were not different from controls, suggesting that new neurons had been added to the nodose ganglia. Neuronal proliferation was confirmed by significant BrdU incorporation in nuclei of nodose ganglion cells immunoreactive for the neuron-specific antigen PGP-9.5 revealed 30 and 60 days post-capsaicin. Collectively, these observations suggest that in adult rats massive scale neurogenesis occurs in nodose ganglia following capsaicin-induced neuronal destruction. The adult nodose ganglion, therefore, provides a novel system for studying neural plasticity and adult neurogenesis after peripheral injury of primary sensory neurons.
Although persistent translation arrest correlates with the selective vulnerability of post-ischemic hippocampal cornu ammonis 1 (Ammon's horn) (CA1) neurons, the mechanism of persistent translation arrest is not fully understood. Using fluorescent in situ hybridization and immunofluorescence histochemistry, we studied colocalization of polyadenylated mRNAs [poly(A)] with the following mRNA binding factors: eukaryotic initiation factor (eIF) 4G (translation initiation factor), HuR (ARE-containing mRNA stabilizing protein), poly-adenylated mRNA binding protein (PABP), S6 (small ribosomal subunit marker), T cell internal antigen (TIA-1) (stress granule marker), and tristetraprolin (TTP) (processing body marker). We compared staining in vulnerable CA1 and resistant CA3 from 1 to 48 h reperfusion, following 10 min global ischemia in the rat. In both CA1 and CA3 neurons, cytoplasmic poly(A) mRNAs redistributed from a homogenous staining pattern seen in controls to granular structures we term mRNA granules. The mRNA granules abated after 16 h reperfusion in CA3, but persisted in CA1 neurons to 48 h reperfusion. Protein synthesis inhibition correlated precisely with the presence of the mRNA granules. In both CA1 and CA3, the mRNA granules colocalized with eIF4G and PABP, but not S6, TIA-1 or TTP, indicating that they were neither stress granules nor processing bodies. Colocalization of HuR in the mRNA granules correlated with translation of 70 kDa inducible heat shock protein, which occurred early in CA3 (8 h) and was delayed in CA1 (36 h). Thus, differential compartmentalization of mRNA away from the 40S subunit correlated with translation arrest in post-ischemic neurons, providing a concise mechanism of persistent translation arrest in post-ischemic CA1.
Voltage-gated potassium channels (VGPCs) play an important role in many physiological functions by controlling the electrical properties and excitability of cells. Changes in tonicity in the peripheral nervous system can activate nociceptors and produce pain. Here, using whole cell patch clamp techniques, we explore how hypo- and hypertonicity modulate VGPCs in cultured rat and mouse trigeminal ganglion (TG) neurons. We found that hypo- and hypertonicity had different effects on slow-inactivating K+ current (IK) and fast-inactivating K+ current (IA): hypotonicity increased IK but had no effect on IA while hypertonicity depressed both IK and IA. The increase of IK by hypotonicity was mimicked by transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4) receptor activator 4alpha-phorbol-12,13-didecanoate (4alpha-PDD) but hypotonicity did not exhibit increase in TRPV4-/- mice TG neurons, suggesting that TRPV4 receptor was involved in hypotonicity-induced response. We also found that inactivation of PKC selectively reversed the increase of IK by hypotonicity, whereas antagonism of G-protein selectively rescued the inhibitions of IK and IA by hypertonicity, indicating that different intracellular signaling pathways were required for the modulation by hypo- and hypertonicity. In summary, changes in osmolality have various effects on IK and IA and different receptors and second messenger systems are selective for the modulation of VGPCs induced by hypo- versus hypertonicity.
Nicotine is attractive as an analgesic component despite that its antinociceptive mechanism is not well known until now. In the present study, we examined the antinociceptive effect of nicotine administered supra-spinally on acetic acid-induced visceral pain induction (writhing test), and found that the antinociceptive effect of nicotine was abolished by mu-, delta-, and kappa-opioid receptor antagonist administered i.c.v. In addition, s.c. 5% formalin pretreatment at 5 h, 20 h, 40 h, and 1 week prior to i.c.v. nicotine injection abolished the antinociceptive effect of nicotine in the writhing test, suggesting that s.c. formalin pretreatment induced tolerance to the antinociceptive effect of nicotine in the supra-spinal region. Furthermore, neuronal loss of the hippocampal cornus ammonis (CA) 3 region reduced nicotine-induced an antinociceptive effect in the writhing test. In Western blot assay, we examined s.c. formalin injection down-regulated mu-opioid receptor in the hippocampus after 40 h, and its effect was maintained for 1 week. However, various acetylcholine receptor subunits and delta-, and kappa-opioid receptors were not altered. These results suggest that s.c. formalin pretreatment can contribute to induce tolerance on nicotine-induced antinociception as down-regulating mu-opioid receptor in the hippocampus, especially 40 h after s.c. formalin injection.
Erythropoietin (EPO) and its receptor (EPO-R), mediate neuroprotection from axonopathy and apoptosis in the peripheral nervous system (PNS). We examined the impact and potential mechanisms of local EPO signaling on regenerating PNS axons in vivo and in vitro. As a consequence of injury, peripheral nerve axons and DRG neurons have a marked increase in the expression of EPO and EPO-R. Local delivery of EPO via conduit over 2 weeks to rat sciatic nerve following crush injury increased the density and maturity of regenerating myelinated axons growing distally from the crush site. In addition, EPO also rescued retrograde degeneration and atrophy of axons. EPO substantially increased the density and intensity of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) expression within outgrowing axons. Behavioral improvements in sensorimotor function also occurred in rats exposed to near nerve EPO delivery. EPO delivery led to decreased nuclear factor kappaB (NFkB) activation but increased phosphorylation of Akt and STAT3 within nerve and dorsal root ganglia neurons indicating rescue from an injury phenotype. Spinal cord explant studies also demonstrated a similar dose-dependent effect of EPO upon motor axonal outgrowth. Local EPO signaling enhances regenerating peripheral nervous system axons in addition to its known neuroprotection. Exogenous EPO may have a therapeutic role in a large number of peripheral nerve diseases through its impact on regeneration.

Neurotransmitter:sodium symporters (NSS)(1) mediate sodium-dependent reuptake of neurotransmitters from the synaptic cleft and are targets for many psychoactive drugs. The crystal structure of the prokaryotic NSS protein, LeuT, was recently solved at high resolution; however, the mechanistic details of regulation of the permeation pathway in this class of proteins remain unknown. Here we combine computational modeling and experimental probing in the dopamine transporter (DAT) to demonstrate the functional importance of a conserved intracellular interaction network. Our data suggest that a salt bridge between Arg-60 in the N terminus close to the cytoplasmic end of transmembrane segment (TM) 1 and Asp-436 at the cytoplasmic end of TM8 is stabilized by a cation-pi interaction between Arg-60 and Tyr-335 at the cytoplasmic end of TM6. Computational probing illustrates how the interactions may determine the flexibility of the permeation pathway, and mutagenesis within the network and results from assays of transport, as well as the state-dependent accessibility of a substituted cysteine in TM3, support the role of this network in regulating access between the substrate binding site and the intracellular milieu. The mechanism that emerges from these findings may be unique to the NSS family, where the local disruption of ionic interactions modulates the transition of the transporter between the outward- and inward-facing conformations.
The M protein of Streptococcus equi subsp. equi known as fibrinogen-binding protein (FgBP) is a cell wall-associated protein with antiphagocytic activity that binds IgG. Recombinant versions of the seven equine IgG subclasses were used to investigate the subclass specificity of FgBP. FgBP bound predominantly to equine IgG4 and IgG7, with little or no binding to the other subclasses. Competitive binding experiments revealed that FgBP could inhibit the binding of staphylococcal protein A and streptococcal protein G to both IgG4 and IgG7, implicating the Fc interdomain region in binding to FgBP. To identify which of the two IgG Fc domains contributed to the interaction with FgBP, we tested two human IgG1/IgA1 domain swap mutants and found that both domains are required for full binding, with the CH3 domain playing a critical role. The binding site for FgBP was further localized using recombinant equine IgG7 antibodies with single or double point mutations to residues lying at the CH2-CH3 interface. We found that interaction of FgBP with equine IgG4 and IgG7 was able to disrupt C1q binding and antibody-mediated activation of the classical complement pathway, demonstrating an effective means by which S. equi may evade the immune response. The mode of interaction of FgBP with IgG fits a common theme for bacterial Ig-binding proteins. Remarkably, for those interactions studied in detail, it emerges that all the Ig-binding proteins target the CH2-CH3 domain interface, regardless of specificity for IgG or IgA, streptococcal or staphylococcal origin, or host species (equine or human).
Anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) is involved in emotion, mood, and autonomic regulation. Although a subgenual part of ACC (sACC) may be vulnerable in depression and area 25 is cytologically unique, there are no assessments that contrast this region with pregenual ACC (pACC). Thus, we undertook independent multimodal verifications of architectural differences among subregions and areas. Areas 24a and 24b have pregenual and subgenual components. The latter have a thin layer III. Area 24c has dorsal (pd24c) and ventral (pv24c) parts. Area pd24c has larger neurofilament-expressing neurons in layer Va, and neurons in Vb form aggregates in area pv24c. Area pd24c occupies both banks of the cingulate sulcus, with pv24c on the ventral bank. Layer III of pd24cd has many larger neurofilament-expressing neurons and a richer dendritic plexus. Area 32 has pregenual (p32) and subgenual (s32) components. Layer II in s32 is of particular note because it has a neuron-dense IIa and sparse IIb. Area 25 has anterior (25a) and posterior (25p) parts; 25p has the thinnest layer III in the cingulate gyrus. Area 25a contains significantly higher AMPA, kainate, NMDA, GABA(A), GABA(B), and alpha(1) densities than 25p. Area 33 continues around the genu and ventrally to encompass the full caudal extent of area 25. Subgenual ACC has significantly higher GABA(A), GABA(B), benzodiazepine (BZ), alpha(1), and 5-HT(1A) densities than pACC. GABA(B), BZ, and alpha(1) binding confirms the subdivision of area pd24c. In conclusion, ACC comprises two parts that are unique in terms of their cytoarchitecture and neurotransmitter receptor organization.
Induction of COX-2 activity in cerebral ischemia results in increased neuronal injury and infarct size. Recent studies investigating neurotoxic mechanisms of COX-2 demonstrate both toxic and paradoxically protective effects of downstream prostaglandin receptor signaling pathways. We tested whether misoprostol, a PGE(2) receptor agonist that is utilized clinically as an anti-ulcer agent and signals through the protective PGE(2) EP2, EP3, and EP4 receptors, would reduce brain injury in the murine middle cerebral artery occlusion-reperfusion (MCAO-RP) model. Administration of misoprostol, at the time of MCAO or 2h after MCAO, resulted in significant rescue of infarct volume at 24 and 72h. Immunocytochemistry demonstrated dynamic regulation of the EP2 and EP4 receptors during reperfusion in neurons and endothelial cells of cerebral cortex and striatum, with limited expression of EP3 receptor. EP3-/- mice had no significant changes in infarct volume compared to control littermates. Moreover, administration of misoprostol to EP3+/+ and EP3-/- mice showed similar levels of infarct rescue, indicating that misoprostol protection was not mediated through the EP3 receptor. Taken together, these findings suggest a novel function for misoprostol as a protective agent in cerebral ischemia acting via the PGE(2) EP2 and/or EP4 receptors.
