The spontaneous locomotor activity of C57BL/6J mice was examined, using an automated detection system based on infra-red beams, after administration of caffeine (3-30 mg/kg, i.p.), the adenosine A(2A) receptor selective antagonist SCH 58261 (0.312-2.5 mg/kg, i.p.) and the A(1) selective antagonist DPCPX (1.25-5 mg/kg, i.p.). SCH 58261 failed to influence motor activity in mice habituated to the test environment. DPCPX produced a small increase in motility and locomotion (significant at the dose of 5.0 mg/kg), much weaker than that produced by caffeine. Combined administration of DPCPX (1.2 mg/kg, i.p.) and SCH 58261 (1.2 mg/kg, i.p.) produced stimulation of motility and locomotion comparable with the effect of caffeine (15 mg/kg, i.p.). In contrast to motility and locomotion, rearing counts were not significantly influenced by DPCPX, SCH 58261, their combination, or by caffeine. Caffeine (15 mg/kg, i.p.) caused an increase in NGFI-A mRNA (an immediate early gene was chosen as an index of neuronal activation) in the piriform cortex 4 h after injection. This effect was reproduced by the combination of A(1) and A(2A) receptor antagonist. It is hypothesised that the stimulatory effect of low doses of caffeine in C57BL/6J mice is due to concomitant blockade of both A(1) and A(2A) adenosine receptors.
A previous study found that as monkeys learned novel mappings between visual cues and responses, neuronal activity patterns evolved at approximately the same time in both the dorsal premotor cortex (PMd) and the putamen. Here we report that, in both regions, the population activity for novel mappings came to resemble that for familiar ones as learning progressed. Both regions showed activity differences on trials with correct responses versus those with incorrect ones. In addition to these common features, we observed two noteworthy differences between PMd and putamen activity during learning. After a response choice had been made, but prior to feedback about the correctness of that choice (reward or nonreward), the putamen showed a sustained activity increase in activity, whereas PMd did not. Also in the putamen, this prereward activity was highly selective for the specific visuomotor mapping that had just been performed, and this selectivity was maintained until the time of the reward. After performance reached an asymptote, the degree of this selectivity decreased markedly to the level typical for familiar visuomotor mappings. These findings support the hypothesis that neurons in the striatum play a pivotal role in associative learning.
The three-dimensional topography of the environment is a potentially important source of orienting information for animals, but little is known about how such features affect either navigational behaviour or the neural representation of place. One component of the neural place representation comprises the hippocampal place cells, which show location-specific firing that can be oriented by directional cues in the environment. The present study investigated whether a simple topographical feature, terrain slope, could provide such orienting information to place cells. Place cells were recorded as rats explored a tilted (30 degrees) square box located in the centre of a dark, curtained and visually symmetrical circular enclosure. The orientation of the tilted surface was varied, first in conjunction with that of a visible cue card (to stabilise the system) and then in the absence of the cue card, when the slope of the box was the only remaining stable polarising cue in the environment. In the latter condition, place fields continued to be reliably oriented by the slope. Thus, terrain slope provides sufficient orienting information to set and probably maintain the orientation of the hippocampal place system. This may explain previous behavioural observations that spatial orientation is improved when slope information is available.
The pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic effects of 2 methadone (METH) induction dose sequences were evaluated in this 15-day outpatient experimental protocol. Heroin-dependent, non-treatment-seeking volunteers were randomly assigned (stratified for gender, race, and route of heroin use) to 2 groups. In 1 sequence, METH doses ascended (28, 56, then 84 mg/day; stepwise, n = 18), whereas in the other sequence doses escalated, then tapered (28-84 mg on Days 1-6 to 56 mg/day; rapid, n = 16). A contingency-management intervention was common to both groups. Drug use and heroin craving and opioid withdrawal symptoms decreased, whereas agonist symptoms and positive mood increased overall across days for both groups. Plasma concentrations and the acute reinforcing effects of METH paralleled each dose sequence. Stepwise relative to rapid METH induction significantly decreased heroin craving and opioid withdrawal symptoms and increased agonist symptoms and positive mood but did not significantly improve drug use or retention. Although these specific dosing procedures would not necessarily be used in clinical settings, they provide a procedural template that might be applied safely and effectively with a broader range of treatment-seeking individuals.
Amitriptyline and gabapentin are the primary treatments for painful diabetic neuropathy (PDN), and it is clear that they produce beneficial effects, but there are questions about these treatments that have not been adequately addressed. For example, although there is a growing consensus that the therapeutic effects of amitriptyline in pain patients are independent of its effects on mood, it is not clear that amitriptyline has specific and direct effects on pain. There is also a fairly broad consensus that gabapentin is safe and well tolerated, but the side-effect profile of gabapentin has not been adequately assessed in pain populations. The rat streptozotocin (STZ) model of PDN was used (a) to assess the effects of amitriptyline on objective, quantitative measures of tactile allodynia, a common type of pain in PDN patients, and (b) to assess the side effects of gabapentin using measures of motor/ambulatory and cognitive function. Amitriptyline did not attenuate STZ-induced mechanical allodynia, even after chronic administration of high doses. Gabapentin produced robust anti-allodynic effects but also produced deficits in tests of motor/ambulatory and cognitive functions. The present experiments suggest that the beneficial effects of amitriptyline in PDN may not be a result of anti-allodynic efficacy and that gabapentin produces robust anti-allodynic effects but may also produce significant motor and cognitive deficits even at or near the lowest effective doses. These findings challenge the consensus opinions about these primary treatments for PDN and suggest that their therapeutic and adverse effects should be explored further in pain patients.
Axonal loss is now considered a consistent feature of MS pathology and evidence suggests that its accumulation may be the pathological correlate for the development of irreversible disability. In this study, we investigated the features of axonal loss in myelin autoimmunity and tested the hypothesis that loss of axons determines permanent neurological impairment in a model of inflammatory demyelination that closely mimics the pathology and course of MS. EAE was induced in DA rats by injection of recombinant mouse MOG with IFA. Animals that developed progressive EAE were killed at several time points after disease onset and animals that followed a chronic relapsing-remitting course of EAE were killed at approximately 4 months, exhibiting varying degrees of residual disability. Toluidine blue staining of semithin sections and immunohistochemistry for OX-42 were used to quantify demyelination, remyelination, inflammation and axonal loss in the spinal cord of MOG-EAE rats. In progressive EAE, the degree of axon loss, demyelination and inflammation all correlated significantly with clinical severity scores and a causative role for macrophages in the pathogenesis of axonal injury is suggested. However, in the chronic stage of relapsing-remitting EAE, in rats having suffered a variable number of relapses, only axonal loss correlated significantly with clinical severity scores. In addition, both axonal loss and clinical severity scores correlated with the number of relapses. These findings imply that secondary, or 'bystander', axonal loss is the main determinant of irreversible neurological disability in MOG-EAE and make the model a useful tool for the investigation of mechanisms of axonal loss and the evaluation of the benefits of neuroprotective therapies under conditions of antibody-mediated inflammatory demyelination.
Talpha-1 tubulin promoter-driven EYFP expression is seen in murine neurons born as early as E9.5. Double labeling with markers for stem cells (Sox 1, Sox 2, nestin), glial progenitors (S100beta, NG2, Olig2), and neuronal progenitors (doublecortin, betaIII-tubulin, PSA-NCAM) show that Talpha-1 tubulin expression is limited to early born neurons. BrdU uptake and double labeling with neuronal progenitor markers in vivo and in vitro show that EYFP-expressing cells are postmitotic and Talpha-1 tubulin EYFP precedes the expression of MAP-2 and NeuN, and follows the expression of PSA-NCAM, doublecortin (Dcx), and betaIII-tubulin. Talpha-1 tubulin promoter-driven EYFP expression is transient and disappears in most neurons by P0. Persistent EYFP expression is mainly limited to scattered cells in the subventricular zone (SVZ), rostral migratory stream, and hippocampus. However, there are some areas that continue to express Talpha-1 tubulin in the adult without apparent neurogenesis. The number of EYFP-expressing cells declines with age indicating that Talpha-1 tubulin accurately identifies early born postmitotic neurons throughout development but less clearly in the adult. Assessment of neurogenesis after stab wound injuries in the cortex, cerebellum and spinal cord of adult animals shows no neurogenesis in most areas with an increase in BrdU incorporation in glial and other non neuronal populations. An up-regulation of Talpha-1 tubulin can be seen in certain areas unaccompanied by new neurogenesis. Our results suggest that even if stem cells proliferate their ability to generate neurons is limited and caution is warranted in attributing increased BrdU incorporation to stem cells or cells fated to be neurons even in neurogenic areas.
We previously showed that the neuroactive steroid 3alpha-ol-5-beta-pregnan-20-one hemisuccinate (ABHS), a low-affinity NMDA receptor antagonist, improves behavior in rabbits following spinal cord ischemia. The present study assessed whether this also occurs following cerebral ischemia. We used the rabbit small clot embolic stroke model (RSCEM), a model of multiple infarct ischemia, which has a well-defined behavioral endpoint. Quantal analysis for each treatment determines microclots (mg) that produce neurologic dysfunction in 50% of a group of animals (P(50)), with treatment considered beneficial if it increases the P(50) compared to controls. ABHS (25 mg/kg) injected 5 min post-embolization significantly (P = 0.046) increased the P(50) to 2.60 +/- 0.69 mg compared to 1.15 +/- 0.19 mg in controls but was ineffective at longer intervals. For combination studies with tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), a cumulative control curve (P(50) = 1.18 +/- 0.25 mg) was used for statistical comparisons. Low-dose tPA (0.9 mg/kg) and ABHS, given 60 min post-embolization, improved behavior synergistically (P(50) = 2.44 +/- 0.44 mg), compared to tPA (P(50) = 1.25 +/- 0.25 mg) or ABHS (P(50) = 1.05 +/- 0.24 mg) alone. A standard tPA dose (3.3 mg/kg) significantly increased the P(50) at 60 (2.69 +/- 0.19 mg) but not 180 min (1.28 +/- 0.31 mg) post-embolization. However, when combined with ABHS, an effect was evident even 180 min post-embolization (P(50) = 2.31 +/- 0.48 mg). Although the therapeutic window for ABHS is limited, it significantly enhanced neuroprotection by low-dose tPA and increased the therapeutic window for tPA, suggesting that it may be most useful as a co-therapy with thrombolytics for stroke.
Experimental approaches to manipulate REM sleep within the cognitive neuroscience of sleep are usually based on sleep deprivation paradigms and focus on younger adults. In the present study, a traditional selective REM sleep deprivation paradigm as well as two alternative manipulation paradigms targeting REM sleep augmentation were investigated in healthy older adults. The study sample consisted of 107 participants, male and female, between the ages of 60 and 82 years, who had been randomly assigned to five experimental groups. During the study night, a first group was deprived of REM sleep by selective REM sleep awakenings, while a second group was woken during stage 2 NREM sleep in matched frequency. Physiological REM sleep augmentation was realized by REM sleep rebound after selective REM sleep deprivation, pharmacological REM sleep augmentation by administering an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor in a double-blind, placebo-controlled design. Deprivation and augmentation paradigms manipulated REM sleep significantly, the former affecting more global measures such as REM sleep minutes and percentage, the latter more organizational aspects such as stage shifts to REM sleep, REM latency, REM density (only pharmacological augmentation) and phasic REM sleep duration. According to our findings, selective REM sleep deprivation seems to be an efficient method of REM sleep manipulation in healthy older adults. While physiological rebound-based and pharmacological cholinergic REM sleep augmentation methods both failed to affect global measures of REM sleep, their efficiency in manipulating organizational aspects of REM sleep extends the traditional scope of REM sleep manipulation methods within the cognitive neuroscience of sleep.
The cellular form of prion protein (PrPC) is anchored to the plasma membrane of the cell and expressed in most tissues, but predominantly in the brain, including in the pituitary gland. Thus far, the biosynthesis of PrPC has been studied only in cultured (transfected) tumour cell lines and not in primary cells. Here, we investigated the intracellular fate of PrPCin vivo by using the neuroendocrine intermediate pituitary melanotrope cells of the South-African claw-toed frog Xenopus laevis as a model system. These cells are involved in background adaptation of the animal and produce high levels of its major secretory cargo proopiomelanocortin (POMC) when the animal is black-adapted. The technique of stable Xenopus transgenesis in combination with the POMC gene promoter was used as a tool to express Xenopus PrPC amino-terminally tagged with the green fluorescent protein (GFP-PrPC) specifically in the melanotrope cells. The GFP-PrPC fusion protein was expressed from stage-25 tadpoles onwards to juvenile frogs, the expression was induced on a black background and the fusion protein was subcellularly located mainly in the Golgi apparatus and at the plasma membrane. Pulse-chase metabolic cell labelling studies revealed that GFP-PrPC was initially synthesized as a 45-kDa protein that was subsequently stepwise glycosylated to 48-, 51-, and eventually 55-kDa forms. Furthermore, we revealed that the mature 55-kDa GFP-PrPC protein was sulfated, anchored to the plasma membrane and cleaved to a 33-kDa product. Despite the high levels of transgene expression, the subcellular structures as well as POMC synthesis and processing, and the secretion of POMC-derived products remained unaffected in the transgenic melanotrope cells. Hence, we studied PrPC in a neuroendocrine cell and in a well-defined physiological context.
Due to motor and sensory deficits in individuals with stroke, we proposed that they must compensate for these impairments during standing with greater dependence on vision. In addition, we hypothesized that asymmetric weight-bearing, which occurs following stroke, is related to increased postural sway and those with greater asymmetry will have greater reliance on vision. Twenty-eight individuals with stroke and 28 healthy older adult controls stood quietly with eyes open (EO) or closed on a force platform while postural sway was quantified by centre of pressure measures and weight-bearing asymmetry was calculated from vertical ground reaction forces. To determine the influence of vision on postural sway, a visual ratio (eyes open/eyes closed (EC)) was calculated for the sway measures. The results demonstrated that individuals with stroke had greater visual dependence for the control of postural sway velocity in the medial-lateral (ML), but not anterior-posterior (AP) direction, compared to controls. Further, we found that greater asymmetry was moderately related to increased medial-lateral sway for the individuals with stroke. Contrary to predictions, those individuals with stroke with mild asymmetry had greater visual dependence than those with more severe asymmetry.
Transcription of the HIV-1 genome is controlled by the cooperation of viral regulatory proteins and several host factors which bind to specific DNA sequences within the viral promoter spanning the long terminal repeat, (LTR). Here, we describe the identification of a novel protein, p27(SJ), present in a laboratory callus culture of Hypericum perforatum (St John's Wort) that suppresses transcription of the HIV-1 genome in several human cell types including primary culture of microglia and astrocytes. p27(SJ) associates with C/EBPbeta, a transcription factor that regulates expression of the HIV-1 genome in macrophages and monocytic cells, and the viral transactivator, Tat. The association of p27(SJ) with C/EBPbeta and Tat alters their subcellular localization, causing their accumulation in the perinuclear cytoplasmic compartment of the cells. Fusion of a nuclear localization signal to p27(SJ) forces its entry into the nucleus and diminishes the capacity of p27(SJ) to suppress Tat activity, but does not alter its ability to suppress C/EBPbeta activation of the LTR. Results from binding assays showed the inhibitory effect of p27(SJ) on C/EBPbeta interaction with DNA. Finally, our results demonstrate that expression of p27(SJ) decreases the level of viral replication in HIV-1-infected cells. These observations suggest the potential for the development of a therapeutic advance based on p27(SJ) protein to control HIV-1 transcription and replication in cells associated with HIV-1 infection in the brain.
In this study, we used small interfering RNA (siRNA) directed against vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 1 (vegfr1) mRNA to investigate the role of VEGFR1 in ocular neovascularization (NV). After evaluating many siRNAs, Sirna-027 was identified; it cleaved vegfr1 mRNA at the predicted site and reduced its levels in cultured endothelial cells and in mouse models of retinal and choroidal neovascularization (CNV). Compared to injection of an inverted control sequence, quantitative reverse transcriptase-PCR demonstrated statistically significant reductions of 57 and 40% in vegfr1 mRNA after intravitreous or periocular injection of Sirna-027, respectively. Staining showed uptake of 5-bromodeoxyuridine-labeled Sirna-027 in retinal cells that lasted between 3 and 5 days after intravitreous injection and was still present 5 days after periocular injection. In a CNV model, intravitreous or periocular injections of Sirna-027 resulted in significant reductions in the area of NV ranging from 45 to 66%. In mice with ischemic retinopathy, intravitreous injection of 1.0 mug of Sirna-027 reduced retinal NV by 32% compared to fellow eyes treated with 1.0 mug of inverted control siRNA. These data suggest that VEGFR1 plays an important role in the development of retinal and CNV and that targeting vegfr1 mRNA with siRNA has therapeutic potential.
We have established that there is a considerable amount of common genetic influence on physiological dependence and associated withdrawal from sedative-hypnotic drugs including alcohol, benzodiazepines, barbiturates and inhalants. We previously mapped two loci responsible for 12 and 9% of the genetic variance in acute alcohol and pentobarbital withdrawal convulsion liability in mice, respectively, to an approximately 28-cM interval of proximal chromosome 11. Here, we narrow the position of these two loci to a 3-cM interval (8.8 Mb, containing 34 known and predicted genes) using haplotype analysis. These include genes encoding four subunits of the GABA(A) receptor, which is implicated as a pivotal component in sedative-hypnotic dependence and withdrawal. We report that the DBA/2J mouse strain, which exhibits severe withdrawal from sedative-hypnotic drugs, encodes a unique GABA(A) receptor gamma2 subunit variant compared with other standard inbred strains including the genetically similar DBA/1J strain. We also demonstrate that withdrawal from zolpidem, a benzodiazepine receptor agonist selective for alpha1 subunit containing GABA(A) receptors, is influenced by a chromosome 11 locus, suggesting that the same locus (gene) influences risk of alcohol, benzodiazepine and barbiturate withdrawal. Our results, together with recent knockout studies, point to the GABA(A) receptor gamma2 subunit gene (Gabrg2) as a promising candidate gene to underlie phenotypic differences in sedative-hypnotic physiological dependence and associated withdrawal episodes.
Viral infection is one of the leading causes of brain encephalitis and meningitis. Recently, it was reported that Toll-like receptor-3 (TLR3) induces a double-stranded RNA (dsRNA)-mediated inflammatory signal in the cells of the innate immune system, and studies suggested that dsRNA may induce inflammation in the central nervous system (CNS) by activating the CNS-resident glial cells. To explore further the connection between dsRNA and inflammation in the CNS, we have studied the effects of dsRNA stimulation in astrocytes. Our results show that the injection of polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid (poly(I:C)), a synthetic dsRNA, into the striatum of the mouse brain induces the activation of astrocytes and the expression of TNF-alpha, IFN-beta, and IP-10. Stimulation with poly(I:C) also induces the expression of these proinflammatory genes in primary astrocytes and in CRT-MG, a human astrocyte cell line. Furthermore, our studies on the intracellular signaling pathways reveal that poly(I:C) stimulation activates IkappaB kinase (IKK), extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) in CRT-MG. Pharmacological inhibitors of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB), JNK, ERK, glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta), and dsRNA-activated protein kinase (PKR) inhibit the expression of IL-8 and IP-10 in astrocytes, indicating that the activation of these signaling molecules is required for the TLR3-mediated chemokine gene induction. Interestingly, the inhibition of PI3 kinase suppressed the expression of IP-10, but upregulated the expression of IL-8, suggesting differential roles for PI3 kinase, depending on the target genes. These data suggest that the TLR3 expressed on astrocytes may initiate an inflammatory response upon viral infection in the CNS.
Minocycline, a derivative of the antibiotic tetracycline, displays neuroprotective properties in various models of neurodegenerative diseases and is now used in clinical trials, because of its relative safety and tolerability. Minocycline passes the blood-brain barrier and is presumed to inhibit microglial activation. In Alzheimer's disease brain, a number of proteins, including serum amyloid P component (SAP) and complement factors such as C1q, accumulate in amyloid beta (Abeta) plaques. In a previous study, SAP and C1q were found to be required for clustering of activated microglia in Abeta plaques. Furthermore, SAP and C1q enhanced Abeta fibril formation and Abeta mediated cytokine release by human microglia in vitro. In the present study, we report that tetracycline and minocycline dose-dependently reduce TNF-alpha and IL-6 release by adult human microglia upon stimulation with a combination of Abeta, SAP, and C1q. In addition, minocycline and to a lesser extent tetracycline inhibit fibril formation of Abeta as determined in a thioflavin-S-based fluorescence test. This inhibitory effect was observed with Abeta alone as well as with Abeta in combination with SAP and C1q. Our data suggest that minocycline and tetracycline at tolerable doses can inhibit human microglial activation. This activity in part is exerted by inhibition of (SAP and C1q enhanced) Abeta fibril formation.
The localization of metabotropic glutamate receptors of groups II (mGluR2/3) and III (mGluR4a) and the subunits 2 and 3 of alfa-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) ionotropic glutamate receptors (GluR2/3) was investigated with immunocytochemical methods in the rat adrenal gland. MGluR2/3, mGluR4a and GluR2/3 immunoreactivities were observed in large-sized, centrally located type I adrenal medullary ganglion neurons. Furthermore, the small-sized type II adrenal ganglion neurons identified by their immunoreactivity to brain nitric oxide synthase (bNOS), also expressed mGluR2/3, mGluR4a and GluR2/3. These cells were disposed in the peripheral portion of the adrenal medulla. None of the type I neurons were positively labeled for bNOS. These morphological observations suggest that activation of glutamate receptors in ganglion neurons may be instrumental in the control of adrenal endocrine systems as well as blood regulation.
Transient global ischemia induces selective, delayed neuronal death in the hippocampal CA1 and delayed cognitive deficits. Estrogen treatment ameliorates hippocampal injury associated with global ischemia. Although much is known about the impact of estrogen on neuronal survival, relatively little is known about its impact on functional outcome assessed behaviorally. We investigated whether long-term estradiol (21-day pellets implanted 14 days prior to ischemia) or acute estradiol (50 microg infused into the lateral ventricles immediately after ischemia) attenuates ischemia-induced cell loss and improves visual and spatial working memory in ovariectomized female rats. Global ischemia significantly impaired visual and spatial memory, assessed by object recognition and object placement tests at 6-9 days. Global ischemia did not affect locomotion, exploration, or anxiety-related behaviors, assessed by an open-field test at 6 days. Long-term estradiol prevented the ischemia-induced deficit in visual working memory, maintaining normal performance in tests with retention intervals of up to 1 h. Long-term estradiol also prevented ischemia-induced deficits in spatial memory tests with short (1 and 7 min), but not longer (15 min), retention intervals. Acute estradiol significantly improved visual memory assessed with short retention intervals, but did not prevent deficits in spatial memory. Acute estradiol significantly increased the number of surviving CA1 neurons, assessed either at 7 days after ischemia or after the completion of behavioral testing 9 days after ischemia. In contrast, chronic estradiol did not reduce CA1 cell death 9 days after ischemia. Thus, long-term estradiol at near physiological levels and acute estradiol administered after ischemic insult improve functional recovery after global ischemia. These findings have important implications for intervention in the neurological sequellae associated with global ischemia.
Short-term fluctuations in steroid hormones such as estradiol (E2) and progesterone (P) can affect the concentration of hippocampal dendritic spines in adult, cycling nulliparous female rats. Pregnancy is characterized by a significantly longer duration of substantially elevated E2 and P compared to the estrous cycle. Thus, even greater changes than those reported during estrus may be evident. In two experiments, we examined the extent to which reproductive and hormonal state altered the concentration of apical neuronal dendritic spines of the CA1 region of the hippocampus in the following age-matched groups (N's = 7-10/group) of rats: in Exp. 1., CA1 dendritic spine density was examined in nulliparous diestrus (DES), proestrus (PRO), and estrus (ES) females, and late-pregnant (LP) (day 21) and lactating (day 5-6; LACT) females. In Exp. 2, the effects on spine density of a regimen mimicking pregnancy (and that stimulates maternal behavior) were examined, using ovariectomized, no hormone-exposed (OVX-minus) vs. sequential P&amp;E(2)-treated (OVX + P&amp;E2) groups. For both experiments, brains were removed, Golgi-Cox-stained and the most lateral tertiary branches of the apical dendrite of completely-stained hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons were traced with oil-immersion at x 1600 and dendritic spine density (# spines/10 micro dendritic segment) recorded. In Exp. 1, spine density was increased in LP and LACT females (which were not different) compared to the other virgin groups, including PRO females, who had more spines than DES and ES. In Exp. 2, OVX + P&amp;E2 displayed significantly more dendritic spines per 10 micro than OVX-minus females (and had numbers that were similar to those of LP and LACT from Exp. 1). Pregnancy and its attendant hormonal fluctuations, therefore, may alter hippocampal neurons that regulate some non-pup-directed components of maternal behavior (e.g., nest building) or behaviors that support maternal behavior (e.g., foraging, associative memory).
The transition to motherhood results in a number of hormonal, neurological, and behavioral changes necessary to ensure offspring survival. Once motherhood is established, further neurological and behavioral changes may result with additional parity and mothering. Recent research has shown that motherhood enhances both hippocampal-dependent learning and memory and oxytocin-induced long-term potentiation, suggesting that the hippocampus is affected by mothering. In turn, degree of maternal behavior, either high or low, has been shown to affect spatial learning and memory performance in adult offspring. The present experiment aimed to investigate the effect of reproductive experience (nulli-, primi-, and multiparity and mothering) and degree of maternal behavior on hippocampus-dependent learning and memory in the mother. Results show that regardless of error type, primiparous rats make fewer errors compared to nulliparous rats, while multiparous rats show a trend towards making fewer errors compared to nulliparous rats. In addition, mothers who spend less time licking and nursing offspring had fewer reference memory errors. Perhaps the enhanced learning and memory in the inexperienced, new mother allows her to effectively acquire the suite of maternal behaviors necessary to ensure offspring survival and achieve reproductive success with subsequent reproductive experience.
We investigated the effect of 60 g of corticosterone administered to domestic chicks either before or after hatching on the behavioral response to isolation in a novel arena and performance in a task involving the simultaneous identification of food and detection of a predator (overhead silhouette of a hawk moving overhead). Following release into a novel arena, chicks treated with corticosterone at 18 days of incubation emitted more distress vocalizations. In contrast, no difference in the number of vocalizations was found between chicks treated with corticosterone at day 1 post-hatching and controls. Behavior in the home cages was generally similar across treatments, though chicks treated with corticosterone at 18 days of incubation slept more than control chicks. While searching for grain against a background of pebbles, chicks treated with corticosterone at embryonic day 18, but not chicks treated on day 1 post-hatching, took longer to detect the overhead image of a predator than did controls. Corticosterone treatment at both ages increased the rate of pecking at grains and pebbles. Our findings support work on other birds indicating that corticosterone treatment during incubation influences stress reactivity. The impairment in predator detection in chicks treated with corticosterone on day 18 of incubation appears to be caused by the known effects of corticosterone treatment at this age in preventing the development of lateralization of the thalamofugal visual projections. This further supports the hypothesis that brain lateralization provides an advantage in performing more than one task simultaneously.
Learning a specific skill during childhood may partly determine the functional organization of the adult brain. This hypothesis led us to study brain activation patterns using positron emission tomography (PET), in which we compared word and nonword repetition in 10 right-handed native English-speakers (L1) who were proficient in their second language, French (L2), which was learned after the age of 5 years. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was measured by the H2 15O intravenous bolus method with intersubject averaging and coregistration of magnetic resonance and PET images. A comparison of CBF changes when repeating words in L2 with those seen when repeating words in (L1) demonstrated that the pattern of CBF was similar across the two conditions, with several significant CBF differences in the vicinity of the left insular cortex, ventral premotor region, and in the striatum. We hypothesize that these regions are activated when subjects are required to repeat known words, showing increased activity when there are increased articulatory demands imposed by speaking L2. Comparisons of nonword repetition in L1 and L2 revealed increased activity for L2 in the left ventral premotor region and in the cerebellum; rCBF increases were also observed in these regions in both L1 and L2 with increased number of syllables and increased articulatory complexity, suggesting a role for these regions in the complex motor control needed for the production of novel sequences.
In his cognitive-energetic model of information processing Sergeant [Sergeant, J. (2000). The cognitive-energetic model: An empirical approach to ADHD. Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Reviews, 24, 7-12] links executive function (EF) to motor behaviour. This link has been supported by evidence from a number of sources including studies of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and developmental coordination disorder (DCD). Little is known developmentally about this association. Given the rapid change in both motor proficiency and EF that takes place in the pre-school years, this appears an important time to look for the emergence of the link between these factors. In this study we tested 5- and 6-year-old children on motor tasks from the movement assessment battery for children and on measures of response inhibition (Stroop and stop-signal task) and examined the relationship between scores on these measures. Additionally, in order to relate this behaviour to everyday function, the Rowe behavioural rating inventory (RBRI), a teachers' behavioural rating of externalising behaviour, was also gathered and this related to EF and motor performance. It was found that motor performance correlated significantly with RBRI scores (better motor performance with lower externalising behaviour) and with Stroop performance. The relationship between motor performance and stop-signal task performance was in the expected direction but failed to reach significance and there was no clear association between performance on the stop-signal task and either Stroop or RBRI scores. The results are discussed in relation to different aspects of response inhibition (inhibition of a pre-potent response, interference control) and how these might relate to motor control.

Sleep disturbances are commonly experienced by depressed patients, and abnormalities of sleep architecture are among the most robust psychobiological correlates of major depression. Most antidepressants alter the physiological patterns of sleep and eventually improve sleep symptoms, along with other symptoms of depression. However, many antidepressants also have unwanted adverse effects on sleep, notably by causing or worsening insomnia, daytime sleepiness or sedation. This article briefly reviews the biology of sleep, the sleep disturbances associated with depression, and the therapeutic and adverse effects of antidepressants on sleep. It also describes a novel antidepressant, agomelatine, which improves symptoms of depression and rapidly relieves sleep complaints without sedative effects.
Sexual development and mature reproductive function are controlled by a handful of neurones that, located in the basal forebrain, produce the decapeptide luteinizing hormone releasing hormone (LHRH). LHRH is released into the portal system that connects the hypothalamus to the pituitary gland and act on the latter to stimulate the synthesis and release of gonadotrophin hormones. The pubertal activation of LHRH release requires coordinated changes in excitatory and inhibitory inputs to LHRH-secreting neurones. These inputs are provided by both transsynaptic and glia-to-neurone communication pathways. Using cellular and molecular approaches, in combination with transgenic animal models and high-throughput procedures for gene discovery, we are gaining new insight into the basic mechanisms underlying this dual control of LHRH secretion and, hence, the initiation of mammalian puberty. Our results suggest that the initiation of puberty requires reciprocal neurone-glia communication involving excitatory amino acids and growth factors, and the coordinated actions of a group of transcriptional regulators that appear to represent a higher level of control governing the pubertal process.
The test accuracy and prognostic validity of Multiple Auditory Steady State Responses (MSSR) and click Auditory Brainstem Responses (cABR) was compared within the context of a targeted screening protocol. A sample of 508 high-risk babies was first screened using cABR and MSSR (500 and 2000 Hz). All children (failed/ pass) were called back at three to four years of age to determine their hearing status (pure-tone audiometry). Although both methods showed an equally good test performance in the first screen (sensitivity: 100% and specificity: 92-95%), the MSSR may have some potential advantage to identify low-frequency hearing loss. Furthermore, the confirmatory audiometry with MSSR predicted the child hearing status more accurately than the cABR. In conclusion, the MSSR can provide valuable information for the diagnosis and management of infants earlier detected by a screening protocol and further developed might be also useful as a screening test.
The development of a word recognition test for Modern Greek, which is comprised of three fifty-word lists, is described herein. The development was guided by four principles: (1) use of the shortest words possible (two syllables for Greek) (2) use of highly frequent words (3) phonetic balance and (4) appropriate balance of first and second syllable stress. The lists were recorded by one male and one female native speakers. Thirty-seven native speakers of Greek listened to all words by both speakers. Across lists, the mean correct identification score was 97.9% for the female voice (95% confidence interval 96.97 to 98.84) and 96.5% (95% confidence interval 95.31 to 97.77) for the male voice. This small difference was statistically significant (p &lt; .01) and concentrated on words with first syllable stress. In future work, these recordings can be used in adult tests of speech perception and can be modified for tests of central auditory processing.

Huntington's disease (HD) is a dominant neurodegenerative disorder caused by the expansion of a CAG repeat in the gene encoding huntingtin. Moreover, the nuclear targeting of mutant huntingtin increases cellular toxicity, whereas normal huntingtin resides mainly in the cytoplasm, and is associated with membranes or microtubules. Huntingtin is enriched in neurons and its expression is increased during neural development. The inactivation of the HD gene results in embryonic lethality before nervous system development. Thus, huntingtin is critical during early embryonic development. Nevertheless, the function of huntingtin at this stage is unknown, even the distribution of the protein has not been described. The present study was undertaken to elucidate the distribution of huntingtin during the early developmental period in the mouse embryo. At the preimplantation stage, huntingtin was detected in nuclei up to 2.5 days post coitum (dpc), but disappeared from nuclei during the blastocyst stage (3.5 dpc). Following this stage, huntingtin was mainly localized in the cytoplasm and co-localized with mitotic spindles. These data suggest that the nuclear targeting of normal huntingtin is required during early embryo development in mice.

The cholinesterase inhibitors (ChE-Is) attenuate the cholinergic deficit underlying the cognitive and neuropsychiatric dysfunctions in patients with AD. Inhibition of brain acetylcholinesterase (AChE) has been the major therapeutic target of ChE-I treatment strategies for Alzheimer's disease (AD). AChE-positive neurons project diffusely to the cortex, modulating cortical processing and responses to new and relevant stimuli. Butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE)-positive neurons project specifically to the frontal cortex, and may have roles in attention, executive function, emotional memory and behaviour. Furthermore, BuChE activity progressively increases as the severity of dementia advances, while AChE activity declines. Therefore, inhibition of BuChE may provide additional benefits. The two cholinesterase (ChE) enzymes that metabolize acetylcholine (ACh) differ significantly in substrate specificity, enzyme kinetics, expression and activity in different brain regions, and complexity of gene regulation. In addition, recent evidence suggests that AChE and BuChE may have roles beyond 'classical' co-regulatory esterase functions in terminating ACh-mediated neurotransmission. 'Non-classical' roles in modulating the activity of other proteins, regional cerebral blood flow, tau phosphorylation, and the amyloid cascade may affect rates of AD progression. If these additional mechanisms are demonstrated to underlie clinically meaningful effects, modification of the over-simplistic cholinergic hypothesis in AD that is limited to symptomatic treatment, ignoring the potential of cholinergic therapies to modify the disease process, may be appropriate. The specificity of ChE inhibitory activity, up-regulation of AChE activity and changes in the composition of AChE molecular forms over time, selectivity for AD-relevant ChE molecular forms, brain vs. peripheral selectivity, and pharmacokinetic profile may be important determinants of the acute and long-term efficacy, safety and tolerability profiles of the different ChE-Is. This review focuses on new evidence for the roles of BuChE and AChE in symptom generation and rate of underlying disease progression in dementia, and argues that it may be appropriate to re-evaluate the place of ChE-Is in the treatment of dementia.
There is evidence that motor and premotor cortex are hyperexcitable in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and Tourette's syndrome (TS). We tested whether low-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) could normalize overactive motor cortical regions and thereby improve symptoms. Subjects with OCD or TS were treated with active rTMS to the supplementary motor area (SMA) for 10 daily sessions at 1 Hz, 100% of motor threshold, 1200 stimuli/day. Suggestions of clinical improvement were apparent as early as the first week of rTMS. At the second week of treatment, statistically significant reductions were seen in the YBOCS, YGTSS, CGI, HARS, HDRS, SAD, BDI, SCL-90, and SASS. Symptoms improvement was correlated with a significant increase of the right resting motor threshold and was stable at 3 months follow-up. Slow rTMS to SMA resulted in a significant clinical improvement and a normalization of the right hemisphere hyperexcitability, thereby restoring hemispheric symmetry in motor threshold.
The author discusses memory from the point of view of the neurosciences and molecular biology, proposing an integration with the psychoanalytic theory of the unconscious. The discovery of the implicit memory has extended the concept of the unconscious and supports the hypothesis that this is where the emotional and affective--sometimes traumatic--presymbolic and preverbal experiences of the primary mother-infant relations are stored. They could form the ground structure of an early unrepressed unconscious nucleus of the self. Identifying the unconscious with the memory leads to a theory about its morpho-functional organization. The unrepressed unconscious can be brought to the surface in analysis through the 'musical dimension' of the transference, characterized by the voice (its intonation and rhythm) and the prosody of the language. Dreams can symbolically transform pre-symbolic and preverbal experiences, so that they can be put into words and thought about even without their recollection. Dreams can also create images to fi ll the gap of the absence of representation which characterize the unrepressed unconscious. The description of a segment of analysis of a patient suffering from death anxiety provides a clinical illustration of the theories discussed. The interpretation of her voice and of the prosody of her language, besides the work on dreams, reproduced the emotional essence of the analysand's traumatic childhood experiences. This reconstruction enabled her to speak and think about them even without the actual recollection.

Hypothermia is the most potent neuroprotective therapy available. Clinical use of hypothermia is limited by technology and homeostatic mechanisms that maintain core body temperature. Recent advances in intravascular cooling catheters and successful trials of hypothermia for cardiac arrest revivified interest in hypothermia for stroke, resulting in Phase 1 clinical trials and plans for further development. Given the recent spate of neuroprotective therapy failures, we sought to clarify whether clinical trials of therapeutic hypothermia should be mounted in stroke patients. We reviewed the preclinical and early clinical trials of hypothermia for a variety of indications, the putative mechanisms for neuroprotection with hypothermia, and offer several hypotheses that remain to be tested in clinical trials. Therapeutic hypothermia is promising, but further Phase 1 and Phase 2 development efforts are needed to ensure that cooling of stroke patients is safe, before definitive efficacy trials.
We randomised 143 patients--age 75 years or older--with displaced femoral neck fracture to either internal fixation or total hip replacement (THR) and compared the socio-economic consequences. In the internal fixation group, 34 of 78 hips underwent secondary surgery. In the THR group, 12 of 68 hips dislocated, the majority in mentally impaired patients. We calculated the total hospital costs for two years after operation. When secondary surgery was included, there was no difference in costs between the internal fixation and THR groups, or between the mentally impaired and lucid subgroups. The costs to the community were calculated comparing the baseline cost before surgery with the average cost per month during the first postoperative year. No difference was found between the treatment groups. The Harris hip scores were higher in the THR group, and pain was more common in the internal fixation group. In lucid patients, THR gives a better clinical result at the same cost.
Somatization and abnormal illness behaviour (AIB) often co-exist, and their inter-relationship appears to be complex. Patients with somatization are often observed to demonstrate abnormal illness behaviour. On the other hand, somatization has been explained in terms of abnormal illness behaviour. The exact cause-effect or any other relationship is not fully understood. This review examines the available evidence to understand these two clinically important, common and interrelated phenomena, their measurements and management. Many studies have confirmed that occurrence of multiple somatic symptoms as the chief or presenting complaints are highly suggestive of abnormal illness behaviour. Recognition of AIB in somatoform disorders is important in order to avoid unnecessary tests, inappropriate treatment, and to prevent encouragement and reinforcement of abnormal behaviours.
Somatic symptoms can occur in disease-free cancer patients. The causes of such symptoms in cancer can be many and varied. These could be due to anxiety, depression, somatization or a manifestation of illness behaviour. Somatic symptoms can also arise out of treatments for the cancer like radiation treatment or chemotherapy. Cancer related somatic symptoms have cognitive, psychological, and physiological causes, each of which is amenable to treatment. The occurrence of somatoform disorders in cancer patients is likely to complicate the treatment and outcome of the cancer. Common somatic symptoms in cancer have been found to be pain, fatigue, anorexia, tiredness or exhaustion, weakness, reduced energy, lethargy, and tremors. Breathlessness, muscle pain, dizziness, and palpitation are common symptoms of anxiety and panic attack which have also been noted in cancer patients. Somatic concern and preoccupation are also common. These symptoms create difficulty in diagnosing depression and anxiety in cancer patients, and leads to the need for modification of the standard diagnostic criteria. Somatic symptoms in cancer respond to counselling and psychopharmacotherapy. More research are needed on this area to understand the process of somatization in a somatic disease.
Much research has recently been conducted on somatoform disorders demonstrating their clinical importance, associated health-service burden and economic cost. These conditions are often comorbid with other mental and physical disorders and particularly prevalent in primary care and general medical settings. Although culture-specific manifestations and variations of somatization occur--it is now accepted that medically unexplained somatic symptoms are a universal phenomenon. The management of somatoform disorders is generally a complex and lengthy process; however, a number of recent studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of short-term treatments such as cognitive behaviour therapy and educational interventions. Despite advances in their understanding and treatment, debate still surrounds the conceptualization and categorization of somatoform disorders, with a number of experts proposing a complete re-evaluation and reassignment of this diagnostic classification category. The following paper represents a review of recently published literature on frequency, characteristics, conceptualization, impact and management of somatoform disorders.


We posted a questionnaire on epilepsy to all 375 GPs in Cork and Kerry (population 500,000) The questionnaire consisted of 10 sections, covering areas like GP demographics, initial referral practice following a first seizure, advice given to patients and GP's attitudes towards patients with epilepsy. The main focus of the study was GP awareness of 7 of the newer anti-epileptics and their side effects. There was a response rate of 46.7% (175) and revealed that the majority (87%) initially refer patients to a neurologist for further assessment. The majority of GPs gave patients advice about driving, AED side effects, interaction with the OCP and pregnancy counselling. GP awareness of the newer anti-epileptics is very variable with Gabapentin and Lamotrigine having the highest GP awareness rates. Almost 25% of GPs would initiate treatment following a first time seizure although only 30% would change therapy initiated by a consultant neurologist. Finally the majority of GPs were unhappy with the level of access to neurologists and 95% of GPs felt that the provision of an Epilepsy Clinical Nurse Specialist would help alleviate the problem.

In this paper I discuss the nature and role of dream and the dreaming process in Jungian clinical practice in the light of neuroscience. Insights from contemporary neuroscience support rather than contest Jung's view that emotional truth, not censorship or disguise, underpins the dreaming process. I use clinical material to illustrate how work with dreams within the total interactive experience of the analytic dyad enables the development of the emotional scaffolding necessary for the development of 'mind'. Large scale evidence-based research reveals that dreaming is caused by brain activity during sleep that is both biochemically and regionally different from that of waking states. Recent imaging studies confirm that dreams are the mind's vehicle for the processing of emotional states of being, particularly the fear, anxiety, anger or elation that often figure prominently. Dream sleep is understood as also being the guardian of memory, playing a part in forgetting, encoding and affective organization of memory. In the clinical section of the paper I let a series of dreams speak for themselves, revealing the emotionally salient concerns of the dreamer, weaving past and present, transference and reality together in a way that demonstrates the healthy attempt of the brain-mind to come to terms with difficult emotional experience from the past. The dreams become dreamable as part of the meaning-making process of analysis.
Intermediate-conductance, calcium-activated, potassium (IK) channels were first identified by their roles in cell volume regulation, and were later shown to be involved in control of proliferation of lymphocytes and to provide a K+ current for epithelial secretory activity. Until now, there has been no systematic investigation of IK channel localization within different epithelia. IK channel immunoreactivity was present in most epithelia, where it occurred in surface membranes of epithelial cells. It was found in all stratified epithelia, including skin, cornea, oral mucosa, vaginal mucosa, urothelium and the oesophageal lining. It occurred in the ducts of fluid-secreting glands, the salivary glands, lacrimal glands and pancreas, and in the respiratory epithelium. A low level of expression was seen in serous acinar cells. It was also found in other epithelia with fluid-exchange properties, the choroid plexus epithelium, the ependyma, visceral pleura and peritoneum, bile ducts and intestinal lining epithelium. However, there was little or no expression in vascular endothelial cells, kidney tubules or collecting ducts, lung alveoli, or in sebaceous glands. It is concluded that the channel is present in surface epithelia (e.g. skin) where it has a cell-protective role against osmotic challenge, and in epithelia where there is anion secretion that is facilitated by a K+ current-dependent hyperpolarization. It was also in some epithelial cells where its roles are as yet unknown.

The hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is a circadian oscillator that receives glutamatergic afferents from the retina and serotonergic afferents from the midbrain. Activation of presynaptic serotonin 1B (5-HT1B) receptors on retinal terminals in the SCN inhibits retinohypothalamic neurotransmission and light-induced behavioral phase shifts. To assess the role of 5-HT1B receptors in photic entrainment, 5-HT1B receptor knockout (5-HT1B KO) and wild-type (WT) mice were maintained in non-24 h L:D cycles (T cycles). WT mice entrained to T = 21 h and T = 22 h cycles, whereas 5-HT1B KO animals did not. 5-HT1B KO animals did entrain to T = 23 h and T = 26 h cycles, although their phase angle of entrainment was altered compared to WT animals. 5-HT1B KO mice were significantly more phase delayed under T = 23 h conditions and significantly more phase advanced under T = 26 h conditions compared to WT mice. When 5-HT1B KO mice were housed in a T = 23 h short-day photoperiod (9.5L:13.5D), the delayed phase angle of entrainment was more pronounced. Light-induced phase shifts were reduced in 5-HT1B KO mice, consistent with their behavior in T cycles, suggesting an attenuated response to light. Based on previous work, this attenuated response to light might not have been predicted but can be explained by consideration of GABAergic mechanisms within the SCN. Phase-delayed circadian rhythms during the short days of winter are characteristic of patients suffering from seasonal affective disorder, and 5-HT has been implicated in its pathophysiology. The 5-HT1B KO mouse may be useful for investigating the altered entrainment evident during this serious mood disorder.

The biological bases and the clinical applications of ischaemic and anaesthetic preconditioning are reviewed. Ischaemic preconditioning is an endogenous defensive phenomenon of the myocardium in which brief periods of ischaemia followed by reperfusion reduce the infarct size induced by longer ischaemic stimuli; both an early and a late phase may be distinguished. In the early phase, the mediators released activate ATP-dependent potassium channels and kinase cascade; these enzymes migrating at the level of various subcellular structures phosphorylate some end-effectors responsible for cardioprotection. Several molecules that are involved in the regulation of cell death during ischaemia-reperfusion injury have been proposed for such a role, including mitochondrial ATP-dependent potassium channels, connexins and cytoskeletal and mitochondrial proteins. In the late phase, the triggers and mediators themselves, plus nitric oxide, are responsible for the genetic reprogramming providing a protective effect via ex-novo synthesis of proteins. Volatile halogenated anaesthetics may induce a particular sort of pharmacological preconditioning, anaesthetic preconditioning, which presents some differences in the biochemical signalling mechanism but is able to give protection comparable to the ischaemic form. Anaesthetic preconditioning presents obvious advantages compared to ischaemic preconditioning, and researchers have tried to take advantage of this in the clinical setting, in cardiac surgical patients, in neuroprotection and to prolong the survival of organs destined for transplantation.
ATP has been shown to mediate stress responses in the brain. The present study examined the ATP-stimulated stress protein expression of RBA-2 type-2 astrocytes. Our results revealed that ATP stimulated HSP60 expression in a dose- and time-dependent manner. The stimulation requires a minimal ATP concentration of 500 microM and high concentration of extracellular ATP (1 mM) stimulated a significant increase of HSP60 expression from 2 to 24 h. In addition, the ATP-stimulated HSP60 expressions were inhibited by inhibitors for protein kinase C (PKC) and phospholipase D (PLD), and by antioxidants, resveratrol, and catalase. Furthermore, ATP stimulated the expression of Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD). In addition, ATP and P2X7 receptor selective agonist BzATP also decreased mitochondria membrane potential measured by flow cytometry. To further examine the proteins involving in ATP-mediated stress responses, we conducted proteomic analysis. We found that RBA-2 astrocytes possess abundant peroxiredoxin II (Prx II), an antioxidant enzyme. ATP and exogenous H2O2 stimulated Prx II shifting from oxidized form to reduced form. Thus, we concluded that ATP potentiated the expression of HSP60 and Cu/Zn SOD, and decreased mitochondria membrane potential. In addition, RBA-2 astrocytes expressed Prx II that might also serve as a protective mechanism to control the concentration of reactive oxygen species.
The mitotic kinesin-like protein 1 (MKLP1) is specifically localized to the dendrite of the developed neuron, but its targeting mechanism is still unclear. In this study, the role of distinct domains of MKLP1 in dendritic targeting was investigated by producing a series of enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP)-tagged MKLP1 and its variant mutations, and studying the distribution of these molecules in cultured primary hippocampal neurons using fluorescence microscopy. We have found that: (a) full-length MKLP1(1-856)-eGFP was distributed to the dendrite of hippocampal neurons, not the axon; (b) deletion of the ;motor' domain prevented the dendritic distribution; (c) deletion of the ;tail' domain caused axonal appearance; (d) mutants devoid of the ;stalk' domain were still specifically distributed to the dendrite. The results indicate that the motor and tail regions of MKLP1 are important and significant for its localization to the dendrites. We also discuss the difference between the targeting of membrane-anchoring proteins and the kinesin-like protein.
Sturge-Weber syndrome is characterized by a facial port-wine nevus, leptomeningeal angiomatosis, and glaucoma; it is commonly complicated by epilepsy and hemiparesis. We present a patient with a head and neck port-wine nevus, glaucoma, abnormalities of the intracranial deep veins, and untreated communicating hydrocephalus. The patient lacks any radiologic or clinical evidence of cerebral leptomeningeal angiomatosis. Considering that intracranial venous anomalies also are likely compatible with the embryologic explanation of Sturge-Weber syndrome, this child can serve as an unusual example of Sturge-Weber syndrome type II.
Altered brain creatine-phosphocreatine levels might reflect changes in brain energy use and have been implicated in the pathogenesis of obsessive-compulsive disorder and major depressive disorder. We used proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy to measure absolute concentrations of creatine-phosphocreatine in the right and left medial thalami in 18 pediatric patients with major depressive disorder 9 to 17 years of age, 18 case-matched healthy controls, and 27 patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder 7 to 16 years old. The two patient groups were psychotropic drug naive and were not comorbid for the diagnosis of the comparison group. We found significantly increased left and right medial thalamic creatine-phosphocreatine concentrations in patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder compared with both healthy controls and patients with major depression. Creatine-phosphocreatine concentrations did not differ significantly between patients with major depression and healthy controls. Our data suggest that increased medial thalamic creatine-phosphocreatine concentrations in patients with untreated obsessive-compulsive disorder reflect altered energy use in the medial thalamus and might differentiate patients with obsessive-compulsive disorder from healthy controls and patients with major depression. Although these results must be considered preliminary, further study of the diagnostic specificity of creatine-phosphocreatine in obsessive-compulsive disorder is indicated.
Despite consensus that schizophrenia is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by cognitive deficits, objective data documenting the course of cognitive development remain sparse. We conducted a follow-back study of patients ascertained at the time of their initial episode of schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder, and a group of demographically matched healthy volunteers. We obtained school records containing standardized achievement test scores from the 1st through 12th grades, and scholastic aptitude test results from the 11th and 12th grades, and examined the developmental trajectories of cognitive performance with respect to prospective examinations conducted following participants' enrollment in our study. We found significant differences in academic achievement tests as early as the first grade, with scores from participants who would later develop schizophrenia lagging behind their peers by 0.8 to 1.1 grade equivalents. This gap widened resulting in a difference between groups of 1.5 to 1.8 grade equivalents by the 12th grade. In the subset of patients for whom SAT scores were available, we found that WAIS-R Full Scale IQ was 11.5 points lower than predicted from earlier SAT scores, suggesting a substantial decline in cognitive ability accompanying the initial episode of illness. These findings suggest that schizophrenia is marked by substantial cognitive deficits in the first grade, that there may be additional subtle decline preceding the overt onset of psychotic symptoms, and that the initial episode of illness is marked by additional decline. These observations may help advance concepts of premorbid cognitive ability in the schizophrenia syndrome and constrain models of pathophysiology.
This review deals with the indications, methods, strengths, and limitations of anorectal testing in clinical practice. In chronic constipation, anal manometry and a rectal balloon expulsion test, occasionally supplemented by defecography, are useful to identify a functional defecatory disorder, because symptoms may respond to pelvic floor retraining. In patients with fecal incontinence, diagnostic testing complements the clinical assessment for evaluating the pathophysiology and guiding management. Manometry measures anal resting and squeeze pressures, which predominantly reflect internal and external anal sphincter function, respectively. Defecation may be indirectly assessed by measuring the recto-anal pressure gradient during straining and by the rectal balloon expulsion test. Endoanal ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can identify anal sphincter structural pathology, which may be clinically occult, and/or amenable to surgical repair. Only MRI can identify external sphincter atrophy, whereas ultrasound is more sensitive for internal sphincter imaging. By characterizing rectal evacuation and puborectalis contraction, barium defecography may demonstrate an evacuation disorder, excessive perineal descent or a rectocele. Dynamic MRI can provide similar information and also image the bladder and genital organs without radiation exposure. Because the measurement of pudendal nerve latencies suffers from several limitations, anal sphincter electromyography is recommended when neurogenic sphincter weakness is suspected.
The American Society of Neurophysiological Monitoring (ASNM) is developing position statements aimed at assisting practitioners and others in making decisions regarding neurophysiological monitoring practice. This paper describes the procedures used in drafting these documents.
Objective. There are two objectives of this study. The first is to understand how practitioners of differing backgrounds approach the process of interpreting intra-operative neurophysiologic monitoring. The second is to understand whether the experience and educational background of practitioners influences the degree of agreement in their interpretations. Methods. A survey was distributed at the 2004 American Society of Neurophysiological Monitoring meeting. A total of 92 responses were obtained. The effect that various characteristics of the respondents including their experience, degree, certification and role in monitoring had on a number of outcome measures was assessed. These outcome measures included the probability that the surgeon responded to a warning, the chance that the patient would wake without a deficit after a warning was delivered, and the degree to which respondents agreed on interpretations of SSEP traces. Results. It was found that surgeons were more likely to respond to warnings issued by a monitrist with a higher degree of experience. Respondents with higher levels of experience, certification level, and degree level were more likely to agree on interpretations of evoked potential tracings. Overall, however, the degree of agreement between respondents was at most moderate. Respondents with higher levels of experience and training were more likely to provide correct answers to a subset of traces that were designed to reflect a classic pattern of change. Conclusions. This study indicates the need for additional studies on the criteria for providing warnings during IOM and the characteristics of monitrists that influence their interpretations.
Currently the majority of neurological clinical trials are initiated by industry. Their purpose is largely promotional. There is a need for conducting investigator-initiated trials, which are disease oriented, and try to answer questions related to problems in diagnosis, investigation and therapy, in addition to the comparative benefits individual preparations. Head to head studies of new drugs also need consideration, as the majority of trials leading to Government approval are not necessarily designed to answer questions of clinical concern. A uniform procedure to correct this situation may represent a positive step in enhancing the stature and quality of neurological research in Australia, at no significant loss of funding for the investigator.
At certain moments in clinical practice, one can seem to possess the powers of a Sherlock Holmes to search out clues and deduce the diagnosis. Many neurologists are aware of links between the workings of detective fiction and the methods of problem-solving in neurological cases. One similarity concerns the professional counterpart of the conventional detective story, the single case report.
With the announcement by William Lennox at the 1935 London International Neurology Congress of the use of electroencephalography in the study of epilepsy, it became evident that a new and powerful technique for the investigation of seizures had been discovered. William Grey Walter, a young researcher finishing his post-graduate studies at Cambridge, was selected to construct and study the EEG in clinical neurology at the Maudsley Hospital, London. His hugely productive pioneering career in the use of EEG would eventually lead to groundbreaking work in other fields --the emerging sciences of robotics, cybernetics, and early work in artificial intelligence. In this historical note his pioneering work in the fields of clinical neurophysiology is documented, both in the areas of epileptology and tumour detection. His landmark contributions to clinical neurophysiology are worthy of documentation.
This article reviews the literature on the use of &quot;no-suicide contracts&quot; in clinical practice, including conceptual discussions, patient and clinician surveys, and a few empirical studies on clinical utility. Our primary conclusion is that no-suicide contracts suffer from a broad range of conceptual, practical, and empirical problems. Most significantly, they have no empirical support for their effectiveness in the clinical environment. The authors provide and illustrate the commitment to treatment statement as a practice alternative to the no-suicide contract.
This article reviews and integrates empirically grounded advances in the assessment of suicidality. The practices discussed are consistent with existing standards of care, practice guidelines, and applicable research. The authors differentiate between risk assessment and prediction and then emphasize the important role of time in risk assessment. We present and illustrate a continuum of suicidality for risk assessment and offer practical recommendations for clinical decision making and treatment.
This issue of the Journal of Clinical Psychology: In Session is devoted to suicidality in clinical practice, with coverage of a broad range of topics. After summarizing some of the problems and recent advances in clinical suicidology, I provide a brief overview of the articles. Included are the more broadly defined issues of risk management and psychotherapy with suicidal individuals, along with more specific topics such as risk assessment, no-suicide contracts, and the risk of suicide with the use of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) by children and adolescents. Most of the articles feature case vignettes and provide practitioners with clinical recommendations, and all of the articles have clear and important clinical implications.
Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a serious mental illness which exhibits significant impairment of psychosocial and occupational function. At present, serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRIs) show therapeutic promise for the treatment of PTSD. However, results in the veteran population have been less robust or often negative. In this study, a relatively new and the most selective SRI, citalopram, was evaluated for the treatment of PTSD. Veterans with chronic PTSD (N = 18) were enrolled in an 8-week open trial of citalopram after providing written informed consent. The primary outcome measures were the Clinician-Administered PTSD Scale (CAPS), the Hamilton Rating Scale for Anxiety (HAM-A), and the Clinical Global Impression Scale (CGI). Seventeen patients completed at least 4 weeks of the 8-week trial. During treatment, there was a moderate response with 42% of patients demonstrating a &gt; or =30% reduction in total CAPS score at week 8. Comparable results were demonstrated in the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D), HAM-A, Global Assessment of Function (GAF), and CGI rating scales. In a follow-up analysis, a treatment effect was shown for CAPS B at week 4, but was not sustained at week 8. Overall, citalopram was generally well tolerated with reported adverse events being benign in nature. These pilot results demonstrate a moderate effect of citalopram in the treatment of combat-induced PTSD. However, the sample size was small and patient population is limited to veterans with combat-induced PTSD. Further study in a larger and more diverse patient sample is warranted prior to final conclusions on efficacy of citalopram for the treatment of PTSD.

The purpose of our study was to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of low-dose olanzapine augmentation in selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI)-resistant panic disorder (PD) with or without agoraphobia. In this 12-week, open-label study, 31 adult outpatients with treatment-resistant PD who had previously failed to respond to SSRI treatment were treated with fixed dose of olanzapine (5 mg/d) in addition to SSRI. Efficacy was assessed using the Panic Attack and Anticipatory Anxiety Scale (PAAAS), the Agoraphobic Cognitions Questionnaire (ACQ), the Hamilton Rating Scale for Anxiety (HAM-A), the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D), the Global Assessment of Functioning Scale (GAF), and the Clinical Global Impression of Improvement (CGI-I). Twenty-six patients completed the trial period with a dropout rate of 16.1%. At week 12, 21 patients were responders (81.8%), and an overall improvement on all rating scales was observed in all patients both with or without agoraphobia. Fifteen patients (57.7%) achieved remission. Olanzapine was well tolerated and the most frequent adverse effects were mild-to-moderate weight gain and drowsiness. No extrapyramidal symptoms were reported. Olanzapine appears to be effective as augmentation strategy in the treatment of SSRI-resistant PD, but study limitations must be considered and placebo-controlled studies are needed.

Selective attention may be focused upon a region of interest within the visual surroundings, thereby improving the perceptual quality of stimuli at that location. It has been debated whether this spatially selective mechanism plays a role in the attentive selection of whole objects in a visual scene. The relationship between spatial and object-selective attention was investigated here through recordings of event-related brain potentials (ERPs) supplemented with functional magnetic brain imaging (fMRI). Subjects viewed a display consisting of two bar-shaped objects and directed attention to sequences of stimuli (brief corner offsets) at one end of one of the bars. Unattended stimuli belonging to the same object as the attended stimuli elicited spatiotemporal patterns of neural activity in the visual cortex closely resembling those elicited by the attended stimuli themselves, albeit smaller in amplitude. This enhanced neural activity associated with object-selective attention was localized by use of ERP dipole modeling and fMRI to the lateral occipital extrastriate cortex. We conclude that object-selective attention shares a common neural mechanism with spatial attention that entails the facilitation of sensory processing of stimuli within the boundaries of an attended object.
The idea that extensive musical training can influence processing in cognitive domains other than music has received considerable attention from the educational system and the media. Here we analyzed behavioral data and recorded event-related brain potentials (ERPs) from 8-year-old children to test the hypothesis that musical training facilitates pitch processing not only in music but also in language. We used a parametric manipulation of pitch so that the final notes or words of musical phrases or sentences were congruous, weakly incongruous, or strongly incongruous. Musician children outperformed nonmusician children in the detection of the weak incongruity in both music and language. Moreover, the greatest differences in the ERPs of musician and nonmusician children were also found for the weak incongruity: whereas for musician children, early negative components developed in music and late positive components in language, no such components were found for nonmusician children. Finally, comparison of these results with previous ones from adults suggests that some aspects of pitch processing are in effect earlier in music than in language. Thus, the present results reveal positive transfer effects between cognitive domains and shed light on the time course and neural basis of the development of prosodic and melodic processing.
We serendipitously found a distal Disabled-1 (Dab1)-immunoreactive cell in retina of the C57BL/6J black mouse. The somata of these cells are located in the outermost part of the inner nuclear layer (INL). Their processes extend toward the outer plexiform layer (OPL), receiving synaptic inputs from horizontal and interplexiform cells. In the current study, we name this cell the &quot;distal Dab1-immunoreactive cell.&quot; Double-labeling experiments demonstrate that the distal Dab1-immunoreactive cell is not a horizontal cell. Rather, the distal Dab1 cell appears to be a misplaced AII cell, by being glycine transporter-1-immunoreactive and by resembling the latter cell in an electron microscopic analysis. A distal Dab1 cell had been reported in the FVB/N mouse retina, a model of retinitis pigmentosa (Park et al. [2004] Cell Tissue Res 315:407-412). However, here, we found this distal Dab1-immunoreactive cell in the adult and normal developing mouse retinas. Hence, we show that such cells do not require the loss of photoreceptors as suggested previously (Park et al. [2004] Cell Tissue Res 315:407-412). Instead, two other pieces of data suggest an alternative explanation sources for distal Dab1 cells. First, we find a correlation between the number of these cells in the left and right eyes Second, developmental analysis shows that the distal Dab1-immunoreactive cell is first observed shortly after birth. At the same time, AII cells emerge, extending their neurites into the inner retina. These data suggest that distal Dab1-immunoreactive cells are misplaced AII amacrine cells, resulting from genetically modulated anomalies owing to migration errors.
The generation of emotional responses by the basolateral amygdala is determined largely by the balance of excitatory and inhibitory inputs to its principal neurons, the pyramidal cells. The activity of these neurons is tightly controlled by gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic interneurons, especially a parvalbumin-positive (PV(+)) subpopulation that constitutes almost half of all interneurons in the basolateral amygdala. In the present semiquantitative investigation, we studied the incidence of synaptic inputs of PV(+) axon terminals onto pyramidal neurons in the rat basolateral nucleus (BLa). Pyramidal cells were identified by using calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMK) immunoreactivity as a marker. To appreciate the relative abundance of PV(+) inputs compared with excitatory inputs and other non-PV(+) inhibitory inputs, we also analyzed the proportions of asymmetrical (presumed excitatory) synapses and symmetrical (presumed inhibitory) synapses formed by unlabeled axon terminals targeting pyramidal neurons. The results indicate that the perisomatic region of pyramidal cells is innervated almost entirely by symmetrical synapses, whereas the density of asymmetrical synapses increases as one proceeds from thicker proximal dendritic shafts to thinner distal dendritic shafts. The great majority of synapses with dendritic spines are asymmetrical. PV(+) axon terminals form mainly symmetrical synapses. These PV(+) synapses constitute slightly more than half of the symmetrical synapses formed with each postsynaptic compartment of BLa pyramidal cells. These data indicate that the synaptology of basolateral amygdalar pyramidal cells is remarkably similar to that of cortical pyramidal cells and that PV(+) interneurons provide a robust inhibition of both the perisomatic and the distal dendritic domains of these principal neurons.
Differences in the play behavior of 2 strains of rats suggest that different components of play fighting can be modified independently. The development of play fighting in cross-strain pairs of familiar and unfamiliar rats was examined to determine whether interacting with a non-congruent pair-mate would alter the pattern of play typical for each strain. In both strains, changes in play fighting were observed throughout development, but partner identity appeared to influence play fighting in different ways depending on age. These data suggest that some components of play may be more impervious to changes in social environment than other components.
Neuroimaging studies have frequently observed relatively high activity in medial rostral prefrontal cortex (PFC) during rest or baseline conditions. Some accounts have attributed this high activity to the occurrence of unconstrained stimulus-independent and task-unrelated thought processes during baseline conditions. Here, the authors investigated the alternative possibility that medial rostral PFC supports attention toward the external environment during low-demand conditions. Participants performed a baseline simple reaction time (RT) task, along with 3 other tasks that differed in the requirement to attend to external stimuli versus stimulus-independent thought. Medial rostral PFC activation was observed in the baseline task and in a condition requiring strong engagement with external stimuli, relative to 2 conditions with a greater requirement for stimulus-independent thought. An important finding was that activity in this region was associated with faster RTs in the baseline task, ruling out an explanation in terms of task-unrelated thought processes during this condition. Thus, at least under certain circumstances, medial rostral PFC appears to support attention toward the external environment, facilitating performance in situations that do not require extensive processing of experimental stimuli.




Neuroscience and technological medicine in general increasingly faces us with the imminent reality of cyborgs-integrated part human and part machine complexes. If my brain functions in a way that is supported by and exploits intelligent technology both external and implantable, then how should I be treated and what is my moral status-am I a machine or am I a person? I explore a number of scenarios where the balance between human and humanoid machine shifts, and ask questions about the moral status of the individuals concerned. The position taken is very much in accordance with the Aristotelian idea that our moral behaviour is of a piece with our social and personal skills and forms a reactive and reflective component of those skills.
Progress in neuroscience will allow us to reveal the neuronal correlates of psychological processes involved in ethically relevant notions such as informed consent. Informed consent involves decision making, the psychological and neural processes of which have been investigated extensively in neuroscience. The neuroscience of decision making may be able to contribute to an ethics of informed consent by providing empirical and thus descriptive criteria. Since, however, descriptive criteria must be distinguished from normative criteria, the neuroscience of decision making cannot replace the ethics of informed consent. Instead, the neuroscience of decision making could complement the current ethics, resulting in what can be called neuroethics of informed consent. It is concluded that current progress in the neurosciences could complement and change the way in which we approach ethical problems in neuropsychiatry.

The gating-spring theory of hair cell mechanotransduction channel activation was first postulated over twenty years ago. The basic tenets of this hypothesis have been reaffirmed in hair cells from both auditory and vestibular systems and across species. In fact, the basic findings have been reproduced in every hair cell type tested. A great deal of information regarding the structural, mechanical, molecular and biophysical properties of the sensory hair bundle and the mechanotransducer channel has accumulated over the past twenty years. The goal of this review is to investigate new data, using the gating spring hypothesis as the framework for discussion. Mechanisms of channel gating are presented in reference to the need for a molecular gating spring or for tethering to the intra- or extracellular compartments. Dynamics of the sensory hair bundle and the presence of motor proteins are discussed in reference to passive contributions of the hair bundle to gating compliance. And finally, the molecular identity of the channel is discussed in reference to known intrinsic properties of the native transducer channel.
The genomic structure and transcriptional regulation of the rat apelin receptor (APJR) were analysed by rapid amplification of 5' cDNA ends (5'-RACE), transient expression assays and DNA-protein interaction. Analysis of the 5'-flanking region of a rat genomic clone shows no TATA box, but a putative CAAT box and several putative binding sites for transcription factors are present. Two transcriptional start sites were identified by 5'-RACE, RNase protection and primer extension analyses. Promoter activity was exhibited in the APJR- expressing SH-SY5Y cell line as well as in COS-7 and Chinese hamster ovary (CHO-K1) cells. Consecutive 5'-deletion analysis revealed the highest promoter activity in a region between bp -966 and -165. DNaseI footprint analysis revealed seven protected regions and electrophoretic mobility shift, super-shift and competition assays identified individual DNA-protein complexes capable of binding Sp1, estrogen receptor (ER)alpha, glucocorticoid receptor and CCAAT enhancer binding protein (C/EBP)gamma transcription factors. Site-directed mutagenesis identified an individual Sp1 motif that plays a major role in activation of the APJR promoter and also demonstrated constitutive transcriptional regulation of the promoter by estrogen and glucocorticoid receptors. Promoter regulation by the cAMP-dependent signal cascade was also shown.
Biochemical, genetic and imaging studies support the involvement of the serotonin (5-HT) system in anorexia nervosa. Activity-based anorexia (ABA) is considered an animal model of anorexia nervosa, and combines scheduled feeding with voluntary running wheel activity (RWA). We investigated the effect of d-fenfluramine (d-FEN) treatment on development and propagation of ABA. d-FEN is an appetite suppressant and acts on 5-HT(2C) receptors that are located on pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) neurons in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus. Since stimulation activation of the melanocortin system stimulates ABA, we hypothesized that d-FEN treatment enhances the development and propagation of ABA. Rats were exposed to the ABA model and chronically infused with d-FEN. Unexpectedly, d-FEN-treated ABA rats did not reduce food intake or increase wheel running as compared with vehicle-treated ABA rats. Furthermore d-FEN treatment did not affect body weight loss, hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal axis activation, or starvation-induced hypothermia in ABA rats. POMC mRNA levels in d-FEN-treated rats were not different from vehicle-treated rats after one week of exposure to the ABA paradigm. However, d-FEN-treated ABA rats showed hypodypsia and increased plasma osmolality and arginine-vasopressin expression levels in the hypothalamus. We conclude that d-FEN treatment does not enhance ABA under the experimental conditions of this study, but strongly reduces water intake in ABA rats.
A number of transcription factors have been implicated in the development of the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system (HNS). Null mutations for these factors caused severe defects in proliferation, migration and survival during early embryogenesis. While they have informed about early events of HNS developments no insights in mechanisms of late development and maturation of this major peptidergic system have been obtained as yet. In a screen for adult-expressed homeobox genes we identified Uncx4.1 as a gene expressed in adult and embryonic magnocellular neurons of the (HNS). Null mutation of Uncx4.1 left these neurons viable and able to express neuropeptides. However, the connectivity of magnocellular neurons with posterior pituitary elements was compromised. As a consequence neuronal fibres traversed to the adenohypophysis. The penetrance of this phenotype was about 50%. The data show a selective role of Uncx4.1 in controlling the development of connections of hypothalamic neurons to pituitary elements, allowing central neurons to reach the peripheral blood circulation and to deliver hormones for control of peripheral functions.
C57/BL6 mice were administered either 7.5 mg Fe(2+)/kg or vehicle (saline) postnatally on days 10-12 after birth. From 61 days of age onwards for 21 days, groups of mice were administered either clozapine (1 or 5 mg/kg, s.c.) or haloperidol (1 mg/kg, s.c.) or vehicle (Tween-80). Twenty-four hours after the final injection of either neuroleptic compound or vehicle, spontaneous motor activity was measured over a 60-min interval. Following this, each animal was removed, injected apomorphine (1 mg/kg, s.c.) and replaced in the same test chamber. It was found that postnatal administration of Fe(2+) at the 7.5 mg/kg dose level reduced activity during the initial 20-min periods (0-20 and 20-40 min) and then induced hyperactivity during the final 20-min period over all three parameters of activity. Subchronic treatment with the higher, 5 mg/kg, dose of clozapine abolished or attenuated the hypoactivity in by postnatal Fe(2+) during the 1(st) two 20-min periods over all three parameters of activity. Subchronic treatment with the higher, 5 mg/kg, dose of clozapine abolished or attenuated the hyperactivity in by postnatal Fe(2+) during the 3(rd) and final 20-min period. Subchronic administration of haloperidol, without postnatal iron, increased the level of both locomotion (1(st) 20 min) and rearing (2(nd) 20 min) activity. Postnatal administration of Fe(2+) at the 7.5 mg/kg dose increased the levels of both locomotion and rearing, but not total activity, following administration of apomorphine (1 mg/kg). Subchronic administration of clozapine, at both the 1 and 5 mg/kg doses, reduced the increased locomotor activity caused by postnatal Fe(2+), whereas clozapine, 5 mg/kg, elevated further the postnatal Fe(2+)-induced increased in rearing. Subchronic administration of clozapine, at both the 1 and 5 mg/kg doses, and haloperidol, 1 mg/kg, increased the level of locomotor following administration of apomorphine (1 mg/kg) in mice treated postnatally with vehicle, whereas only clozapine increased the level of rearing. Correlational analyses indicated that both apomorphine-induced locomotion and rearing were highly correlated with the total iron content in the basal ganglia, thereby offering direct evidence of the linear relationship between iron content in the basal ganglia and the behavioural expression of DA D(2)-receptor supersensitivity in mice.
After our initial report of a mammalian gene for arginine decarboxylase, an enzyme for the synthesis of agmatine from arginine, we have determined the regional expression of ADC in rat. We have analyzed the expression of ADC in rat brain regions by activity, protein and mRNA levels, and the regulation of expression in neuronal cells by RNA interference. In rat brain, ADC was widely expressed in major brain regions, with a substantial amount in hypothalamus, followed by cortex, and with least amounts in locus coeruleus and medulla. ADC mRNA was detected in primary astrocytes and C6 glioma cells. While no ADC message was detected in fresh neurons (3 days old), significant message appeared in differentiated neurons (3 weeks old). PC12 cells, treated with nerve growth factor, had higher ADC mRNA compared with naive cells. The siRNA mixture directed towards the N-terminal regions of ADC cDNA down-regulated the levels of mRNA and protein in cultured neurons/C6 glioma cells and these cells produced lower agmatine. Thus, this study demonstrates that ADC message is expressed in rat brain regions, that it is regulated in neuronal cells and that the down-regulation of ADC activity by specific siRNA leads to lower agmatine production.
The potent gliogenic and neurotrophic fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-2 signals through a receptor complex comprising high-affinity FGF receptor (FGFR)1 with heparan sulphate proteoglycans (HSPGs) as co-receptors. We examined the intracellular dynamics of FGF-2, FGFR1 and the HSPGs syndecan-2 and -3, glypican-1 and -2, and perlecan in neurones and glia in and around adult rat cerebral wounds. In the intact cerebral cortex, FGF-2 and FGFR1 mRNA and protein were constitutively expressed in astrocytes and neurones respectively. FGF-2 protein was localized exclusively to astrocyte nuclei. After injury, expression of FGF-2 mRNA was up-regulated only in astrocytes, whereas FGFR1 mRNA expression was increased in both glia and neurones, a disparity indicating that FGF-2 may act as a paracrine and autocrine factor for neurones and glia respectively. FGF-2 protein localized to both cytoplasm and nuclei of injury-responsive neurones and glia. There was weak or no staining of HSPGs in the normal cerebral neuropil and glia nuclei, with a few immunopositive neurones. Specific HSPGs responded to injury by differentially co-localizing with trafficked intracellular FGF-2 and FGFR1. The spatiotemporal dynamics of FGF-2-FGFR1-HSPG complex formation implies a role for individual HSPGs in regulating FGF-2 storage, nuclear trafficking and cell-specific injury responses in CNS wounds.
Parkinson's disease is a common neurodegenerative disorder with a mainly sporadic aetiology, although a number of monogenic familiar forms are known. Most of the motor symptoms are due to selective depletion of dopaminergic, neuromelanin-containing neurones of the substantia nigra pars compacta. Neuromelanin is the dark insoluble macromolecule that confers the black (substantia nigra) or grey (locus coeruleus) colour to monoaminergic basal ganglia. In particular, nigral neurones are pigmented because of the accumulation of by-products of oxidative metabolism of the neurotransmitter dopamine. The occurrence of dopamine (and all the enzymatic machinery required for dopamine synthesis, re-uptake and disposal) and neuromelanin, and a large amount of iron ions that interact with them, makes dopaminergic nigral neurones peculiarly susceptible to oxidative stress conditions that, in turn, may become amplified by the iron-neuromelanin system itself. In this mini-review we describe biophysical evidence for iron-neuromelanin modifications that support this hypothesis. Furthermore, we discuss the formation of the covalent linkage between alpha-synuclein and neuromelanin from the early stages of the disease.
Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) protein, phosphorylated at serine-40, serine-31 and serine-19, and enzyme catalytic activity were compared under basal conditions and in activated nigrostriatal dopamine (NSDA) neurons of wild-type and homozygous alpha-synuclein knockout mice. Mice were injected with the D2 antagonist raclopride to stimulate NSDA neuronal activity in the presence or absence of supplemental l-tyrosine. There was no difference in phosphorylated TH levels or TH catalytic activity between wild-type and alpha-synuclein knockout mice under basal conditions or following raclopride-induced acceleration of NSDA activity. In wild-type animals, tyrosine administration potentiated the raclopride-induced increase in phosphorylated TH and enzyme activity. However, tyrosine administration did not enhance phosphorylated TH levels or enzyme catalytic activity in raclopride-stimulated NSDA neurons in alpha-synuclein knockout mice. These findings suggest that alpha-synuclein plays a role in the ability of tyrosine to either enhance TH phosphorylation or hinder TH inactivation during accelerated neuronal activity. The present study supports the hypothesis that alpha-synuclein functions as a molecular chaperone protein that regulates the phosphorylation state of TH in a substrate and activity-dependent manner.
Sex-related brain injury was evaluated after unilateral hypoxia-ischaemia (HI) in C57/BL6 mice on postnatal day (P) 5, 9, 21 or 60, corresponding developmentally to premature, term, juvenile and adult human brains. There was no sex difference in brain injury when the insult was severe, as evaluated by pathological scoring or tissue loss, but when the insult was moderate, adult (P60) females displayed less injury. In the immature (P9) male brains, neurones displayed a more pronounced translocation of apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) (loss of AIF from the mitochondrial fraction and increase in nuclear AIF) after HI, whereas the female brain neurones displayed a stronger activation of caspase 3 (more pronounced loss of pro-caspase 3, increase in cleaved caspase 3 and increase in caspase 3 enzymatic activity). Two other mechanisms of injury, peroxynitrite-induced formation of nitrotyrosine and autophagy, were no different between males and females at P9. These data show that the CNS is more resistant to HI in adult females compared with males, whereas no sex differences were found in the extent of injury in neonatal mice. However, critical sex-dependent differences were demonstrated in vivo with regard to cellular, apoptosis-related mechanisms.
The mechanism underlying somatodendritic release of dopamine (DA) appears to differ from that of axon-terminal release. Specifically, somatodendritic DA release in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) persists in low extracellular Ca2+ concentrations that are insufficient to support axonal release in striatum, suggesting that limited Ca2+ entry is necessary to trigger somatodendritic release. Here, we compared the role of voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels in mediating DA release in striatum versus SNc using specific blockers of N-, P/Q-, T-, R- and L-type Ca2+ channels individually and in combination. Release of DA evoked by a single stimulus pulse in the dorsal striatum and SNc of guinea-pig brain slices was monitored in real time using carbon-fiber microelectrodes with fast-scan cyclic voltammetry. Single-pulse evoked DA release was shown to be independent of regulation by concurrently released glutamate or GABA acting at ionotropic receptors in both regions. Under these conditions, striatal DA release was completely prevented by an N-type channel blocker, omega-conotoxin GVIA (100 nm), and was decreased by 75% by the P/Q-type channel blocker omega-agatoxin IVA (200 nm). Blockade of T-type channels with Ni2+ (100 microm) or R-type channels with SNX-482 (100 nm) decreased axonal release in striatum by 25%, whereas inhibition of L-type channels with nifedipine (20 microm) had no effect. By contrast, none of these Ca2+-channel blockers altered the amplitude of somatodendritic DA release in the SNc. Even a cocktail of all blockers tested did not alter release-signal amplitude in the SNc, although the duration of the release response was curtailed. The limited involvement of voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels in somatodendritic DA release provides further evidence that minimal Ca2+ entry is required to trigger the release process, compared with that required for axon-terminal release.
Neprilysin (NEP, EP24.11), a metallopeptidase originally shown to modulate signalling events by degrading small regulatory peptides, is also an amyloid-beta- (Abeta) degrading enzyme. We investigated a possible role of NEP in inclusion body myositis (IBM) and other acquired and hereditary muscle disorders and found that in all myopathies NEP expression was directly associated with the degree of muscle fibre regeneration. In IBM muscle, NEP protein was also strongly accumulated in Abeta-bearing abnormal fibres. In vitro, during the experimental differentiation of myoblasts, NEP protein expression was regulated at the post-transcriptional level with a rapid increase in the early stage of myoblast differentiation followed by a gradual reduction thereafter, coincident with the progression of the myogenic programme. Treatment of differentiating muscle cells with the NEP inhibitor dl-3-mercapto-2-benzylpropanoylglycine resulted in impaired differentiation that was mainly associated with an abnormal regulation of Akt activation. Therefore, NEP may play an important role during muscle cell differentiation, possibly through the regulation, either directly or indirectly, of the insulin-like growth factor I-driven myogenic programme. In IBM muscle increased NEP may be instrumental in (i) reducing the Abeta accumulation in vulnerable fibres and (ii) promoting a repair/regenerative attempt of muscle fibres possibly through the modulation of insulin-like growth factor I-dependent pathways.
We studied the role of 5-HT(1A) receptors in controlling the release of glutamate (GLU) in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) of conscious rats with the in vivo microdialysis technique. The effect of the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin infused in the prefrontal cortex was examined under basal conditions and on the rise of extracellular GLU (+106%) induced by co-infusion of the competitive N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist 3-[(R)-2-carboxypiperazin-4yl]-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP). 8-OH-DPAT (0.3 and 3 microm) had no effect on basal extracellular GLU, but the higher concentration completely abolished the rise of extracellular GLU induced by CPP. CPP also increased extracellular serotonin (5-HT) in the mPFC (+50%) and this effect was antagonized by 3 microm 8-OH-DPAT which, by itself, had no effect on basal 5-HT release. The effects of 8-OH-DPAT on extracellular GLU and 5-HT were reversed by the 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist WAY100 635 (100 microm), indicating a selective involvement of 5-HT(1A) receptors. WAY100 635 had no effect by itself. These results show that the stimulation of cortical 5-HT(1A) receptors prevents the CPP-evoked rise of extracellular GLU and 5-HT and suggest that these effects may contribute to the ability of intracortical 8-OH-DPAT to counteract cognitive deficits caused by the blockade of NMDA receptors.
Tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) is the rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of the neurotransmitter serotonin (5-HT). Once thought to be a single gene product, TPH is now known to exist in two isoforms. Isoform 1 (TPH1) is found in the pineal gland and gut, and isoform 2 (TPH2) is selectively expressed in brain. A single-nucleotide polymorphism in TPH2 results in a proline-to-arginine mutation at residue 447 and substantially lowers catalytic activity. In view of the importance of TPH in determining brain 5-HT function, we cloned TPH2 and produced the P447R mutant to assess the importance of this proline in enzyme function. Catalytically active TPH2 and the P447R mutant were expressed at the predicted subunit molecular mass of 56 kDa. The P447R mutant expressed less than 50% of the activity of TPH2. Mutation of this conserved proline in TPH1 (P403R) also resulted in an enzyme with significantly lower activity than the wild-type enzyme. The P447R mutant had a V(max) 50% lower than that of TPH2. The P447R mutation did not alter the oligomeric assembly of the protein, nor change its responsiveness to cysteine modification. The P447R mutation did not alter enzyme substrate specificity or stability, but conferred slightly enhanced sensitivity to inhibition by dopamine and diminished sensitivity to iron in catalysis. The conserved proline in TPH (residue 447 in TPH2 and 403 in TPH1) plays an important role in enzyme function by regulating V(max) of the catalytic reaction.
HuD is a neuronal-specific RNA-binding protein that binds to and stabilizes the mRNAs of growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43) and other neuronal proteins. HuD expression increases during brain development, nerve regeneration, and learning and memory, suggesting that this protein is important for controlling gene expression during developmental and adult plasticity. To examine the function of HuD in vivo, we generated transgenic mice overexpressing human HuD under the control of the calcium-calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IIalpha promoter. The transgene was expressed at high levels throughout the forebrain, including the hippocampal formation, amygdala and cerebral cortex. Using quantitative in situ hybridization, we found that HuD overexpression led to selective increases in GAP-43 mRNA in hippocampal dentate granule cells and neurons in the lateral amygdala and layer V of the neorcortex. In contrast, GAP-43 pre-mRNA levels were unchanged or decreased in the same neuronal populations. Comparison of the levels of mature GAP-43 mRNA and pre-mRNA in the same neurons of transgenic mice suggested that HuD increased the stability of the transcript. Confirming this, mRNA decay assays revealed that the GAP-43 mRNA was more stable in brain extracts from HuD transgenic mice than non-transgenic littermates. In conclusion, our results demonstrate that HuD overexpression is sufficient to increase GAP-43 mRNA stability in vivo.
Remyelination is an important aspect of nerve regeneration after nerve injury but the underlying mechanisms are not fully understood. The neurotrophin receptor, p75(NTR), in activated Schwann cells in the Wallerian degenerated nerve is up-regulated and may play a role in the remyelination of regenerating peripheral nerves. In the present study, the role of p75(NTR) in remyelination of the sciatic nerve was investigated in p75(NTR) mutant mice. Histological results showed that the number of myelinated axons and thickness of myelin sheath in the injured sciatic nerves were reduced in mutant mice compared with wild-type mice. The myelin sheath of axons in the intact sciatic nerve of adult mutant mice is also thinner than that of wild-type mice. Real-time RT-PCR showed that mRNA levels for myelin basic protein and P0 in the injured sciatic nerves were significantly reduced in p75(NTR) mutant animals. Western blots also showed a significant reduction of P0 protein in the injured sciatic nerves of mutant animals. These results suggest that p75(NTR) is important for the myelinogenesis during the regeneration of peripheral nerves after injury.
This study examined the effects of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) agonist RU28362 on stress-induced gene expression in the pituitary of rats to investigate mechanisms of glucocorticoid negative feedback in vivo. In an initial experiment, acute restraint stress produced rapid (within 15 min) induction of c-fos mRNA, zif268 mRNA and pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) hnRNA within the anterior and intermediate/posterior pituitary as determined by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Treatment with RU28362 (150 microg/kg, i.p.) 60 min before restraint inhibited adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) and corticosterone secretion and selectively suppressed the stress-induced increase in POMC hnRNA in the anterior pituitary gland. The failure of RU28362 to surpress the stress-induced rise in c-fos and expression of zif268 mRNA suggests that the central release of ACTH secretagogues was not affected at this time point by treatment with the GR agonist. Rather, the inhibition of ACTH release appeared to be due to a direct effect of RU28362 within the pituitary. A follow-up time-course study varied the interval (10, 60 or 180 min) between RU28362 pretreatment and the onset of restraint. The stress-induced increase in POMC hnRNA was completely blunted by RU28362 treatment within 10 min of treatment, although the stress induced hormone secretion, c-fos mRNA and zif268 mRNA were unaffected. The rapid inhibition of the stress-induced rise in POMC hnRNA in the anterior pituitary appears to reflect direct, GR-mediated suppression of POMC gene expression. RU28362 pretreatment 180 min before restraint onset was sufficient to suppress the stress-induced expression in the anterior pituitary gland of all three genes examined. Thus, the delayed negative feedback effects on hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activity that emerged after 180 min after glucocorticoid treatment were not evident at 60 min. Taken together, the data suggest that the inhibition of the stress-induced release of ACTH apparent within the first hour of glucocorticoid exposure is effected at the level of the pituitary gland. The delayed glucocorticoid effects evident 180 min after RU28362 treatment may include glucocorticoid actions in the brain and additional actions within the pituitary.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression is strongly regulated by adrenocorticosteroids via activated gluco- and mineralocorticoid receptors. Four separate promoters are located upstream of the BDNF noncoding exons I to IV and may thus be involved in adrenocorticosteroid-mediated gene regulation. In adrenalectomised rats, corticosterone (10 mg/kg s.c.) induces a robust down-regulation of both BDNF mRNA and protein levels in the hippocampus peaking at 2-8 h. To study the role of the individual promoters in the corticosterone response, we employed exon-specific riboprobe in situ hybridisation as well as real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in the dentate gyrus. We found a down-regulation, mainly of exon IV and the protein-coding exon V, in nearby all hippocampal subregions, but exon II was only down-regulated in the dentate gyrus. Exon I and exon III transcripts were not affected by corticosterone treatment. The results could be confirmed with real-time PCR in the dentate gyrus. It appears as if the exon IV promoter is the major target for corticosterone-mediated transcriptional regulation of BDNF in the hippocampus.
Variation in the cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4) gene plays a significant role in determining susceptibility to autoimmune thyroid disease and type 1 diabetes. Its role in multiple sclerosis is more controversial. In order to explore this logical candidate more thoroughly, we genotyped 771 multiple sclerosis trio families from the United Kingdom for the 3' untranslated region variable number tandem repeat, the CT60 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) and five haplotype-tagging SNPs. No individual marker or common haplotype showed evidence of association with disease. These data suggest that any effect of CTLA-4 on multiple sclerosis susceptibility is likely to be very small.
The immunosuppressive nature of glucocorticoids has been well documented both in vitro and in vivo. This glucocorticoid-mediated immunosuppression has also been observed in immune cells within the central nervous system (CNS). For example, microglia have previously been shown to exhibit decreased proliferation, cytokine production, and antigen presentation upon treatment with glucocorticoids in vitro. Despite these in vitro findings, the impact of glucocorticoids on microglia function in vivo has not been fully investigated. To determine the interaction between glucocorticoids and microglia within the CNS, we used a restraint model of psychological stress to elevate corticosterone levels in mice. Quantification of microglia from stressed mice indicated that four sessions of stress induced the proliferation of microglia. This proliferation was a function of corticosterone-induced activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor within the CNS since blockade of corticosterone synthesis, the glucocorticoid receptor, or the NMDA receptor each prevented stress-induced increases in microglia number. In addition, the NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 prevented increases in microglia following exogenous corticosterone administration to non-stressed mice. We conclude that activation of the NMDA receptor and subsequent microglia proliferation is a downstream effect of elevated corticosterone levels. These findings demonstrate that elevated levels of glucocorticoids are able to activate microglia in vivo and suggest that stress is able to induce a pro-inflammatory response within the CNS. A pro-inflammatory microglia response may be a contributing factor in the development of various stress-induced inflammatory conditions in the CNS.



Characterization of the earliest neuropathologic features of Alzheimer disease (AD) indicates that synaptic degeneration accompanied by tau hyperphosphorylation and amyloid deposition might be an important feature. The mechanisms involved are unclear; however, dysregulation of signaling cascades such as the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway might play a role. In this context, the main objective of this study was to determine whether ERK hyperactivation occurs in early stages of AD. We compared the patterns of total and phosphorylated ERK (pERK) expression in the midfrontal cortex of patients clinically and neuropathologically characterized with early, intermediate, or advanced AD. Immunocytochemical and Western blot analysis showed that in early AD, there was extensive activation of ERK in astroglial cells in the white matter accompanied by intense astrogliosis. In contrast, in patients with more advanced AD, pERK immunoreactivity was associated with neuronal cell bodies and dystrophic neurites around plaques. Levels of astroglial pERK immunoreactivity in the white matter were strongly correlated with scores of cognitive performance (Blessed, Mini-Mental Status Examination, and Clinical Dementia Rating) and with the severity of AD neuropathology (Braak stage). These findings suggest that astroglial ERK activation may be an important early response to the onset of AD pathology. Identification of cell signaling events unique to early AD may provide therapeutic targets for the prevention or delay of dementia.
In multiple sclerosis (MS), dendritic cells (DCs) recruited to the central nervous system (CNS) are thought to be involved in the regulation of autoimmune responses directed against myelin antigens. To better understand the role of DCs in CNS inflammation, we performed a detailed immunohistochemical analysis of DC maturation markers and of DC relationship to CNS-infiltrating T cells in autopsy brain tissue of patients with MS. We also investigated the presence of DCs containing myelin debris in MS lesions. Myeloid DC subsets were identified using the following markers: CD1a for immature DCs; DC-SIGN for immature and mature DCs; and fascin, CD83, DC-LAMP, and CCR7 for mature DCs. The most common finding was the presence of cells expressing DC-SIGN and containing myelin components in the perivascular cuffs of early active and chronic (both active and inactive) MS lesions. Perivascular CD1a DCs were detected in active lesions in only one of 10 patients with MS who were examined. Although less numerous than DC-SIGN DCs, cells expressing mature DC markers were consistently detected in the inflamed meninges and perivascular cuffs of most active lesions examined. CCR7 immunostaining was predominantly confined to activated microglia at the lesion edges. Some perivascular DC-SIGN cells were found in close proximity to or contacting rare proliferating lymphocytes, most of which expressed the DC-SIGN ligand ICAM-3 and CD8. These data suggest that DCs recruited and maturing in MS lesions, where self-antigens are made available by continuous myelin destruction, may contribute to the local activation and expansion of presumably pathogenic T cells.
Paralyzed skeletal muscle sometimes becomes faster and more fatigable after spinal cord injury (SCI) because of reduced activity. However, in some cases, pronounced muscle activity in the form of spasticity (hyperreflexia and hypertonus) occurs after long-term SCI. We hypothesized that this spastic activity may be associated with a reversal back to a slower, less fatigable muscle. In adult rats, a sacral (S2) spinal cord transection was performed, affecting only tail musculature and resulting in chronic tail spasticity beginning 2 wk later and lasting indefinitely. At 8 mo after injury, we examined the contractile properties of the segmental tail muscle in anesthetized spastic rats and in age-matched normal rats. The segmental tail muscle has only a few motor units (&lt;12), which were easily detected with graded nerve stimulation, revealing two clear motor unit twitch durations. The dominant faster unit twitches peaked at 15 ms and ended within 50 ms, whereas the slower unit twitches only peaked at 30-50 ms. With chronic injury, this slow twitch component increased, resulting in a large overall increase (&gt;150%) in the fraction of the peak muscle twitch force remaining at 50 ms. With injury, the peak muscle twitch (evoked with supramaximal stimulation) also increased in its time to peak (+48.9%) and half-rise time (+150.0%), and decreased in its maximum rise (-35.0%) and decay rates (-40.1%). Likewise, after a tetanic stimulation, the tetanus half-fall time increased by 53.8%. Therefore the slow portion of the muscle was enhanced in spastic muscles. Consistent with slowing, posttetanic potentiation was 9.2% lower and the stimulation frequency required to produce half-maximal tetanus decreased 39.0% in chronic spinals. Interestingly, in spastic muscles compared with normal, whole muscle twitch force was 81.1% higher, whereas tetanic force production was 38.1% lower. Hence the twitch-to-tetanus ratio increased 104.0%. Inconsistent with overall slowing, whole spastic muscles were 61.5% more fatigable than normal muscles. Thus contrary to the classical slow-to-fast conversion that is seen after SCI without spasticity, SCI with spasticity is associated with a mixed effect, including a preservation/enhancement of slow properties, but a loss of fatigue resistance.
N-arachidonoyldopamine (NADA) is an endogenous molecule found in the nervous system that is capable of acting as a vanilloid agonist via the TRPV1 receptor and as a cannabinoid agonist via the CB1 receptor. Using anesthetized rats, we investigated the neural correlates of behavioral thermal hyperalgesia produced by NADA. Extracellular single cell electrophysiology was conducted to assess the effects of peripheral administration of NADA (i.pl.) on nociceptive neurons in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. Injection of NADA in the hindpaw caused increased spontaneous discharge of spinal nociceptive neurons compared with injection of vehicle. The neurons also displayed magnified responses to application of thermal stimuli ranging from 34 to 52 degrees C. NADA-induced neural hypersensitivity was dose dependent (EC50 = 1.55 microg) and TRPV1 dependent, as the effect was abolished by co-administration of the TRPV1 antagonist 5'-iodoresiniferatoxin (I-RTX). In contrast, co-administration of the CB1 antagonist SR 141716A did not attenuate this effect. These results suggest that the enhanced responses of spinal nociceptive neurons likely underlie the behavioral thermal hyperalgesia and implicate a possible pain-sensitizing role of endogenous NADA mediated by TRPV1 in the periphery.
The effects of anesthesia with etomidate on the cellular mechanisms of sensory processing and sensorimotor coordination have been studied in the active electric sense of the mormyrid fish Gnathonemus petersii. Like many anesthetics, etomidate is known to potentiate GABA(A) receptors, but little is known about the effects on sensory processing at the systems level. A better understanding is necessary for experimental studies of sensory processing, in particular regarding possible effects on the dynamic structure of excitatory and inhibitory receptive fields and to improve the knowledge of the mechanisms of anesthesia in general. Etomidate slowed the electromotor discharge rhythm, probably because of feedback inhibition at the premotor level, but did not alter the structure of the electromotor command. Sensory translation through primary afferents projecting to the cerebellum-like electrosensory lobe (ELL) was not changed. However, central interneurons and projection neurons were hyperpolarized under etomidate, and their spiking activity was reduced. Although the spatial extent and the center/surround organization of sensory receptive fields were not changed, initial excitatory responses were followed by prolonged inhibition. Corollary discharge input to ELL was maintained, and the temporal sequence of excitatory and inhibitory components of this descending signal remained intact. Later inhibitory corollary discharge responses were prolonged by several hundred milliseconds. The result was that excitatory reafferent sensory input was conserved with enhanced precision of timing, whereas background activity was greatly reduced. Anti-Hebbian synaptic plasticity evoked by association of sensory and corollary discharge input was still present under anesthesia, and differences compared with the nonanesthetized condition are discussed.
In humans, temperature influences taste intensity and quality perception, and thermal stimulation itself may elicit taste sensations. However, peripheral coding mechanisms of taste have generally been examined independently of the influence of temperature. In anesthetized rats, we characterized the single-cell responses of geniculate ganglion neurons to 0.5 M sucrose, 0.1 M NaCl, 0.01 M citric acid, and 0.02 M quinine hydrochloride at a steady, baseline temperature (adapted) of 10, 25, and 40 degrees C; gradual cooling and warming (1 degrees C/s change in water temperature &gt;5 s) from an adapted tongue temperature of 25 degrees C; gradual cooling from an adapted temperature of 40 degrees C; and gradual warming from an adapted temperature of 10 degrees C. Hierarchical cluster analysis of the taste responses at 25 degrees C divided 50 neurons into two major categories of narrowly tuned (Sucrose-specialists, NaCl-specialists) and broadly tuned (NaCl-generalists(I), NaCl- generalists(II), Acid-generalists, and QHCl-generalists) groups. NaCl specialists were excited by cooling from 25 to 10 degrees C and inhibited by warming from 10 to 25 degrees C. Acid-generalists were excited by cooling from 40 to 25 degrees C but not from 25 to 10 degrees C. In general, the taste responses of broadly tuned neurons decreased systematically to all stimuli with decreasing adapted temperatures. The response selectivity of Sucrose-specialists for sucrose and NaCl-specialists for NaCl was unaffected by adapted temperature. However, Sucrose-specialists were unresponsive to sucrose at 10 degrees C, whereas NaCl-specialists responded equally to NaCl at all adapted temperatures. In conclusion, we have shown that temperature modulates taste responsiveness and is itself a stimulus for activation in specific types of peripheral gustatory neurons.
To explore the neural mechanisms related to representation of the manipulation dynamics of objects, we performed whole-brain fMRI while subjects balanced an object in stable and highly unstable states and while they balanced a rigid object and a flexible object in the same unstable state, in all cases without vision. In this way, we varied the extent to which an internal model of the manipulation dynamics was required in the moment-to-moment control of the object's orientation. We hypothesized that activity in primary motor cortex would reflect the amount of muscle activation under each condition. In contrast, we hypothesized that cerebellar activity would be more strongly related to the stability and complexity of the manipulation dynamics because the cerebellum has been implicated in internal model-based control. As hypothesized, the dynamics-related activation of the cerebellum was quite different from that of the primary motor cortex. Changes in cerebellar activity were much greater than would have been predicted from differences in muscle activation when the stability and complexity of the manipulation dynamics were contrasted. On the other hand, the activity of the primary motor cortex more closely resembled the mean motor output necessary to execute the task. We also discovered a small region near the anterior edge of the ipsilateral (right) inferior parietal lobule where activity was modulated with the complexity of the manipulation dynamics. We suggest that this is related to imagining the location and motion of an object with complex manipulation dynamics.
Object-selective cortical regions exhibit a decreased response when an object stimulus is repeated [repetition suppression (RS)]. RS is often associated with priming: reduced response times and increased accuracy for repeated stimuli. It is unknown whether RS reflects stimulus-specific repetition, the associated changes in response time, or the combination of the two. To address this question, we performed a rapid event-related functional MRI (fMRI) study in which we measured BOLD signal in object-selective cortex, as well as object recognition performance, while we manipulated stimulus repetition. Our design allowed us to examine separately the roles of response time and repetition in explaining RS. We found that repetition played a robust role in explaining RS: repeated trials produced weaker BOLD responses than nonrepeated trials, even when comparing trials with matched response times. In contrast, response time played a weak role in explaining RS when repetition was controlled for: it explained BOLD responses only for one region of interest (ROI) and one experimental condition. Thus repetition suppression seems to be mostly driven by repetition rather than performance changes. We further examined whether RS reflects processes occurring at the same time as recognition or after recognition by manipulating stimulus presentation duration. In one experiment, durations were longer than required for recognition (2 s), whereas in a second experiment, durations were close to the minimum time required for recognition (85-101 ms). We found significant RS for brief presentations (albeit with a reduced magnitude), which again persisted when controlling for performance. This suggests a substantial amount of RS occurs during recognition.
Striatal spiny projection (SP) neurons control movement initiation by integrating cortical inputs and inhibiting basal ganglia outputs. Central to this control lies a &quot;microcircuit&quot; that consists of a feedback pathway formed by axon collaterals between GABAergic SP neurons and a feedforward pathway from fast spiking (FS) GABAergic interneurons to SP neurons. Here, somatically evoked postsynaptic potentials (PSPs) and currents (PSCs) were compared for both pathways with dual whole cell patch recording in voltage- and current-clamp mode using cortex-striatum-substantia nigra organotypic cultures. On average, feedforward inputs were 1 ms earlier, more reliable, and about twice as large in amplitude compared with most feedback inputs. On the other hand, both pathways exhibited widely varying, partially overlapping amplitude distributions. This variability was already established for single FS neurons targeting many SP neurons. In response to precisely timed action potential bursts, feedforward and feedback inputs consistently showed short-term depression &lt; or =50-70% in voltage-clamp, although feedback inputs also displayed strong augmentation in current-clamp in line with previous reports. The augmentation of feedback inputs was absent in gramicidin D perforated-patch recording, which also showed the natural reversal potential for both inputs to be near firing threshold. Preceding depolarizing feedback inputs during the down state did not consistently change subsequent postsynaptic action potentials. We conclude that feedback and feedforward inputs have their dominant effect during the up-state. The reversal potential close to the up-state potential, which supports shunting operation with millisecond precision and the strong synaptic depression, should enable both pathways to carry time-critical information.
Most studies investigating neural representations of species-specific vocalizations in non-human primates and other species have involved studying neural responses to vocalization tokens. One limitation of such approaches is the difficulty in determining which acoustical features of vocalizations evoke neural responses. Traditionally used filtering techniques are often inadequate in manipulating features of complex vocalizations. Furthermore, the use of vocalization tokens cannot fully account for intrinsic stochastic variations of vocalizations that are crucial in understanding the neural codes for categorizing and discriminating vocalizations differing along multiple feature dimensions. In this work, we have taken a rigorous and novel approach to the study of species-specific vocalization processing by creating parametric &quot;virtual vocalization&quot; models of major call types produced by the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). The main findings are as follows. 1) Acoustical parameters were measured from a database of the four major call types of the common marmoset. This database was obtained from eight different individuals, and for each individual, we typically obtained hundreds of samples of each major call type. 2) These feature measurements were employed to parameterize models defining representative virtual vocalizations of each call type for each of the eight animals as well as an overall species-representative virtual vocalization averaged across individuals for each call type. 3) Using the same feature-measurement that was applied to the vocalization samples, we measured acoustical features of the virtual vocalizations, including features not explicitly modeled and found the virtual vocalizations to be statistically representative of the callers and call types. 4) The accuracy of the virtual vocalizations was further confirmed by comparing neural responses to real and synthetic virtual vocalizations recorded from awake marmoset auditory cortex. We found a strong agreement between the responses to token vocalizations and their synthetic counterparts. 5) We demonstrated how these virtual vocalization stimuli could be employed to precisely and quantitatively define the notion of vocalization &quot;selectivity&quot; by using stimuli with parameter values both within and outside the naturally occurring ranges. We also showed the potential of the virtual vocalization stimuli in studying issues related to vocalization categorizations by morphing between different call types and individual callers.
To select appropriate behaviors leading to rewards, the brain needs to learn associations among sensory stimuli, selected behaviors, and rewards. Recent imaging and neural-recording studies have revealed that the dorsal striatum plays an important role in learning such stimulus-action-reward associations. However, the putamen and caudate nucleus are embedded in distinct cortico-striatal loop circuits, predominantly connected to motor-related cerebral cortical areas and frontal association areas, respectively. This difference in their cortical connections suggests that the putamen and caudate nucleus are engaged in different functional aspects of stimulus-action-reward association learning. To determine whether this is the case, we conducted an event-related and computational model-based functional MRI (fMRI) study with a stochastic decision-making task in which a stimulus-action-reward association must be learned. A simple reinforcement learning model not only reproduced the subject's action selections reasonably well but also allowed us to quantitatively estimate each subject's temporal profiles of stimulus-action-reward association and reward-prediction error during learning trials. These two internal representations were used in the fMRI correlation analysis. The results revealed that neural correlates of the stimulus-action-reward association reside in the putamen, whereas a correlation with reward-prediction error was found largely in the caudate nucleus and ventral striatum. These nonuniform spatiotemporal distributions of neural correlates within the dorsal striatum were maintained consistently at various levels of task difficulty, suggesting a functional difference in the dorsal striatum between the putamen and caudate nucleus during stimulus-action-reward association learning.
Many animals use duration to help them identify the source and meaning of a sound. Duration-sensitive neurons have been found in the auditory midbrain of mammals and amphibians, where their selectivity seems to correspond to the lengths of species-specific vocalizations. In this study, single neurons in the rat inferior colliculus (IC) were tested for sensitivity to sound duration. About one-half (54%) of the units sampled showed some form of duration selectivity. The majority of these (76%) were long-pass neurons that responded to sounds exceeding some duration threshold (range: 5-60 ms). Band-pass neurons, which only responded to a restricted range of durations, made up 13% of duration-sensitive neurons (best durations: 15-120 ms). Other units displayed short-pass (2%) or mixed (9%) response patterns. The majority of duration-sensitive neurons were localized outside the central nucleus of the IC, especially in the dorsal cortex, where more than one-half of the neurons sampled had long-pass selectivity for duration. Band-pass duration tuned neurons were only found outside the central nucleus. Characteristics of duration-sensitive neurons in the rat support the idea that this filtering arises through an interaction of excitatory and inhibitory inputs that converge in the IC. Band-pass neurons typically responded at sound offset, suggesting that their tuning is created through the same mechanisms that have been described in echolocating bats. The finding that the first-spike latencies of all long-pass neurons were longer than the shortest duration to which they responded supports the idea that they receive transient inhibition before, or simultaneously with, a sustained excitatory input. The ranges of selectivity in rat IC neurons are within the range of durations of rat vocalizations. These data suggest that a population of neurons in the rat IC have evolved to transmit information about behaviorally relevant sound durations using mechanisms that are common to all mammals, with an emphasis on long-pass tuning characteristics.
Ethanol stimulates the firing activity of midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons, leading to enhanced dopaminergic transmission in the mesolimbic system. This effect is thought to underlie the behavioral reinforcement of alcohol intake. Ethanol has been shown to directly enhance the intrinsic pacemaker activity of DA neurons, yet the cellular mechanism mediating this excitation remains poorly understood. The hyperpolarization-activated cation current, Ih, is known to contribute to the pacemaker firing of DA neurons. To determine the role of Ih in ethanol excitation of DA neurons, we performed patch-clamp recordings in acutely prepared mouse midbrain slices. Superfusion of ethanol increased the spontaneous firing frequency of DA neurons in a reversible fashion. Treatment with ZD7288, a blocker of Ih, irreversibly depressed basal firing frequency and significantly attenuated the stimulatory effect of ethanol on firing. Furthermore, ethanol reversibly augmented Ih amplitude and accelerated its activation kinetics. This effect of ethanol was accompanied by a shift in the voltage dependence of Ih activation to more depolarized potentials and an increase in the maximum Ih conductance. Cyclic AMP mediated the depolarizing shift in Ih activation but not the increase in the maximum conductance. Finally, repeated ethanol treatment in vivo induced downregulation of Ih density in DA neurons and an accompanying reduction in the magnitude of ethanol stimulation of firing. These results suggest an important role of Ih in the reinforcing actions of ethanol and in the neuroadaptations underlying escalation of alcohol consumption associated with alcoholism.
Most forms of neuronal plasticity are associated with induction of the transcription factor Zif268 (Egr1/Krox24/NGF-IA). In a genome-wide scan, we obtained evidence for potential modulation of proteasome subunit and regulatory genes by Zif268 in neurons, a finding of significance considering emerging evidence that the proteasome modulates synaptic function. Bioinformatic analysis indicated that the candidate proteasome Zif268 target genes had a rich concentration of putative Zif268 binding sites immediately upstream of the transcriptional start sites. Regulation of the mRNAs encoding the psmb9 (Lmp2) and psme2 (PA28beta) proteasome subunits, along with the proteasome-regulatory kinase serum/glucocorticoid-regulated kinase (SGK) and the proteasome-associated antigen peptide transporter subunit 1 (Tap1), was confirmed after transfection of a neuronal cell line with Zif268. Conversely, these mRNAs were upregulated in cerebral cortex tissue from Zif268 knock-out mice relative to controls, confirming that Zif268 suppresses their expression in the CNS. Transfected Zif268 reduced the activity of psmb9, SGK, and Tap1 promoter-reporter constructs. Altered psmb9, SGK, and Tap1 mRNA levels were also observed in an in vivo model of neuronal plasticity involving Zif268 induction: the effect of haloperidol administration on striatal gene expression. Consistent with these effects on proteasome gene expression, increased Zif268 expression suppressed proteasome activity, whereas Zif268 knock-out mice exhibited elevated cortical proteasome activity. Our findings reveal that Zif268 regulates the expression of proteasome and related genes in neuronal cells and provide new evidence that altered expression of proteasome activity after Zif268 induction may be a key component of long-lasting CNS plasticity.
The basolateral nuclei of the amygdala (BLA) are thought to modulate memory storage in other brain regions (McGaugh, 2004). We reported that BLA modulates the memory for both an explored context and for contextual fear conditioning. Both of these memories depend on the hippocampus. Here, we examined the hypothesis that the BLA exerts its modulatory effect by regulating the expression of immediate-early genes (IEGs) in the hippocampus. The main findings of these experiments were: (1) Arc activity-regulated cytoskeletal protein (Arc), an immediate-early gene (also termed Arg 3.1) and c-fos mRNA are induced in the hippocampus after a context exposure, or context plus shock experience, but not after an immediate shock; and (2) BLA inactivation with muscimol attenuated the increase in Arc and c-fos mRNA in the hippocampus associated with contextual fear conditioning but did not influence Arc mRNA associated with context exploration. These results support the hypothesis that the amygdala modulates contextual fear memory by regulating expression of IEGs in the hippocampus.
Several lines of evidence suggest that a hypoglutamatergic condition may induce a phenotypic loss of cortical parvalbumin (PV)-positive GABAergic interneurons, such as that observed in brain tissue of schizophrenic subjects. However, it is not known whether the loss of PV interneurons is a consequence of the hypoglutamatergic condition or a secondary aspect of the disease. We characterized the signaling and subunit expression of NMDA receptors in cultured cortical PV interneurons and determined whether a hypoglutamatergic condition, created by direct application of sublethal concentrations of ketamine or subunit-selective NMDA receptor antagonists, can affect the expression of the GABAergic markers as observed in vivo. Real-time PCR performed on mRNA isolated from single neurons showed that PV interneurons present a fivefold higher NR2A/NR2B ratio than pyramidal neurons. Brief, nontoxic, exposure to NMDA led to an increase in ERK1/2 (extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2) and cAMP response element-binding protein phosphorylation in PV interneurons, and this increase was blocked by the NR2A-selective antagonist NVP-AAM077. Application of the nonselective NMDA receptor antagonist ketamine, at sublethal concentrations, induced a time and dose-dependent decrease in parvalbumin and GAD67 immunoreactivity specifically in PV interneurons. These effects were reversible and were also observed with the NR2A-selective antagonist, whereas the NR2B-selective antagonist Ro-25-6981 only partially reduced GAD67 immunoreactivity. Coexposure to the calcium channel opener BayK, or the group I metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist DHPG [(RS)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine] attenuated the decrease in GAD67 and parvalbumin induced by the NMDA receptor antagonists. These results suggest that the activity of NR2A-containing NMDA receptors play a pivotal role in the maintenance of the GABAergic function of PV interneurons.
Addiction to cocaine is associated with persistent changes in synaptic function. The cycling of actin between polymerized [F (for filamentous)] and depolymerized forms contributes to synaptic plasticity, and acute and withdrawal from repeated cocaine administration produced reversible and enduring elevations, respectively, in F-actin in the nucleus accumbens. Increased F-actin after 3 weeks withdrawal from repeated cocaine resulted from changes in the content or phosphorylation state of actin binding proteins (ABPs) that cosediment with F-actin. The profile of altered APBs was consistent with filopodia formation, including increased mammalian Enabled, phosphorylated (p)-cortactin, and p-vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein, and increased actin depolymerization [e.g., reduced LIM (Lin11/Isl-1/Mec3)-kinase and p-cofilin]. In contrast to repeated cocaine, the increase in F-actin after acute cocaine administration resulted from reduced depolymerization and actin cycling. The potential involvement of chronic cocaine-induced increases in actin cycling in cocaine addiction was examined using the reinstatement of cocaine seeking in rats previously trained to self-administer cocaine by inhibiting actin polymerization with intra-accumbens latrunculin A or by accelerating actin depolymerization with a LIM-kinase inhibitor. Disrupting actin cycling via either mechanism augmented cocaine-induced reinstatement of drug seeking but did not affect the locomotor response to acute cocaine administration. Thus, withdrawal from repeated cocaine induces a restructuring of actin-ABP complexes, which increases actin cycling and may modulate cocaine-induced reinstatement of drug seeking.
Norepinephrine (NE) potently modulates the cognitive and affective functions of the prefrontal cortex (PFC). Deficits in NE transmission are implicated in psychiatric disorders, and antidepressant drugs that block the NE transporter (NET) effectively treat these conditions. Our initial ultrastructural studies of the rat PFC revealed that most NE axons (85-90%) express NET primarily within the cytoplasm and lack detectable levels of the synthetic enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). In contrast, the remaining 10-15% of PFC NE axons exhibit predominantly plasmalemmal NET and evident TH immunoreactivity. These unusual characteristics suggest that most PFC NE axons have an unrecognized, latent capacity to enhance the synthesis and recovery of transmitter. In the present study, we used dual-labeling immunocytochemistry and electron microscopy to examine whether chronic cold stress, a paradigm that persistently increases NE activity, would trigger cellular changes consistent with this hypothesis. After chronic stress, neither the number of profiles exhibiting NET labeling nor their size was changed. However, the proportion of plasmalemmal NET nearly doubled from 29% in control animals to 51% in stressed rats. Moreover, the expression of detectable TH in NET-labeled axons increased from only 13% of profiles in control rats to 32% of profiles in stressed animals. Despite the consistency of these findings, the magnitude of the changes varied across individual rats. These data represent the first demonstration of activity-dependent trafficking of NET and expression of TH under physiological conditions and have important implications for understanding the pathophysiology and treatment of stress-related affective disorders.
Adult facial motor neurons continue to express full-length TrkB tyrosine kinase receptor (TrkB.FL), the high-affinity receptor for the neurotrophins BDNF and neurotrophic factor-4/5 (NT-4/5), suggesting that they remain dependent on target-derived and locally produced neurotrophins in adulthood. Studies on the role of TrkB signaling in the adult CNS have been hampered by the early lethality of bdnf, nt-4/5, and trkB knock-out mice. We disrupted TrkB.FL signaling in adult facial motor neurons using adeno-associated viral vector-mediated overexpression of a naturally occurring dominant-negative TrkB receptor, TrkB.T1. Expression of TrkB.T1 resulted in neuronal atrophy and downregulation of NeuN (neuronal-specific nuclear protein) and ChAT expression in facial motor neurons. A subset of transduced neurons displayed signs of motor neuron degeneration that included dendritic beading and rounding of the soma at 2 months of TrkB.T1 expression. Cell counts revealed a significant reduction in motor neuron number in the facial nucleus at 4 months after onset of expression of TrkB.T1, suggesting that a proportion of TrkB.T1-expressing motor neurons became undetectable as a result of severe atrophy or was lost because of cell death. In contrast, overexpression of TrkB.FL did not result in a decrease in facial motor neuron number. Our results indicate that a subset of facial motor neurons remains dependent on TrkB ligands for the maintenance of structural and molecular characteristics in adulthood.
The immediate-early gene (IEG) Arc is transcribed after behavioral and physiological treatments that induce synaptic plasticity and is implicated in memory consolidation. The relative contributions of neuronal activity and learning-related plasticity to the behavioral induction of Arc remain to be defined. To differentiate the contributions of each, we assessed the induction of Arc transcription in rats with fornix lesions that impair hippocampal learning yet leave cortical connectivity and neuronal firing essentially intact. Arc expression was assessed after exploration of novel environments and performance of a novel water maze task during which normal rats learned the spatial location of an escape platform. During the same task, rats with fornix lesions learned to approach a visible platform but did not learn its spatial location. Rats with fornix lesions had normal baseline levels of hippocampal Arc mRNA, but unlike normal rats, expression was not increased in response to water maze training. The integrity of signaling pathways controlling Arc expression was demonstrated by stimulation of the medial perforant path, which induced normal synaptic potentiation and Arc in rats with fornix lesions. Together, the results demonstrate that Arc induction can be decoupled from behavior and is more likely to indicate the engagement of synaptic plasticity mechanisms than synaptic or neuronal activity per se. The results further imply that fornix lesions may impair memory in part by decoupling neuronal activity from signaling pathways required for long-lasting hippocampal synaptic plasticity.
Modulation of synaptic transmission and brain microcirculation are new roles ascribed to astrocytes in CNS function. A mechanism by which astrocytes modify neuronal activity in the healthy brain depends on fluctuations of cytosolic Ca2+ levels, which regulate the release of &quot;gliotransmitters&quot; via an exocytic pathway. Under pathological conditions, however, the participation of other pathways, including connexin hemichannels and the pore-forming P2X7R, have been proposed but remain controversial. Through the use of genetically modified 1321N1 human astrocytoma cells and of spinal cord astrocytes derived from neonatal Cx43- and P2X7R-null mice, we provide strong evidence that P2X7Rs, but not Cx43 hemichannels, are sites of ATP release that promote the amplification of Ca2+ signal transmission within the astrocytic network after exposure to low divalent cation solution. Moreover, our results showing that gap junction channel blockers (heptanol, octanol, carbenoxolone, flufenamic acid, and mefloquine) are antagonists of the P2X7R indicate the inadequacy of using these compounds as evidence for the participation of connexin hemichannels as sites of gliotransmitter release.
Classical late infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (cLINCL) is a lysosomal storage disorder caused by mutations in CLN2, which encodes lysosomal tripeptidyl peptidase I (TPP1). Lack of TPP1 results in accumulation of autofluorescent storage material and curvilinear bodies in cells throughout the CNS, leading to progressive neurodegeneration and death typically in childhood. In this study, we injected adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors containing the human CLN2 cDNA into the brains of CLN2(-/-) mice to determine therapeutic efficacy. AAV2CUhCLN2 or AAV5CUhCLN2 were stereotaxically injected into the motor cortex, thalamus, and cerebellum of both hemispheres at 6 weeks of age, and mice were then killed at 13 weeks after injection. Mice treated with AAV2CUhCLN2 and AAV5CUhCLN2 contained TPP1 activity at each injection tract that was equivalent to 0.5- and 2-fold that of CLN2(+/+) control mice, respectively. Lysosome-associated membrane protein 1 immunostaining and confocal microscopy showed intracellular targeting of TPP1 to the lysosomal compartment. Compared with control animals, there was a marked reduction of autofluorescent storage in the AAV2CUhCLN2 and AAV5CUhCLN2 injected brain regions, as well as adjacent regions, including the striatum and hippocampus. Analysis by electron microscopy confirmed a significant decrease in pathological curvilinear bodies in cells. This study demonstrates that AAV-mediated TPP1 enzyme replacement corrects the hallmark cellular pathologies of cLINCL in the mouse model and raises the possibility of using AAV gene therapy to treat cLINCL patients.
Neuroscience patients frequently experience poor oral health and related complications because of motor and cognitive dysfunction and the side effects of treatments. Inadequate oral care increases plaque deposits, which can lead to inflammation, pain, and infection. These patients often depend on nurses for oral hygiene. In practice, nurses frequently delegate the delivery of oral care to unlicensed personnel, including nursing assistants, technicians, and student nurses. Few studies have addressed oral care interventions for neuroscience patients. This article identifies oral care interventions practiced by nurses and unlicensed personnel caring for neuroscience patients with self-care deficits. An investigator-designed survey instrument was used to obtain data from nurses and unlicensed personnel working with neuroscience patients in a large hospital. Participants responded to questions about products and agents used in care, frequency of care, documentation of care, patient risk factors, and system support issues such as availability of supplies. Data were analyzed using frequency distributions. Findings demonstrated that selection of products and agents used for oral care is not always evidence based, that provider preference leads to variations in type and frequency of care, and that system issues affect care. These findings suggest the need for increased attention to oral care for neuroscience patients. Research is needed to further examine the relationship between oral care interventions and patient outcomes.
Few well-designed descriptive studies focus exclusively on patients after motor stroke. This study describes a cohort of participants after motor stroke and assesses the extent to which five key variables explain the variation in functional recovery 3 months after stroke. Prospective data were collected (N=100) on age, lesion volume, motor strength, cognition, and poststroke function during the acute care hospital admission. Instruments included magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to provide a measure of lesion volume, the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and the Neurobehavioral Cognitive Status Examination (NCSE) to measure cognitive status, and the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) to measure motor strength. The Functional Independence Measure (FIM) was used to measure baseline function and functional recovery 3 months after stroke. Descriptive and hierarchical multiple regression analyses were used to describe the cohort and predict functional recovery. The means for key variables during acute care were 65 (+/-15) years of age, lesion volume 21.5 (+/-44.7) cm3, NIHSS 6.34 (+/-3.55), MMSE 24.38 (+/-4.82), NCSE 64.33 (+/-13), and FIMTM 94.05 (+/-19.31). Age, cognitive status, and initial function accounted for 42% of the variance in functional recovery 3 months after stroke. Results indicate that neuroscience nurses need to add cognition to their focus during the fast-paced acute phase of care following motor stroke.
Neuronal defense against free radicals is mediated primarily by the glutathione system. A cerebral defect of this system gives rise to the oxidative stress occurring in some neurological diseases. Glutathione provides a means of regulating protein function by glutathionylation, consisting of the formation of mixed disulfides between cysteines and glutathione. The glutathionylation of proteins, during both constitutive metabolism and oxidative stress, represents for the cell a mechanism to link physiological processes, and/or adaptive stress responses, to changes in intracellular redox states. In this study, we analyzed the topographic distribution of the protein glutathionylation normally occurring in human central nervous system. Constitutively glutathionylated proteins appeared uniformly distributed throughout all cortical layers of the cerebral and cerebellar cortex as well as throughout the gray matter of the spinal cord. The degree of immunocytochemical staining was clear in neurons, mild in oligodendrocytes, and weaker in astrocytes. The proteins preferentially glutathionylated were cytoskeletal proteins. Our results suggest a potential role of glutathionylation in the redox regulation of neuronal survival and in the control of axon/dendrite stability.
Cadmium is a heavy metal that accumulates in the body, and its accumulation in the brain damages both neurons and glial cells. In the current study, we explored the mechanism underlying cadmium toxicity in primary cortical astroglia cultures. Chronic treatment with 10 microM cadmium was sufficient to cause 90% cell death in 18 hr. However, unlike that observed in neurons, cadmium-induced astroglial toxicity was not attenuated by the antioxidants trolox (100 microM), caffeic acid (1 mM), and vitamin C (1 mM). In contrast, extracellular 100 microM glutathione (GSH; gamma-Glu-Cys-Gly) or 100 microM cysteine almost completely blocked cadmium-induced astroglial death, whereas 300 microM oxidized GSH (GSSG) or 300 microM cystine, which do not have the free thiol group, were ineffective. In addition, cadmium toxicity was noticeably inhibited or enhanced when intracellular GSH was, respectively, increased by using the cell-permeable glutathione ethyl ester (GSH-EE) or depleted by using buthionine sulfoximine (BSO), an inhibitor of gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase. In agreement with these data, intracellular GSH levels were found to be depressed in cadmium-treated astrocytes. These results suggest that the toxic effect of cadmium on primary astroglial cells involves GSH depletion and, furthermore, that GSH administration can potentially be used to counteract cadmium-induced astroglial cell death therapeutically.
Insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I), long thought to provide critical trophic support during development, also has emerged as a candidate for regulating ongoing neuronal production in adulthood. Whether and how IGF-I influences each phase of neurogenesis, however, remains unclear. In the current study, we used a selective model of growth hormone (GH) and plasma IGF-I deficiency to evaluate the role of GH and IGF-I in regulating cell proliferation, survival, and neuronal differentiation in the adult dentate gyrus. GH/IGF-I-deficient dwarf rats of the Lewis strain were made GH/IGF-I replete throughout development via twice daily injections of GH, and then GH/IGF-I deficiency was initiated in adulthood by removing animals from GH treatment. Bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling revealed no effect of GH/IGF-I deficiency on cell proliferation, but adult-onset depletion of GH and plasma IGF-I significantly reduced the survival of newly generated cells in the dentate gyrus. Colabeling for BrdU and markers of immature and mature neurons revealed a selective effect of GH/IGF-I deficiency on the survival of more mature new neurons. The number of BrdU-labeled cells expressing the immature neuronal marker TUC-4 did not differ between GH/IGF-I-deficient and -replete animals, but the number expressing only the marker of maturity NeuN was lower in depleted animals. Taken together, results from the present study suggest that, under conditions of short-term GH/IGF-I deficiency during adulthood, dentate granule cells continue to be produced, to commit to a neuronal fate, and to begin the process of neuronal maturation, whereas survival of the new neurons is impaired.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a member of the neurotrophin family of secreted proteins and has important functions in the peripheral and central nervous systems (CNS). Its gene organization is complex, comprising four untranslated exons, each with an associated promoter. We have examined the expression of the four untranslated exons in direct comparison to one another and to the fifth BDNF coding exon by in situ hybridization. Other studies have examined untranslated exon expression in several brain regions in response to specific stimuli; however, this is the first detailed study to describe endogenous exon 1-4 expression throughout the adult mouse brain at baseline conditions. The differential expression of the four untranslated exons seen throughout the brain indicates a complex regulation of BDNF.
We showed that when CA3 pyramidal neurons in the caudal 80% of the dorsal hippocampus had almost disappeared completely, the efferent pathway of CA3 was rarely detectable. We used the mouse pilocarpine model of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), and injected iontophoretically the anterograde tracer phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) into gliotic CA3, medial septum and the nucleus of diagonal band of Broca, median raphe, and lateral supramammillary nuclei, or the retrograde tracer cholera toxin B subunit (CTB) into gliotic CA3 area of hippocampus. In the afferent pathway, the number of neurons projecting to CA3 from medial septum and the nucleus of diagonal band of Broca, median raphe, and lateral supramammillary nuclei increased significantly. In the hippocampus, where CA3 pyramidal neurons were partially lost, calbindin, calretinin, parvalbumin immunopositive back-projection neurons from CA1-CA3 area were observed. Sprouting of Schaffer collaterals with increased number of large boutons in both sides of CA1 area, particularly in the stratum pyramidale, was found. When CA3 pyramidal neurons in caudal 80% of the dorsal hippocampus have almost disappeared completely, surviving CA3 neurons in the rostral 20% of the dorsal hippocampus may play an important role in transmitting hyperactivity of granule cells to surviving CA1 neurons or to dorsal part of the lateral septum. We concluded that reorganization of CA3 area with its downstream or upstream nuclei may be involved in the occurrence of epilepsy.
Recently we have reported cases of demyelinating inflammatory neuropathy showing elevated titers of anti-GD3 antibodies, which occurs rarely in Guillain-Barr syndrome. To examine the correlation between the anti-GD3 antibody titer and Campylobacter jejuni infection, we sensitized female Lewis rats with lipopolysaccharides (LPSs) from serotype HS19 of C. jejuni and examined changes in nerve conduction velocity and nerve conduction block (P/D ratio). After 16 weeks of sensitization, animals revealed decreases of nerve conduction velocity and conduction block (P/D ratio) and high titer of anti-GD3 antibodies. These anti-GD3 antibodies also blocked transmission in neuromuscular junctions of spinal cord-muscle cells cocultures. The GD3 epitope was verified to be located on the Schwann cell surface and nodes of Ranvier in rat sciatic nerve. To determine the target epitope for GD3 antibodies in causing nerve dysfunction, the LPS fraction containing the GD3 epitope was purified from the total LPS by using an anti-GD3 monoclonal antibody-immobilized affinity column. Subsequently, chemical analysis of the oligosaccharide portion was performed and confirmed the presence of a GD3-like epitope as having the following tetrasaccharide structure: NeuAcalpha2-8NeuAc2-3Galbeta1-4Hep. Our data thus support the possibility of a contribution of GD3 mimicry as a potential pathogenic mechanism of peripheral nerve dysfunction.
The hair cells of the sensory epithelium in the inner ear are among the most precisely organized cells in vertebrates. The mechanisms that lead to this orderly arrangement are only beginning to be understood. It has been suggested that hair cells use migratory mechanisms to help achieve their final position in the organ of Corti. The small size and complex organization of the intact inner ear have made it difficult to monitor changes in hair cell location over time in vivo. In the present study, an established in vitro assay of dissociated, embryonic inner ear cells was used to monitor how hair cells reorganize over time. The hair cell specific marker myosin-VI demonstrated that hair cell precursors from both cochlear and vestibular regions reorganized into specific patterns between 3-24 hr in vitro. In contrast to the unlabeled cells, the myosin-VI-positive cells extended processes while establishing the hair cell patterning within an aggregate. These studies support the hypothesis that hair cell precursors actively migrate to help achieve final patterning within the inner ear sensory epithelium.

Peripheral nerve injuries are rarely followed by complete return of function. Deficits are particularly important for motor function, resulting in paralysis and muscle atrophy. In different groups, the sciatic nerve was either crushed or transected and repaired by direct suture or by tube repair using silicone or collagen tubes. After 60 days, nerve regeneration was assessed by electrophysiological and functional tests, nerve morphology and immunohistochemistry against choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) for labeling motor axons. Suture and tube repair resulted in similar levels of muscle reinnervation, but significantly lower than after nerve crush. Recovery of walking track pattern was poor in all groups after nerve section. The numbers of regenerated myelinated fibers and of ChAT+ fibers were similar to control values after nerve crush, but increased after section and repair. The normal fascicular architecture and grouping of ChAT+ fibers were maintained after nerve crush, but lost after section and repair, where motor fibers were scattered within small regenerated fascicles throughout the nerve. The loss of fascicular organization was related to the deficient recovery of locomotor function. Thus, labeling of motor axons by ChAT immunohistochemistry provides useful information for the study of the degree and specificity of nerve regeneration.
Although the citation index of an article is not a direct measure of its quality or importance, it is a measure of recognition that may suggest its impact on the scientific community. This study was undertaken to examine the characteristics of the top 100 most frequently cited articles (so-called &quot;citation classics&quot;) on traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI) that were published between 1986 and 2003, and to compare this selected professional literature with the consumers' perspective on the key issues in SCI research. The 100 top-cited articles on traumatic SCI were identified using the Internet database of the Science Citation Index Expanded and the Web of Science with the terms &quot;spinal cord injury&quot; and &quot;spinal cord injuries.&quot; Meeting abstracts, letters, and editorials were excluded. No language restriction was applied. From a consumers' perspective, the areas of greatest interest for people with SCI as reported in two previous large-scale surveys include motor function, bowel and bladder control, sexual function, and pain. The final list of citation classics on traumatic SCI included 82 original articles and 18 article reviews, which were cited 146 times on average. Topics on basic science (63%) were more frequent than clinical studies (37%). The years of publication were distributed in a bell-shape curve with a peak between 1992 and 1994. North American and European centers (99%) led the list of the citation classics. Most of the top 100 most frequently cited articles on traumatic SCI (63%) explicitly focused on at least one of the topics of greatest interest to individuals with SCI. Motor function was the leading topic in the matching list between professional literature and consumers' perspective. This bibliometric analysis, for the first time, identifies the key features of the citation classics on traumatic SCI between 1986 and 2003, a period that represents one of an unprecedented increase in knowledge in this field. The 100 top-cited peer-reviewed articles have been predominantly focused on basic science SCI research indicating a need for greater bench-to-bedside translational studies in SCI research. Although the body of this top-cited professional literature mostly matches with the consumers' perspective, most of this research has been focused on motor function assessment and recovery following SCI.
The effects of group II mGluR activation by selective agonist (-)-2-oxa-4-aminobicyclo[3.1. 0]hexane-4,6-dicarboxylate (LY379268) were examined in a mouse model of controlled cortical impact (CCI)-induced brain injury and in primary neuronal/glial and neuronal cultures subjected to mechanical trauma. Systemic administration of LY379268 to mice at 30 min after CCI significantly improved both motor and cognitive recovery as compared with vehicle-treated control animals. LY379268 also significantly reduced cell death induced by mechanical injury in rat neuronal/glial and neuronal cultures, as measured by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release assay. The neuroprotective effect of LY379268 in vitro was abolished by co-administration of the mGluR2/3 antagonist (s)-alpha-ethylglutamic acid (EGLU); however, co-application of selective mGluR3 antagonist beta-N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate (NAAG) had no significant influence in the same system. Together, these findings demonstrate the neuroprotective activity of group II mGluR activation and underscore the role of the mGluR2 subtype for this effect.
Previous studies of neuropsychological performance in borderline personality disorder (BPD) have exhibited mixed results. The high rate of co-occurring major depressive disorder (MDD) in BPD makes it difficult to specify whether neuropsychological deficits in BPD predominantly reflect co-occurring MDD or unique aspects of their psychopathology. To address this issue, 22 participants with borderline personality disorder and concurrent major depressive disorder (BPD-MDD) and 33 participants with MDD and no concurrent personality disorder were compared on a neuropsychological battery that assessed seven domains of performance: general intellectual functioning, motor skill, psychomotor speed, attention, memory, working memory, and executive function. Neuropsychological performance did not differ between BPD-MDD and MDD. However, BPD-MDD participants reported higher levels of anger, anxiety, and of overall emotional distress compared to MDD. When levels of anxiety were controlled, BPD-MDD participants exhibited superior general intellectual performance, psychomotor speed, and attention. Deficits found in previous BPD samples may reflect their susceptibility to co-occurring MDD. The impact of anxiety on neuropsychological performance in BPD, though, indicates a need for future experimental studies of the effects of mood on cognitive function to determine whether mood dysregulation, rather than core depressive symptoms, underlie cognition impairments in BPD.
Vulnerability of females to depression among humans has not previously been reflected in animal models. Here, we show, by using a novel animal model of depression, that young female Wistar rats are clearly more vulnerable to depression induction than the males. This differential female vulnerability follows estrous cycle stages, is associated with cognitive impairment, and can be markedly transformed with sex hormones. Male hormone reduces vulnerability in females, whereas female hormone increases vulnerability in males. The induced depressive behavior in both sexes, however, is sensitive to imipramine and to the antagonism of the glucocorticoid receptors within a hormonal pathway previously implicated in human depression. Anisomycin, a protein synthesis inhibitor, eliminates the antidepressive effects of both antidepressants and male hormone but does not affect depression induction and estradiol-induced higher vulnerability. Moreover, direct cerebroventricular administration of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), whose mRNA levels in the hippocampus and frontal cortex reach its lowest levels when estrogen levels are highest, is sufficient to rescue the antidepressive effects in the presence of the protein synthesis inhibitor. A selective enhancement of BDNF expression and/or BDNF signal cascades in the neural circuits controlling mood may represent an effective strategy for the development of novel antidepressants for both sexes, whereas blocking the gender-related higher vulnerability to potentially depressogenic events may lead to the development of specific antidepressants for the females.
Numerous studies have indicated that selective agonists of group II metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors, such as LY354740 [(1S,2S,5R,6S)-2-aminobicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-2,6-dicarboxylate monohydrate] and LY379268 [(-)-2-oxa-4-aminobicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-4,6-dicarboxylate], may be useful in the treatment of many psychiatric disorders, including psychosis, anxiety, and drug withdrawal. Although animal and human studies demonstrate potential therapeutic utility, poor oral bioavailability is a limiting factor in the clinical development of these compounds. Therefore, a novel prodrug approach is being pursued to increase exposure levels of active compound after oral administration. Here, we demonstrate a 10-fold increase in brain, plasma, and cerebrospinal fluid levels of LY354740 after oral prodrug administration. Furthermore, we compare the oral efficacy of the mGlu2/3 receptor agonist LY354740 and its prodrug LY544344 [(1S,2S,5R,6S)-2-[(2'S)-(2'-amino)propionyl]aminobicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-2,6-dicarboxylic acid hydrochloride] in rodent models of psychosis and anxiety. Phencyclidine (PCP)-induced hyperlocomotion was dose dependently inhibited in rats receiving oral administration of 30 or 100 mg/kg LY544344, whereas LY354740 did not significantly reverse PCP-mediated behaviors at doses up to 100 mg/kg. Orally administered LY544344 (30 mg/kg) and subcutaneously administered LY354740 (10 mg/kg) attenuated stress-induced hyperthermia in DBA/2 mice, with the prodrug producing anxiolytic effects at lower oral doses than the parent compound. Although oral administration of LY354740 did not significantly affect fear-induced suppression of operant responding in rats, subcutaneously administered LY354740 (10 or 20 mg/kg) and orally administered LY544344 (10 or 30 mg/kg) produced significant anxiolytic effects in this model. The present data confirm that mGlu2/3 receptor agonists produce antipsychotic and anxiolytic effects in animal behavioral models and demonstrate that oral bioavailability of LY354740 was substantially increased using a prodrug strategy.
The effects of 5-hydroxytryptamine 1A (5-HT(1A)) receptor ligands on aversive learning were examined in the passive avoidance (PA) task in mice. Anxiety and autonomic functions were investigated using the elevated plus-maze and heart rate measurements. The main findings from this study are as follows. 1) Pretraining administration of the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT [8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin hydrobromide] facilitated PA retention at low doses (0.01 and 0.03 mg/kg) but impaired PA retention at higher doses (0.1-1.0 mg/kg), consistent with previous findings in the rat. 2) Similar to the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor physostigmine, pretraining administration of the 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonists [(R)-3-N,N-dicyclobutylamino-8 fluoro-3,4-dihydro-3H-1-benzopyran-5-carboxamide hydrogen(2R,3R)-tartrate monohydrate] NAD-299 (0.1-2 mg/kg) and [N-2-4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinylethyl-N-(2-pyridinyl)cyclohexane carboxamide trihydrochloride] WAY-100635 (0.3-3 mg/kg) enhanced PA retention. 3) The impairment (1 mg/kg) but not the facilitation (0.03 mg/kg) induced by 8-OH-DPAT was fully blocked by NAD-299 (0.3 mg/kg). 4) 5-HT(1A) receptor ligands given immediate post-training failed to alter PA retention. 5) NAD-299 (0.3-1 mg/kg) blocked the impairment of PA retention caused by a) the nonselective muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine and b) the non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist MK-801 [(5R,10S)-(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo(a,d)cyclohepten-5,10-imine hydrogen maleate]. 6) A subthreshold dose of scopolamine completely blocked the facilitatory effect of NAD-299 on PA retention. 7) Anxiety-related behaviors and autonomic function were unchanged by NAD-299. 8) In situ hybridization showed that septal neurons expressing 5-HT(1A) receptor mRNA were codistributed with markers for cholinergic, GABAergic, and glutamatergic neurons. These results indicate that systemic administration of 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonists can facilitate cognitive performance, most likely by enhancing hippocampal/cortical cholinergic and glutamatergic neurotransmissions. Selective 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonists may be useful in the treatment of cognitive deficits such as Alzheimer's disease.
Although the function of sleep remains elusive, there is compelling evidence to suggest that sleep plays an important role in learning and memory. A number of studies have now shown that sleep deprivation (SD) results in significant impairment of long-term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampus. In this study, we have attempted to determine the mechanisms responsible for this impairment. After 72 h SD using the multiple-platform technique, we observed a reduction in the whole-cell recorded NMDA/AMPA ratio of CA1 pyramidal cells in response to Schaffer collateral stimulation. This impairment was specific to sleep deprivation as rats placed over a single large platform, which allowed sleep, had a normal NMDA/AMPA ratio. mEPSCs evoked by local application of a high osmolarity solution revealed no differences in the AMPA receptor function. NMDA currents recorded from outside-out patches excised from the distal dendrites of CA1 cells displayed a reduction in amplitude after SD. While there were no alterations in the glutamate sensitivity, channel open probability or the single channel conductance of the receptor, a crosslinking assay demonstrated that the NR1 and NR2A subunits of NMDA receptors were preferentially retained in the cytoplasm after SD, indicating that SD alters NMDAR surface expression. In summary, we have identified a potential mechanism underlying SD-induced LTP impairment. This synaptic alteration may underlie the cognitive deficits seen following sleep deprivation and could represent a target for future intervention studies.

We present a 3-D microfluidic device designed for localized drug delivery to cellular networks. The device features a flow cell comprising a main channel for nutrient delivery as well as multiple channels for drug delivery. This device is one key component of a larger, fully integrated system now under development, based upon a microelectrode array (MEA) with on-chip CMOS circuitry for recording and stimulation of electrogenic cells (e.g. neurons, cardiomyocytes). As a critical system unit, the microfluidics must be carefully designed and characterized to ensure that candidate drugs are delivered to specific regions of the culture at known concentrations. Furthermore, microfluidic design and functionality is dictated by the size, geometry, and material/electrical characteristics of the CMOS MEA. Therefore, this paper reports on the design considerations and fabrication of the flow cell, including theoretical and experimental analysis of the mass transfer properties of the nutrient and drug flows, which are in good agreement with one another. To demonstrate proof of concept, the flow cell was mounted on a dummy CMOS chip, which had been plated with HL-1 cardiomyocytes. A test chemical compound was delivered to the cell culture in a spatially resolved manner. Envisioned applications of this stand-alone system include simultaneous toxicological testing of multiple compounds and chemical stimulation of natural neural networks for neuroscience investigations.
3T MRI is ready to meet the needs of clinical practice. SAR limitations are minimized by technical advances and surface coils are available for all core applications. With appropriate adjustments to scanning protocols, one can master the challenges of scanning at 3T; studies of the brain, spine, chest, abdomen, pelvis, vasculature, and extremities can be consistently higher in quality than are those obtained at 1.5T. The superior studies that are obtainable at 3T have great appeal to clinicians who are sophisticated about MR technology in areas, such as neurology, orthopedics, vascular surgery, and oncology,and encourage a shift in referrals toward practices that invest in higher field technology. The greater sensitivity to magnetic susceptibility offers unique benefits in functional neuroimaging, and available software/hardware packages enhance clinical setting feasibility, which adds a source of new referrals. The greater overall signal of 3T can be manipulated to make scanning more comfortable and with less motion artifact because scan times could be half as long. Spectacular anatomic delineation that is provided by high-definition scanning at true 1024 resolution can improve preoperative assessment and may improve sensitivity to smaller lesions. 3T provides practices with an advantage that is sought increasingly by high field strength purchasers in a competitive market. Only cost considerations stand in the way of the eventual domination of 3T systems in the high field strength market.
In this work a model-free arterial spin labeling (ASL) quantification approach for measuring cerebral blood flow (CBF) and arterial blood volume (aBV) is proposed. The method is based on the acquisition of a train of multiple images following the labeling scheme. Perfusion is obtained using deconvolution in a manner similar to that of dynamic susceptibility contrast (DSC) MRI. Local arterial input functions (AIFs) can be estimated by subtracting two perfusion-weighted images acquired with and without crusher gradients, respectively. Furthermore, by knowing the duration of the bolus of tagged arterial blood, one can estimate the aBV on a voxel-by-voxel basis. The maximum of the residue function obtained from the deconvolution of the tissue curve by the AIF is a measure of CBF after scaling by the locally estimated aBV. This method provides averaged gray matter (GM) perfusion values of 38 +/- 2 ml/min/100 g and aBV of 0.93% +/- 0.06%. The average CBF value is 10% smaller than that obtained on the same data set using the standard general kinetic model (42 +/- 2 ml/min/100 g). Monte Carlo simulations were performed to compare this new methodology with parametric fitting by the conventional model.
As a modification of single-shot stimulated echo acquisition mode (STEAM) MRI, a gradient and stimulated echo (GRASTE) sequence is presented that acquires multiple gradient echoes in addition to each stimulated echo. While &quot;contiguous&quot; GRASTE exploits all stimulated echoes for the central part of k-space and the gradient echoes for outer lines, &quot;interleaved&quot; GRASTE assigns all echoes of a particular readout interval to directly neighboring lines. Phase distortions may be corrected by the reference signals of a single readout interval without phase encoding. Experimental results obtained for the human brain demonstrate that contiguous GRASTE yields up to 30% better SNR per acquisition time than conventional single-shot STEAM due to a better efficiency and maintains most of its robustness. Interleaved GRASTE can improve the SNR by a factor of 2 because of the possibility of using larger flip angles in the readout interval. However, its more pronounced sensitivity to off-resonance effects requires short echo trains.

N-cadherin plays a key role in axonal outgrowth and synaptogenesis, but how neurons initiate and remodel N-cadherin-based adhesions remains unclear. We addressed this issue with a semiartificial system consisting of N-cadherin coated microspheres adhering to cultured neurons transfected for N-cadherin-GFP. Using optical tweezers, we show that growth cones are particularly reactive to N-cadherin coated microspheres, which they capture in a few seconds and drag rearward. Such strong coupling requires an intact connection between N-cadherin receptors and catenins. As they move to the basis of growth cones, microspheres slow down while gradually accumulating N-cadherin-GFP, demonstrating a clear delay between bead coupling to the actin flow and receptor recruitment. Using FRAP and photoactivation, N-cadherin receptors at bead-to-cell contacts were found to continuously recycle, consistently with a model of ligand-receptor reaction not limited by membrane diffusion. The use of N-cadherin-GFP receptors truncated or mutated in specific cytoplasmic regions show that N-cadherin turnover is exquisitely regulated by catenin partners. Turnover rates are considerably lower than those obtained previously in single molecule studies, demonstrating an active regulation of cadherin bond kinetics in intact cells. Finally, spontaneous neuronal contacts enriched in N-cadherin exhibited similar turnover rates, suggesting that such dynamics of N-cadherin may represent an intrinsic mechanism underlying the plasticity of neuronal adhesions.
Low intracellular K+ concentration ([K+]i) promotes apoptosis and blocking K+ loss prevents apoptosis, but the mechanism of action of low [K+]i remains unclear. Here, we show that low [K+]i increases NF-kappaB transcriptional activity by enhancing its binding to the promoter of target genes without affecting its activation and nuclear translocation in cortical neurons deprived of serum. Low K+ concentration promotes NF-kappaB/DNA binding through direct effects on the interaction of NF-kappaB dimers with DNA. Up-regulation of proapoptotic protein Bcl-XS and neuronal apoptosis induced by serum deprivation are blocked by inhibition and/or down-regulation of NF-kappaB and by prevention of K+ loss. Thus, a direct action of K+ on NF-kappaB/DNA binding regulates gene transcription related to neuronal apoptosis.
Previous studies indicate that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), nerve growth factor (NGF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) increase myelin basic protein, (MBP) in differentiating basal forebrain (BF) oligodendrocytes (OLGs) (Du, Y., Fischer, T.Z., Lee, L.N., Lercher, L.D., Dreyfus, C. F., 2003. Regionally specific effects of BDNF on oligodendrocytes. Dev. Neurosci. 25, 116-126). While receptors, trk and p75, are expressed by subsets of oligodendrocytes (Du, Y., Fischer, T.Z., Lee, L.N., Lercher, L.D., Dreyfus, C. F., 2003. Regionally specific effects of BDNF on oligodendrocytes. Dev. Neurosci. 25, 116-126), those responsible for affecting differentiation have not been defined. In contrast, studies of peripheral Schwann cells reported that myelination is enhanced by BDNF working through p75, and diminished by trkC mediated processes (Cosgaya, J.M., Chan, J.R., Shooter, E.M., 2002. The neurotrophin receptor p75NTR as a positive modulator of myelination. Science 298, 1245-1248). To define receptors affecting central oligodendrocyte MBP, p75 knockout animals, p75 blocking antibodies, and an inhibitor of neurotrophin binding to p75, PD90780, were utilized. While p75 was implicated in the actions of NGF and NT-3, it did not affect actions of BDNF. On the other hand, K252a, an inhibitor of trk receptors, abolished the effects of the neurotrophins, including BDNF. All neurotrophins activated their respective trk receptors.
We overexpressed a constitutively active form of the neuregulin receptor ErbB2 (CAErbB2) in skeletal muscle fibers in vivo and in vitro by tetracycline-inducible expression. Surprisingly, CAErbB2 expression during embryonic development was lethal and impaired synaptogenesis yielding a phenotype with loss of synaptic contacts, extensive axonal sprouting, and diffuse distribution of acetylcholine receptor (AChR) transcripts, reminiscent of agrin-deficient mice. CAErbB2 expression in cultured myotubes inhibited the formation and maintenance of agrin-induced AChR clusters, suggesting a muscle- and not a nerve-origin for the defect in CAErbB2-expressing mice. Levels of tyrosine phosphorylated MuSK, the signaling component of the agrin receptor, were similar, while tyrosine phosphorylation of AChRbeta subunits was dramatically reduced in CAErbB2-expressing embryos relative to controls. Thus, a gain-of-function manipulation of ErbB2 signaling pathways renders an agrin-deficient-like phenotype that uncouples MuSK and AChR tyrosine phosphorylation.
In neurons, a variety of extracellular stimuli are capable of inducing transcriptional events that underlie complex processes ranging from learning to disease. The mechanisms linking these long-lasting cellular modifications to behavior remain to be established. Here, we show by microarray analysis that hippocampal activation of glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R), which is associated with improved learning and neuroprotection, results in suppression of the transcription factor DBP (albumin D-site-binding protein). Recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) based gene expression of DBP in the hippocampus of adult rats caused upregulation of mRNAs encoding constituents of the molecular clock, and the DBP target gene, pyridoxal kinase. Behaviorally, DBP over expression inhibited spatial learning but not memory, and enhanced susceptibility to kainate-induced seizures. This phenotype was paralleled by the activation of MAP kinase in dendritic regions of hippocampal neurons in vivo. These data suggest that DBP may represent an important transcriptional link between GLP-1R activation and neuroplasticity in the hippocampus.
Here, we have investigated the neurological consequences of restricted inactivation of Otx2 in adult En1(cre/+); Otx2(flox/flox) mice. In agreement with the crucial role of Otx2 in midbrain patterning, the mutants had a substantial reduction in tyrosine hydroxylase containing neurons. Although the reduction in the number of DAergic neurons was comparable between the SNc and the VTA, we found an unexpected selectivity in the deinnervation of the terminal fields affecting preferentially the ventral striatum and the olfactory tubercle. Interestingly, the mutants showed no abnormalities in exploratory activity or motor coordination. However, the absence of normal DA tone generated significant alterations in DA D1-receptor signalling as indicated by increased mutant striatal levels of phosphorylated DARPP-32 and by an altered motor response to amphetamine. Therefore, we suggest that the En1(cre/+); Otx2(flox/flox) mutant mouse model represents a genetic tool for investigating molecular and behavioural consequences of developmental neuronal dysfunction in the DAergic system.
Striatal cholinergic nerve terminals express functional group-II metabotropic (mGlu) and NMDA glutamate receptors. To investigate whether these receptors interact to regulate ACh release, LY354740 (a group-II mGlu receptor agonist) and NMDA were co-applied in striatal synaptosomes and slices. LY354740 prevented the NMDA-evoked [3H]-choline release from synaptosomes and ACh release from slices. In synaptosomes, this modulation was prevented by omega-agatoxin IVA, suggesting that it was mediated by P/Q-type high voltage activated Ca++ channels. In slices, LY341495 (a group-II mGlu receptor antagonist) enhanced the NMDA-induced ACh release, suggesting that group-II mGlu receptor activation by endogenous glutamate inhibits NMDA transmission. Co-immunoprecipitation studies excluded direct group-II mGlu-NMDA receptor interactions. Finally, group-II mGlu negative modulation of NMDA transmission was abolished in dopamine-depleted synaptosomes and slices, suggesting that it relied on endogenous dopamine. We conclude that group-II mGlu receptors attenuate NMDA inputs at striatal cholinergic terminals via Ca++ channel modulation and dopamine-sensitive pathways.
The amygdala is implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia through its function in the processing of emotions. However, the genes involved in the dysfunction of the amygdala in schizophrenia are yet to be identified. This study examined gene expression in the amygdala in postmortem tissue from seven matched pairs of schizophrenia and non-psychiatric control subjects, using oligonucleotide-microarrays representing 19,000 gene transcripts and real-time PCR confirmation of gene expression changes in eleven matched pairs. Genes involved in presynaptic function, myelination and cellular signalling were identified as being consistently dysregulated in this cohort of subjects with schizophrenia. In particular, the expression of three genes involved in the cytomatrix active zone, Regulating membrane exocytosis 2, Regulating membrane exocytosis 3 and Piccolo, was up-regulated. These results implicate for the first time the dysfunction of the cytomatrix active zone of synapses in the amygdala in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.
Phosphorylated p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38MAPK), but not activated c-jun-N-terminal kinase (JNK), increases in the motor neurons of transgenic mice overexpressing ALS-linked SOD1 mutants at different stages of the disease. This effect is associated with a selective increase of phosphorylated MKK3-6, MKK4 and ASK1 and a concomitant upregulation of the TNFalpha receptors (TNFR1 and TNFR2), but not IL1beta and Fas receptors. Activation of both p38 MAPK and JNK occurs in the activated microglial cells of SOD1 mutant mice at the advanced stage of the disease; however, this effect is not accompanied by the concomitant activation of the upstream kinases ASK1 and MKK3,4,6, while both the TNFRs are overexpressed in these cells. No changes of the upstream p38MAPK cascade kinases or TNFRs occur in reactive astrocytes. These findings highlight the activation of a selective intracellular signaling pathway in the motor neurons of SOD1 mutant mice, which is likely implicated in their death.
The neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a regulatory factor of several, partially contrasting, aspects of the biology of neural cells, including survival, growth, differentiation, and cell death. Regulation of the local availability of BDNF at distinct subcellular domains such as the cell soma, dendrites, axons, and spines appears to be the key to conferring spatial and temporal specificity of the different effects elicited by this neurotrophin. This article reviews recent findings in the context of epileptogenesis and visual cortex maturation that showed that different BDNF messenger RNA (mRNA) transcripts are localized at different subcellular locations in hippocampal and cortical neurons. It also reviews findings demonstrating that strong depolarizing stimuli, both in vitro and in vivo, elicit accumulation of BDNF mRNA and protein in the distal dendrites through a signaling pathway involving the activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate and tyrosine kinase B receptors and an intracellular increase in Ca2+ concentration. Finally, this article proposes that the regulation of the delivery of BDNF mRNA and protein to the different subcellular domains--particularly the dendritic compartment--may represent a fundamental aspect of the processes of cellular and synaptic morphological rearrangements underlying epileptogenesis and postnatal development of the visual cortex.
A recent study using a 'partial' rodent model of schizophrenia has employed amygdalar activation to induce reported changes in the expression of hippocampal genes associated with metabolic and signaling pathways in response to amygdalar activation. The amygdalo-hippocampal pathway plays a central role in the regulation of the stress response and emotional learning. In the current study, we have performed a chromosome mapping analysis to determine whether genes showing changes in response to environmental stress may form clusters and, if so, whether they might show a topographical association with linkage sites for schizophrenia. When the hippocampal genes showing changes in expression were topographically mapped on specific rat chromosomes, significant clustering was observed on chromosomes 1, 4 and 8, although chromosome 1 showed the largest amount of clustering. When these same rodent genes were mapped to human chromosomes, most of the genes found on chromosome 1 in rat mapped to chromosome 11 in human. The vast majority of the genes showing changes in regulation were excluded from known linkage sites for schizophrenia. Based on these findings, we postulate that environmental factors may contribute to the endophenotype for schizophrenia through the activation and/or deactivation of specific genetic clusters, ones that do not appear to be directly associated with susceptibility genes for this disorder.
Atomoxetine has been approved by the FDA as the first new drug in 30 years for the treatment of attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). As a selective norepinephrine uptake inhibitor and a nonstimulant, atomoxetine has a different mechanism of action from the stimulant drugs used up to now for the treatment of ADHD. Since brain acetylcholine (ACh) has been associated with memory, attention and motivation, processes dysregulated in ADHD, we investigated the effects of atomoxetine on cholinergic neurotransmission. We showed here that, in rats, atomoxetine (0.3-3 mg/kg, i.p.),--increases in vivo extracellular levels of ACh in cortical but not subcortical brain regions. The marked increase of cortical ACh induced by atomoxetine was dependent upon norepinephrine alpha-1 and/or dopamine D1 receptor activation. We observed similar increases in cortical and hippocampal ACh release with methylphenidate (1 and 3 mg/kg, i.p.)--currently the most commonly prescribed medication for the treatment of ADHD--and with the norepinephrine uptake inhibitor reboxetine (3-30 mg/kg, i.p.). Since drugs that increase cholinergic neurotransmission are used in the treatment of cognitive dysfunction and dementias, we also investigated the effects of atomoxetine on memory tasks. We showed that, consistent with its cortical procholinergic and catecholamine-enhancing profile, atomoxetine (1-3 mg/kg, p.o.) significantly ameliorated performance in the object recognition test and the radial arm-maze test.
The immune response to soluble antigens constitutes a current clinical problem impeding the development of protein therapeutics. We have developed an encapsulated-cell delivery system, which, transiently combined with an anti-CD154 antibody treatment, allows for the suppression of this immune response and the establishment of long-term secretion of a foreign antigen, human erythropoietin (huEPO). The chronic presence of antigen appears to be required to maintain this tolerance, as a 21-day gap in the exposure to huEPO is sufficient to restore the ability of mice to mount an antibody response. In contrast, chronic huEPO expression maintains tolerance even in the absence of further anti-CD154 treatment. These results suggest that a soluble antigenic protein can be continuously released, without inducing an antibody response, using encapsulated allogeneic cells. The temporary anti-CD154 treatment induces immune unresponsiveness to the delivered antigen, while the immunoprotected cell implant allows for chronic antigen release, favoring the establishment of tolerance.
Five parkinsonian subjects with chronic bilateral stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus and five sex- and age-matched healthy controls grasped, lifted, and held an instrumented object. The grip-lift task was either performed at self-determined speed or in response to an auditory cuing signal. Parkinsonian subjects performed the task with subthalamic nucleus stimulation switched ON and OFF. In Parkinson's disease, stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus and the presentation of auditory timing cues improved akinesia of both the grasp and lift components of the task. The finding that auditory timing cues improve akinesia in the absence of subthalamic nucleus stimulation suggests that the basal ganglia are less involved in the control of movements made in response to environmental cues. However, subthalamic nucleus stimulation caused parkinsonian subjects to apply excessive grip forces, regardless of whether the movement was made under self-determined or externally guided speed conditions. This implies that subthalamic nucleus stimulation produces a generalized upregulation in the gain of all components of a movement without the subtlety of focused control that is required to normalize performance.


Adeno-associated viral vectors are highly safe and efficient gene delivery vehicles. However, numerous challenges in vector design remain, including neutralizing antibody responses, tissue transport and infection of resistant cell types. Changes must be made to the viral capsid to overcome these problems; however, very often insufficient information is available for rational design of improvements. We therefore applied a directed evolution approach involving the generation of large mutant capsid libraries and selection of adeno-associated virus (AAV) 2 variants with enhanced properties. High-throughput selection processes were designed to isolate mutants within the library with altered affinities for heparin or the ability to evade antibody neutralization and deliver genes more efficiently than wild-type capsid in the presence of anti-AAV serum. This approach, which can be extended to additional gene delivery challenges and serotypes, directs viral evolution to generate 'designer' gene delivery vectors with specified, enhanced properties.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), a rate-limiting enzyme for prostanoid synthesis, has been implicated in the neurotoxicity resulting from hypoxia-ischemia, and its inhibition has therapeutic potential for ischemic stroke. However, COX-2 inhibitors increase the risk of cardiovascular complications. We therefore sought to identify the downstream effectors of COX-2 neurotoxicity, and found that prostaglandin E(2) EP1 receptors are essential for the neurotoxicity mediated by COX-2-derived prostaglandin E(2). EP1 receptors disrupt Ca(2+) homeostasis by impairing Na(+)-Ca(2+) exchange, a key mechanism by which neurons cope with excess Ca(2+) accumulation after an excitotoxic insult. Thus, EP1 receptors contribute to neurotoxicity by augmenting the Ca(2+) dysregulation underlying excitotoxic neuronal death. Pharmacological inhibition or gene inactivation of EP1 receptors ameliorates brain injury induced by excitotoxicity, oxygen glucose deprivation and middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion. An EP1 receptor inhibitor reduces brain injury when administered 6 hours after MCA occlusion, suggesting that EP1 receptor inhibition may be a viable therapeutic option in ischemic stroke.
The transcription factor DeltaFosB is induced in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and dorsal striatum by the repeated administration of drugs of abuse. Here, we investigated the role of DeltaFosB in the NAc in behavioral responses to opiates. We achieved overexpression of DeltaFosB by using a bitransgenic mouse line that inducibly expresses the protein in the NAc and dorsal striatum and by using viral-mediated gene transfer to specifically express the protein in the NAc. DeltaFosB overexpression in the NAc increased the sensitivity of the mice to the rewarding effects of morphine and led to exacerbated physical dependence, but also reduced their sensitivity to the analgesic effects of morphine and led to faster development of analgesic tolerance. The opioid peptide dynorphin seemed to be one target through which DeltaFosB produced this behavioral phenotype. Together, these experiments demonstrated that DeltaFosB in the NAc, partly through the repression of dynorphin expression, mediates several major features of opiate addiction.
Several viruses infect the mammalian central nervous system (CNS), some with devastating consequences, others resulting in chronic or persistent infections associated with little or no overt pathology. Coronavirus infection of the murine CNS illustrates the contributions of both the innate immune response and specific host effector mechanisms that control virus replication in distinct CNS cell types. Despite T-cell-mediated control of acute virus infection, host regulatory mechanisms, probably designed to protect CNS integrity, contribute to the failure to eliminate virus. Distinct from cytolytic effector mechanisms expressed during acute infection, non-lytic humoral immunity prevails in suppressing infectious virus during persistence.
All available antidepressant medications are based on serendipitous discoveries of the clinical efficacy of two classes of antidepressants more than 50 years ago. These tricyclic and monoamine oxidase inhibitor antidepressants were subsequently found to promote serotonin or noradrenaline function in the brain. Newer agents are more specific but have the same core mechanisms of action in promoting these monoamine neurotransmitters. This is unfortunate, because only approximately 50% of individuals with depression show full remission in response to these mechanisms. This review summarizes the obstacles that have hindered the development of non-monoamine-based antidepressants, and provides a progress report on some of the most promising current strategies.
Dorsoventral patterning of the neural tube has a crucial role in shaping the functional organization of the CNS. It is well established that hedgehog signalling plays a key role in specifying ventral cell types throughout the neuroectoderm, and major progress has been made in elucidating how hedgehog signalling works in this ventral specification. In addition, other molecular pathways, including nodal, retinoic acid and fibroblast growth factor signalling, have been identified as important molecular cues for ventral patterning of the spinal cord, telencephalon and eye. Here, we discuss recent advances in this field, highlighting the emerging interplay of these signalling pathways in the molecular specification of ventral patterning at different rostrocaudal levels of the CNS.
Many studies point toward the nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) and the N/OFQ peptide receptor (NOP) as targets for the development of innovative drugs for treating affective disorders. It has been reported that the activation of NOP receptors produces anxiolytic-like effects in rodents in a large series of behavioral assays, i.e., elevated plus maze, light-dark aversion, operant conflict, fear-potentiated startle, pup ultrasonic vocalizations, and hole board tests. In contrast, the blockade of N/OFQ signaling obtained with NOP-selective antagonists promotes antidepressant-like effects in the forced swimming and tail suspension tests. In these assays, N/OFQ is inactive per se, but reverses the antidepressant-like effects of NOP antagonists. NOP receptor knockout mice show an antidepressant-like phenotype, and NOP antagonists are inactive in these animals. Thus, the activation of the NOP receptor seems to evoke anxiolytic-like effects while its blockade antidepressant-like effects. This appears to be a rather unique behavioral profile since the activation or the blockade of a given neuropeptide receptor produces, in most of the cases, both antidepressant- and anxiolytic-like effects. This particular behavioral profile, the possible mechanisms of action, and the therapeutic potential of NOP receptor ligands for the treatment of depression and anxiety disorders are discussed in this review article.
We present a minimal spiking network that can polychronize, that is, exhibit reproducible time-locked but not synchronous firing patterns with millisecond precision, as in synfire braids. The network consists of cortical spiking neurons with axonal conduction delays and spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP); a ready-to-use MATLAB code is included. It exhibits sleeplike oscillations, gamma (40 Hz) rhythms, conversion of firing rates to spike timings, and other interesting regimes. Due to the interplay between the delays and STDP, the spiking neurons spontaneously self-organize into groups and generate patterns of stereotypical polychronous activity. To our surprise, the number of coexisting polychronous groups far exceeds the number of neurons in the network, resulting in an unprecedented memory capacity of the system. We speculate on the significance of polychrony to the theory of neuronal group selection (TNGS, neural Darwinism), cognitive neural computations, binding and gamma rhythm, mechanisms of attention, and consciousness as &quot;attention to memories.&quot;
There are discrepancies in the literature about the effects of aging on NMDA receptor expression in the hippocampus. The present study was designed to determine whether there are regional differences in how NMDA receptors are affected by aging. Brains from male C57BL/6 mice from three different age groups (3, 10, and 30 months of age) were sectioned coronally through the dorsal hippocampus and horizontally through the intermediate hippocampus. Sections were processed and analyzed for [3H]glutamate binding to NMDA receptors using receptor autoradiography and for mRNA for the zeta1 (NR1), epsilon1 (NR2A), and epsilon2 (NR2B) subunits of the NMDA receptor using in situ hybridization. There were more significant effects of aging within the intermediate hippocampus in NMDA-displaceable [3H]glutamate binding and epsilon2 mRNA densities than were seen in the dorsal hippocampus. There was no significant effect of age on densities of either the zeta1 or epsilon1 subunit mRNA. These results suggest that the aging process affects NMDA receptors more in the intermediate hippocampus than the dorsal.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the presence of extracellular amyloid deposits, consisting largely of Abeta peptide and the presence of intraneuronal aggregates of neurofibillary tangles formed by tau. Development of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers has become a rapidly growing research field, considering the need for diagnostic tools for AD, thus allowing therapeutic compounds to have the greatest potential for being effective. We have focused on the relationships between critical biomarkers such as tau and Abeta in the CSF and the cognitive impairment of patients, as assessed by a battery of neuropsychological tests derived from CDR and CERAD, of value in the evaluation of AD patients. As part of a longitudinal study, we analyzed by ELISA and Western blots the levels and molecular patterns of hyperphosphorylated tau in the CSF of three different groups of patients: AD patients between 69- and 73-years-old, a group characterized with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) between 65- and 70-years-old, and a non-demented neurological control group of comparable ages. The levels of AT8-reactive phosphorylated tau were significantly higher (P&lt;0.05) in AD patients (0.604+/-0.078, n=23) as compared with the control group (0.457+/-0.086, n=25). No differences between the levels of AT8-reactive tau of MCI patients (0.510+/-0.090, n=45) and controls were observed. However, when the MCI group was divided on the basis of the total box score (TBS) from CDR, those subjects with a TBS&lt;1.5 presented tau levels (0.456+/-0.032, n=31) similar to controls, whereas those patients with TBS&gt;or=1.5 displayed tau levels (0.590+/-0.086, n=14) comparable with those of AD. Western blot analyses revealed a higher AT8 reactivity in CSF samples of AD patients as compared with MCI and control samples, indicating higher levels of AD tau phosphoepitopes in the CSF. Tau heterogeneity was observed in samples of AD and MCI with higher impairment as compared with controls. As expected from previous reports, levels of Abeta (1-42) were lower (0.052+/-0.005) than controls (0.070+/-0.010), whereas the levels of MCI group were 0.060+/-0.007. The MCI group with a TBS&gt;or=1.5 presented Abeta levels of 0.053+/-0.005 similar to those of AD patients, whereas the MCI group with TBS&lt;1.5 exhibited Abeta levels (0.066+/-0.007) similar to controls. Studies highlight the relationships between anomalously phosphorylated tau markers in CSF with the information from TBS analysis of the different groups of patients.
Dietary supplementation with antioxidant rich foods can decrease the level of oxidative stress in brain regions and can ameliorate age-related deficits in neuronal and behavioral functions. We examined whether short-term supplementation with blueberries might enhance the brain's ability to generate a heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) mediated neuroprotective response to stress. Hippocampal (HC) regions from young and old rats fed either a control or a supplemented diet for 10 weeks were subjected to an in vitro inflammatory challenge (LPS) and then examined for levels of HSP70 at various times post LPS (30, 90 and 240 min). While baseline levels of HSP70 did not differ among the various groups compared to young control diet rats, increases in HSP70 protein levels in response to an in vitro LPS challenge were significantly less in old as compared to young control diet rats at the 30, 90 and 240 min time points. However, it appeared that the blueberry diet completely restored the HSP70 response to LPS in the old rats at the 90 and 240 min times. This suggests that a short-term blueberry (BB) intervention may result in improved HSP70-mediated protection against a number of neurodegenerative processes in the brain. Results are discussed in terms of the multiplicity of the effects of the BB supplementation which appear to range from antioxidant/anti-inflammatory activity to signaling.
Idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder associated with akinesia, tremor and rigidity. While the characteristic Lewy body pathology targets pigmented and other brainstem nuclei at post-mortem, activated microglia are found in both subcortical and cortical areas. [11C](R)-PK11195 is a positron emission tomography (PET) marker of peripheral benzodiazepine sites (PBBS), which are selectively expressed by activated microglia. We examined 18 PD patients clinically and with [11C](R)-PK11195 and [18F]-dopa PET. Compared to 11 normal controls, the PD patients showed significantly increased mean levels of [11C](R)-PK11195 binding in the pons, basal ganglia and frontal and temporal cortical regions. Eight PD patients were examined longitudinally, and their [11C](R)-PK11195 signal remained stable over 2 years. Levels of microglial activation did not correlate with clinical severity or putamen [18F]-dopa uptake. Our in vivo findings confirm that widespread microglial activation is associated with the pathological process in PD. The absence of significant longitudinal changes suggests that microglia are activated early in the disease process, and levels then remain relatively static, possibly driving the disease via cytokine release.
Recent developments in neurochemistry research on the post mortem human brain require a detailed understanding of the post mortem changes in the human brain, including the correlation between time related temperature changes and alterations in biochemical parameters. As an initial step towards our deeper insight into the intricate relationships between post mortem time, temperature and neurochemical processes, in the present study we set out to monitor continuously temperature changes in the post mortem human brain in eight cadavers for a period of up to 24 h after death under 'standard' clinical conditions at a neurosurgery clinic. A main objective of the study was to find a simple and reliable mathematical formula, requiring only time and an easily obtainable body temperature measurement parameter, with the help of which the superficial and deep brain temperatures can be obtained without invasive interactions. With a portable thermoprobe data logger system superficial (4 cm from skull surface) and deep (8 cm) brain temperatures, the temperature of the liver and that of the forehead skin, as well as the ambient temperature of the room were measured at regular time intervals (every 1 or 5 min). Various mathematical models were fitted to the data in order to create a simple model capable to predict brain temperatures from easily accessible measurements, such as that of the forehead skin. On the basis of the tested models we propose that with simple polynomial equations the deep and superficial brain temperatures can be described reliably as T (br4) ( degrees C)=T (fh)-0.001t (3)+0.0541t (2)-1.0622t+7.5933 and T (br8) ( degrees C)=T (fh)-0.0003t (3)+0.0201t (2)-0.619t+7.9036, respectively, where T (br4) is the superficial (4 cm) brain temperature, T (br8) is the deep (8 cm) brain temperature, T (fh) is the forehead temperature and t is the time from death. These measurements can, in combination with further neurochemical studies, contribute to our better understanding of the human brain's time- and temperature-related post mortem biochemical changes.

Microdissection of selected regions of central nervous system (CNS) has provided the basis of modern chemoarchitectonics. Laser microdissection is a modern variant of the &quot;Palkovits punch&quot; technique and used together with gene array analysis has revolutionalized CNS molecular analysis. Here we describe the use of such an approach to elucidate molecules selectively expressed in magnocellular neuroendocrine cells (MCNs) in the supraoptic nucleus (SON). We found 123 genes that are preferentially expressed in the SON, and of these, 89 were substantially osmoregulated in their expression. One of these, C1q domain containing 1, is a novel gene that is osmoregulated much more than even vasopressin itself.
The intracellular messenger cAMP is essential for vital processes ranging from ovulation to cognition. There are 10 genes for adenylyl cyclase (AC), the biosynthetic enzyme of cAMP. Nine of these encode membrane-bound proteins and one gives rise to soluble AC. The understanding of the biological significance of this molecular diversity is incomplete. Membrane-bound ACs conform to the same structural blueprint but have markedly different regulatory characteristics. AC mRNAs are differentially distributed in the body suggesting non-redundant physiological functions. The subcellular localisation of AC isoforms has not been examined in detail. Here we discuss the current knowledge on the intracellular targeting of AC isoforms, and highlight the technical problems of AC detection, some of which appear to be caused by the poor quality-control of commercially supplied antibodies. The principal message is that intracellular targeting of ACs may be isoform-specific and also dependent on the cellular context of expression.
Auditory neuroscience has not tapped fMRI's full potential because of acoustic scanner noise emitted by the gradient switches of conventional echoplanar fMRI sequences. The scanner noise is pulsed, and auditory cortex is particularly sensitive to pulsed sounds. Current fMRI approaches to avoid stimulus-noise interactions are temporally inefficient. Since the sustained BOLD response to pulsed sounds decreases with repetition rate and becomes minimal with unpulsed sounds, we developed an fMRI sequence emitting continuous rather than pulsed gradient sound by implementing a novel quasi-continuous gradient switch pattern. Compared to conventional fMRI, continuous-sound fMRI reduced auditory cortex BOLD baseline and increased BOLD amplitude with graded sound stimuli, short sound events, and sounds as complex as orchestra music with preserved temporal resolution. Response in subcortical auditory nuclei was enhanced, but not the response to light in visual cortex. Finally, tonotopic mapping using continuous-sound fMRI demonstrates that enhanced functional signal-to-noise in BOLD response translates into improved spatial separability of specific sound representations.
We investigated the brain substrate of word repetition effects on the implicit memory task using low-resolution electromagnetic tomography (LORETA) with high-density 128-channel EEG and individual MRI as a realistic head model. Thirteen right-handed, healthy subjects performed a word/non-word discrimination task, in which the words and non-words were presented visually, and some of the words appeared twice with a lag of one or five items. All of the subjects exhibited word repetition effects with respect to the behavioral data, in which a faster reaction time was observed to the repeated word (old word) than to the first presentation of the word (new word). The old words elicited more positive-going potentials than the new words, beginning at 200 ms and lasting until 500 ms post-stimulus. We conducted source reconstruction using LORETA at a latency of 400 ms with the peak mean global field potentials and used statistical parametric mapping for the statistical analysis. We found that the source elicited by the old words exhibited a statistically significant current density reduction in the left inferior frontal gyrus. This is the first study to investigate the generators of word repetition effects using voxel-by-voxel statistical mapping of the current density with individual MRI and high-density EEG.
This study aimed to further explore processing of auditory and visual stimuli in working memory. Smith and Jonides (1997) [Smith, E.E., Jonides, J., 1997. Working memory: A view from neuroimaging. Cogn. Psychol. 33, 5-42] described a modified working memory model in which visual input is automatically transformed into a phonological code. To study this process, auditory and the corresponding visual stimuli were presented in a variant of the 2-back task which involved changes from the auditory to the visual modality and vice versa. Brain activation patterns underlying visual and auditory processing as well as transformation mechanisms were analyzed. Results yielded a significant activation in the left primary auditory cortex associated with transformation of visual into auditory information which reflects the matching and recoding of a stored item and its modality. This finding yields empirical evidence for a transformation of visual input into a phonological code, with the auditory cortex as the neural correlate of the recoding process in working memory.
T1-weighted anatomical brain scans are routinely used in neuroimaging studies, for example, as anatomical reference for functional data and in brain morphometry studies. Subject motion can degrade the quality of these images. An additional problem is the occurrence of signal dropouts in the case of long echo times and low receiver bandwidths. These problems are addressed in two different studies. In the first study, it is shown that the high scalp signal, which results from the low T1 value of fat, may cause a typical ringing artefact in the presence of head motion. This problem may be enhanced if phased array coils are used for signal reception due to their increased sensitivity in the peripheral head regions. It is shown that this artefact can be avoided by combining certain fat suppression techniques that reduce the scalp signal. In the second study, it is shown that signal dropout affects mainly the orbitofrontal cortex and the temporal lobes, and that a bandwidth of 100 Hz/pixel should be chosen for the investigation of these areas to avoid signal losses while maintaining an acceptable signal-to-noise ratio. Experimental results are based on the MDEFT sequence but can be applied to other T1-weighted sequences like FLASH and MP-RAGE. Furthermore, the presented methods for improving the image quality can be combined with other artefact reduction techniques.
From a cognitive standpoint, CABG as currently practiced appears to be safe for the great majority of patients, but transient changes involving memory, executive functions, and motor speed may still occur in a subset of patients during the first few days to weeks after CABG. The etiology most likely is multifactorial and includes a synergistic effect of microemboli, hypo-perfusion, and other variables associated with major surgery. Older age and degree of pre-existing cerebrovascular disease have been identified as important risk factors. The short-term cognitive changes appear to be reversible by 3 months after surgery for most patients. Late cognitive decline after CABG,occurring between 1 and 5 years after the surgery, has been well documented,but controlled studies demonstrating that this decline is specifically attributable to the use of cardiopulmonary bypass itself rather than to progression of underlying cerebrovascular disease or other age-related changes are pending.
Electrophysiologic testing continues to play an important role in injury stratification and prognostication in patients who are comatose after cardiac arrest. As discussed previously, however, the adage about treating whole patients, not just the numbers, is relevant in this situation. EEG and SSEP can offer high specificity for discerning poor prognosis as long as they are applied to appropriate patient populations. As discussed previously, EEG and SSEP patterns change during the first hours to days after cardiac arrest and negative prognostic information should not be based solely on studies performed during the first 24 hours. Both electrophysiologic techniques also are susceptible to artifacts that may worsen the electrical patterns artificially and suggest a falsely poor prognosis. EEG is suppressed by anesthetic agents and hypothermia, both of which may produce ECS and burst suppression. Patients who experience respiratory arrest from a toxic ingestion of narcotics or barbiturates, in particular, may present with high-grade EEG patterns initially. Many patients also receive anesthetic medications at the time of tracheal intubation, which may linger beyond their normal half-life in patients who have hepatic or renal insufficiency or concurrent use of interacting medications. SSEP is much less susceptible to sedative anesthetic agents, but hypothermia is demonstrated to prolong evoked potential latencies. As therapeutic hypothermia becomes more common after cardiac arrest, the effect of temperature on electrophysiologic testing needs to be taken into account. The publications discussed previously also emphasize the need to adjust the prognostic value of electro-physiologic tests to the pretest probability of meaningful neurologic recovery in individual patients. Clearly, grade I EEG patterns and normal N20 potentials indicate a much better prognosis in patients who have a short du-ration of cardiac arrest, short duration of coma after resuscitation, and when the studies are performed within the first few days. In patients who remain in coma days after resuscitation and lack appropriate brainstem reflexes, however, even the most normal appearing electrophysiologic patterns do little to change the overall prognosis. Aside from prognostication, electrophysiologic testing holds great promise in defining the basic anatomy and physiology of coma emergence after cardiac arrest. In addition, quantitative EEG and automated evoked potentials have the potential to render these tools less subjective and arcane and more applicable for monitoring patients in the period during and immediately after resuscitation. Quantitative EEG also has great potential asa tool to define the time window for neuroprotective intervention and the means to track the response to such therapies in real time.
Over the last 3 years we have observed 5 cases of median nerve schwannoma that clinically simulated carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS). We describe the atypical clinical-neurophysiological picture indicating to perform ultrasonography (US). We retrospectively re-evaluated 5 cases of schwannoma that clinically simulated CTS. Five consecutive patients were referred to the neurophysiopathology laboratory. All patients complained of symptoms and had a neurophysiological examination that might have indicated CTS. Nevertheless we performed US because of some incongruous aspects. In cases of atypical abnormalities at neurophysiological and clinical examination, or dissociation between neurophysiological and clinical findings, physicians should consider the presence of a median nerve tumour. Here, US evaluation is very useful as supporting diagnostic methodology to assess the anatomopathological condition of the nerve lesion and must not be limited to the wrist.
Idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD) patients have abnormal visual evoked potentials (VEPs) and pattern electroretinograms (PERGs), attributed to dopaminergic transmission deficiency in visual pathway, probably the retina. VEP abnormalities are not reported in multiple system atrophy (MSA). The aim of this study was to investigate and compare chromatic (Ch) red-green (R-G) and blue-yellow (B-Y), and luminance yellow-black (Y-Bk) PERGs in patients with MSA and IPD. We investigated 6 MSA patients (mean age: 62+/-7.4 years) not undergoing any pharmacological treatment, as well as 12 early IPD patients (mean age: 60.1+/-8.3 years) and 12 age-matched normal observers. ChPERGs were recorded monocularly in response to full-field equiluminant R-G, B-Y and Y-Bk horizontal gratings. In MSA only responses to R-G stimuli showed minimal insignificant changes (slight but not significant amplitude reduction without any significant latency delay); no significant abnormality was detected for B-Y and luminance Y-Bk stimuli. By contrast, in IPD all responses were reduced in amplitude and delayed in latency, above all for B-Y stimuli. Present data indicate that both chromatic and achromatic PERGs are virtually unaffected in MSA, whereas in early IPD they are clearly impaired, suggesting different pathogenic retinal mechanisms and a useful simple tool for distinguishing MSA from IPD.
The purpose of the study is to determine the level of service provision for adults with neuromuscular disease in the United Kingdom. The method is questionnaire survey of clinicians running specialist clinics for adults with NMD. Specialist services are mostly concentrated in areas of high population density with rural areas being less well served. Access to specialist clinical services is generally good, although funding for respiratory support is erratic. Joint paediatric/adult or adolescent clinics are relatively uncommon. Availability of therapists with an interest in muscular disease is variable. There are long waiting times for powered wheelchairs in many areas. Provision of disabled parking spaces was thought to be inadequate in most hospitals. Current service provision is inadequate to meet the complex needs of this patient population in the UK. Particular areas of concern are the transfer of care from paediatric to adult services and the availability of experienced therapists.
We present the clinical, imaging and neuropathological findings in three patients with predominant brachial plexus neuropathy. MR scanning was key to determining the brachial plexus involvement. Biopsy of the brachial plexus was performed in one patient. The appearances of the brachial plexus on MRI, in conjunction with the clinical presentations of these patients, suggest that they are unusual variants within the spectrum of chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy.
Neuron-glial interactions in the nervous system are of fundamental importance to many processes including neural migration,axon guidance, myelination and synaptic transmission. At synapses in the CNS, the physiological and structural relationship between neurons and astrocytes is particularly complex. The juxtaposition of astrocytic membranes with presynaptic and postsynaptic elements is important for regulating synaptic transmission and plasticity. Recent investigations demonstrate that the morphology of both neuronal and glial components show rapid, continuous structural remodeling in the hippocampus.These physical modifications are likely to have a significant functional impact upon neurotransmission and indicate that there modeling of astrocytic morphology might be crucial for the dynamic regulation of the synapse and its microenvironment. In this review, we focus on the structural complexities of astrocyte-synapse interactions in the hippocampus and their implications for understanding synaptic physiology, behavior and disease.
Mutation of the LRRK2 gene has been associated with autosomal dominant parkinsonism. An R1441C pathogenic substitution was identified in Family D, a large Western Nebraskan kindred, with four members demonstrating pleomorphic pathology at autopsy. One member of this family displayed tau pathology suggestive of progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). To evaluate the influence of mutation at the R1441 residue in this disorder we screened a series of 242 pathologically confirmed PSP cases. No evidence was found for the presence of a mutation at this codon in our series. These data would suggest that this Lrrk2 variant does not contribute in susceptibility to PSP.
Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is a progressive degenerative disorder characterized by neuronal loss, gliosis and abnormal fibril formation of abnormally phosphorylated tau protein in neurons and glia cells, but the cause is not clear at present. For the purpose of clarifying the pathological significance of accumulation of tau protein in neurons and oligodendroglia in PSP, we morphologically classified neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) and coiled bodies (CB) in oligodendroglia in three PSP brains into four stages, using double staining for immunohistochemistry with AT8 antibody and modified Gallyas-Braak (GB) staining. AT8-positive neurons without abnormal fibril structure with GB staining were classified as stage I, AT8-positive neurons containing a few fibril structures with GB staining were classified stage II, AT8-positive neurons containing mature fibril structures were classified as stage III, and AT8 negative neurons containing abnormal fibril structures stained only with GB staining were classified as stage IV (ghost tangles). These stages were also assessed for CB. Then we counted the number of cells of each stage in various brain regions to investigate the relationship of NFT and CB with neuronal loss and gliosis. The results showed that there were very few stage IV NFT and CB, which reflect cell death, but that stage III NFT and CB were abundant. Moreover, CB were abundant in regions with severe neuronal loss. These results suggest that appearance of CB is closely associated with degenerative regions.
The cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist SR141716A (0.5, 1 and 2 microg) induces penile erection when injected into the paraventricular nucleus of male rats. The pro-erectile effect of SR 141716A occurs concomitantly with an increase in the concentration of NO2- and NO3- in the paraventricular dialysate obtained by means of intracerebral microdialysis. Both penile erection and NO2- increase induced by SR 141716A were reduced by the prior injection into the PVN of the cannabinoid CB1 agonists WIN 55,212-2 (5 microg) or HU 210 (5 microg), given into the paraventricular nucleus at doses unable to induce penile erection or to modify NO2- concentration. SR 141716A responses were also reduced by nitro-L-arginine methylester (20 microg), a non-selective NO synthase inhibitor, S-methyl-L-thiocitrulline (20 microg), a selective neuronal NO synthase inhibitor, the excitatory amino acid NMDA receptor antagonist dizocilpine ((+)MK 801) (1 microg), or the GABAA receptor agonist muscimol (0.2 microg) injected into the PVN 15 min before SR 141716A. In contrast, the inducible NO synthase inhibitor L-N(6)-(1-iminoethyl)lysine (20 microg), the GABAB receptor agonist baclofen (0.2 microg), the mixed dopamine receptor antagonist cis-flupenthixol (10 microg), and the oxytocin receptor antagonist d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)-Orn8 -vasotocin (1 microg), were ineffective. Despite its inability to reduce penile erection and NO2- increase induced by SR 141716A when injected into the PVN, d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)-Orn8 -vasotocin (1 microg) reduced almost completely penile erection without reducing paraventricular NO2- increase when injected into the lateral ventricles 15 min before SR 141716A. The present results show that SR 141716 induces penile erection by a mechanism (possibly activation of excitatory amino acid neurotransmission), which causes the activation of neuronal NO synthase in paraventricular oxytocinergic neurons mediating penile erection.
Galanin is a widely-distributed neuropeptide that acts as an endogenous anticonvulsant. We have recently generated a galanin receptor type 1 knockout mouse (Galr1(-/-)) that develops spontaneous seizures. Our aim here was to characterize the seizures by making electroencephalogram (EEG) recordings from this animal, and also to elucidate the cellular basis of its epileptic phenotype by studying the neurophysiology of CA1 pyramidal neurons in acute hippocampal slices. EEGs showed that major seizures had a partial onset with secondary generalization, and that paroxysms of spike-and-slow waves occurred and were associated with hypoactivity. The interictal EEG was also abnormal, with a marked excess of spike-and-slow waves. Slice experiments showed that resting potential, input resistance, intrinsic excitability, paired-pulse facilitation of excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs and IPSCs), stimulus--response plots for EPSCs, and several properties of spontaneous miniature EPSCs and IPSCs were all unchanged in the mutant mouse compared with wildtype. However, the frequency of miniature IPSCs was significantly reduced in the mutants. These results suggest that impaired synaptic inhibition in the hippocampus may contribute to the local onset of seizures in the Galr1(-/-) mouse.
This study aimed to examine the expression and function of P2 receptors of the rat tail and mesenteric arteries during maturation and ageing (4, 6 and 12 weeks, 8 and 24 months). Functional studies and receptor expression by immunohistochemistry revealed a heterogeneous phenotype of P2 receptor subtypes depending on artery age. The purinergic component of nerve-mediated responses in the tail artery was greater in younger animals; similarly responses to ATP and alpha,beta-meATP and the expression of P2X1 receptors decreased with age. Contractile responses to 2-MeSADP decreased with age, and were absent at 8 and 24 months; P2Y1 receptor expression followed this pattern. UTP-induced contractions and P2Y2 receptor expression also decreased with age. The mesenteric artery contracted to UTP, responses at 4 and 6 weeks were larger than at other ages although P2Y2 receptor expression did not significantly differ with age. 2-MeSADP induced relaxation of the mesenteric artery, responses being greatest at 6 weeks and decreased thereafter, which was mimicked by the P2Y1 receptor immunostaining. We speculate that the dramatic changes in expression of P2 receptors in the rat tail artery, compared to the mesenteric artery, during development and ageing are related to the role of the tail artery in temperature regulation.
The kinetics of GABAergic currents in neurons is known to be modulated by the membrane voltage but the underlying mechanisms have not been fully explored. In particular, the impact of membrane potential on the GABA(A) receptor gating has not been elucidated. In the present study, the effect of membrane voltage on current responses elicited by ultrafast GABA applications was studied in cultured hippocampal neurons. The current to voltage relationship (I-V) for responses to saturating [GABA] (10 mM) showed an inward rectification (slope conductance at positive voltages was 0.62 +/- 0.05 of that at negative potentials). On the contrary, I-V for currents evoked by low [GABA] (1 microM) showed an outward rectification. The onset of currents elicited by saturating [GABA] was significantly accelerated at positive potentials. Analysis of currents evoked by prolonged applications of saturating [GABA] revealed that positive voltages significantly increased the rate and extent of desensitization. The onsets of current responses to non-saturating [GABA] were significantly accelerated at positive voltages indicating an enhancement of the binding rate. However, at low [GABA] at which the onset rate is expected to approach an asymptote set by opening/closing and unbinding rates, no significant modification of current onset by voltage was observed. Quantitative analysis based on model simulations indicated that the major effect of membrane depolarization was to increase the rates of binding, desensitization and of opening as well as to slightly reduce the rate of exit from desensitization. In conclusion, we provide evidence that membrane voltage affects the GABA(A) receptor microscopic gating.
The effects of long-term treatment in a demented patient were evaluated in this study. One individual diagnosed with Alzheimer's dementia (AD) was treated with neuropsychological rehabilitation techniques as well as drugs for a period of 2 years and 10 months. An A-B-A-B design was performed for the cognitive treatment. Neuropsychological treatment consisted of a combination of direct re-training and training in activities of daily living. Cognitive performance was monitored with the Mattis Dementia Rating Scale. Results showed improvement and a slower decline during the treatment phases (A) as compared to the no-treatment phases (B). The Conceptualisation and Attention subscales benefited most followed by the Memory subscale. Long-term treatment was shown to be effective in AD. Although cognitive drugs may have been beneficial neuropsychological rehabilitation played an important role in the success of this treatment, appearing as a necessary condition.
Physical activity has documented beneficial effect in treatment of depression. Recently, we found an antidepressant-like effect of running in an animal model of depression, the Flinders Sensitive Line (FSL) and demonstrated that it was associated with increased hippocampal cell proliferation. In this study, we analyzed levels of mRNAs encoding the neuropeptide Y (NPY) and the opioid peptides dynorphin and enkephalin in hippocampus and correlated these to cell proliferation in the FSL and in the 'nondepressed' Flinders Resistant Line (FRL) strain, with/without access to running wheels. Running increased NPY mRNA in dentate gyrus and the CA4 region in FSL, but not in FRL rats. NPY mRNA increase was correlated to increased cell proliferation in the subgranular zone of dentate gyrus. Baseline dynorphin and enkephalin mRNA levels in the dentate gyrus were lower in the FSL compared to the FRL strain. Running had no effect on dynorphin and enkephalin mRNAs in the FSL strain but it decreased dynorphin mRNA, and there was a trend to increased enkephalin mRNA in the FRL rats. Thus, it would appear that the CNS effects of running are different in 'depressed' and control animals; modification of NPY, a peptide associated with depression and anxiety, in depressed animals, vs effects on opioids, associated with the reward systems, in healthy controls. Our data support the hypothesis that NPY neurotransmission in hippocampus is malfunctioning in depression and that antidepressive treatment, in this case wheel running, will normalize it. In addition, we also show that the increased NPY after running is correlated to increased cell proliferation, which is associated with an antidepressive-like effect.
Repeated exposure to drugs of abuse results in an increased sensitivity to their behavioral effects, a phenomena referred to as behavioral sensitization. It has been suggested that the same neuroadaptations underlying behavioral sensitization contribute to the maintenance and reinstatement of addiction. Dysregulation of dopamine (DA) neurotransmission in the mesoaccumbens system is one neuroadaptation that is thought to lead to the compulsive drug-seeking that characterizes addiction. Evidence that sensitization to psychostimulants and opiates is associated with an enhancement of drug-evoked DA levels in the nucleus accumbens has also been obtained. Like other drugs of abuse, the acute administration of ethanol (ETOH) stimulates DA release in this brain region. Moreover, repeated ETOH experience results in an enhanced behavioral response to a subsequent ethanol challenge. Data regarding the influence of repeated ethanol intoxication and withdrawal upon mesoaccumbal DA neurotransmission is limited. Studies examining ETOH-evoked alterations in mesoaccumbal DA neurotransmission as a function of withdrawal duration are lacking. The present experiments quantified basal and ethanol-evoked DA levels 14 days and 24 h following the cessation of a repeated ETOH intoxication protocol, which results in sensitization to the locomotor activating effects of ethanol. Locomotor activity was assessed in parallel groups of animals. Studies were conducted in two mouse strains, C57BL/6J and DBA/2J, which differ in their behavioral responses to ETOH. The results indicate the development of transient tolerance to both ETOH-induced behavioral activation and evoked accumbens DA release at early withdrawal. Moreover, no enhanced DA response to a subsequent ETOH challenge could be demonstrated in ETOH experienced animals 2 weeks after withdrawal, in spite of the observation of clear behavioral sensitization at this time point. These results suggest that, at least in the case of ethanol, sensitization of the DA mesolimbic system may not be necessary for the development of behavioral sensitization.
Neurons become photosensitive by genetically introducing one of green algae-derived protein, channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2). Here, we quantitatively investigated the rapidness of the light-gated current of ChR2 expressed in PC12 cells using blue light-emitting diode (LED) light. The light-gated current consists of two components, inactivating and non-inactivating. The magnitude of inactivating component was almost linearly related to the light intensity. The non-inactivating component showed a tendency to saturate at high illumination. Both the activation and inactivation rates of the light-gated current were linearly dependent on the light intensity. However, the activation rate (turning-on rate) is about 10-fold faster than the inactivation rate. Although the turning-off time constant was little dependent on the light intensity, that at the end of 1s light pulse was about two-fold larger than that at 20 ms. Neurons are also made photosensitive by the expression of ChR2 in the living animal. Since both the turning-on and turning-off time constants of light-gated current was smaller than the membrane time constant of neurons, the LED light illumination of the photosensitive neurons was enough to evoke action potentials in a pulse-to-pulse manner in an acute slice of hippocampus.
This study compares the improvement and generalization of arm motor performance after physical or mental training in a motor task requiring a speed-accuracy tradeoff. During the pre- and post-training sessions, 40 subjects pointed with their right arm as accurately and as fast as possible toward targets placed in the frontal plane. Arm movements were performed in two different workspaces called right and left paths. During the training sessions, which included only the right path, subjects were divided into four training groups (n = 10): (i) the physical group, subjects overtly performed the task; (ii) the mental group, subjects imagined themselves performing the task; (iii) the active control group, subjects performed eye movements through the targets, (iv) the passive control group, subjects did not receive any specific training. We recorded movement duration, peak acceleration and electromyographic signals from arm muscles. Our findings showed that after both physical and mental training on the right path (training path), hand movement duration and peak acceleration respectively decreased and increased for this path. However, motor performance improvement was greater after physical compared with mental practice. Interestingly, we also observed a partial learning generalization, namely an enhancement of motor performance for the left path (non-training path). The amount of this generalization was roughly similar for the physical and mental groups. Furthermore, while arm muscle activity progressively increased during the training period for the physical group, the activity of the same muscles for the mental group was unchanged and comparable with that of the rest condition. Control groups did not exhibit any improvement. These findings put forward the idea that mental training facilitates motor learning and allows its partial transfer to nearby workspaces. They further suggest that motor prediction, a common process during both actual and imagined movements, is a fundamental operation for both sensorimotor control and learning.
Sensorineural hearing loss is often associated with damage of cochlear hair cells and/or of the neurons of the auditory pathway. This damage can result from a variety of causes, e.g. genetic disorders, aging, exposure to certain drugs such as aminoglycosides, infectious disease and intense sound overexposure. Intracellular events that mediate aspects of aminoglycoside-mediated damage to hair cells have been partially unraveled. Several independent research groups have demonstrated a crucial role of mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling in aminoglycoside-induced ototoxicity. Mitogen-activated protein kinases are important mediators of signal transduction from the cell surface to the nucleus. Jun N-terminal kinases, members of the mitogen-activated protein kinase family, are strongly activated in cell culture conditions by stress inducing stimuli, including ultraviolet light, heat shock and tumor necrosis factor; therefore they are also referred to as stress-activated protein kinases. In hair cells aminoglycoside treatment was shown to activate the Jun N-terminal kinase signaling pathway. Activation of Jun N-terminal kinase leads to phosphorylation and thereby activation of transcription factors and consequently to altered gene expression. There are many nuclear Jun N-terminal kinase substrates including c-Jun, ATF-2, and Elk-1 proteins. One of the downstream targets of Jun N-terminal kinase is the transcription factor activating protein-1. Activating protein-1 is a dimeric complex composed of members of the Fos and Jun proteins. A variety of different stimuli is known to induce activating protein-1 activity. Induction of activating protein-1 is thought to play a central role in reprogramming gene expression in response to external stimuli. In this study we have analyzed the effect of gentamicin treatment on the downstream targets of Jun N-terminal kinase. Our results demonstrate that gentamicin treatment of explants of organ of Corti results in increased activating protein-1 binding activity. The main component of these activating protein-1 complexes is the c-Fos protein. Moreover, we show that the activating protein-1 induction is transient and occurs exclusively in hair cells of rat organ of Corti explants.
Dysfunction of the dopaminergic system accompanied by loss of dopamine in the striatum is a major feature of human immunodeficiency virus-1-associated dementia. Previous studies have shown that human immunodeficiency virus-1-associated dementia patients with a history of drug abuse have rapid neurological progression, prominent psychomotor slowing, more severe encephalitis and more severe dendritic and neuronal damage in the frontal cortex compared with human immunodeficiency virus-1-associated dementia patients without a history of drug abuse. In a previous study, we showed that methamphetamine and human immunodeficiency virus-1 protein Tat interact to produce a synergistic decline in dopamine levels in the rat striatum. The present study was carried out to understand the underlying cause for the loss of dopamine. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were administered saline, methamphetamine, Tat or Tat followed by methamphetamine 24 h later. Two and seven days later the animals were killed and tissue sections from striatum were processed for silver staining to examine terminal degeneration while sections from striatum and substantia nigra were processed for tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity. Striatal tissue was also analyzed by Western blotting for tyrosine hydroxylase protein levels. Compared with controls, methamphetamine+Tat-treated animals showed extensive silver staining and loss of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity and protein levels in the ipsilateral striatum. There was no apparent loss of tyrosine hydroxylase in the substantia nigra. Markers for oxidative stress were significantly increased in striatal synaptosomes from Tat+methamphetamine group compared with controls. The results indicate that methamphetamine and Tat interact to produce an enhanced injury to dopaminergic nerve terminals in the striatum with sparing of the substantia nigra by a mechanism involving oxidative stress. These findings suggest a possible mode of interaction between methamphetamine and human immunodeficiency virus-1 infection to produce enhanced dopaminergic neurotoxicity in human immunodeficiency virus-1 infected/methamphetamine-abusing patients.
Dopaminergic neurons of the ventral tegmental area are implicated in the physiology of reward, and long-lasting changes in their function induced by exposure to psychostimulant drugs are related to the pathophysiology of drug abuse. It is not known, however, whether such changes are accompanied by morphological changes in these neurons. We characterized and labeled cells in slices containing the ventral tegmental area using whole-cell electrophysiological methods. Injections of saline or amphetamine were given to rats on postnatal days 10, 12 and 14 and individual neurons were examined one to four weeks later. We show that repeated exposure to amphetamine induces substantial dendritic growth of ventral tegmental area dopaminergic neurons in vivo. Furthermore, we show, by immuno-neutralization of endogenous basic fibroblast growth factor, that the amphetamine-induced increase in astrocytic basic fibroblast growth factor in the ventral tegmental area is essential for these morphological changes. We propose that the amphetamine-induced elaboration of the dendritic arbor of dopaminergic neurons leads to their increased excitability and contributes to compulsive drug-seeking and relapse.
Repeated cocaine administration in rats can lead to sensitization as evidenced by an increased locomotor response to a subsequent exposure (challenge) dose of cocaine even after a drug-free period. Expression of the immediate early gene product, c-Fos, differs among distinct subregions of the nucleus accumbens shell. This would suggest that these subregions may be differentially involved in sensitization. The present study quantified c-Fos- and deltaFosB-immunoreactive nuclei in subterritories of the nucleus accumbens in animals behaviorally sensitized to cocaine. Rats received a sensitization-inducing regimen of cocaine (twice-daily injections of 15 mg/kg i.p. for five consecutive days). Fourteen days following the last injection, rats were given a challenge injection of cocaine (15 mg/kg i.p.), and killed 2 h later. Sections through the nucleus accumbens were processed for tyrosine hydroxylase and either c-Fos or deltaFosB. The number of immunoreactive nuclei was quantified in five subregions of the nucleus accumbens shell: the vertex, arch, cone, intermediate zone and ventrolateral zone, which can be identified by differential histological staining for tyrosine hydroxylase. Repeated cocaine administration resulted in robust sensitization that was associated with more deltaFosB in the vertex, arch, and cone compared with saline-treated controls. As previously reported, c-Fos immunoreactivity was increased in the intermediate zone in cocaine-sensitized rats. deltaFosB was significantly elevated in rats that did not receive a cocaine challenge, attesting to the long half-life of this transcription factor. These results provide further evidence suggesting distinct anatomical neuroadaptations within the nucleus accumbens shell that may play a functional role in psychomotor-stimulant sensitization.
Increasing evidence suggests that the metabolism of glutathione, an endogenous redox regulator, is abnormal in schizophrenia. Patients show a deficit in glutathione levels in the cerebrospinal fluid and prefrontal cortex and a reduction in gene expression of the glutathione synthesizing enzymes. We investigated whether such glutathione deficit altered synaptic transmission and plasticity in slices of rat hippocampus, with particular emphasis on NMDA receptor function. An approximately 40% decrease in brain glutathione levels was induced by s.c. administration of L-buthionine-(S,R)-sulfoximine, an inhibitor of glutathione synthesis. Such glutathione deficit did not affect the basal synaptic transmission, but produced several NMDA receptor-dependent and -independent effects. Glutathione deficit caused an increase in excitability of CA1 pyramidal cells. The paired-pulse facilitation was diminished in glutathione-depleted slices, in a manner that was independent of NMDA receptor activity. This suggests that lowering glutathione levels altered presynaptic mechanisms involved in neurotransmitter release. NMDA receptor-dependent long-term potentiation induced by high-frequency stimulation was impaired in glutathione-depleted slices. Pharmacologically isolated NMDA receptor-mediated field excitatory postsynaptic potentials were significantly smaller in L-buthionine-(S,R)-sulfoximine-treated than in control slices. Hypofunction of NMDA receptors under glutathione deficit was explained at least in part by an excessive oxidation of the extracellular redox-sensitive sites of the NMDA receptors. These results indicate that a glutathione deficit, like that observed in schizophrenics, alters short- and long-term synaptic plasticity and affects NMDA receptor function. Thus, glutathione deficit could be one causal factor for the hypofunction of NMDA receptors in schizophrenia.
This study investigates contributions of peripheral kainate receptors to acute nociception and persistent inflammatory pain in rat. Immunohistochemical analysis of kainate receptor expression using antibodies recognizing glutamate receptor subunits 5, 6, and 7 demonstrates that 28% of unmyelinated axons in normal digital nerve are positively labeled. Following intraplantar injection of complete Freund's adjuvant, a significant increase in glutamate receptor subunits 5, 6, and 7-labeled axons occurs at 2 days (40%), but not 7 (31%) or 14 days (28%) post-complete Freund's adjuvant. In behavioral studies, we confirm an increased mechanical sensitivity in complete Freund's adjuvant-injected hind paws. Furthermore, activation of kainate receptors following intraplantar injection of 1.0 mM kainate in normal animals results in a mechanical sensitivity similar to that observed in inflamed animals. A 1.0 mM kainate injection into inflamed hind paws further enhances the mechanical sensitivity. Injection of the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (0.1 mM) reverses complete Freund's adjuvant-induced mechanical sensitivity through a local effect. In single unit recordings from nociceptors in a glabrous skin-nerve preparation, mechanical sensitization is present in inflamed skin evidenced by a decrease in mechanical threshold and an increase in discharge rate during a suprathreshold, constant force stimulus. Thermal sensitization is also present evidenced by a decrease in heat threshold. There is a dose-dependent increase in kainate-induced nociceptor activity in both normal and inflamed skin but the kainate required to induce activation is reduced in inflamed skin. Although proportions of kainate-activated nociceptors are the same in normal and inflamed skin, the kainate-induced mean discharge rate is significantly enhanced in inflamed skin. Exposure of normal and inflamed nociceptors to 0.3 mM kainate sensitizes fibers to re-application of kainate and heat. This sensitization is blocked in the presence of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione or the glutamate receptor subunit 5 selective antagonist 3S,4aR,6S,8aR-6-[4-carboxy-phenyl] methyl-1,2,3,4,4a,5,6,7,8,8a-deca-hydroisoquinoline-3-carboxylic acid. The data indicate that peripheral kainate receptors not only play an important role in normal nociception but also contribute to mechanical sensitivity and heat sensitization accompanying inflammatory pain.
In mammals, the extraocular muscle fibers can be categorized in singly-innervated and multiply-innervated muscle fibers. In the monkey oculomotor, trochlear and abducens nucleus the motoneurons of multiply-innervated muscle fibers lie separated from those innervating singly-innervated muscle fibers and show different histochemical properties. In order to discover, if this organization is a general feature of the oculomotor system, we investigated the location of singly-innervated muscle fiber and multiply-innervated muscle fiber motoneurons in the rat using combined tract-tracing and immunohistochemical techniques. The singly-innervated muscle fiber and multiply-innervated muscle fiber motoneurons of the medial and lateral rectus muscle were identified by retrograde tracer injections into the muscle belly or the distal myotendinous junction. The belly injections labeled the medial rectus muscle subgroup of the oculomotor nucleus or the greatest part of abducens nucleus, including some cells outside the medial border of abducens nucleus. In contrast, the distal injections labeled only a subset of the medial rectus muscle motoneurons and exclusively cells outside the medial border of abducens nucleus. The tracer detection was combined with immunolabeling using antibodies for perineuronal nets (chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan) and non-phosphorylated neurofilaments. In monkeys both antibodies permit a distinction between singly-innervated muscle fiber and multiply-innervated muscle fiber motoneurons. The experiments revealed that neurons labeled from a distal injection lack both markers and are assumed to represent multiply-innervated muscle fiber motoneurons, whereas those labeled from a belly injection are chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan- and non-phosphorylated neurofilament-immunopositive and assumed to represent singly-innervated muscle fiber motoneurons. The overall identification of multiply-innervated muscle fiber and singly-innervated muscle fiber motoneurons within the rat oculomotor nucleus, trochlear nucleus, and abducens nucleus revealed that the smaller multiply-innervated muscle fiber motoneurons tend to lie separate from the larger diameter singly-innervated muscle fiber motoneurons. Our data provide evidence that rat extraocular muscles are innervated by two sets of motoneurons that differ in their molecular, morphological, and anatomical properties.
Dopamine released from lateral efferent fibers modulates the activity of the auditory nerve, but the signaling mechanism by which this is mediated is not known. The present study investigated the signal transduction pathway for the dopamine D1 receptor in the guinea-pig cochlea. D1 receptor immunolabeling was localized to the spiral ganglia neurons and at the base of the inner hair cells. Western immunoblotting on whole cochlear preparations revealed positive bands for the D1 receptor and for dopamine and the cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein. The amplitude of the compound action potential was enhanced in the presence of the D1 receptor agonist, SKF 38393, an effect that was abolished by H89, a protein kinase A inhibitor. Conversely, SKF 83566, a D1 receptor antagonist decreased the amplitude of compound action potential, while forskolin, a protein kinase A activator prevented this effect. Furthermore, it was found that the level of glutamate receptor 1 phosphorylation at the protein kinase A site (Ser845) was increased by the D1 agonist, but decreased by D1 antagonist. Our results provide evidence that the D1 receptor is localized in the spiral ganglion neurons as well as the nerve endings under the inner hair cells and they can modulate auditory nerve function. One signal transduction pathway of D1 receptor in the auditory nerve is via protein kinase A-mediated glutamate receptor 1 phosphorylation.
Several findings suggest that glucocorticoid hormones influence the propensity of an individual to develop cocaine abuse. These hormones activate two related transcription factors, the glucocorticoid receptor and the mineralocorticoid receptor. We have shown previously that mice carrying a mutation of the glucocorticoid receptor gene specifically in neural cells, glucocorticoid receptor knock-out in the brain, show a dramatic decrease in cocaine-induced self-administration and no behavioral sensitization to this drug, two experimental procedures considered relevant models of addiction. Here, we investigated in glucocorticoid receptor knock-out in the brain mice the consequences of this mutation at the level of the expression of neuropeptide, dopamine receptor and glutamate receptor subunit mRNAs. We quantified mRNA levels in the cortex, striatum and accumbens under basal conditions and following acute or repeated cocaine treatments. Our results show that, under basal conditions, neuropeptide (substance P, dynorphin) and dopamine receptor (D1, D2) mRNAs were decreased in glucocorticoid receptor knock-out in the brain mice in the dorsal striatum but not in the accumbens. However, cocaine-induced changes in the levels of these mRNAs were not modified in glucocorticoid receptor knock-out in the brain mice. In contrast, mutant mice showed altered response in mRNA levels of N-methyl-D-aspartate, GLUR5 and GLUR6 glutamate receptor subunits as well as of enkephalin following cocaine administration. These modifications may be associated to decrease of behavioral effects of cocaine observed in glucocorticoid receptor knock-out in the brain mice.
A number of rat neuropathy models have been developed to simulate human neuropathic pain conditions, such as spontaneous pain, hyperalgesia, and allodynia. In the present study, to determine the relative importance of injury site (proximal or distal to the primary afferent neurons) and injury type (motor or sensory), we examined pain-related behaviors and changes of brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression in the dorsal root ganglion in sham-operated rats, and in the L5 dorsal rhizotomy, L5 ventral rhizotomy, L5 dorsal rhizotomy+ventral rhizotomy, and L5 spinal nerve transection models. L5 ventral rhizotomy and spinal nerve transection produced not only mechanical and heat hypersensitivity, but also an increase in brain-derived neurotrophic factor mRNA/protein in the L5 dorsal root ganglion at 7 days after surgery. In contrast, rats in the L5 dorsal rhizotomy and dorsal rhizotomy+ventral rhizotomy groups did not show both pain behaviors at 7 days after surgery, despite brain-derived neurotrophic factor upregulation in medium- and large-size neurons in the L5 dorsal root ganglion. On the other hand, L5 spinal nerve transection, but not dorsal rhizotomy, dorsal rhizotomy+ventral rhizotomy or ventral rhizotomy, increased the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the L4 dorsal root ganglion at 7 days after surgery. Taken together, these findings suggest that the upregulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression in the L4 and L5 dorsal root ganglion neurons may be, at least in part, involved in the pathophysiological mechanisms of neuropathic pain and that the selective nerve root injury models may be useful for studying the underlying mechanisms of chronic pain after nerve injury.
The mechanisms responsible for the stabilization and persistence of synaptic plasticity remain largely unknown. In this study, we investigated the time course of the dependence of late-phase long term potentiation of field excitatory post-synaptic potential on phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and its downstream effectors mTOR and AKT. In agreement with our previous results obtained on an early-phase long-term potentiation paradigm we observed that application of a nanomolar concentration of wortmannin (100 nM) 1 h after late-phase long term potentiation induction reversed potentiation completely. However, application of wortmannin 4 h after late-phase long term potentiation induction resulted in a more limited reduction of field excitatory post-synaptic potential suggesting that the dependence of late-phase long term potentiation expression on phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase decreases over time. Application of a nanomolar concentration of rapamycin (200 nM) during the tetanization paradigm prevented the induction of late-phase long term potentiation consistent with our earlier results. Application of rapamycin 1 h after late-phase long term potentiation induction resulted in a less pronounced though significant decline of field excitatory post-synaptic potential. Immunohistological analysis demonstrated that the concentration of rapamycin used was effective in inhibiting the phosphorylation of p70S6K at Thr389, the main determinant of its pro-translational activity, and that Thr389 phosphorylation recovered after washout. Lastly, a transient application of Akt inhibitor I (10 microM) one hour after late-phase long term potentiation induction also induced a partial although significant reduction of potentiated field excitatory post-synaptic potential that stabilized at a level of approximately 114% of baseline three hours after application, suggesting that AKT also contributes to the stabilization of late-phase long term potentiation expression. These results confirm and extend previous observations that the expression of long term potentiation in the CA1 of rat hippocampus involves several elements of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signaling pathway.
Studies using i.v. cocaine self-administration in rats have documented rapid-phasic changes in the firing rate of nucleus accumbens neurons within seconds of cocaine-reinforced lever presses, as well as changes that occur over the course of the cocaine self-administration experiment, i.e. tonic changes in firing rate. During the self-administration period of the experiment, individual neurons exhibit either a tonic increase, a tonic decrease, or no tonic change in firing rate, relative to the neuron's firing rate during the pre-drug period. We evaluated whether rapid-phasic changes in firing were differentially associated with tonically reduced or tonically elevated firing of nucleus accumbens core and shell neurons in cocaine self-administering rats. Rapid-phasic firing patterns within seconds of the cocaine-reinforced lever press were exhibited predominantly by core neurons that also exhibited tonic increases in firing. Conversely, core neurons that did not exhibit such rapid-phasic firing patterns were more likely to show tonically reduced firing. Moreover, core neurons were more likely than shell neurons to exhibit: 1) tonic increases in firing and 2) rapid-phasic increases in firing preceding the cocaine-reinforced lever press. These differences between accumbens subterritories may be related to their distinct involvement in operant responding; the present findings are consistent with an emerging literature which implicates shell in contextual stimulus-induced responding, and core in processing the instrumental response via its discrete output to classic basal ganglia structures. The distinct tendency of the core to exhibit increased firing, coupled with its dichotomous firing outputs (i.e. tonic decreases without rapid phasic responses or tonic increases with rapid phasic responses), may reflect particular sensitivity of these neurons to excitatory limbic afferent signaling involved in instrumental responding. Enhanced phasic responsivity in the core may be an integral component of the mechanism inherent in normal reward processing which is subverted by chronic drug exposure.
Synthesis of neuropeptide Y in the neocortex and activity of the basalocortical cholinergic system are both reduced in the aging brain. We hypothesized that, by stimulating the activity of the basal forebrain cholinergic neurons, nerve growth factor might also be capable of restoring the synthesis of neuropeptide Y in cortical neurons. Old male and female rats were intraventricularly infused with nerve growth factor for 14 days and their brains were analyzed in order to quantify the densities of neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive neurons and of fiber varicosities stained for vesicular acetylcholine transporter protein in layers II/III, V and VI of the primary somatosensory barrel-field cortex. The areal densities of neuropeptide Y neurons and of vesicular acetylcholine transporter protein varicosities in all cortical laminae were found to be dramatically decreased in old rats when compared with young rats. However, infusions of nerve growth factor, known to exert a powerful trophic effect upon cortically projecting cholinergic neurons, have led to considerable recovery of vesicular acetylcholine transporter protein-positive terminal fields, which was paralleled by complete restoration of function in neuropeptide Y-producing neurons. With respect to the gender differences, although the density of cortical neuropeptide Y neurons was found to be significantly higher in young females than in young males and the opposite was true for vesicular acetylcholine transporter protein-positive varicosities, the general pattern of age- and treatment-related changes in these neurochemical markers was similar in both sexes. Overall, the age- and treatment-related variations in the density of cortical neuropeptide Y cells were found to correlate with those observed in the density of vesicular acetylcholine transporter protein varicosities. These results lend support to the idea that there is a causal relationship between age-related changes in cortical cholinergic and neuropeptide Y-ergic neurotransmitter systems.
Deprivation of socio-sensory interactions during early life impairs brain function in adulthood. In previous investigations we showed that early isolation severely affects neuron development in several structures of the hippocampal region, including the entorhinal cortex. In the present study we investigated the effects of early isolation on signal processing along the entorhinal cortex-dentate-CA3-CA1 system, a major memory circuit of the hippocampal region. Male and female guinea-pigs were assigned at 6-7 days of age to either a social or an isolated environment. At 90-100 days of age the animals were anesthetized and field potentials were recorded from the entorhinal cortex-dentate-CA3-CA1 circuit, driven by dorsal psalterium commissural volleys. Analysis of the input-output function in the different structures showed that in isolated males there was a small reduction in the input-output function of the population excitatory postsynaptic potential and population spike evoked in layer II of the entorhinal cortex. No changes occurred in isolated females. In isolated males and females there was a reduction in the input-output function of the population excitatory postsynaptic potential and population spike evoked in the dentate gyrus, CA3 and CA1, but this effect was larger in males. In isolated males, but not in females, the population spike/population excitatory postsynaptic potential ratio was reduced in all investigated structures, indicating that in males the size of the discharged neuron population was reduced more than due to the decreased input. Results show that isolation reduces the synaptic function in the whole entorhinal cortex-dentate gyrus-CA3-CA1 system. While the entorhinal cortex was moderately impaired, the dentate-hippocampal system was more severely affected. The impairment in the signal transfer along the entorhinal cortex-dentate gyrus-CA3-CA1 system was heavier in males, confirming the larger susceptibility of this sex to early experience. This work provides evidence that malfunctioning of a major hippocampal network may underlie the learning deficits induced by impoverished surroundings during early life.
This functional magnetic resonance imaging study investigates the effects of nicotine in a cued target detection task when changing cue reliability. Fifteen non-smoking volunteers were studied under placebo and nicotine (Nicorette polacrilex gum 1 and 2 mg). Validly and invalidly cued trials were arranged in blocks with high, middle and low cue reliability. Two effects of nicotine were investigated: its influence on i) parietal cortex activity underlying the processing of invalid vs. valid trials (i.e. validity effect) and ii) neural activity in the context of low, middle and high informative value of the cue (i.e. cue reliability effect). Nicotine did not affect behavioral performance. However, nicotine reduced the difference in the blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) signal between invalid and valid trials in the right intraparietal sulcus. The reduction of parietal activity in invalid trials was smaller in the low cue reliability condition. The same posterior parietal region exhibited a nicotinic modulation of BOLD activity in valid trials which was dependent on cue reliability: Nicotine specifically enhanced the neural activity during valid trials in the context of low cue reliability, i.e. when subjects are already in a state of low certainty. We speculate that the right intraparietal sulcus might be part of two networks working in parallel: one responsible for reorienting attention and the other for the cholinergic modulation of cue reliability. By reducing the use of the cue, nicotine modulates parietal activity related to reorienting attention in conditions with higher cue certainty. On the other hand, nicotine increases parietal activity in states of low certainty. This enhanced activation might influence brain regions, such as the posterior cingulate, directly involved in the processing of cue reliability.
A potentially major factor in the development of Alzheimer's disease is the enhanced production of soluble beta-amyloid peptide fragments amyloid beta peptide(1-40) and amyloid beta peptide(1-42). These amyloid peptides are generated by cleavage of the amyloid-precursor protein and aggregate spontaneously to form amyloid plaques, which are a classical pathological hallmark in Alzheimer's disease. Although the precise mechanisms are unknown, it is widely believed that amyloid peptides initiate the degenerative process, resulting in subsequent cognitive decline. One interaction of amyloid beta peptide that may contribute to an impairment of cognition is its high affinity binding to the alpha 7 nicotinic receptor; a receptor shown to be important for cognition in a number of studies. There is some controversy, however, whether amyloid beta peptide inhibits or activates this receptor. We have cloned and stably expressed the human alpha 7 receptor and investigated its interaction with amyloid beta peptide using patch clamp electrophysiology. Human alpha 7 was activated in a concentration-dependent fashion by nicotine, acetylcholine and choline and potently inhibited by methyllycaconitine citrate. The responses were inwardly rectifying and exhibited rapid activation, desensitization and deactivation. Amyloid beta peptide(1-42) antagonized human alpha7 responses in a partially reversible fashion; no agonist effects of amyloid beta peptide(1-42) were detected. A similar inhibition of mouse alpha 7 was also observed. In addition, we have assessed the function of native alpha 7 receptors in hippocampal slices prepared from transgenic mice that over-express human amyloid. Despite this clear inhibition of recombinant receptors, hippocampal GABAergic interneurones in slices from beta-amyloid over-expressing mice still possess alpha 7 receptor-mediated currents.
This study examined the modulatory influence exerted by GABA(B) receptors on the transmission of cutaneous afferent input to cuneate nucleus neurons in anesthetized cats. Electrical stimulation at the center of a receptive field activated cuneate nucleus cells at latencies of &lt; or = 7 ms whereas stimulation at neighboring sites (receptive field edge) increased the response latency. Extracellular recording combined with microiontophoresis demonstrated that GABA(B) receptors are tonically active. Blockade of GABA(B) receptors prolonged sensory-evoked response durations and decreased times of occurrence of successive bursts whereas the agonist baclofen suppressed both these effects. Ejection of baclofen delayed the evoked response from the receptive field edge with respect to the receptive field center response and inhibited responses from the receptive field edge more effectively than responses from the receptive field center. From these results it is concluded that activation of GABA(B) receptors precludes cuneate cells from reaching firing threshold when afferent inputs are weak, spatially modulate cuneate nucleus excitability, play a major role in temporal pattern of discharges, and shape cutaneous receptive fields.
The brain noradrenergic system is thought to facilitate neuronal processes that promote behavioral activation, alertness, and attention. One region in which norepinephrine may exert such effects is the medial prefrontal cortex, which has been implicated in many cognitive functions including arousal, attention, motivation, working memory, response inhibition, and behavioral flexibility. The present study addressed the modulatory influence of noradrenergic neurotransmission in medial prefrontal cortex on cognitive function in rats, as measured by performance in an attentional set shifting task. In experiment 1, we tested effects of increasing and decreasing brain noradrenergic neurotransmission by systemic administration of the alpha2-adrenergic autoreceptor antagonist and agonist drugs, atipamezole and clonidine, respectively. Atipamezole pretreatment significantly improved performance on the stages of the attentional task requiring an extradimensional shift in attention, and those involving stimulus reversals, whereas clonidine had no effect at any stage. In experiment 2, we then tested effects of microinjecting alpha1- or beta-adrenergic receptor antagonists into medial prefrontal cortex on the enhancement of performance on the extradimensional task produced by atipamezole. The atipamezole-induced enhancement of performance on the extradimensional set shifting task was blocked by alpha1-, but not beta-adrenergic receptor antagonists in medial prefrontal cortex. Neither antagonist alone had any effect on extradimensional set shift performance in the absence of atipamezole-induced enhancement. These results indicate that elevating noradrenergic activity at alpha1-receptors in medial prefrontal cortex facilitates cognitive performance of rats in an attentional set-shifting task, which may contribute to the role of norepinephrine in behavioral state changes such as arousal, or to the beneficial cognitive effects of psychotherapeutic drugs that target noradrenergic neurotransmission.
Increasing evidence indicates that endothelin-1 has a role for peripheral nociceptive signaling in animals and humans. However, the mechanisms of the nociceptive effects of endothelin-1 have not been fully understood. The current study investigated the effects of endothelin-1 on the capsaicin-evoked intracellular Ca2+ response of cultured adult mice dorsal root ganglion neurons. Dorsal root ganglia were harvested from adult male C57B6N mice and were cultured. With a digital image analysis system, we detected the [Ca2+]i image of cultured dorsal root ganglion cells after loading with Fura-2 acetoxymethyl. In addition, co-localization of protein kinase Cepsilon with transient receptor potential V1 and the translocation of protein kinase Cepsilon were investigated using immunohistochemical methods. Endothelin-1 (10 nM) enhanced an increase in [Ca2+]i by capsaicin (10 nM) from 87.6+/-11.6 nM to 414.8+/-62.3 nM (71 of 156 neurons). The inhibition of endothelin A receptor (BQ-123) significantly suppressed the enhancing effect of endothelin-1. In addition, a nonselective protein kinase C inhibitor (bisindolylmaleimide I) significantly suppressed the enhancing effect of endothelin-1. A myristoyl-tagged membrane-permeant-protein kinase Cepsilon V1-2 inhibitory peptide also significantly suppressed the enhancing effect of endothelin-1. In the immunocytochemical study, protein kinase Cepsilon immunoreactivity was found in most of transient receptor potential V1-positive neurons. After endothelin-1 application, protein kinase Cepsilon immunoreactivity was observed to be translocated from the cytosol to the cell membrane in transient receptor potential V1-positive neurons. Our results indicate that endothelin-1 enhances the response of dorsal root ganglion neurons to capsaicin in a protein kinase Cepsilon-dependent manner. Our findings may lead to a new strategy to treat pain associated with endothelin-1.
Activity of the immediate early genes c-fos and zif268 was compared across hemispheres in rats with unilateral, excitotoxic lesions of the hippocampus (dentate gyrus and CA fields 1-4). Counts of the protein products of these genes were made shortly after rats performed a test of spatial working memory in the radial-arm maze, a task that is sensitive to bilateral lesions of the hippocampus. Unilateral hippocampal lesions produced evidence of widespread hypoactivity. Significant reductions in immediate early gene counts were observed within all three anterior thalamic nuclei, as well as the entorhinal, perirhinal, and postrhinal cortices, and much of the subicular complex. In contrast, no observable changes were detected in the anterior cingulate, infralimbic or prelimbic cortices, as well as several amygdala nuclei, even though many of these regions receive projections from the subiculum. Instead, the immediate early gene changes were closely linked to sites that are thought to be required for successful task performance, with both immediate early genes giving similar patterns of results. The findings support the notion that the anterior thalamic nuclei, hippocampus, and parahippocampal cortices form the key components of an interdependent neuronal network involved in spatial mnemonic processing.
Cocaine abuse is a significant problem in the United States, including its use by approximately 1% of pregnant women. Cocaine acts as an indirect agonist of dopamine at the dopamine transporter, resulting in the presence of excess dopamine in the synapse. Since synaptic dopamine can rapidly oxidize to form free radicals, it was hypothesized that exposure to this drug might produce damage in dopaminergic systems such as the substantia nigra pars compacta, damage to which is a hallmark of Parkinson's disease. To test this hypothesis we exposed mice both in utero and as adults to cocaine and examined its effects on the nigrostriatal system. We found that exposure to cocaine both in utero or as adults did not affect substantia nigra cell number, but did make these neurons more susceptible to the parkinsonian toxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. We also found long-lasting changes in D2 receptor mRNA levels as well as changes in the monoamine transport system and several growth factors. This work suggests that use of cocaine might be a predisposing factor for development of Parkinson's disease in both adults exposed chronically as well as in individuals exposed prenatally.
Anatomical studies in goldfish show that the tectofugal axons provide a large number of boutons within the mesencephalic reticular formation. Electrical stimulation, reversible inactivation and cell recording in the primate central mesencephalic reticular formation have suggested that it participates in the control of rapid eye movements (saccades). Moreover, the role of this tecto-recipient area in the generation of saccadic eye movements in fish is unknown. In this study we show that the electrical microstimulation of the mesencephalic reticular formation of goldfish evoked short latency saccadic eye movements in any direction (contraversive or ipsiversive, upward or downward). Movements of the eyes were usually disjunctive. Based on the location of the sites from which eye movements were evoked and the preferred saccade direction, eye movements were divided into different groups: pure vertical saccades were mainly elicited from the rostral mesencephalic reticular formation, while oblique and pure horizontal were largely evoked from middle and caudal mesencephalic reticular formation zones. The direction and amplitude of pure vertical and horizontal saccades were unaffected by initial eye position. However the amplitude, but not the direction of most oblique saccades was systematically modified by initial eye position. At the same time, the amplitude of elicited saccades did not vary in any consistent manner along either the anteroposterior, dorsoventral or mediolateral axes (i.e. there was no topographic organization of the mesencephalic reticular formation with respect to amplitude). In addition to these groups of movements, we found convergent and goal-directed saccades evoked primarily from the anterior and posterior mesencephalic reticular formation, respectively. Finally, the metric and kinetic characteristics of saccades could be manipulated by changes in the stimulation parameters. We conclude that the mesencephalic reticular formation in goldfish shares physiological functions that correspond closely with those found in mammals.
Abnormalities of the glutamatergic system in schizophrenia have been identified in numerous studies, but little is known about the role of glutamate transporters and their messenger RNA (mRNA) expression. In addition, the abundances of the two major isoforms of human excitatory amino acid transporter 2 (EAAT2) or its rat ortholog, glutamate transporter 1, have never been compared in a quantitative manner. Using quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, we established that the expression of the EAAT1, EAAT2a, EAAT2b, and EAAT3 transcripts was not different in the dorsolateral prefrontal and primary visual cortices of persons with schizophrenia relative to matched controls. EAAT2a expression was about 25-fold and 10-fold higher than EAAT2b in human and rat brain, respectively. The data provided no evidence of an effect of antipsychotic medications on the mRNA expression of the glutamate transporters. However, because most of the schizophrenic subjects in the cohort had been treated with antipsychotics for many years, it is still possible that changes in transporter expression were masked by medication effects.
Glutamate is the main neurotransmitter at the synapses between sensory cells and primary afferents in the peripheral vestibular system. Evidence has recently been obtained demonstrating that the atypical amino acid D-serine is the main endogenous co-agonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in the CNS. We studied the distribution of D-serine and its synthesizing and degrading enzymes, serine racemase and d-amino acid oxidase in the rat vestibular sensory epithelium using immunocytochemistry. D-serine, serine racemase and D-amino acid oxidase were localized in the transitional cells, which are parasensory cells located between the sensory epithelium and the dark cells. The dark cells expressed only serine racemase. D-Serine was also detected in the supporting cells of the sensory epithelium. These cells, which are in close contact with glutamatergic synapses, express GLAST, a glial specific transporter for glutamate. They may have similar functions to glial cells in the CNS and thus expression of D-serine suggests a neuromodulator role for D-serine at the glutamatergic synapses in the peripheral vestibular system. Our data also indicate that the metabolism of D-serine is not restricted to glial cells suggesting that the amino acid may play an additional role in the peripheral nervous system.
11beta-Hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 is a glucocorticoid metabolizing enzyme that catalyzes rapid inactivation of corticosterone and cortisol to inert 11-keto derivatives. As 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 is highly expressed in the developing brain, but not in the adult CNS, we hypothesized that it may represent a protective barrier to the deleterious actions of corticosteroids on proliferating cells. To test this hypothesis we have investigated the development and growth of the cerebellum in neonatal C57BL/6 mice and mice lacking 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 (-/-). 11beta-Hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2-/- mice had consistently lower body weight throughout the neonatal period, coupled with a smaller brain size although this was normalized when corrected for body weight. The cerebellar size was smaller in 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2-/- mice, due to decreases in size of both the molecular and internal granule layers. When exogenous corticosterone was administered to the pups between postnatal days 4 and 13, 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2(-/-) mice were more sensitive, showing further inhibition of cerebellar growth while the wildtype mice were not affected. Upon withdrawal of exogenous steroid, there was a rebound growth spurt so that at day 21 postnatally, the cerebellar size in 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2-/- mice was similar to untreated mice of the same genotype. Furthermore, 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2-/- mice had a delay in the attainment of neurodevelopmental landmarks such as negative geotaxis and eye opening. We therefore suggest that 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 2 acts as to protect the developing nervous system from the deleterious consequences of glucocorticoid overexposure.
Despite frequent saccadic gaze shifts we perceive the surrounding visual world as stable. It has been proposed that the brain uses extraretinal eye position signals to cancel out saccade-induced retinal image motion. Nevertheless, stimuli flashed briefly around the onset of a saccade are grossly mislocalized, resulting in a shift and, under certain conditions, an additional compression of visual space. Perisaccadic mislocalization has been related to a spatio-temporal misalignment of an extraretinal eye position signal with the corresponding saccade. Here, we investigated perceptual mislocalization of human observers both in saccade and fixation conditions. In the latter conditions, the retinal stimulation during saccadic eye movements was simulated by a fast saccade-like shift of the stimulus display. We show that the spatio-temporal pattern of both the shift and compression components of perceptual mislocalization can be surprisingly similar before real and simulated saccades. Our findings suggest that the full pattern of perisaccadic mislocalization can also occur in conditions which are unlikely to involve changes of an extraretinal eye position signal. Instead, we suggest that, under the conditions of our experiments, the arising difficulty to establish a stable percept of a briefly flashed stimulus within a given visual reference frame yields mislocalizations before fast retinal image motion. The availability of visual references appears to exert a major influence on the relative contributions of shift and compression components to mislocalization across the visual field.
Classical mammalian transient receptor potential channels form non-selective cation channels that open in response to activation of phospholipase C-coupled metabotropic receptors, and are thought to play a key role in calcium homeostasis in non-excitable cells. Within the nervous system transient receptor potential channels are widely distributed but their physiological roles are not well understood. Here we show that in the rat lateral amygdala transient receptor potential channels mediate an excitatory synaptic response to glutamate. Activation of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors on pyramidal neurons in the lateral amygdala with either exogenous or synaptically released glutamate evokes an inward current at negative potentials with a current voltage relationship showing a region of negative slope and steep outward rectification. This current is blocked by inhibiting G protein function with GTP-beta-S, by inhibiting phospholipase C or by infusing transient receptor potential antibodies into lateral amygdala pyramidal neurons. Using RT-PCR and Western blotting we show that transient receptor potential 1, transient receptor potential 4 and transient receptor potential 5 are present in the lateral amygdala. Single cell PCR confirms the presence of transient receptor potential 1 and transient receptor potential 5 in pyramidal neurons and we show by co-immunoprecipitation that transient receptor potential 1 and transient receptor potential 5 co-assemble as a heteromultimers in the amygdala. These results show that in lateral amygdala pyramidal neurons synaptically released glutamate activates transient receptor potential channels, which we propose are likely to be heteromultimeric channels containing transient receptor potential 1 and transient receptor potential 5/transient receptor potential 4.
The spontaneous or targeted deletion of the nuclear receptor transcription factor Nr2e1 produces a mouse that shows hypoplasia of the hippocampal formation and reduced neurogenesis in adult mice. In these studies we show that hippocampal synaptic transmission appears normal in the dentate gyrus and cornu ammonis 1 subfields of adult mice that lack Nr2e1 (Nr2e1-/-), and that fEPSP shape, paired-pulse responses, and short-term plasticity are not substantially altered in either subfield. In contrast, the expression of long-term potentiation is selectively impaired in the dentate gyrus, and not in the cornu ammonis 1 subfield. Golgi analysis revealed that there was a significant reduction in both dendritic branching and dendritic length that was specific to dentate gyrus granule cells in the Nr2e1-/- mice. These results indicate that Nr2e1 deletion can significantly alter both synaptic plasticity and dendritic structure in the dentate gyrus.
Chick embryos are capable of functional spinal cord regeneration following crush injury until embryonic day 13. Developmental changes occurring thereafter result in failure to regenerate. Secondary injury mechanisms can result in apoptotic cell death and make a major contribution to cell loss after trauma. We report here that around embryonic day 13 there is a dramatic increase in blood vessel numbers in the spinal cord, and that the extent of hemorrhage in response to injury increases with developmental age. This is paralleled by increased apoptosis and subsequent cavitation in spinal cords injured at embryonic day 15 as compared with embryonic day 11. Following spinal cord injury at embryonic day 15, apoptotic cell death is extensive and spreads to the same extent as the hemorrhage. When hemorrhage is reduced by treatment with the hemostatic drug desmopressin the extent of apoptosis and cavity formation in spinal cords injured at embryonic day 15 decreases. Furthermore, manipulations of embryonic day 11 spinal cords that increase hemorrhage also increase apoptosis and result in cavitation in contrast to the effective repair typical of this stage. Altogether these results suggest that cavity formation occurring at developmental stages non-permissive for regeneration is largely due to changes in the extent of apoptosis that are related to vascularization and hemorrhage.
Presynaptic nerve terminals are exquisite vesicle trafficking machines. Neurotransmission is sustained by constant recycling of a handful of vesicles. Therefore, the rate and the pathway of vesicle trafficking can critically determine synaptic efficacy during activity. However, it is yet unclear whether synaptic vesicle recycling becomes rate limiting on a rapid time scale during physiologically relevant forms of activity in the brain. Several forms of synaptic plasticity arise from persistent alterations in the dynamics of vesicle trafficking in presynaptic terminals. What makes presynaptic forms of plasticity particularly interesting is that they not only increase or decrease the amplitude of synaptic responses but also cause frequency-dependent changes in neurotransmission. In this manner, plasticity can alter the information coding in neural circuits beyond simple scaling of synaptic responses. However, studying the synaptic vesicle cycle beyond exocytosis and endocytosis has been difficult. In the past decade, several methods have been developed to infer vesicles' trajectory during their cycle in the synapse. Nevertheless, several questions remain. A better understanding of the role of synaptic vesicle trafficking in neurotransmission will require novel approaches that either combine existing methods or the development of new methods to trace vesicles during their cycle. Recent evidence suggests that various presynaptic proteins involved in the synaptic function and homeostasis are either mutated or altered in their expression in several neurological and psychiatric disorders. Therefore, elucidation of the mechanisms that underlie the synaptic vesicle cycle may reveal novel therapeutic targets for brain disorders.
Dendrites are a major determinant of how neurons integrate and process incoming information, and thus, they play a vital role in the functional properties of neural circuits. During the past 30 years, it has become clear that the functional organization of the adult neocortex (and other parts of the brain) is dynamic and can change in response to experimental manipulations that affect cortical activity patterns. A variety of changes in the cortical microcircuit, including changes in synaptic function, neuronal membrane properties, and axonal trajectories, are associated with these functional changes. In this review, the authors discuss changes in the structure of dendrites in the adult neocortex, the sorts of experimental manipulations that induce these changes, and some possible molecular mechanisms that may underlie the changes.

iNKT cells are a unique subset of CD1-restricted T lymphocytes that express T cell receptor (TCR) and some NK receptors. iNKT cells express an invariant TCRalpha chain composed of Valpha14-Jalpha18 segments in mice and Valpha24-Jalpha18 segments in humans associated with TCRbeta chains using a restricted set of Vbeta. iNKT cells recognize glycolipid antigens such as alpha-galactosylceramide (alpha-GC) presented by CD1d, non-pormorphic MHC class I-like molecule, and rapidly secrete large amounts of cytokines including IL-4 and IFN-gamma upon activation. Due to its potent ability to produce a variety of cytokines, iNKT cells are involved in a various kinds of immunoregulation. iNKT cells play a regulatory role in some disease models such as type I diabetes in NOD mice. In contrast, iNKT cells exaggerate the pathogenesis such as arthritis, allergic airway inflammation and atherosclerosis. In addition, iNKT cells are an attractive target for immunotherapy because several different synthetic glycolipid antigens to modify the function of iNKT cells are available. In this review, we examine the potential roles of NKT cells in the pathogenesis of a variety of diseases including autoimmunity , allergy, infection and cancer. Additionally, we discuss on the recent advances in glycolipid therapy for these disease models.
Copper and zinc are trace nutrients essential for normal brain function, yet an excess of these elements can be toxic. It is important therefore that these metals be closely regulated. We recently conducted a quantitative trait loci (QTL) analysis to identify chromosomal regions in the mouse containing possible regulatory genes. The animals came from 15 strains of the BXD/Ty recombinant inbred (RI) strain panel and the brain regions analyzed were frontal cortex, caudate-putamen, nucleus accumbens and ventral midbrain. Several QTL were identified for copper and/or zinc, most notably on chromosomes 1, 8, 16 and 17. Genetic correlational analysis also revealed associations between these metals and dopamine, cocaine responses, saccharine preference, immune response and seizure susceptibility. Notably, the QTL on chromosome 17 is also associated with seizure susceptibility and contains the histocompatibility H2 complex. This work shows that regulation of zinc and copper is under polygenic influence and is intimately related to CNS function. Future work will reveal genes underlying the QTL and how they interact with other genes and the environment. More importantly, revelation of the genetic underpinnings of copper and zinc brain homeostasis will aid our understanding of neurological diseases that are related to copper and zinc imbalance.
Following acute ingestion of green tea by six human subjects, HPLC-MS2 analysis revealed that flavan-3-ol methyl, glucuronide and sulfate metabolites appeared in the bloodstream but did not pass through the blood-cerebrospinal fluid barrier. These observations emphasize the discrepancies between in vitro and in vivo evidence on the neuroprotective role of these compounds. If, as has been proposed, green tea exerts neuroprotective effects, this finding indicates that the active components are not flavan-3-ols or their metabolites. Alternatively, a systemic action may be hypothesised whereby dietary flavan-3-ols up-regulate antioxidant defences and/or reduce inflammation, the benefit of which may be effective throughout the body.
Many papers documented that Parkinson's disease (PD) patients treated with levodopa (L-dopa) shows elevated plasma homocysteine (Hcy) levels. Several lifestyle factors are able to influence plasma Hcy levels. We review the evidence that L-dopa therapy is related with an increase in plasma Hcy levels and that several behaviours could be able to cause changes in plasma Hcy concentrations. Therefore, there are reasons to suggest that a healthy lifestyle lowering Hcy may prevent this potential iatrogenic complication during L-dopa therapy. Moreover, at present, no controlled prospective studies have evaluated this phenomenon.

We have previously shown that corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH) inhibits the proliferation of Ishikawa (IK) human endometrial carcinoma cell line through the activation of CRH-R1 receptors. Here, we have further investigated the role of CRH and its type-1 receptor in the control of IK cell function, and we carried out a pilot study in tumor tissues obtained from 19 patients with endometrial cancer, looking at CRH-R1 gene expression. In the IK study, CRH counteracted the increase in cell proliferation caused by estradiol; type-1 receptors mediating this effect belong to the alpha subtype. In the study on human tumors, CRH-R1 was expressed in 4 out of 19 (21%) surgical specimens obtained from untreated patients with a diagnosis of primary endometrial cancer. Two out of 4 cases (50%) expressing CRH-R1 mRNA had extrauterine spreading of the disease, whereas cases not expressing CRH-R1 mRNA were all FIGO stage I, 2 (p=0.015).

A novel application of neurophysiological monitoring enabled us safely to anesthetize and position a child with severe lumbosacral spine flexion for diagnostic MRI and CT scan. We conducted a propofol-based anesthetic to optimize somatosensory (SSEP) and transcranial electric motor (tceMEP) evoked potential amplitudes, thereby facilitating dynamic neurological monitoring while fully extending the patient supine. In cases outside the operating room involving extraordinary changes in patient position, anesthesia providers may consider utilizing neurophysiological monitoring.
Complex regional pain syndromes (CRPS, type I and type II) are devastating conditions that can occur following soft tissue (CRPS type I) or nerve (CRPS type II) injury. CRPS type I, also known as reflex sympathetic dystrophy, presents in patients lacking a well-defined nerve lesion, and has been questioned as to whether or not it is a true neuropathic condition with an organic basis. As described here, glabrous and hairy skin samples from the amputated upper and lower extremity from two CRPS type I diagnosed patients were processed for double-label immunofluorescence using a battery of antibodies directed against neural-related proteins and mediators of nociceptive sensory function. In CRPS affected skin, several neuropathologic alterations were detected, including: (1) the presence of numerous abnormal thin caliber NF-positive/MBP-negative axons innervating hair follicles; (2) a decrease in epidermal, sweat gland, and vascular innervation; (3) a loss of CGRP expression on remaining innervation to vasculature and sweat glands; (4) an inappropriate expression of NPY on innervation to superficial arterioles and sweat glands; and (5) a loss of vascular endothelial integrity and extraordinary vascular hypertrophy. The results are evidence of widespread cutaneous neuropathologic changes. Importantly, in these CRPS type I patients, the myriad of clinical symptoms observed had detectable neuropathologic correlates.
Mutations in the human melanocortin-4 receptor (MC4R) gene have been associated with severe obesity. Many of the mutations result in partial or complete loss-of-function based on the nature of the mutation or the function of mutated receptors when tested in heterologous expression systems. This review discusses the role of MC4R in the central regulation of body weight, the pathogenic mechanisms of the mutations, and the validity of MC4R as an anti-obesity drug target.
This study investigated whether 12 participants with color-vision deficiency had superior visual discrimination of color-camouflaged stimuli shown on a computer screen compared with 12 participants with normal trichromatic vision. Participants were asked to distinguish a circular pattern from other patterns in which textural elements differed from the background in orientation and thickness. In one condition, stimuli were single-colored, green or red; in the other condition, stimuli were color camouflaged with a green and red mosaic overlaid onto the pattern. Color-vision deficient participants selected the correct stimuli in the color-camouflaged condition as quickly as they did in the single-colored condition. However, normal color-vision participants took longer to select the correct choice in the color-camouflaged condition than in the single-colored condition. These results suggest that participants with color-vision deficiency may have a superior visual ability to discriminate the color-camouflaged stimuli.
Augmentation of serotonergic neurotransmission at the level of the dorsal spinal cord is proposed to contribute to the analgesic activity of selective serotonin (5-HT) reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). In this study we have utilised microdialysis perfusion to determine the effect of two structurally unrelated SSRIs on depolarisation-induced aspartate and glutamate release in the dorsal spinal cord of the anaesthetised rat. Perfusion with artificial extracellular fluid containing 45 mM potassium produced a significant increase in aspartate and glutamate efflux. Sensitivity, at least in part, to antagonism of calcium entry by high extracellular Mg2+ indicated a neuronal origin for a proportion of stimulated release. Reverse dialysis of paroxetine (1-30 microM) reduced the increase in glutamate in a concentration dependent manner, with a significant reduction evident following inclusion in the perfusate of 30 microM. Administration of an equi-potent dose of citalopram (300 micoM) also reduced depolarisation induced glutamate release. Aspartate levels tended to decrease in the presence of paroxetine and citalopram, but this trend did not reach significance. Co-perfusion of paroxetine (30 microM) with the selective 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist WAY 100635 (100 microM) did not prevent the reduction in depolarisation induced glutamate efflux. These results demonstrate that local administration of SSRIs has an inhibitory influence on evoked release of glutamate in the dorsal horn. This could indicate regulation of excitatory neurotransmission mediated through augmented serotonergic neurotransmission and activation of a serotonergic receptor other than the 1A subtype. Alternatively, direct inhibition with voltage dependent calcium channels, potentially a property intrinsic to molecules with high selectivity for the 5-HT transporter, may underlie this effect.
Dopamine modifies a large variety of cellular and synaptic biophysical parameters in a seemingly paradoxical manner. Predicting their implications for neural network dynamics and computation seems difficult. Here I briefly review experimental and simulation data which illustrate that the diverse ionic consequences may combine such that dopamine's overall effect strongly depends on the activity state of the postsynaptic network, potentially with a temporal profile. These properties could be crucial for understanding dopamine's functional role.
Many different varieties of modeling coexist in theoretical neuroscience. Here, we consider the positive and negative implications, for theories of schizophrenia, of a crucial distinction between computational and mathematical modeling.
Although still rather controversial, empirical data on the neurobiology of schizophrenia have reached a degree of complexity that makes it hard to obtain a coherent picture of the malfunctions of the brain in schizophrenia. Theoretical neuropsychiatry should therefore use the tools of theoretical sciences like cybernetics, informatics, computational neuroscience or systems science. The methodology of systems science permits the modeling of complex dynamic nonlinear systems. Such procedures might help us to understand brain functions and the disorders and actions of psychiatric drugs better.
We study the sum of many independent spike trains and ask whether the resulting spike train has Poisson statistics or not. It is shown that for a non-Poissonian statistics of the single spike train, the resulting sum of spikes has exponential interspike interval (ISI) distributions, vanishing the ISI correlation at a finite lag but exhibits exactly the same power spectrum as the original spike train does. This paradox is resolved by considering what happens to ISI correlations in the limit of an infinite number of superposed trains. Implications of our findings for stochastic models in the neurosciences are briefly discussed.
We investigate the dynamics of bursting behavior in an intact hippocampal preparation using causal entropy, an adaptive measure of lag synchrony. This analysis, together with a heuristic model of coupled bursting networks, separates experimentally observed bursting dynamics into two dynamical regimes, when bursting is driven by (1) the intranetwork dynamics of a single region, or (2) internetwork feedback between spatially disjoint neural populations. Our results suggest that the abrupt transition between these two states heralds the gradual desynchronization of bursting activity. These results illustrate how superficially homogeneous behavior across loosely coupled networks may harbor hidden, but robust, dynamical processes.

When one finger touches the other, the resulting tactile sensation is perceived as weaker than the same stimulus externally imposed. This attenuation of sensation could result from a predictive process that subtracts the expected sensory consequences of the action, or from a postdictive process that alters the perception of sensations that are judged after the event to be self-generated. In this study we observe attenuation even when the fingers unexpectedly fail to make contact, supporting a predictive process. This predictive attenuation of self-generated sensation may have evolved to enhance the perception of sensations with an external cause.
Shortly after John Eccles completed his studies of synaptic inhibition in the spinal cord, for which he was awarded the 1963 Nobel Prize in physiology/medicine, he opened another chapter of neuroscience with his work on the cerebellum. From 1963 to 1967, Eccles and his colleagues in Canberra successfully dissected the complex neuronal circuitry in the cerebellar cortex. In the 1967 monograph, &quot;The Cerebellum as a Neuronal Machine&quot;, he, in collaboration with Masao Ito and Janos Szentgothai, presented blue-print-like wiring diagrams of the cerebellar neuronal circuitry. These stimulated worldwide discussions and experimentation on the potential operational mechanisms of the circuitry and spurred theoreticians to develop relevant network models of the machinelike function of the cerebellum. In following decades, the neuronal machine concept of the cerebellum was strengthened by additional knowledge of the modular organization of its structure and memory mechanism, the latter in the form of synaptic plasticity, in particular, long-term depression. Moreover, several types of motor control were established as model systems representing learning mechanisms of the cerebellum. More recently, both the quantitative preciseness of cerebellar analyses and overall knowledge about the cerebellum have advanced considerably at the cellular and molecular levels of analysis. Cerebellar circuitry now includes Lugaro cells and unipolar brush cells as additional unique elements. Other new revelations include the operation of the complex glomerulus structure, intricate signal transduction for synaptic plasticity, silent synapses, irregularity of spike discharges, temporal fidelity of synaptic activation, rhythm generators, a Golgi cell clock circuit, and sensory or motor representation by mossy fibers and climbing fibers. Furthermore, it has become evident that the cerebellum has cognitive functions, and probably also emotion, as well as better-known motor and autonomic functions. Further cerebellar research is required for full understanding of the cerebellum as a broad learning machine for neural control of these functions.
Since the early 20th century, it has been recognized that motoneurons must fire repetitive trains of action potentials to produce muscle contraction. In 1932, Sir John Eccles, together with Hebbel Hoff, found that action potential spike trains in motor axons were produced by &quot;rhythmic centres&quot;, which were within the motoneurons themselves. Two decades later, Eccles attended a Cold Spring Harbor Symposium in NY, USA entitled &quot;The Neuron&quot;. Two of the many notable presentations at this symposium were juxtaposed: one by Eccles from the University of Otago, Dunedin, NZL, and the other by J. Walter Woodbury and Harry Patton from the University of Washington, Seattle, USA. Both presentations included data obtained using sharp microelectrodes to study the intracellularly recorded potentials of cat motoneurons. In this review, I discuss some of the events leading up to and surrounding this jointly accomplished advance and proceed to discussion of subsequent studies over 5+ decades that have made use of intracellular recordings from motoneurons to study their repetitive firing behavior. This begins with early descriptions of primary and secondary range firing, and continues to the discovery of dendritic persistent inward currents and their relation to plateau potentials, synaptic amplification, and motoneuronal firing. Following a brief description of the possible mechanisms underlying spike frequency adaptation, I discuss the modulation of repetitive firing properties during various motor behaviors. It has become increasingly clear that the central nervous system has exquisite control of the repetitive firing of motoneurons. Eccles' work laid the foundation for the present-day study of these processes.
This review focuses on investigations by Sir John Eccles and co-workers in Canberra, AUS in the 1950s, in which they used intracellular recordings to unravel the organization of neuronal networks in the cat spinal cord. Five classical spinal reflexes are emphasized: recurrent inhibition of motoneurons via motor axon collaterals and Renshaw cells, pathways from muscle spindles and Golgi tendon organs, presynaptic inhibition, and the flexor reflex. To set the scene for these major achievements I first provide a brief account of the understanding of the spinal cord in &quot;reflex&quot; and &quot;voluntary&quot; motor activities from the beginning of the 20th century. Next, subsequent work is reviewed on the convergence on spinal interneurons from segmental sensory afferents and descending motor pathways, much of which was performed and inspired by Anders Lundberg's group in Gothenburg, SWE. This work was the keystone for new hypotheses on the role of spinal circuits in normal motor control. Such hypotheses were later tested under more natural conditions; either by recording directly from interneurons in reduced animal preparations or by use of indirect non-invasive techniques in humans performing normal movements. Some of this latter work is also reviewed. These developments would not have been possible without the preceding work on spinal reflexes by Eccles and Lundberg. Finally, there is discussion of how Eccles' work on spinal reflexes remains central (1) as new techniques are introduced on direct recording from interneurons in behaving animals; (2) in experiments on plastic neuronal changes in relation to motor learning and neurorehabilitation; (3) in experiments on transgenic animals uncovering aspects of human pathophysiology; and (4) in evaluating the function of genetically identified classes of neurons in studies on the development of the spinal cord.
After scientific successes in the study of synaptic activation and inhibition of motoneurons and unraveling mechanisms underlying presynaptic inhibition, Sir John Eccles was interested in studying synaptic mechanisms governing the activity of neurons in the brain stem, cerebellum, and various cortical areas. In this new arena, his group discovered several principles, which have later been shown to generalize across brain structures and have substantial functional significance. Among these were the first identification and location of inhibitory synapses in the cerebral cortex and recurrent inhibitory systems in the hippocampus, cerebellum, and thalamus.
Problems associated with the topic of the mind-brain interaction are reviewed and analyzed. If there is an interaction, then the &quot;mind&quot; and &quot;brain&quot; are independent variables; the mind represents subjective experience and is therefore a non-physical phenomenon. This fact led to the need for a field theory, termed here the &quot;cerebral mental field&quot; (CMF). By definition, the CMF is a system property produced by the appropriate activities of billions of neurons. An experimental test of this theory is possible and a test design is presented. The most direct experimental evidence has been obtained by use of intracranial stimulating and recording electrodes. Important information has also been developed, however, with extracranial imaging techniques. These can be very fast (in ms), but the cerebral neuronal events that produce changes in physiological properties require a time delay for their processing. A number of surprising time factors affecting the appearance of a subjective somatosensory experience are described, and their wider implications are discussed. Among these is a delay (up to 0.5 s) in the generation of a sensory awareness. Thus, unconscious cerebral processes precede a subjective sensory experience. If this can be generalized to all kinds of subjective experiences, it would mean that all mental events begin unconsciously and not just those that never become conscious. In spite of the delay for a sensory experience, subjectively there appears to be no delay. Evidence was developed to demonstrate that this phenomenon depends on an antedating of the delayed experience. There is a subjective referral backward in time to coincide with the time of the primary cortical response to the earliest arriving sensory signal. The subjective referral in time is analogous to the well-known subjective referral in space. In conclusion, features of the CMF can be correlated with brain events, even though the CMF is non-physical, by study of subjective reports from the human subject.
Presynaptic inhibition is one of many areas of neurophysiology in which Sir John Eccles did pioneering work. Frank and Fuortes first described presynaptic inhibition in 1957. Subsequently, Eccles and his colleagues characterized the process more fully and showed its relationship to primary afferent depolarization. Eccles' studies emphasized presynaptic inhibition of the group Ia monosynaptic reflex pathway but also included group Ib, II and cutaneous afferent pathways, and the dorsal column nuclei. Presynaptic inhibition of the group Ia afferent pathway was demonstrated by depression of monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials and inhibition of monosynaptic reflex discharges. Primary afferent depolarization was investigated by recordings of dorsal root potentials, dorsal root reflexes, cord dorsum and spinal cord field potentials, and tests of the excitability of primary afferent terminals. Primary afferent depolarization was proposed to result in presynaptic inhibition by reducing the amplitude of the action potential as it invades presynaptic terminals. This resulted in less calcium influx and, therefore, less transmitter release. Presynaptic inhibition and primary afferent depolarization could be blocked by antagonists of GABA(A) receptors, implying a role of interneurons that release gamma aminobutyric acid in the inhibitory circuit. The reason why afferent terminals were depolarized was later explained by a high intracellular concentration of Cl(-) ions in primary sensory neurons. Activation of GABA(A) receptors opens Cl(-) channels, and Cl(-) efflux results in depolarization. Another proposed mechanism of depolarization was an increase in extracellular concentration of K(+) following neural activity. Eccles' work on presynaptic inhibition has since been extended in a variety of ways.
This chapter deals with the central role that Sir John Eccles played in the elucidation of the mechanisms of synaptic transmission within the central nervous system during the three decades between the late 1930s and 1966. His seminal discoveries involved studies of synaptic input to spinal motoneurons using intracellular recording via glass micropipettes after their introduction in the late 1940s. After defending the hypothesis that electrical currents alone explained central synaptic events, his observations of reversal potentials and sensitivity to ion injections instantly converted Eccles to the idea that central synapses generate postsynaptic potentials, designated IPSPs and EPSPs, by liberating chemical transmitters. He and his collaborators used pharmacological manipulations of recurrent inhibition to support the idea that a given neuron liberates the same chemical transmitter substance at all of its synapses, which he called &quot;Dale's Principle&quot;. His team worked out the mechanisms and spinal circuits underlying disynaptic and recurrent inhibition, as well as those of presynaptic inhibition. Not content with the view that central synapses were static entities, Eccles also made seminal observations on synaptic plasticity induced by alterations in use and disuse. Although his firmly held belief that the extensive dendritic trees of motoneurons were essentially irrelevant to synaptic events at the soma was later refuted by others in the mid-1960s, Eccles stands as a towering figure in the history of neuroscience. His prodigious energy and commanding intellect gave the field of central synaptic transmission the conceptual bases that have guided it for over 40 years.
Sir John Eccles' experimental life evolved from the &quot;bottom&quot; up: the synapse to the modular circuitry of the spinal cord, later the cerebellum and, less extensively, also the thalamus and hippocampus. He experimented quantitatively on basic properties of cell membranes, synapses, transmitters, cellular modules, reflexes, and plasticity. In parallel, he was also motivated to consider philosophical problems of mind-brain interactions. It was mostly during Eccles' &quot;Swiss period&quot; (1976-1997) that new experimental work advanced understanding of intentional motor actions and their preparation. For example, early brain imaging work suggested that the so-called &quot;supplementary&quot; motor area was rather a &quot;supramotor&quot; area, concerned with intentional preparation to move. Eccles also closely followed work on cortico-cerebellar integration and learning. His final contribution, in collaboration with the quantum physicist, Friedrich Beck, was a model of how specific neuronal modules interact with the mind. Being a declared dualist, Eccles encountered considerable resistance and skepticism among neuroscientists in accepting his experimentally untestable mind-brain theories. But one can only admire the remarkable continuity of effort in his search for modular operations of identified neurons in the central nervous system and their synaptic actions. This effort was facilitated by collaboration with the eminent anatomist, Jnos Szentgothai, who had previously helped Eccles advance understanding of spinal and cerebellar circuitry. This review also includes some personal views on current understanding of the forebrain, with an emphasis on the multiplicity of cortical modules, all of which contribute in the mental preparation for forthcoming intentional actions.
Recognition that the entire central nervous system (CNS) is highly plastic, and that it changes continually throughout life, is a relatively new development. Until very recently, neuroscience has been dominated by the belief that the nervous system is hardwired and changes at only a few selected sites and by only a few mechanisms. Thus, it is particularly remarkable that Sir John Eccles, almost from the start of his long career nearly 80 years ago, focused repeatedly and productively on plasticity of many different kinds and in many different locations. He began with muscles, exploring their developmental plasticity and the functional effects of the level of motor unit activity and of cross-reinnervation. He moved into the spinal cord to study the effects of axotomy on motoneuron properties and the immediate and persistent functional effects of repetitive afferent stimulation. In work that combined these two areas, Eccles explored the influences of motoneurons and their muscle fibers on one another. He studied extensively simple spinal reflexes, especially stretch reflexes, exploring plasticity in these reflex pathways during development and in response to experimental manipulations of activity and innervation. In subsequent decades, Eccles focused on plasticity at central synapses in hippocampus, cerebellum, and neocortex. His endeavors extended from the plasticity associated with CNS lesions to the mechanisms responsible for the most complex and as yet mysterious products of neuronal plasticity, the substrates underlying learning and memory. At multiple levels, Eccles' work anticipated and helped shape present-day hypotheses and experiments. He provided novel observations that introduced new problems, and he produced insights that continue to be the foundation of ongoing basic and clinical research. This article reviews Eccles' experimental and theoretical contributions and their relationships to current endeavors and concepts. It emphasizes aspects of his contributions that are less well known at present and yet are directly relevant to contemporary issues.
This report reviews the academic lineage of Sir John Eccles; who trained him, whom he then trained and with whom he collaborated, and the subsequent impact of his trainees and collaborators on neuroscience and other areas. In a post-training career at five institutions in four countries (Great Britain, Australia, New Zealand, back to Australia, USA) and during retirement in Switzerland, Eccles trained and collaborated with over 180 people (mostly neuroscientists) from 21 countries. Most of them have had stellar research and training records that span the cellular-behavioral-philosophical spectrum of neuroscience, with a focus from peripheral neuromuscular issues to the forebrain. Some have been equally distinguished in other areas of biomedical science. Eccles' academic contributions and lineage are a valuable colloquium topic in a neuroscience training program. His experimental work spanned much of the 20th C before the recent emphasis on the application of the techniques of molecular biology. He continually sought to integrate information from the cellular to the systems and behavioral levels of analysis and synthesis. He also devoted a substantial amount of his intellectual effort to the mind-brain and other philosophical issues. Eccles' prodigious working hours and enthusiasm for his projects were a role model for such trainees. Hard-working trainees often ask how can they retain their all-round interests, and indeed their humanity and citizenry, as they focus more and more on their necessarily narrowly focused neuroscience research. Again, Eccles' writings and overall behavior show that it can indeed be done, but only by the application of extraordinary effort and dedication.
In Stroop matching tasks, participants indicate whether the color of an object matches the meaning of a color word printed in color. Previously in this journal, Luo (1999) concluded that interference between two incongruent representations of the same attribute (ink color) occurs prior to the response stage. However, this conclusion was based on questionable data analysis. We suggest analyzing the data by separating &quot;same&quot; and &quot;different&quot; responses and then analyzing three congruency conditions within the &quot;different&quot; responses: (a) congruence between word color and word meaning, (b) congruence between word color and object color, and (c) incongruence between word color, word meaning, and object color. In an experiment similar to Luo's, such an analysis revealed that responding was slowest in the first condition. This pattern of results does not fit with previous conclusions regarding this task, but rather indicates that task conflict and response competition contribute to interference. This analysis has implications for matching tasks other than the Stroop matching task.
Previous studies in our laboratory have demonstrated intracerebroventricular (ICV) self-administration of testosterone in hamsters. This suggests that androgens are reinforcing, independent of their anabolic effects. Furthermore, pharmacologic testosterone acts as a depressant: ICV testosterone infusion acutely reduces respiration, locomotion and body temperature. However, with chronic exposure, males develop tolerance. To understand mechanisms for androgen action, we looked for Fos expression after acute and chronic ICV infusion of testosterone or vehicle. 32 castrated males with chronic physiologic testosterone replacement (n=8/group) were infused ICV for 4h/day with 40 microg testosterone or 40 microl vehicle. Half of the males were perfused after the first day of ICV infusion; the remaining males were perfused after 15 days of ICV infusion. 60 microm coronal brain slices were cut. Every fourth section was stained for Fos. Additional sections were stained for androgen receptors (AR) and estrogen receptors (ER). Testosterone infusion induced Fos above control in the posteromedial bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BSTPM), posteromedial amygdala (MeP), lateral habenula (LHb), median raphe (MnR), lateral pontine nucleus (Pn), and ventral tegmental area (VTA). In particular, Fos was elevated in the BSTPM, MeP, LHb, and VTA only after 1 day of testosterone. 15 days of testosterone enhanced Fos expression above control in the MnR and lateral Pn. Importantly, Fos was not present in all brain areas involved in reward or in those with dense steroid receptors. Furthermore, AR and ER immunostaining was unaltered by testosterone infusion. We conclude that pharmacologic testosterone activates select steroid-sensitive brain regions, as well as midbrain areas involved in reinforcement of commonly-abused drugs.
An altered function of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis is assumed to be characteristic for Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), although there is inconsistent empirical evidence. Only few studies examined the awakening cortisol response and a daytime profile in PTSD. Salivary cortisol levels were measured at seven intervals from awakening until 8 PM in trauma-exposed subjects with (N=29) and without PTSD (N=19) and in 15 non-exposed controls. While the three groups did not differ with respect to their first cortisol level immediately after awakening, the expected cortisol increase to awakening 15-60 min later was significantly lower in PTSD patients compared to non-PTSD subjects and healthy controls. This effect remained stable when trauma-exposed subjects with comorbid major depression were excluded from the analysis. A significant negative correlation between the overall cortisol secretion (AUC(G)) and overall PTSD symptomatology and hyper-arousal symptoms was found. The findings are discussed in light of the hypothesis of a counterregulation of hyper-arousal symptoms and chronic stress in PTSD.




The regulatory mechanisms that orchestrate the developmental acquisition of electrical properties in embryonic neurons are poorly understood. Progress in this important area is dependent on the availability of preparations that allow electrophysiology to be married with genetics. The powerful genetics of the fruitfly Drosophila melanogaster has long been exploited to describe fundamental mechanisms associated with structural neuronal development (i.e. axon guidance). It has not, however, been fully employed to study the final stages of embryonic neural development and in particular the acquisition of electrical activity. This review focuses on the recent development of a Drosophila preparation that allows central neurons to be accessed by patch electrodes at both embryonic and larval stages. This preparation, which allows electrophysiology to be coupled with genetics, offers the prospect of making significant advances in our understanding of functional neuron development.
Our understanding of the mechanisms underlying cerebrovascular atherosclerosis has improved in recent years, but significant gaps remain. New insights into the vascular biological processes that result in ischemic stroke may come from cellular and molecular profiling studies of the peripheral blood. In recent cellular profiling studies, increased levels of a proinflammatory T-cell subset (CD4 (+)CD28 (-)) have been associated with stroke recurrence and death. Expansion of this T-cell subset may occur after ischemic stroke and be a pathogenic mechanism leading to recurrent stroke and death. Increases in certain phenotypes of endothelial cell microparticles have been found in stroke patients relative to controls, possibly indicating a state of increased vascular risk. Molecular profiling approaches include gene expression profiling and proteomic methods that permit large-scale analyses of the transcriptome and the proteome, respectively. Ultimately panels of genes and proteins may be identified that are predictive of stroke risk. Cellular and molecular profiling studies of the peripheral blood and of atherosclerotic plaques may also pave the way for the development of therapeutic agents for primary and secondary stroke prevention.
There is a need for more standardized methods of maintenance and propagation of human embryonic stem cell (hESC) cultures. Enzymatic passaging currently represents the most widely used method for expansion of hESCs. Although rapid and straightforward, this technique results in variable-sized cell clusters and significant cellular trauma, which may apply selective pressure in long-term culture. Mechanical passaging has the potential advantages of defined colony fragment sizes, reduced cellular trauma, and the possibility of selecting undifferentiated colonies for transfer. However, manual dissection of individual colonies is a prohibitively time-consuming process unsuitable for maintaining large numbers of hESCs without the use of additional chemical means. In this study we report an efficient automated method for mechanically passaging hESCs. We have used this method exclusively to maintain hESCs in long-term undifferentiated culture without the use of enzymatic digestion for longer than 100 days. This automated technique can thus be used routinely to culture hESCs in the laboratory.







Dark neurons, whose morphological characteristics are consistent with those of cells undergoing apoptosis, are generated in vivo as an acute or delayed consequence of several pathological situations and lesions. The present study was designed to evaluate whether inflammatory pain induced by injection of formalin to the rat hind paw lead to the formation of dark neurons in the dorsal horn of the lumbar spinal cord in rat. Since nitric oxide (NO) and c-Jun N-terminal Kinase (JNK) pathway are involved in the mechanisms of pain generation and degenerative neuronal alteration, their roles were also considered. The methods used spectrophotometrical analysis of the serum nitrite (metabolite of NO) and histological procedures for detection of dark neurons, following induction of inflammatory pain. According to the results, injection of formalin led to an increase of the serum nitrite level in both concentration and time-dependent manners. Visual inspections of the lumbar spinal cord sections showed that, on day 5, following chronic injections of 5% formalin, numbers of dark neurons were significantly increased. Acute and chronic administration of 1% or 2.5% formalin did not induce any remarkable neuronal alterations in the dorsal horn of the lumbar spinal cord. Daily intrathecal administration of quercetin (inhibitor of JNK pathway) 100 microg/rat, or 2-phenyl-4,4,5,5,-tetramethylimidazoline-1-oxyl-3-oxide (PTIO; NO scavenger) 30 mug/rat before injection of 5% formalin led to a reliable reduction in the number of dark neurons. These results indicate that induction of inflammatory pain for longer periods may result in a serious central disorder. Pretreatment with neutralizers or inhibitors of NO and JNK may exert a neuroprotective effect in this regard.
Antipsychotic drugs are often prescribed to juvenile psychiatric patients, though their cerebral effects during development are incompletely described. Accordingly, we studied the effects of repeated treatment with dissimilar antipsychotic drugs on dopamine (DA) receptors in juvenile vs. adult rats. Tissue levels of DA receptor types (D1, D2, D3, and D4) in forebrain regions of juvenile rats were quantified after 3 weeks of daily treatment with representative first- (fluphenazine) and second-generation (clozapine and olanzapine) antipsychotics, and compared with similarly treated adult rats examined in previous studies. Fluphenazine, clozapine, and olanzapine all decreased D1 receptors in dorsolateral frontal and medial prefrontal cortex (MPC) of juvenile, but not adult rats. Conversely, all three test agents increased D2 labeling in MPC of adult, but not young animals. Fluphenazine and olanzapine, but not clozapine, also increased D2 receptor levels in hippocampus, and D4 levels in nucleus accumbens (NAc) and caudate-putamen (CPu) in both juvenile and adult brain. D3 receptors were not altered by any treatment in any brain region at either age. Only some DA receptor adaptations to antipsychotic treatment are shared by developing and mature animals. Developmental differences in DA receptor responses may account for differences in clinical effects of antipsychotic drugs between young and adult psychiatric patients.
In monogamous systems the fitness difference between males due to competition for mates is limited to one female. This constraint presumably impedes the action of sexual selection relative to polygynous systems. In this paper, we use formal selection theory to show how population size and the adult sex ratio constrain the force of sexual selection and phenotypic evolution under monogamy and polygyny. The force of sexual selection is ultimately constrained by the number of males in a population and the theoretical limit to the rate of male phenotypic evolution is realized if a single male mates with one or many females. These results imply that the force of sexual selection is not strictly constrained by monogamy. The constraint on female phenotypic evolution is typically higher than the constraint on males under polygyny and similar to selection on males in monogamous systems. The sexual asymmetry in the force of selection under polygyny--not necessarily weak sexual selection on males of monogamous systems--may explain the prominence of sexual dimorphism in polygynous systems.
Previous studies have indicated that developmental exposure to polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) may result in hearing impairment in rats. The cochlea is the suggested site of action, based upon one study demonstrating a loss of outer hair cells on the basilar membrane, and another demonstrating deficits in distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs). The current study was conducted to assess the possible ototoxic effects of a unique PCB mixture formulated to model the congener profile of PCBs found in fish consumed by a human population in northeastern Wisconsin. Female Long-Evans rats were dosed orally with the PCB mixture beginning 28 days prior to breeding and continuing until the pups were weaned. Dams were fed one-half of a cookie onto which was pipetted 0, 1, 3, or 6 mg/kg of the PCB mixture dissolved in a corn oil vehicle. On postnatal day (PND) 21, pups were weaned, and one male and one female from each litter were randomly selected for auditory assessment. DPOAEs were measured to assess cochlear function, and auditory brainstem responses (ABRs) were measured to determine effects on central nervous system auditory pathways. DPOAE amplitudes were decreased, and DPOAE and ABR thresholds were elevated across a range of frequencies in PCB-exposed rats. These results support and extend previous reports of auditory impairment in PCB-exposed rats. Developmental exposure to PCBs may also result in subtle auditory impairments in humans, and if so, this may contribute to some of the cognitive deficits that have been observed in epidemiological studies.
Sex hormones play a crucial role during brain development, but do they modulate or maintain cognition throughout life? Despite several million prescriptions annually for testosterone supplementation, we do not really know the answer. Here I review recent evidence that testosterone alters neural activity essential for learning and memory, and plays an important role as a neuroprotective agent in aging. In particular, testosterone deprivation is associated with poor memory in men and replacement can enhance memory and spatial cognition. However, there is little evidence that testosterone selectively affects only those cognitive domains where sex differences in performance have been found. There are also gaps in our knowledge surrounding the individual cognitive processes altered by testosterone, their neural basis, and the degree to which testosterone affects cognitive performance in women.
Here, I provide a guide for those new to the burgeoning field of animal welfare science as to what this comprehensive, relatively young discipline is all about. Drawing on all branches of biology, including behavioural ecology and neuroscience, the science of animal welfare asks three big questions: Are animals conscious? How can we assess good and bad welfare in animals? How can we use science to improve animal welfare in practice? I also provide guidelines for an evidence-based approach to welfare issues for policy makers and other users of animal welfare research.
The presence of alpha-synuclein Lewy body pathology is used to distinguish Parkinson's disease from parkinsonism, for which a broader spectrum of neuropathologies, including tau-immunopositive neurofibrillary tangles and ubiquitin inclusions, might accompany nigral neuronal loss. These neuropathologies define the endpoint of many neurodegenerative disorders but might be symptomatic rather than causative. Mutations in the gene encoding leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) were recently discovered in late-onset parkinsonism, the phenotype of which can be clinically and pathologically indistinguishable from Parkinson's disease. However, in some kindreds with LRRK2- associated disease, pathologically distinct forms of parkinsonism, including nigral neuronal loss with Lewy body disease or tau-immunopositive neurofibrillary tangles, were discovered. Understanding the molecular function of the LRRK2 protein and its associated pathways might elucidate the switch between Lewy body pathology and neurofibrillary tangles, and holds promise for prospective therapeutics that might slow or halt progression of many forms of parkinsonism.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) was identified originally as a survival factor for sensory and sympathetic neurons in the developing nervous system. In adults, NGF is not required for survival but it has a crucial role in the generation of pain and hyperalgesia in several acute and chronic pain states. The expression of NGF is high in injured and inflamed tissues, and activation of the NGF receptor tyrosine kinase trkA on nociceptive neurons triggers and potentiates pain signalling by multiple mechanisms. Inhibition of NGF function and signalling blocks pain sensation as effectively as cyclooxygenase inhibitors and opiates in rodent models of pain. Several pharmaceutical companies have active drug-discovery and development programs that are based on a variety of approaches to antagonise NGF, including NGF 'capture', blocking the binding of NGF to trkA and inhibiting trkA signalling. NGF antagonism is expected to be a highly effective therapeutic approach in many pain states, and to be free of the adverse effects of traditional analgesic drugs.
An odd-one-out stimulus, such as a vertical bar among horizontals, pops out from the background and is easily detected, but its location may be slightly ambiguous. Four observers were asked to pinpoint these stimuli on thousands of trials, in 5 x 5 and 9 x 9 arrays of Gabor patches. We found they made frequent errors toward neighbors of the target. Over a range of performance from 41% to 96% correct, the frequency of neighbor errors was well described by a linear function of the total error frequency, a function that might result from mixing together two spatial distributions--one broad, the other narrow. We suggest that these represent two sources of error in pop-out localization; one might correspond to a higher visual area with imprecise retinotopic mapping, and the other to a more fine-grained localization process in primary visual cortex.
When a different image is presented to each eye, visual awareness spontaneously alternates between the two images--a phenomenon called binocular rivalry. Because binocular rivalry is characterized by two marginally stable perceptual states and spontaneous, apparently stochastic, switching between them, it has been speculated that switches in perceptual awareness reflect a double-well-potential type computational architecture coupled with noise. To characterize this noise-mediated mechanism, we investigated whether stimulus input, neural adaptation, and inhibitory modulations (thought to underlie perceptual switches) interacted with noise in such a way that the system produced stochastic resonance. By subjecting binocular rivalry to weak periodic contrast modulations spanning a range of frequencies, we demonstrated quantitative evidence of stochastic resonance in binocular rivalry. Our behavioral results combined with computational simulations provided insights into the nature of the internal noise (its magnitude, locus, and calibration) that is relevant to perceptual switching, as well as provided novel dynamic constraints on computational models designed to capture the neural mechanisms underlying perceptual switching.
We report six experiments suggesting that conscious perception is actively redrafted to take account of events both before and after the event that is reported. When observers saccade to a stationary object they overestimate its duration, as if the brain were filling in the saccadic gap with the post-saccadic image. We first demonstrate that this illusion holds for moving objects, implying that the perception of time, velocity, and distance traveled become discrepant. We then show that this discrepancy is partially resolved up to 500 ms after a saccade: the perceived offset position of a post-saccadic moving stimulus shows a greater forward mislocalization when pursued after a saccade than during pursuit alone. These data are consistent with the idea that the temporal bias is resolved by the subsequent spatial adjustment to provide a percept that is coherent in its gist but inconsistent in its detail.
The hypothalamoneurohypophyseal system (HNS) consists of the large peptidergic magnocellular neurons of the supraoptic hypo thalamic nucleus (SON) and the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVN), the axons of which course through the internal zone of the median eminence and terminate at blood capillaries of the posterior lobe of the pituitary gland. The HNS is a specialized brain neurosecretory apparatus responsible for the production of the antidiuretic peptide hormone vasopressin (VP). VP maintains water balance by promoting water conservation at the level of the kidney. Dehydration evokes a massive increase in the regulated release of VP from magnocellular neuron axon terminals in the posterior pituitary, which is accompanied by a plethora of changes in the morphology, electrophysiological properties, and biosynthetic and secretory activity of the HNS. We wish to understand this functional plasticity in terms of the differential expression of genes. We have therefore used microarrays to comprehensively catalog the genes expressed in the PVN, the SON and the neurointermediate lobe of the pituitary gland of control and dehydrated rats. Comparison of these gene lists has enabled us to identify transcripts that are regulated as a consequence of dehydration as well as RNAs that are enriched in the PVN or the SON. We suggest that these differentially expressed genes represent candidate regulators and effectors of HNS activity and remodeling.
This study investigated whether family factors, such as criticism, emotional over-involvement (EOI), warmth, and positive remarks, as measured by the Camberwell Family Interview (CFI), predict symptom change and social outcome for individuals identified as at imminent risk for conversion to psychosis. Twenty-six adolescent patients were administered the Structured Interview for Prodromal Syndromes and the Strauss-Carpenter Outcome Scale at baseline and follow-up assessment approximately three months later. Patients' primary caregivers were administered the CFI at baseline. After controlling for symptom severity at baseline, there were significant associations between caregivers' EOI at baseline and improvement in high-risk youths' negative symptoms and social functioning at follow-up. Similarly, caregivers' positive remarks at baseline were associated with improvement in negative and disorganized symptoms at follow-up, and warmth expressed by caregivers was associated with improved social functioning at follow-up. Although family members' critical comments were not related to patients' symptoms, the majority of critical remarks were focused on patients' negative symptoms and irritability/aggression, which may be important targets for early intervention. These preliminary results provide a first glimpse into the relationship between family factors and symptom development during the prodrome and suggest that positive family involvement predicts decreased symptoms and enhanced social functioning at this early stage. The finding that four-fifths of the youth enrolled in this early intervention clinical research program have shown symptomatic improvement by the three-month assessment point is very encouraging from an early detection/early intervention standpoint.
The social functioning of persons with schizophrenia contributes to their overall functional outcome and ability to live in the community. Enhancing the level of social functioning is an important treatment goal. The present study describes the development of the Social Occupational Functioning Scale (SOFS), a brief, yet comprehensive, easy to administer measure of social functioning for use in busy clinical settings. It has adequate psychometric properties in terms of reliability and validity. Exploratory factor analysis revealed a three-factor structure comprising of adaptive living skills, social appropriateness and interpersonal skills, accounting for 59% of the variance in total SOFS score.
CPT-AX performance deficit in schizophrenia is well documented but it is unclear what causes this impairment. Past studies have focused on the roles of sustained attention and context processing in CPT-AX but the role of working memory (WM) has not been fully examined even though encoding and maintenance of the cue in WM may be critical to CPT-AX. The major goal of this study was to investigate the effects of stimulus encoding in WM on CPT-AX. Encoding was manipulated by presenting different colored (i.e., salient) cue stimuli on 20% of the trials. WM maintenance was manipulated by varying the cue-target interstimulus interval (ISI). A control task (CPT-Single) that does not require WM but assesses sustained attention was also administered. Schizophrenia patients (SZ) were impaired compared with normal controls (CO) on the CPT-AX overall but not in CPT-Single. For both groups, CPT-AX accuracy improved on salient cue trials in the long ISI condition. In the short ISI condition, where accuracy was already high, the cue saliency effect was observed in the faster RT and SZ benefited significantly more than CO. The effect of target salience was not observed in the CPT-Single, which assesses sustained attention. These results suggest that the facilitation of WM encoding by enhancing cue salience may be a key to improving CPT-AX performance.
We examined the fractionation of executive functioning performance in ninety patients with schizophrenia, who were tested for initiation, sustained attention, switching/flexibility, attention allocation and impulsivity/disinhibition. The participants were also given tests of general intelligence and memory. We analysed the executive functioning performance of individual patients against normative data from our laboratory, and summary scores for all of the executive functioning components were computed. For each component, participants were classified as having impairment with a test performance of 1.5 standard deviations or more from the norm of the corresponding test. Of all of the participants, 27.8% (n=25) demonstrated poor performance in all of the components, and 5.6 % (n=5) exhibited intact or fair performance in all of the components. Furthermore, 18.9% (n=17) showed intact or fair performance in one component, 16.7% (n=15) in two components, 21.1% (n=19) in three components and 10% (n=9) in four components. The groups did not differ in education, gender or duration of illness, but the group that showed impaired performance in all of the components demonstrated the most severe psychotic symptoms after controlling for background intelligence, age and medication. The differential breakdown for the executive functioning performance across the participants suggests that the fractionation of central executive functioning occurs in schizophrenia.
Actions become compulsive when they are no longer controlled by their consequences. Compulsivity can be assessed using the omission procedure in which animals are required to withhold a previously reinforced action to earn reward. The current study tested the hypothesis that inactivation of the dorsolateral striatum (DLS), a structure implicated in habitual behavior, can enhance sensitivity to changes in the action-outcome contingency during omission training, thus leading to a reduction in compulsive responding. Over 10 days rats were trained to press a freely available lever for sucrose reward delivered on interval schedules of reinforcement. After learning to press the lever at a stable and high rate, rats in the omission group received a session in which the rewards were now delayed by pressing the lever; i.e. withholding lever pressing resulted in increased access to reward. A control group was yoked to the omission group and received the same number and pattern of reward delivery but without the omission contingency. Half the rats in each group received infusions of vehicle into the DLS prior to this training whereas the remainder received an infusion of the GABA-A receptor agonist muscimol. On the next day, the effect of these treatments was assessed on a probe test in which the tendency of the various groups to press the lever was assessed in extinction and without drug infusion. Rats that received vehicle infusions prior to the omission session showed complete insensitivity to the newly imposed omission contingency. In contrast, rats given the infusion of muscimol selectively reduced lever pressing compared to yoked controls. Thus, extended training with interval schedules resulted in compulsive lever pressing that prevented the learning of the omission contingency, whereas inactivation of the DLS appeared to enhance the rats' sensitivity to this change in the action-outcome contingency.
Increased psychophysiological resistance to chronic stress has been related to increased 5-HT release in the dorsal hippocampus. This study investigated the changes in 5-HT release and turnover in the hippocampus evoked by acute and repeated exposure to an inescapable stressor, an elevated open platform, and compared them to the changes evoked in the frontal cortex. Repeated exposure to this stressor results in habituation of the plasma corticosterone response to the test, with full habituation being observed after 20 trials. Repeated exposure to the stressor for 5 or 10 occasions increased 5-HT turnover in the hippocampus. By contrast, 5-HT turnover in frontal cortex was increased by acute exposure to the stressor. Microdialysis studies showed that acute stress increased 5-HT overflow in prefrontal cortex but not dorsal hippocampus whereas repeated daily (10 days) exposure to the stressor increased basal extracellular 5-HT in the dorsal hippocampus, but not the prefrontal cortex. Prior exposure to the stressor on up to 10 occasions enhanced the plasma corticosterone response to a challenge in an elevated plus-maze performed 24h later whereas repeated, but not acute, exposure to the stressor, elicited anxiolytic-like behavioural responses in this test. It is concluded that acute exposure to this form of inescapable stress selectively stimulates the 5-HT projections to the frontal cortex; repeated stress elicits a sustained increase in 5-HT release and turnover in the hippocampus. The data are consistent with the hypothesis that increased 5-HT release in the hippocampus may be implicated in the mechanisms underlying habituation to inescapable stress.

The central nervous system (CNS) of terrestrial vertebrates underwent a prominent molecular change when a tetraspan membrane protein, myelin proteolipid protein (PLP), replaced the type I integral membrane protein, P0, as the major protein of myelin. To investigate possible reasons for this molecular switch, we genetically engineered mice to express P0 instead of PLP in CNS myelin. In the absence of PLP, the ancestral P0 provided a periodicity to mouse compact CNS myelin that was identical to mouse PNS myelin, where P0 is the major structural protein today. The PLP-P0 shift resulted in reduced myelin internode length, degeneration of myelinated axons, severe neurological disability, and a 50% reduction in lifespan. Mice with equal amounts of P0 and PLP in CNS myelin had a normal lifespan and no axonal degeneration. These data support the hypothesis that the P0-PLP shift during vertebrate evolution provided a vital neuroprotective function to myelin-forming CNS glia.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is caused by rapid deformation of the brain, resulting in a cascade of pathological events and ultimately neurodegeneration. Understanding how the biomechanics of brain deformation leads to tissue damage remains a considerable challenge. We have developed an in vitro model of TBI utilising organotypic hippocampal slice cultures on deformable silicone membranes, and an injury device, which generates tissue deformation through stretching the silicone substrate. Our injury device controls the biomechanical parameters of the stretch via feedback control, resulting in a reproducible and equi-biaxial deformation stimulus. Organotypic cultures remain well adhered to the membrane during deformation, so that tissue strain is 93 and 86% of the membrane strain in the x- and y-axis, respectively. Cell damage following injury is positively correlated with strain. In conclusion, we have developed a unique in vitro model to study the effects of mechanical stimuli within a complex cellular environment that mimics the in vivo environment. We believe this model could be a powerful tool to study the acute phases of TBI and the induced cell degeneration could provide a good platform for the development of potential therapeutic approaches and may be a useful in vitro alternative to animal models of TBI.
During attempts to quantify levels of phosphorylated cAMP response element binding protein (CREB-P) in guinea pig brain stem auditory nuclei by Western blotting, we compared the decay of CREB-P levels when tissues were homogenized in traditional Lysis buffer containing detergents or in 50 mM Tris-HCl buffer containing 0.32 M sucrose. The decay of CREB-P levels was retarded considerably in the Tris-Sucrose medium as compared to the Lysis buffer. Similarly, the levels of two other phospho-proteins, extracellular regulated kinases (ERK1/2-P) and stress activated protein/Jun-N-terminal kinase (SAP/JNK-P), were better preserved by the Tris-Sucrose medium. These findings imply that the detergents typically present in the Lysis buffer may disrupt organelles and increase the exposure of soluble phospho-proteins to hydrolyzing enzymes. In contrast, such exposure was probably minimized in the Tris-Sucrose medium, which is thought to preserve organelle integrity.
We examined the distribution of HLA-DRB1 alleles in a cohort 255 Italian migraine patients and in a control group of 325 healthy subjects. 214 patients fulfilled the ICHD-II criteria for migraine without aura and 41 patients the criteria for migraine with aura. The frequency of DRB1*16 allele was found to be significantly increased in migraine without aura patients (p=0.02; OR 1.97, 95% CI: 1.10-3.54) than in healthy controls. The frequencies of HLA-DRB1 alleles were not significantly different between migraine with aura patients and controls. We did not detect any effect of DRB1 alleles on age at onset, duration of the disease, frequency and duration of migraine attacks. Our data suggest the presence of a genetic susceptibility factor for migraine without aura within the HLA region.
Recent analysis of current responses to exogenous GABA applications recorded from excised patches indicated that membrane voltage affected the GABAA receptor gating mainly by altering desensitization and binding [M. Pytel, K. Mercik, J.W. Mozrzymas, Membrane voltage modulates the GABAA receptor gating in cultured rat hippocampal neurons, Neuropharmacology, in press]. In order investigate the impact of such voltage effect on GABAA receptors in conditions of synaptic transmission, mIPSCs and current responses to rapid GABA applications were recorded from the same culture of rat hippocampal neurons. We found that I-V relationship for mIPSCs amplitudes showed a clear outward rectification while for current responses an inward rectification was seen, except for very low GABA concentrations. A clear shift in amplitude cumulative distributions indicated that outward rectification resulted from the voltage effect on the majority of mIPSCs. Moreover, the decaying phase of mIPSCs was clearly slowed down at positive voltages and this effect was represented by a shift in cumulative distributions of weighted decaying time constants. In contrast, deactivation of current responses was only slightly affected by membrane depolarization. These data indicate that the mechanisms whereby the membrane voltage modulates synaptic and extrasynaptic receptors are qualitatively different but the mechanism underlying this difference is not clear.
Suppression of rapid eye movement sleep (REMS) in developing animals has both anatomical and physiological consequences. We have recently shown that initiating REMS deprivation (REMSD) prior to the end of the critical period in young rats delays termination of the critical period (CP) in visual cortex, and, consequently, the synaptic plasticity mechanisms that support a developmentally regulated form of long-term potentiation (LTP) are maintained in an immature state [J.P. Shaffery, C.M. Sinton, G. Bisset, H.P. Roffwarg, G.A. Marks, Rapid eye movement sleep deprivation modifies expression of long-term potentiation in visual cortex of immature rats, Neuroscience, 110 (2002) 431-443]. In CP animals, high-frequency, theta burst stimulation (TBS) directed at the white matter (WM) below visual cortex produces LTP in the post-synaptic cells in layer II/III (LTPWM-III). However, LTPWM-III can be induced in cortical tissue taken from REMS-deprived animals for up to a week beyond the usual end of the CP [J.P. Shaffery, C.M. Sinton, G. Bisset, H.P. Roffwarg, G.A. Marks, Rapid eye movement sleep deprivation modifies expression of long-term potentiation in visual cortex of immature rats, Neuroscience, 110 (2002) 431-443]. Further, in post-CP, adolescent animals (as late as postnatal day 60), REMSD appears to unmask synaptic plasticity mechanisms that allow for production of developmentally regulated LTPWM-III [J.P. Shaffery, J. Lopez, G. Bissette, H.P. Roffwarg, Rapid eye movement sleep deprivation revives a form of developmentally regulated synaptic plasticity in the visual cortex of post-critical period rats, Neurosci Lett., (2005), in press]. It has been proposed that REMSD's effects on production of LTPWM-III result from a reduction in efficiency of the inhibitory mechanisms thought to precipitate termination of the CP of brain development [J.P. Shaffery, J. Lopez, G. Bissette, H.P. Roffwarg, Rapid eye movement sleep deprivation revives a form of developmentally regulated synaptic plasticity in the visual cortex of post-critical period rats, Neurosci Lett., (2005), in press]. In this study we tested the hypothesis that low-frequency stimulation (LFS) of the fibers of the WM, which usually produces the related form of synaptic plasticity, long-term depression (LTD), will also reflect the reduction in inhibitory tone. We report here that LFS protocols, which in normally sleeping, adolescent rats usually produce either LTD or no change in response magnitude, in REMS-deprived, adolescent rats are more likely to produce LTP.
In the central nervous system (CNS), HIV-1 targets mainly microglia/macrophages. Like the CD4+ T cell depletion and neuronal loss in AIDS, apoptosis is thought to be involved in eliminating infected macrophages. In this study, we examined the expression of the pro-apoptotic BH3-peptide harakiri (Hrk) in brain tissues of AIDS patients. Immunoreactivity against Hrk was positive in perivascular macrophages infiltrated into some restricted lesions. Most of these immunopositive cells contained small inclusions positive for Grocott's methenamine silver staining. Confocal laser microscopy demonstrated that Hrk expression coincided with immunoreactivities against HIV-1 and Cryptococcus neoformans. Expression of Hrk mRNA was demonstrated in these cells by in situ hybridization, which indicated that Hrk is not phagocytosed material. Some pro-apoptotic bcl-family members, including Hrk, may contribute to the delayed hypersensitive reaction in AIDS, in macrophages eliminating opportunistic infection.
In deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN) neurons, inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) undergo long-term depression (LTD) following a 10-Hz stimulation, and long-term potentiation (LTP) after a 100 Hz stimulation of the inputs. Whole-cell recordings were made from DCN neurons and changes in IPSC sensitivity to diazepam after LTD and LTP investigated. Diazepam enhanced the evoked IPSC amplitude by 45% in controls and after LTD induction. However, after LTP induction, diazepam increased the IPSC by only 16%. Diazepam increased THIP response by 34% in controls, but by only 4% after LTP. These results suggest that during LTP the diazepam sensitive GABAA receptor sub-units undergo changes.
Changes in peripheral thyroid hormone levels are associated with changes in human affective disorders, particularly depression. In the current study we used an animal stress paradigm, proposed to be an animal model of depression, to examine peripheral T(3) levels during and after escapable or inescapable stress in adult male rats. In this model, one animal can control the termination of foot-shock stress by performing a lever press, and therefore experiences escapable stress. His lever press also terminates the shock for his yoked partner, who has no control over the stressor, and therefore experiences inescapable stress. In three separate experiments, blood samples were collected during and after one or two sessions of escapable/inescapable stress. We found that exposure to inescapable stress, but not escapable stress, caused a decrease in T(3) levels 120 min post-stress initiation. Peripheral T(3) levels were not significantly altered in animals exposed to escapable stress. In sum, these results add to a large body of previous data indicating that psychological coping can prevent the effects of physical stress on many diverse systems.
Play behavior was assessed in juvenile rat pups following chronic administration of scopolamine (0.5 or 1.0 mg/kg, i.p.) to one partner in each dyad of rats. Scopolamine administration significantly reduced the number of pins and mean pin duration of both playmates in pairs where only one rat was injected with scopolamine (irrespective of dose). However, dorsal contacts were significantly increased in rats exposed to a play partner that had been injected with scopolamine, indicating an increase in play solicitation when the partner was rendered non-responsive with this drug. These effects were stable and consistent over the course of 15 days of repeated testing in the presence of scopolamine. In other words, normal animals did not extinguish play solicitation even after prolonged periods of non-reciprocity. Upon cessation of drug treatment, play behavior returned largely to normal in both animals. Overall locomotor activity levels were significantly reduced in pairs where one rat had been injected with scopolamine. Together, these data suggest that the effects of repeated scopolamine are acute in nature, and that disruption of normal play behavior following chronic scopolamine treatment does not produce long-term impairments in social play behavior beyond acute action of the drug.
Predators and their odors offer an ethologically valid model to study learning processes. The present series of experiments assessed the ability of ferret odor to serve as an unconditioned stimulus and examined behavioral and endocrine changes in male Sprague-Dawley rats with single or repeated exposures in a defensive withdrawal paradigm or in their home cages. Rats exposed to ferret odor avoided the ferret odor stimulus more, exhibited greater risk assessment and displayed higher adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH) and corticosterone release compared with control odor exposed rats and these measures did not significantly habituate over repeated exposures. Ferret odor exposure did not show associative conditioning effects during extinction trials. However, rats that were pre-exposed to ferret odor only once, as compared to control and repeatedly exposed rats, displayed a sensitized ACTH and corticosterone response to an additional ferret odor exposure in small cages. These experiments suggest that ferret odor is a highly potent unconditioned stimulus that has long lasting effects on behavior and endocrine responses, and further suggests the independence of habituation and sensitization processes.
Schizophrenia is associated with a dysfunction of cognitive integration that may be due to abnormalities in inhibitory neural circuitry. A previous study found a failure of gamma band (25-45 Hz) synchronization in patients with schizophrenia compared to controls. Another recent study also stressed the importance of investigating high frequencies in the scalp-recorded sleep electroencephalogram (EEG). In this study, we compared coherence between first episode drug-nave patients with schizophrenia (n=8) and age- and sex-matched normal controls (n=8) using two 32-s epochs of C4 and F4 EEG. The coherence was obtained using 4096 data points (128 Hz signal) using cross-spectral analysis with Blackman-Tukey window in beta (15.25-24.75 Hz) and gamma (25-44.75 Hz) frequency bands. We used wake, non-rapid eye movement (NREM) and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep periods for the analyses. Our results show a significant decrease in coherence in both beta and gamma frequency bands in patients. Post-hoc 't' tests revealed a significantly lower coherence only during the wake stage in patients with schizophrenia in beta as well as gamma frequency bands. These results further support the importance of the analyses of high-frequency bands in the EEG and support previous findings of abnormal neural synchrony in patients with schizophrenia. These results have been discussed further in relation to wake and sleep stages.
Schizophrenia and psychopathy have been independently shown to be associated with deficits in the recognition of facial expressions. These disorders are highly co-morbid in forensic settings, and both are associated with aggressive behaviour. This study examines the relative contribution of psychopathic traits and psychotic symptoms to reported deficits in facial affect recognition in forensic patients with schizophrenia. Fifty-four male patients with schizophrenia were recruited from medium and high security hospitals. Participants were categorised into groups with high (HP), medium (MP) and low (LP) scores on the Psychopathy Checklist: Screening Version and based on symptomatology assessed using the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale. Participants completed an animated facial affect recognition task assessing accuracy across the six basic emotions over high and low intensities. The HP group was found to have impaired recognition of sadness at low intensity compared with the LP group. In the overall sample, facial affect recognition for negatively valenced emotions was not related to positive or negative symptom scores. However, recognition accuracy for disgust was found to be negatively related to the severity of cognitive symptoms. Patients with high psychopathy scores and schizophrenia showed similar deficits in emotional information processing to those reported in the literature in non-psychotic psychopathic samples.
This structural magnetic resonance imaging study examined the length, areas, and circularity of the corpus callosum (CC) in 16 children and adolescents with bipolar disorder and 21 healthy controls. Bipolar disorder patients had lower circularity of the CC splenium compared with healthy controls. No significant differences in CC length or area were observed, suggesting that reported CC abnormalities appear late in the course of bipolar disorder.
During the past two decades, there has been heated debate about chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) among researchers, practitioners, and patients. Few illnesses have been discussed so extensively. The existence of the disorder has been questioned, its underlying pathophysiology debated, and an effective treatment opposed; patients' organisations have participated in scientific discussions. In this review, we look back on several controversies over CFS with respect to its definition, diagnosis, pathophysiology, and treatment. We review issues of epidemiology and clinical manifestations, focusing on the scientific status of CFS. Modern neuroscience and genetics research offer interesting findings for new hypotheses on the aetiology and pathogenesis of the illness. We also discuss promising future issues, such as psychopathophysiology and mechanisms of improvement, and suggest multidisciplinary prospective studies of CFS and fatigue in the general population. These studies should pay particular attention to similarities to and differences from functional somatic syndromes and other fatiguing conditions.
An important question in the neurosciences is the role of specific gene expression in the control of neural morphology and connectivity. To address this question, methods are needed for expression of exogenous genes in a subset of neurons. This limited and mosaic expression allows the assessment of gene expression in a cell autonomous fashion without environmental contributions from neighboring expressing cells. These methods must also label neurons so that detailed morphology and neural connections can be evaluated. The labeling method should label only a subset of neurons so that neuronal morphology can be viewed upon a non-stained background, in a Golgi staining fashion. Here, we report methods using plasmids called pTAGUM (tagged analysis of genes using mosaics) that accomplish these goals. These methods should prove useful for the analysis of neural gene function in two important model organisms, the zebrafish and Xenopus laevis.
The present study examines the effect of chronic treatment with two atypical neuroleptics, commonly used to treat schizophrenia. Adult rats were given either risperidone or olanzapine in their drinking water for 21 days. Memory was assessed on the first and last day of treatment using an object discrimination test, and the rate of cell proliferation in the subventricular zone (SVZ), dentate gyrus (DG) and prefrontal cortex (PFC) was quantified by immuno staining for Ki-67. The results show that both risperidone and olanzapine significantly improved performance in object discrimination after 21 days, and additionally, olanzapine significantly increased cell proliferation in the SVZ and PFC but not the DG.
TPO1 is a member of the AIGP family, a unique group of proteins that contains 11 putative transmembrane domains. Expression of the rat TPO1 gene is upregulated in cultured oligodendrocytes (OLs) during development from pro-oligodendroblasts to postmitotic OLs. However, the distribution of native TPO1 protein in cultured OLs and in the brain has not been elucidated. We investigated the distribution and cellular function of TPO1 in myelinating cells of the nervous system. In mice, TPO1 gene expression was detected in the central (CNS) and peripheral (PNS) nervous systems and was markedly upregulated at postnatal days 10-20, an early phase of myelination in the mouse brain. To investigate TPO1 localization, we generated affinity-purified antibodies to synthetic peptides derived from mouse TPO1. Immunohistochemical analysis showed that TPO1 was expressed in OLs and Schwann cells but not in neurons and astrocytes. Schwann cells from trembler mice, which lack PNS myelin, had significantly decreased TPO1 expression and an altered localization pattern, suggesting that TPO1 is a functional myelin membrane protein. In OL lineage cell cultures, TPO1 was detected in A2B5+ bipolar early progenitors, A2B5+ multipolar Pro-OLs, GalC+ immature OLs and MBP+ mature OLs. The subcellular localization of TPO1 in OL lineage cells was mapped to the GM130+ Golgi in cell bodies and Fyn+ cell processes and myelin-like sheets. Furthermore, TPO1 selectively colocalized with non-phosphorylated Fyn and promoted Fyn autophosphorylation in COS7 cells, suggesting that TPO1 may play a role in myelin formation via Fyn kinase activation in the PNS and CNS.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF)-related peptides can modulate stress-related physiology and behavior. Some of these effects may be mediated via the CRF type 2 (CRF2) receptor on serotonergic neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DR). To determine if the CRF2 receptor agonist urocortin 2 (Ucn 2) increases c-Fos expression in rat DR serotonergic neurons via actions on CRF2 receptors, we gave intracerebroventricular (icv) injections of mouse Ucn 2 after icv injections of either saline or the CRF2 receptor antagonist antisauvagine-30 (ASV-30). Double immunostaining methods for c-Fos and tryptophan hydroxylase revealed that, consistent with previous studies, mouse Ucn 2 increased c-Fos expression in tryptophan hydroxylase immunostained neurons in the middle and caudal parts (-8.18, -8.54, and -9.16 mm bregma) of the dorsal subdivision of the dorsal raphe nucleus 2 h after drug treatment. Pre-treatment with ASV-30 blocked these effects. Mouse Ucn 2 had no effect on c-Fos expression within the median raphe nucleus, consistent with the hypothesis that Ucn 2 has specific actions on an anatomically and functionally distinct subset of serotonergic neurons via activation of CRF2 receptors. These findings are also consistent with the hypothesis that Ucn 2, or another CRF-related neuropeptide acting at CRF2 receptors, modulates physiological and behavioral responses to stress-related stimuli via actions on a specific subset of serotonergic neurons within the dorsal raphe nucleus.
After ipsilateral injections of cholera toxin B subunit (CTb) into the nucleus of the solitary tract (NST) and biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) into the insular cortex (IC) or into the central amygdaloid nucleus (ACe) in the rat, the prominent overlapping distribution of CTb-labeled neurons and BDA-labeled axon terminals was found in the posterolateral hypothalamus (PLH) region just medial to the subthalamic nucleus ipsilateral to the injection sites. At the electron microscopic level, the IC terminals formed asymmetrical synaptic contacts with dendrites and dendritic spines of the NST-projecting PLH neurons, whereas the ACe terminals formed symmetrical synaptic contacts with somata and dendrites of the NST-projecting PLH neurons. The present data suggest that output signals from the IC and ACe may exert excitatory and inhibitory influences, respectively, upon the PLH neurons that project to the NST for regulating cardiovascular functions.
In previous studies examining the structural determinants of antidepressant and substrate recognition by serotonin transporters (SERTs), we identified Tyr-95 in transmembrane segment 1 (TM1) of human SERT as a major determinant of binding for several antagonists, including racemic citalopram ((RS)-CIT). Here we described a separate site in hSERT TM3 (Ile-172) that impacts (RS)-CIT recognition when switched to the corresponding Drosophila SERT residue (I172M). The hSERT I172M mutant displays a marked loss of inhibitor potency for multiple inhibitors such as (RS)-CIT, clomipramine, RTI-55, fluoxetine, cocaine, nisoxetine, mazindol, and nomifensine, whereas recognition of substrates, including serotonin and 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine, is unaffected. Selectivity for antagonist interactions is evident with this substitution because the potencies of the antidepressants tianeptine and paroxetine are unchanged. Reduced cocaine analog recognition was verified in photoaffinity labeling studies using [(125)I]MFZ 2-24. In contrast to the I172M substitution, other substitutions at this position significantly affected substrate recognition and/or transport activity. Additionally, the mouse mutation (mSERT I172M) exhibits similar selective changes in inhibitor potency. Unlike hSERT or mSERT, analogous substitutions in mouse dopamine transporter (V152M) or human norepinephrine transporter (V148M) result in transporters that bind substrate but are deficient in the subsequent translocation of the substrate. A double mutant hSERT Y95F/I172M had a synergistic impact on (RS)-CIT recognition ( approximately 10,000-fold decrease in (RS)-CIT potency) in the context of normal serotonin recognition. The less active enantiomer (R)-CIT responded to the I172M substitution like (S)-CIT but was relatively insensitive to the Y95F substitution and did not display a synergistic loss at Y95F/I172M. An hSERT mutant with single cysteine substitutions in TM1 and TM3 resulted in formation of a high affinity cadmium metal coordination site, suggesting proximity of these domains in the tertiary structure of SERT. These studies provided evidence for distinct binding sites coordinating SERT antagonists and revealed a close interaction between TM1 and TM3 differentially targeted by stereoisomers of CIT.
How do animals discriminate self-generated from external stimuli during behavior and prevent desensitization of their sensory pathways? A fundamental concept in neuroscience states that neural signals, termed corollary discharges or efference copies, are forwarded from motor to sensory areas. Neurons mediating these signals have proved difficult to identify. We show that a single, multisegmental interneuron is responsible for the pre- and postsynaptic inhibition of auditory neurons in singing crickets (Gryllus bimaculatus). Therefore, this neuron represents a corollary discharge interneuron that provides a neuronal basis for the central control of sensory responses.
The neural processes underlying empathy are a subject of intense interest within the social neurosciences. However, very little is known about how brain empathic responses are modulated by the affective link between individuals. We show here that empathic responses are modulated by learned preferences, a result consistent with economic models of social preferences. We engaged male and female volunteers in an economic game, in which two confederates played fairly or unfairly, and then measured brain activity with functional magnetic resonance imaging while these same volunteers observed the confederates receiving pain. Both sexes exhibited empathy-related activation in pain-related brain areas (fronto-insular and anterior cingulate cortices) towards fair players. However, these empathy-related responses were significantly reduced in males when observing an unfair person receiving pain. This effect was accompanied by increased activation in reward-related areas, correlated with an expressed desire for revenge. We conclude that in men (at least) empathic responses are shaped by valuation of other people's social behaviour, such that they empathize with fair opponents while favouring the physical punishment of unfair opponents, a finding that echoes recent evidence for altruistic punishment.
Pain is a homeostatic mechanism that intervenes to protect the organism from harmful stimuli that could damage its integrity. It is made up of two components: the sensory-discriminative component, which identifies the provenance and characteristics of the type of pain; and the affective-motivational component, on which emotional reflexes, following the painful sensation, depend. There is a system for pain control at an encephalic and spinal level, principally made up of the periaqueductal grey matter, the periventricular area, the nucleus raphe magnus, and the pain-inhibition complex situated in the posterior horns of the spinal cord. Through the activation of these pain-control systems, the nervous system suppresses the afference of pain signals. Endogenous opioids represent another analgesic system. In the course of various studies on pain transmission in Down patients, the reduced tolerance of pain and the incapacity to give a qualitative and quantitative description emerged in a powerful way. All of these aspects cause difficulty in evaluating pain. This is linked to several learning difficulties. However, it cannot be excluded that in these anomalies of pain perception, both the anatomical and the neurotransmitter alteration, typical of this syndrome, may hold a certain importance. This fact may have important clinical repercussions that could affect the choice of therapeutic and rehabilitative schemes for treatment of pathologies in which pain is the dominant symptom, such as postoperative pain. It could influence research on analgesics that are more suitable for these patients, the evaluation of the depth of analgesia during surgical operation, and ultimately, absence of obvious pain manifestations. In conclusion, alterations of the central nervous system, neurotransmitters, pain transmission, and all related problems should be considered in the management of pain in patients with Down's syndrome, especially by algologists and anesthesiologists.


Much controversy regarding the anatomical sources of oligodendrocytes in the spinal cord and hindbrain has been resolved. However, the relative contribution of dorsal and ventral progenitors to myelination of the cortex is still a subject of debate. To assess the contribution of dorsal progenitors to cortical myelination, we ablated the basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor Olig2 in the developing dorsal telencephalon. In Olig2-ablated cortices, myelination is arrested at the progenitor stage. Under these conditions, ventrally derived oligodendrocytes migrate dorsally into the Olig2-ablated territory but cannot fully compensate for myelination deficits observed at postnatal stages. Thus, spatially restricted ablation of Olig2 function unmasks a contribution of dorsal progenitors to cortical myelination that is much greater than hitherto appreciated.
Presynaptic vesicle trafficking and priming are important steps in regulating synaptic transmission and plasticity. The four closely related small GTP-binding proteins Rab3A, Rab3B, Rab3C, and Rab3D are believed to be important for these steps. In mice, the complete absence of all Rab3s leads to perinatal lethality accompanied by a 30% reduction of probability of Ca2+-triggered synaptic release. This study examines the role of Rab3 during Ca2+-triggered release in more detail and identifies its impact on short-term plasticity. Using patch-clamp electrophysiology of autaptic neuronal cultures from Rab3-deficient mouse hippocampus, we show that excitatory Rab3-deficient neurons display unique time- and frequency-dependent short-term plasticity characteristics in response to spike trains. Analysis of vesicle release and repriming kinetics as well as Ca2+ sensitivity of release indicate that Rab3 acts on a subset of primed, fusion competent vesicles. They lower the amount of Ca2+ required for action potential-triggered release, which leads to a boosting of release probability, but their action also introduces a significant delay in the supply of these modified vesicles. As a result, Rab3-induced modifications to primed vesicles causes a transient increase in the transduction efficacy of synaptic action potential trains and optimizes the encoding of synaptic information at an intermediate spike frequency range.
Prefrontal neurons have been shown to represent task rules. Here we show the mechanisms by which the rule-selective activity in the prefrontal cortex influences subsequent cognitive performance based on that rule. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we found that the frontopolar cortex interacted with posterior areas differently depending on whether subjects were going to perform a phonological or semantic task. Moreover, we found that the sustained &quot;set&quot; activity in this region predicted the activity that could be recorded in the posterior areas during the performance, as well as the speed of that performance. We argue that the prefrontal set activity does not reflect simple maintenance of the task rules but the process of implementing the rule for subsequent cognitive performance and that this is done through rule-selective interactions with areas involved in execution of the tasks.
Peripheral myelin protein 22 (PMP22) is a tetraspan membrane glycoprotein, the misexpression of which is associated with hereditary demyelinating neuropathies. Myelinating Schwann cells (SCs) produce the highest levels of PMP22, yet the function of the protein in peripheral nerve biology is unresolved. To investigate the potential roles of PMP22, we engineered a novel knock-out (-/-) mouse line by replacing the first two coding exons of pmp22 with the lacZ reporter. PMP22-deficient mice show strong beta-galactosidase reactivity in peripheral nerves, cartilage, intestines, and lungs, whereas phenotypically they display the characteristics of tomaculous neuropathy. In the absence of PMP22, myelination of peripheral nerves is delayed, and numerous axon-SC profiles show loose basal lamina, suggesting altered interactions of the glial cells with the extracellular matrix. The levels of beta4 integrin, a molecule involved in the linkage between SCs and the basal lamina, are severely reduced in nerves of PMP22-deficient mice. During early stages of myelination, PMP22 and beta4 integrin are coexpressed at the cell surface and can be coimmunoprecipitated together with laminin and alpha6 integrin. In agreement, in clone A colonic carcinoma cells, epitope-tagged PMP22 forms a complex with beta4 integrin. Together, these data indicate that PMP22 is a binding partner in the integrin/laminin complex and is involved in mediating the interaction of SCs with the extracellular environment.
Changes in protein-protein interactions and activity states have been proposed to underlie persistent synaptic remodeling that is induced by transient stimuli. Here, we show an unusual stimulus-dependent transition from a short-lived to long-lasting binding between a synaptic receptor and its transducer. Both molecules, the NMDA receptor subunit NR2B and Ca2+/calmodulin (CaM)-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII), are strongly implicated in mediating synaptic plasticity. We show that CaMKII reversibly translocates to synaptic sites in response to brief stimuli, but its resident time at the synapse increases after longer stimulation. Thus, CaMKII localization reflects temporal patterns of synaptic stimulation. We have identified two surface regions of CaMKII involved in short-lived and long-term interactions with NR2B. Our results support an initial reversible and Ca2+/CaM-dependent binding at the substrate-binding site (&quot;S-site&quot;). On longer stimulation, a persistent interaction is formed at the T286-binding site (&quot;T-site&quot;), thereby keeping the autoregulatory domain displaced and enabling Ca2+/CaM-independent kinase activity. Such dual modes of interaction were observed in vitro and in HEK cells. In hippocampal neurons, short-term stimulation initiates a reversible translocation, but an active history of stimulation beyond some threshold produces a persistent synaptic localization of CaMKII. This activity-dependent incorporation of CaMKII into postsynaptic sites may play a role in maturation and plasticity of synapses.
The distinctive branching patterns of dendritic arbors are essential for neuronal information processing. The final shape of an arbor is the result of intrinsic and extrinsic factors. However, the cellular mechanisms that underlie branch patterning are unknown. In many biological systems, locally acting factors are intrinsically organized into spacing patterns that guide patterned morphogenesis. Here, we show that neurons contain two types of periodic and regular elements (PADREN1s and PADREN2s) that are arranged into a spacing pattern. The wavelength of the pattern is approximately 20 microm. Dendritic branches occur preferentially within PADREN1s, and specific PADREN lengths correspond to specific arbor types. The lengths of the PADRENs also change over time and can be modified by activity. However, PADRENs are intrinsically organized, possibly by a reaction-diffusion process. PADRENs reveal a previously unrecognized level of neuronal organization that may provide insight into how the distinct branching patterns of the dendrites are intrinsically organized.
The role of multipotential progenitors and neural stem cells in the adult subventricular zone (SVZ) as cell-of-origin of glioblastoma has been suggested by studies on human tumors and transgenic mice. However, it is still unknown whether glial tumors are generated by all of the heterogeneous SVZ cell types or only by specific subpopulations of cells. It has been proposed that transformation could result from lack of apoptosis and increased self-renewal, but the definition of the properties leading to neoplastic transformation of SVZ cells are still elusive. This study addresses these questions in mice carrying the deletion of p53, a tumor-suppressor gene expressed in the SVZ. We show here that, although loss of p53 by itself is not sufficient for tumor formation, it provides a proliferative advantage to the slow- and fast-proliferating subventricular zone (SVZ) populations associated with their rapid differentiation. This results in areas of increased cell density that are distributed along the walls of the lateral ventricles and often associated with increased p53-independent apoptosis. Transformation occurs when loss of p53 is associated with a mutagenic stimulus and is characterized by dramatic changes in the properties of the quiescent adult SVZ cells, including enhanced self-renewal, recruitment to the fast-proliferating compartment, and impaired differentiation. Together, these findings provide a cellular mechanism for how the slow-proliferating SVZ cells can give rise to glial tumors in the adult brain.

The photoactivatable sterol probe [3alpha-(3)H]6-Azi-5alpha-cholestan-3beta-ol ([3H]Azicholesterol) was used to identify domains in the Torpedo californica nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) that interact with cholesterol. [3H]Azicholesterol partitioned into nAChR-enriched membranes very efficiently (&gt;98%), photoincorporated into nAChR subunits on an equal molar basis, and neither the pattern nor the extent of labeling was affected by the presence of the agonist carbamylcholine, consistent with photoincorporation at the nAChR lipid-protein interface. Sites of [3H]Azicholesterol incorporation in each nAChR subunit were initially mapped by Staphylococcus aureus V8 protease digestion to two relatively large homologous fragments that contain either the transmembrane segments M1-M2-M3 (e.g., alphaV8-20) or M4 (e.g., alphaV8-10). The distribution of [3H]Azicholesterol labeling between these two fragments (e.g., alphaV8-20, 29%; alphaV8-10, 71%), suggests that the M4 segment has the greatest interaction with membrane cholesterol. Photolabeled amino acid residues in each M4 segment were identified by Edman degradation of isolated tryptic fragments and generally correspond to acidic residues located at either end of each transmembrane helix (e.g., alphaAsp-407). [3H]Azicholesterol labeling was also mapped to peptides that contain either the M3 or M1 segment of each nAChR subunit. These results establish that cholesterol likely interacts with the M4, M3, and M1 segments of each subunit, and therefore, the cholesterol binding domain fully overlaps the lipid-protein interface of the nAChR.
The authors propose &quot;decreased-dose-intensity&quot; PCV (procarbazine, lomustine [CCNU], and vincristine) chemotherapy for Asian patients with oligodendroglial tumors. In this study, all seven patients with oligodendroglioma (OD) and eight with anaplastic oligodendroglioma (AO) had objective responses or stable disease. Median progression-free survival was greater than 29 months (OD) and 36.5 months or greater (AO); 86% of patients with OD and 63% with AO remain progression-free. Twenty-four Common Toxicity Criteria Grade 3/4 adverse events were noted.


Frameshift (+1) proteins such as APP(+1) and UBB(+1) accumulate in sporadic cases of Alzheimer disease (AD) and in older subjects with Down syndrome (DS). We investigated whether these proteins also accumulate at an early stage of neuropathogenesis in young DS individuals without neuropathology and in early-onset familial forms of AD (FAD), as well as in other tauopathies, such as Pick disease (PiD) or progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). APP(+1) is present in many neurons and beaded neurites in very young cases of DS, which suggests that it is axonally transported. In older DS patients (&gt;37 years), a mixed pattern of APP(+1) immunoreactivity was observed in healthy looking neurons and neurites, dystrophic neurites, in association with neuritic plaques, as well as neurofibrillary tangles. UBB(+1) immunoreactivity was exclusively present in AD type of neuropathology. A similar pattern of APP(+1) and UBB(+1) immunoreactivity was also observed for FAD and much less explicit in nondemented controls after the age of 51 years. Furthermore, we observed accumulation of +1 proteins in other types of tauopathies, such as PiD, frontotemporal dementia, PSP and argyrophylic grain disease. These data suggest that accumulation of +1 proteins contributes to the early stages of dementia and plays a pathogenic role in a number of diseases that involve the accumulation of tau.
The ability of neurons to alter their transcriptional programs in response to synaptic input is of fundamental importance to the neuroplastic mechanisms underlying learning and memory. Because of technical limitations of conventional gene detection methods, the current view of activity-dependent neural transcription derives from experiments in which neurons are assumed quiescent until a signaling stimulus is given. The present study was designed to move beyond this static model by examining how earlier episodes of neural activity influence transcription of the immediate-early gene Arc. Using a sensitive FISH method that detects primary transcript at genomic alleles, the proportion of hippocampal CA1 neurons that activate transcription of Arc RNA was constant at approximately 40% in response to both a single novel exploration session and daily sessions repeated over 9 days. This proportion is similar to the percentage of active neurons defined electrophysiologically. However, this close correspondence was disrupted in rats exposed briefly, but repeatedly, to the same environment within a single day. Arc transcription in CA1 neurons declined dramatically after as few as four 5-min sessions, despite stable electrophysiological activity during all sessions. Additional experiments indicate that the decrement in Arc transcription occurred at the cellular, rather than synaptic level, and was not simply linked to habituation to novelty. Thus, the neural genomic response is governed by recent, but not remote, cell firing history in the behaving animal. This state-dependence of neuronal transcriptional coupling provides a mechanism of metaplasticity and may regulate capacity for synaptic modification in neural networks.
The spatial focus of attention has traditionally been envisioned as a simple spatial gradient of enhanced activity that falls off monotonically with increasing distance. Here, we show with high-density magnetoencephalographic recordings in human observers that the focus of attention is not a simple monotonic gradient but instead contains an excitatory peak surrounded by a narrow inhibitory region. To demonstrate this center-surround profile, we asked subjects to focus attention onto a color pop-out target and then presented probe stimuli at various distances from the target. We observed that the electromagnetic response to the probe was enhanced when the probe was presented at the location of the target, but the probe response was suppressed in a narrow zone surrounding the target and then recovered at more distant locations. Withdrawing attention from the pop-out target by engaging observers in a demanding foveal task eliminated this pattern, confirming a truly attention-driven effect. These results indicate that neural enhancement and suppression coexist in a spatially structured manner that is optimal to attenuate the most deleterious noise during visual object identification.
It is now widely accepted that discrete regions of the adult brain contain stem cells that continue to generate new neurons. However, it remains unclear what molecular signals define the neurogenic niche and how such signals act on the heterogeneous cell populations within these regions. Here we discuss two recent studies that demonstrate the role of Wnt and Sonic Hedgehog signaling in neurogenic zones. Wnts act on neuronal precursors that mature and contribute to the dentate gyrus (DG), whereas Sonic Hedgehog affects the bona fide stem cells and transit amplifying cells (the partially committed progeny of stem cells). These studies further define how discrete populations of cells react to specific extracellular signals provided within the neurogenic niche to survive, proliferate, and form functional mature cell types.
The wide use of antibiotics and the development of resistance is a major health concern and, despite their relatively severe side effects, aminoglycoside antibiotics are still used in clinics. Effects of seven aminoglycosides were investigated at the human homomeric alpha7 and heteromeric alpha4beta2 neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. All aminoglycosides tested inhibited the acetylcholine-evoked responses with more pronounced effects at alpha7 than at alpha4beta2. Neomycin displayed higher blockade with a half inhibition in the nanomolar range at low calcium concentration and in the micromolar range in physiological calcium concentration but still exerted blockade below the concentration used in the clinic. These data suggest that some of their side effects may be attributable to their interactions with neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors.
Light produces force when interacting with matter. Such radiation pressure may be used to accelerate small objects along the beam path of a laser. Here, we demonstrate that a moderately powerful laser can deliver enough force to locally stimulate the hearing organ, in the absence of conventional sound. Damped mechanical oscillations are observed following brief laser pulses, implying that the organ of Corti is locally resonant. This new method will be helpful for probing the mechanical properties of the hearing organ, which have crucial importance for the ear's ability to detect sound.
Sound lateralization tests were performed to compare the magnet coil bone-conduction headphone with the giant magnetostrictive bone-conduction headphone using 18 healthy participants. Although, no significant difference between these bone-conduction headphones was obtained for the interaural time difference and interaural intensity difference, a significant difference was obtained for the time-intensity trade. This revealed that the difference between the headphones is apparent in the integration of the heterogeneous sensations of the time and intensity difference at the cognitive level, but no difference is apparent between the homogeneous sensations of the discrimination of interaural time difference or interaural intensity difference at the sensory level. It was concluded that the difference at the cognitive level indicates the better performance of the giant magnetostrictive headphone.
The amygdala has been implicated in the processing of emotional expressions. Who makes the emotion and the type of emotion are important in producing appropriate responses. How amygdala neurons are affected by facial identity and type of emotion, however, has not yet been systematically examined. We examined the activity of amygdala neurons using nine monkey stimuli: 3 monkeys x 3 types of emotion. Of the 227 neurons tested, 77 responded to the monkey stimuli. The effects of facial identity and type of emotion on the response magnitude were significant in 48 and 57 neurons, respectively. Both effects were significant in 38 neurons. These results indicate that both facial identity and type of emotion have strong impacts on amygdala functions.
Skeletal muscle contains heterogenous progenitor cells that give rise to muscle, hematopoietic cells and bone. The exact phenotypic definition of skeletal muscle progenitor cells has not been fully elucidated nor the potential of these cells to differentiate into neurons. Here, we demonstrate that phenotypically homogenous skeletal muscle progenitor cells defined as Lin-CD45-CD117-CD90+ cells express neural stem cell markers and are responsive to neural induction signals. When exposed to neural induction medium containing basic fibroblast growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor, skeletal muscle progenitor cells dramatically changed their cell morphology, became postmitotic and began expressing neuronal markers. These results reveal unexpected potentials of muscle progenitor cells and suggest that these cells may potentially be used in cell-based therapies to replace damaged neurons.
Activation of the medial septum (MS) enhances the synchronized firing of pyramidal cells in the hippocampus. At least two distinct mechanisms might be recruited in this process: GABAergic inhibition of hippocampal inhibitory interneurons and cholinergic enhancement of pyramidal cell excitability. In the present study, a field potential recording in urethane anaesthetised rats was used to show that MS preconditioning with brief high-frequency burst stimulation markedly enhanced Schaffer collateral/commissural (SC/C) synaptically evoked population spikes in the CA1 area without significant alteration in the initial slope of SC/C field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs). An early phase (&lt; approximately 125 ms) of the facilitation of neuronal discharge was inhibited by intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of the GABA(B) receptor antagonist CGP 52432 (200 nmol/5 microl). In contrast, the muscarinic cholinoceptor antagonist scopolamine (20 nmol/5 microl) inhibited a later phase ( approximately 150-300 ms) of the population spike facilitation. These findings support an important role for both cholinergic and GABAergic mediated septal drive in the tuning of signal conversion within the hippocampus as well as in securing the cortical feedback from the hippocampus.
Based on quasi-elastic scattering theory (and random walk on a lattice approach), a model of laser-Doppler flowmetry (LDF) has been derived which can be applied to measurements in large tissue volumes (e.g. when the interoptode distance is &gt;30 mm). The model holds for a semi-infinite medium and takes into account the transport-corrected scattering coefficient and the absorption coefficient of the tissue, and the scattering coefficient of the red blood cells. The model holds for anisotropic scattering and for multiple scattering of the photons by the moving scatterers of finite size. In particular, it has also been possible to take into account the simultaneous presence of both Brownian and pure translational movements. An analytical and simplified version of the model has also been derived and its validity investigated, for the case of measurements in human skeletal muscle tissue. It is shown that at large optode spacing it is possible to use the simplified model, taking into account only a 'mean' light pathlength, to predict the blood flow related parameters. It is also demonstrated that the 'classical' blood volume parameter, derived from LDF instruments, may not represent the actual blood volume variations when the investigated tissue volume is large. The simplified model does not need knowledge of the tissue optical parameters and thus should allow the development of very simple and cost-effective LDF hardware.
Zinc (II) modulates the function of many integral membrane proteins. To identify the Zn(2+)-binding site responsible for allosteric modulation of the D(2) dopamine receptor, we first demonstrated that the binding site is likely located in extracellular loops or in transmembrane regions that are accessible from the extracellular milieu. We mutated every histidine in these regions to alanine; two mutants, H394A and H399A, exhibited a reduced response to Zn(2+). Combined mutation of H394 and H399 caused a larger effect of zinc than did either single mutation. Mutation of other potential Zn(2+)-binding residues predicted to be in proximity to H394 or H399 did not substantially alter the potency of Zn(2+). The double mutant H394A/H399A was similar to D(2) in affinity for [(3)H]spiperone and ability to inhibit cyclic AMP accumulation. We conclude that binding of Zn(2+) to H394 and H399 on the dopamine D(2) receptor contributes to allosteric regulation of antagonist binding.
Formation of inclusions containing polymerized tau protein is a hallmark of Alzheimer's disease and related disorders. In vitro studies have demonstrated the ability of polyglycosaminoglycans and fatty acids to promote tau polymerization. In this report, we examined their impact on tau polymerization separately and together. Tau assembly with only arachidonic acid was faster than that with only heparin. The presence of dithiothreitol reduced heparin-promoted tau assembly while enhancing arachidonic acid reactions. However, simultaneous use of these molecules increased the rate of filament assembly substantially, negated the effects of the reducing agent, and has very little effect on the morphology of filaments. The increases in polymerization resulted from accelerated nucleation. Finally, a FTDP-17 mutation was identified that could complement heparin to generate assembly kinetics similar to that of wild-type tau with both inducers. Our results support a multiple-hit model where several induced changes in tau can function independently to promote tau assembly.

Here we report on the development of an integrated general model for the control of limb movements. The model computes muscle forces and joint rotations as functions of activation signals from motoneuron pools. It models the relationship between neural signals, muscle forces and movement kinematics by taking into account how the discharge rates of motoneuron pools and the biomechanical characteristics of the musculoskeletal system affect the movement pattern that is produced. The lengths and inertial properties of limb segments, muscle attachment sites, the muscles' force-length, force-frequency and force-velocity (of contraction) relationships, as well as a load parameter that simulates the effect of body weight are considered. There are a large number of possible ways to generate a planned joint rotation with muscle activation. We approach this &quot;overcompleteness problem&quot; by considering each joint to be controlled by a single flexor/extensor muscle pair and that only one of the two muscles is activated at a given time. Using this assumption, we have developed an inverse model that provides discharge rates of motoneuron pools that can produce an intended angular change in each joint. We studied the sensitivity of this inverse model to the muscle force-length relationship and to limb posture. The model could compute possible firing rates of motoneuron pools that would produce joint angle changes observed in rats during walking. It could also compare motoneuron activity patterns received for two different hypothetical force-length relations and show how the motoneuron pool activity would change if joints would be more flexed or extended during the entire movement.
Reaction time performance reflects the speed of information processing, both in humans and lower vertebrates like the rat. The present study compared reaction time performance in rats following unilateral infarction to the frontal cortex. The objective was to model cognitive impairment as it is seen in humans after stroke. Rats were trained in a reaction time paradigm, after which unilateral cortical infarction was induced photochemically. Reaction time performance was differentially affected after unilateral infarction to either the left or right frontal cortex, whereas sham operation did not result in a significant alteration in reactivity. An overall increase in reaction time of about 10% was present at 4 weeks after frontal infarction. In addition, a lateralized reaction time deficit occurred very early after right frontal infarction as an increase of 10-15% in trials directed towards the contralesional side. Additional analyses showed that these reaction time deficits can be explained differently: the former as a gradual and general decrease in the speed of information processing, whereas the latter shows specific impairment to initiate a contralateral motor response. The former matches well with the mental slowing observed in stroke patients, whereas the latter resembles a neglect phenomenon. We conclude that measuring reaction time performance after frontal cortical infarction in rats could offer a useful tool to model particular human cognitive impairments following cerebral infarction.
Systemically active, nonpeptidic delta opioid receptor agonists have been shown to produce antidepressant and anxiolytic effects in animal models in rodents. In addition, delta agonists have been shown to increase expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA, an effect of some antidepressants, which may be important for the clinical efficacy of antidepressant drugs. The present study examined whether a variety of peptidic delta agonists, DPDPE, JOM-13, a systemically active derivative of DPDPE, deltorphin II, and H-Dmt-Tic-NH-CH2-Bid could produce convulsions and antidepressant-like effects in the forced swim test. In addition, some of these compounds were examined for their influence on BDNF mRNA expression. All four agonists dose-dependently decreased immobility in the forced swim test, indicating an antidepressant-like effect. Only JOM-13 produced convulsions at doses required for antidepressant-like effects. In addition, DPDPE increased BDNF mRNA expression, as measured by in situ hybridization, in the frontal cortex. The antidepressant-like effect of the agonists in the forced swim test and the increase in BDNF mRNA expression produced by DPDPE were blocked by the delta antagonist naltrindole. Therefore, activation of the delta receptor by centrally administered peptidic agonists and intravenously administered JOM-13 produces behavioral antidepressant-like effects without producing convulsions, and some peptidic agonists can increase BDNF mRNA expression, however, not as consistently as the systemically active nonpeptidic agonists.

The sense of taste allows animals to distinguish nutritious and toxic substances and elicits food acceptance or avoidance behaviors. In Drosophila, taste cells that contain the Gr5a receptor are necessary for acceptance behavior, and cells with the Gr66a receptor are necessary for avoidance. To determine the cellular substrates of taste behaviors, we monitored taste cell activity in vivo with the genetically encoded calcium indicator G-CaMP. These studies reveal that Gr5a cells selectively respond to sugars and Gr66a cells to bitter compounds. Flies are attracted to sugars and avoid bitter substances, suggesting that Gr5a cell activity is sufficient to mediate acceptance behavior and that Gr66a cell activation mediates avoidance. As a direct test of this hypothesis, we inducibly activated different taste neurons by expression of an exogenous ligand-gated ion channel and found that cellular activity is sufficient to drive taste behaviors. These studies demonstrate that taste cells are tuned by taste category and are hardwired to taste behaviors.
Slits mediate multiple axon guidance decisions, but the mechanisms underlying the responses of growth cones to these cues remain poorly defined. We show here that collapse induced by Slit2-conditioned medium (Slit2-CM) in Xenopus retinal growth cones requires local protein synthesis (PS) and endocytosis. Slit2-CM elicits rapid activation of translation regulators and MAP kinases in growth cones, and inhibition of MAPKs or disruption of heparan sulfate blocks Slit2-CM-induced PS and repulsion. Interestingly, Slit2-CM causes a fast PS-dependent decrease in cytoskeletal F-actin concomitant with a PS-dependent increase in the actin-depolymerizing protein cofilin. Our findings reveal an unexpected link between Slit2 and cofilin in growth cones and suggest that local translation of actin regulatory proteins contributes to repulsion.
Leptin, an adipocyte-derived hormone, acts directly on the brain to control food intake and energy expenditure. An important question is the identity of first-order neurons initiating leptin's anti-obesity effects. A widely held view is that most, if not all, of leptin's effects are mediated by neurons located in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus. However, leptin receptors (LEPRs) are expressed in other sites as well, including the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH). The possible role of leptin acting in &quot;nonarcuate&quot; sites has largely been ignored. In the present study, we show that leptin depolarizes and increases the firing rate of steroidogenic factor-1 (SF1)-positive neurons in the VMH. We also show, by generating mice that lack LEPRs on SF1-positive neurons, that leptin action at this site plays an important role in reducing body weight and, of note, in resisting diet-induced obesity. These results reveal a critical role for leptin action on VMH neurons.
Experience-dependent plasticity of visual cortical receptive fields (RFs) involves synaptic modifications in the underlying neural circuits, but the site and mechanism of these modifications remain to be elucidated. Using in vivo whole-cell recordings, we show that pairing visual stimulation at a given retinal location with spiking of a single neuron in developing rat visual cortex induces rapid RF modifications. The time course of the response to the visual stimulus at the paired RF location is altered, with an enhancement of the response preceding the spike time and a reduction following the spike. Such bidirectional modification is consistent with spike timing-dependent plasticity. Response modification also occurs at nearby locations, the direction and magnitude of which are correlated with the change at the paired location. In addition, changes at unpaired locations show a negative correlation with the initial strength of the response, which may facilitate rapid modification of the spatial RF profile.
Dendritic spines show rapid motility and plastic morphology, which may mediate information storage in the brain. It is presently believed that polymerization/depolymerization of actin is the primary determinant of spine motility and morphogenesis. Here, we show that myosin IIB, a molecular motor that binds and contracts actin filaments, is essential for normal spine morphology and dynamics and represents a distinct biophysical pathway to control spine size and shape. Myosin IIB is enriched in the postsynaptic density (PSD) of neurons. Pharmacologic or genetic inhibition of myosin IIB alters protrusive motility of spines, destabilizes their classical mushroom-head morphology, and impairs excitatory synaptic transmission. Thus, the structure and function of spines is regulated by an actin-based motor in addition to the polymerization state of actin.
Understanding the neural basis of adaptation (repetition suppression) is critical for interpreting fMRI-adaptation experiments. Sawamura and colleagues provide a critical stepping-stone by elucidating the relation between neural adaptation and response selectivity. They find some cross-adaptation by two different stimuli that activate the same neuron.
Sensitive and selective determination of valproic acid in plasma by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) is usually achieved with pre-column derivatization. In the present work, the derivatization is omitted due to using a simple but highly selective plasma extraction procedure and an optimized chromatographic condition. Valproic acid and the internal standard octanoic acid were extracted from plasma samples with n-hexane under acidic condition followed by back-extraction into diluted triethylamine. Chromatography was performed on a CN column (250 x 4.6 mm, 5 microm) under isocratic elution with acetonitrile-40 mM aqueous sodium dihydrogen phosphate (30:70, v/v), pH 3.5. Detection was made at 210 nm and analyses were run at a flow-rate of 1 ml/min. The method was specific and sensitive with a quantification limit of 1.25 microg/ml and a detection limit of 0.1 microg/ml in plasma. The mean absolute recovery for valproic acid using the present plasma extraction procedure was 75.8%. The intra- and inter-day coefficient of variation and percent error values of the assay method were all in acceptable range. Calibration curves were linear (r&gt;0.999) from 1.25 to 320 microg/ml in plasma.
The proliferative ventricular zone (VZ) is the main source of projection neurons for the overlying cerebral neocortex. The number and diversity of neocortical neurons is determined, in part, by factors controlling the proliferation and specification of VZ cells during embryonic development. We used a variety of methods, including in utero electroporation with specific cellular markers, computer-assisted serial EM cell reconstruction, and time-lapse multiphoton imaging to characterize the molecular and morphological characteristics of the VZ constituents and to capture their behavior during cell division. Our analyses reveal at least two types of dividing cells in the VZ: (1) radial glial cells (RGCs) that span the entire neocortical wall and maintain contact both at the ventricular and pial surfaces throughout mitotic division, and (2) short neural precursors (SNPs) that possess a ventricular endfoot and a basal process of variable length that is retracted during mitotic division. These two precursor cell classes are present concomitantly in the VZ, but their relative number changes over the course of cortical neurogenesis. Moreover, the SNPs are morphologically, ultrastructurally and molecularly distinct from dividing RGCs. For example, SNPs are marked by their preferential expression of the tubulin alpha-1 promoter whereas RGCs instead express the glutamate-aspartate transporter and brain lipid binding protein promoters. In contrast to recent studies that suggest that RGCs are the sole type of VZ precursor, the present study indicates that the VZ in murine dorsal telencephalon is similar to that in human and nonhuman primates, because it contains multiple types of neuronal precursors.
Arrestins constitute a family of small cytoplasmic proteins that mediate deactivation of G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) and are known to be essential for cascade inactivation and receptor desensitization. Alternative splicing produces an array of arrestin gene products that have widely different specificities for their cognate receptors in vitro, but the differential functions of these splice variants in vivo are essentially unknown. Bovine rod photoreceptors express two splice variants of visual arrestin (p44 and p48) that display different affinities for the GPCR rhodopsin. To determine the functions of these splice variants in intact cells, we expressed a transgene encoding either a truncated form of murine arrestin (mArr(1-369), or m44) or the long (p48) isoform in mouse rods lacking endogenous arrestin (Arr-/-). Morphological analysis showed that expression of either variant attenuated the light-induced degeneration that is thought to result from excessive cascade activity in Arr-/-rods. Suction electrode recordings from individual rods indicated that the expression of either m44 or p48 splice variants could restore normal kinetics to Arr-/- dim flash responses, indicating that both isoforms can bind to and quench phosphorylated rhodopsin rapidly. To our surprise, only the full-length variant was able to alter the kinetics of responses in rods lacking both arrestin and rhodopsin kinase, indicating that p48 can also quench the activity of nonphosphorylated rhodopsin.
Adult zebra finch songs consist of stereotyped sequences of syllables. Although some behavioral and physiological data suggest that songs are structured hierarchically, there is also evidence that they are driven by nonhierarchical, clock-like bursting in the premotor nucleus HVC (used as a proper name). In this study, we developed a semiautomated template-matching algorithm to identify repeated sequences of syllables and a modified dynamic time-warping algorithm to make fine-grained measurements of the temporal structure of song. We find that changes in song length are expressed across the song as a whole rather than resulting from an accumulation of independent variance during singing. Song length changes systematically over the course of a day and is related to the general level of bird activity as well as the presence of a female. The data also show patterns of variability that suggest distinct mechanisms underlying syllable and gap lengths: as tempo varies, syllables stretch and compress proportionally less than gaps, whereas syllable-syllable and gap-gap correlations are significantly stronger than syllable-gap correlations. There is also increased temporal variability at motif boundaries and especially strong positive correlations between the same syllables sung in different motifs. Finally, we find evidence that syllable onsets may have a special role in aligning syllables with global song structure. Generally, the timing data support a hierarchical view in which song is composed of smaller syllable-based units and provide a rich set of constraints for interpreting the results of physiological recordings.
Little is known about the spatial and temporal dynamics of presynaptic and postsynaptic specializations that culminate in synaptogenesis. Here, we imaged presynaptic vesicle clusters in motor axons and postsynaptic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) clusters in embryonic zebrafish to study the earliest events in synaptogenesis in vivo. Prepatterned AChR clusters are present on muscle fibers in advance of motor axon outgrowth from the spinal cord. Motor axon growth cones and filopodia are selectively extended toward and contact prepatterned AChR clusters, followed by the rapid clustering of presynaptic vesicles and insertion of additional AChRs, hallmarks of synaptogenesis. All initially formed neuromuscular synapses contain AChRs that were inserted into the membrane at the time the prepattern is present. Examination of embryos in which AChRs were blocked or clustering is absent showed that neither receptor activity or receptor protein is required for these events to occur. Thus, during initial synaptogenesis, postsynaptic differentiation precedes presynaptic differentiation, and prepatterned neurotransmitter clusters mark sites destined for synapse formation.
Implicit memory and explicit memory are fundamentally different manifestations of memory storage in the brain. Yet, conceptual fluency driven by previous experience could theoretically be responsible for both conceptual implicit memory and aspects of explicit memory. For example, contemplating the meaning of a word might serve to speed subsequent processing of that word and also make it seem familiar. We examined electrophysiological correlates of conceptual priming with 180 celebrity faces to determine whether or not they resemble electrophysiological correlates of explicit memory. Celebrity faces are ideal for this purpose because they carry with them preexisting conceptual information (i.e., biographical facts) that can selectively be brought to mind such that conceptual processing can be manipulated systematically. In our experiment, exposure to biographical information associated with only one-half of the celebrities yielded conceptual priming for those faces, whereas all faces were perceptually primed. Conceptual priming was indexed by positive brain potentials over frontal regions from approximately 250 to 500 ms. Explicit memory retrieval was associated with later brain potentials over posterior regions that were strikingly similar to potentials previously associated with pure familiarity for faces (when a face seems familiar in the absence of retrieval of any specific information about previous occurrence). Furthermore, the magnitude of conceptual priming was correlated across subjects with the amplitude of frontal but not posterior potentials, whereas the opposite was true for explicit memory. Distinct brain processes were thus associated with conceptual priming and conscious recognition of faces, thus providing a sharper focus on the border between implicit and explicit memory.
Results from neuroimaging studies have shown that the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) implements processes critical for organizing items in working memory (WM). Based on its role in WM, we hypothesized that the DLPFC should contribute to long-term memory (LTM) formation by strengthening associations among items that are organized in WM. We conducted an event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study to test this hypothesis by investigating prefrontal activity during performance of two different WM tasks: on &quot;rehearse&quot; trials, participants actively maintained triplets of words during a brief delay, whereas on &quot;reorder&quot; trials, participants actively organized each triplet during the delay. After scanning, subjects performed an LTM test on words presented during both WM conditions. Behavioral results showed that WM processing in the reorder condition enhanced LTM by strengthening inter-item associations. fMRI results showed that DLPFC activity specifically during reorder trials was predictive of subsequent LTM. In contrast, activity in the posterior ventrolateral prefrontal cortex was predictive of LTM for words studied on both reorder and rehearse trials. These results support the view that the DLPFC contributes to LTM formation through its role in organization of information in WM.
Agenesis of the corpus callosum (CC) is a rare birth defect that occurs in isolated conditions and in combination with other developmental cerebral abnormalities. Recent identification of families of growth and guidance molecules has generated interest in the mechanisms that regulate callosal growth. One family, ephrins and Eph receptors, has been implicated in mediating midline pathfinding decisions; however, the complexity of these interactions has yet to be unraveled. Our studies shed light on which B-class ephrins and Eph receptors function to regulate CC midline growth and how these molecules interact with important guideposts during development. We show that multiple Eph receptors (B1, B2, B3, and A4) and B-class ephrins (B1, B2, and B3) are present and function in developing forebrain callosal fibers based on both spatial and temporal expression patterns and analysis of gene-targeted knock-out mice. Defects are most pronounced in the combination double knock-out mice, suggesting that compensatory mechanisms exist for several of these family members. Furthermore, these CC defects range from mild hypoplasia to complete agenesis and Probst's bundle formation. Further analysis revealed that Probst's bundle formation may reflect aberrant glial formations and/or altered sensitivity of CC axons to other guidance cues. Our results support a significant role for ephrins and Eph receptors in CC development and may provide insight to possible mechanisms involved in axon midline crossing and human disorder.
The calcium-stimulated adenylate cyclase 1 (AC1) has been shown to be required for the refinement of the retinotopic map, but the mechanisms involved are not known. To investigate this question, we devised a retinotectal coculture preparation that reproduces the gradual acquisition of topographic specificity along the rostrocaudal axis of the superior colliculus (SC). Temporal retinal axons invade the entire SC at 4 d in vitro (DIV) and eliminate exuberant branches caudally by 12 DIV. Temporal and nasal axons form branches preferentially in the rostral or caudal SC, respectively. Retinal explants from AC1-deficient mice, AC1(brl/brl), maintain exuberant branches and lose the regional selectivity of branching when confronted with wild-type (WT) SC. Conversely, WT retinas correctly target AC1(brl/brl) collicular explants. The effects of AC1 loss of function in the retina are mimicked by the blockade of ephrin-A5 signaling in WT cocultures. Video microscopic analyses show that AC1(brl/brl) axons have modified responses to ephrin-A5: the collapse of the growth cones occurs, but the rearward movement of the axon is arrested. Our results demonstrate a presynaptic, cell autonomous role of AC1 in the retina and further indicate that AC1 is necessary to enact a retraction response of the retinal axons to ephrin-A5 during the refinement of the retinotopic map.
Deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the ventrolateral thalamus stops several forms of tremor. Microelectrode recordings in the human thalamus have revealed tremor cells that fire synchronous with electromyographic tremor. The efficacy of DBS likely depends on its ability to modify the activity of these tremor cells either synaptically by stopping afferent tremor signals or by directly altering the intrinsic membrane currents of the neurons. To test these possibilities, whole-cell patch-clamp recordings of ventral thalamic neurons were obtained from rat brain slices. DBS was simulated (sDBS) using extracellular constant current pulse trains (125 Hz, 60-80 micros, 0.25-5 mA, 1-30 s) applied through a bipolar electrode. Using a paired-pulse protocol, we first established that thalamocortical relay neurons receive converging input from multiple independent afferent fibers. Second, although sDBS induced homosynaptic depression of EPSPs along its own pathway, it did not alter the response from a second independent pathway. Third, in contrast to the subthalamic nucleus, sDBS in the thalamus failed to inhibit the rebound potential and the persistent Na+ current but did activate the Ih current. Finally, in eight patients undergoing thalamic DBS surgery for essential tremor, microstimulation was most effective in alleviating tremor when applied in close proximity to recorded tremor cells. However, stimulation could still suppress tremor at distances incapable of directly spreading to recorded tremor cells. These complementary data indicate that DBS may induce a &quot;functional deafferentation&quot; of afferent axons to thalamic tremor cells, thereby preventing tremor signal propagation in humans.
The brains of fetal alcohol syndrome patients exhibit impaired neuronal migration, but little is known about the mechanisms underlying this abnormality. Here we show that Ca2+ signaling and cyclic nucleotide signaling are the central targets of alcohol action in neuronal cell migration. Acute administration of ethanol reduced the frequency of transient Ca2+ elevations in migrating neurons and cGMP levels and increased cAMP levels. Experimental manipulations of these second-messenger pathways, through stimulating Ca2+ and cGMP signaling or inhibiting cAMP signaling, completely reversed the action of ethanol on neuronal migration in vitro as well as in vivo. Each second messenger has multiple but distinct downstream targets, including Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, calcineurin, protein phosphatase 1, Rho GTPase, mitogen-activated protein kinase, and phosphoinositide 3-kinase. These results demonstrate that the aberrant migration of immature neurons in the fetal brain caused by maternal alcohol consumption may be corrected by controlling the activity of these second-messenger pathways.
Nicotine is thought to be the key substance responsible for tobacco-smoking habits and appears to trigger reinforcement via the ventral tegmental area (VTA). Recently, multiple anatomical substrates for drug reinforcement have been identified in the vicinity of the ventral midbrain. In addition to the posterior portion of the VTA, the central linear nucleus raph and the supramammillary nucleus of the posterior hypothalamus mediate drug reinforcement. Using intracranial self-administration procedures, we examined whether these regions mediate the reinforcing effects of nicotine. Rats learned to lever press for self-administration of nicotine into the posterior VTA, central linear nucleus, and supramammillary nucleus, suggesting a reinforcing action of nicotine in these regions. The rats did not self-administer nicotine into surrounding regions including the anterior VTA, substantia nigra, the region just dorsal to the posterior VTA, interpeduncular nucleus, or medial mammillary nucleus. The reinforcing effects of nicotine into the three brain regions were further confirmed by a two-lever discrimination procedure, in which rats learned to selectively respond between active and inactive levers. The reinforcing effects of nicotine administration into the posterior VTA, central linear nucleus, and supramammillary nucleus were blocked by coadministration of the nicotine receptor antagonist mecamylamine. The reinforcing effects of nicotine into the posterior VTA or central linear nucleus were attenuated by coadministration of the D2 receptor agonist quinpirole. These findings demonstrate that nicotine reinforcement involves multiple regions both inside and outside the VTA.
Extensive search for the orthologs of 10 human voltage-gated calcium channel (VGCC) alpha(1)-subunit genes in the Fugu genome sequence revealed 21 alpha(1)-subunit genes in the compact genome of Fugu. Subtype classification of the identified Fugu alpha(1) orthologs based on phylogenetic analysis, genomic organization and sequence comparison of the most divergent II/III loop and the C-terminal regions of the alpha(1)-subunits indicated extra copies of alpha(1S)-, alpha(1D)-, alpha(1F)-, alpha(1A)-, alpha(1E)-, alpha(1H)- and alpha(1G)-subunit genes. Phylogenetic analysis reveals that this is likely due to fish lineage specific alpha(1)-subunit subtype duplication. Sequence comparison shows that many of the structural features characteristic of VGCC and specific channel subtypes are also present in the Fugu alpha(1)-subunits. All the Fugu alpha(1)-subunits showed similar expression profile to that of the mammalian alpha(1)-subunits except for Fugu alpha(1S), alpha(1A), alpha(1B) and alpha(1H) which have a more widespread tissue distribution. These results indicate that Fugu, a lower vertebrate, has more extensive channel heterogeneity compared to human.
The F11-receptor (F11R) (a.k.a. JAM-1, JAM-A, CD321) is a cell adhesion molecule of the immunoglobulin superfamily involved in platelet adhesion, secretion and aggregation. In addition, the F11R plays a critical role in the function of endothelial cells and in platelet adhesion to inflamed endothelium. In the present study, we used partial sequences of the human F11R gene, F11R cDNAs, and information in unannotated human genome databases, to delineate the F11R gene. We found that the F11R gene is composed of 13 exons (E1a, 1b, 1c, E1-E10) encoding two groups of mRNAs differing in length and sequence at their 5' UTRs, referred to as type 1 and type 2 messages. Type 1 cDNAs are shorter at the 5' end and contain a region not found within type 2 messages. Type 1 mRNAs are present in endothelial cells (EC), platelets, white blood cells and in the cell lines CMK, HeLa, K562, HOG and A549, while type 2 messages are limited to EC. Type 1 messages contain exons E1-E10 whereas type 2 messages usually contain exons E1a, 1c, part of E1 and E2-E10. The translation start site is localized in the 3' end of E1, common for both type 1 and type 2 messages. Expression of these messages is regulated by two alternative promoters, P1 and P2. P1 is a TATA-less promoter containing an initiator element, multiple transcription start sites, several GC and CCAAT boxes, and GATA, NF-kappaB and ets consensus sequences. The cloned P1 drives efficient expression of the luciferase reporter gene. A high level of similarity between human P1 and its rat and mouse counterparts was observed. Promoter P2, located upstream of P1, contains a TATA box, GC boxes, a CCAAT box and GATA and ets consensus sequences. 3' RACE provided evidence for variability in the 3' UTR due to the presence of two polyadenylation signals. The finding of multiple regulatory sites in the promoters supplements the biochemical evidence that the F11R has several different roles in the functional repertoire of endothelial cells, platelets and other cells. In particular, the presence of NF-kappaB provides additional evidence to the significance of the F11R function in the initiation of inflammatory thrombosis.
The TRIM37 gene encodes a peroxisomal protein of unknown function. Mutations in TRIM37 underlie mulibrey nanism, a rare autosomal recessively inherited disorder with severe growth failure of prenatal onset, constrictive pericardium, hepatomegaly and characteristic dysmorphic features. Eleven mulibrey nanism-associated mutations have been identified. We here characterised TRIM37 further by mapping the transcription initiation site and promoter region as well as by analysing splice variants. By primer extension analysis, several transcription initiation sites were localised to a region between -246 and -373 relative to the ATG codon for translation initiation. Basal promoter activity was mapped within 600 nucleotides upstream from the translation initiation site using promoter-luciferase reporter constructs. Several alternative splice variants of TRIM37 exist in databases. Most of these predict non-functional protein products, are expressed at low levels and are thus likely to be targets for nonsense-mediated mRNA decay. A novel splice variant, TRIM37b, with an alternative termination codon and 3'untranslated region (UTR) transcribed from an exon 16 kb downstream from exon 24, predicts an identical protein product with the previously identified transcript, TRIM37a. As seen by Northern blot analysis and quantitative real-time PCR, both transcripts are highly expressed in testis, whereas in other tissues TRIM37a is prominent. The 3'UTR of the PPM1E gene in the opposite strand overlaps TRIM37b. These data suggest that TRIM37 expression is regulated by several mechanisms: through nonsense surveillance of non-functional transcripts, as well as through 3'UTR regulatory sequences and/or naturally occurring antisense RNAs especially in testis.
Electrophilic neurite outgrowth-promoting prostaglandin (NEPP) compounds protect neurons from oxidative insults. At least part of the neuroprotective action of NEPPs lies in induction of hemeoxygenase-1 (HO-1), which, along with other phase II enzymes, serve as a defense system against oxidative stress. Here, we found that, by using fluorescent tags and immunoprecipitation assays, NEPPs are taken up preferentially into neurons and bind in a thiol-dependent manner to Keap1, a negative regulator of the transcription factor Nrf2. By binding to Keap1, NEPPs prevent Keap1-mediated inactivation of Nrf2 and, thus, enhance Nrf2 translocation into the nucleus of cultured neuronal cells. In turn, Nrf2 binds to antioxidant/electrophile-responsive elements of the HO-1 promoter to induce HO-1 expression. Consistent with this notion, NEPP induction of an HO-1 reporter construct is prevented if the antioxidant-responsive elements are mutated. We show that NEPPs are neuroprotective both in vitro from glutamate-related excitotoxicity and in vivo in a model of cerebral ischemia/reperfusion injury (stroke). Our results suggest that NEPPs prevent excitotoxicity by activating the Keap1/Nrf2/HO-1 pathway. Because NEPPs accumulate preferentially in neurons, they may provide a category of neuroprotective compounds, distinct from other electrophilic compounds such as tert-butylhydroquinone, which activates the antioxidant-responsive element in astrocytes. NEPPs thus represent a therapeutic approach for stroke and neurodegenerative disorders.
Neprilysin (NEP) is a zinc metalloproteinase that degrades enkephalins, endothelins, and the Alzheimer's disease amyloid beta (Abeta) peptides. NEP-deficient mice possess increased levels of brain Abeta(1-40) and Abeta(1-42). The objective of this study was to determine whether tissue NEP specific activity differs according to age and/or across mouse strains, especially those strains predisposed toward formation of Abeta-amyloid plaques following overexpression of the human Alzheimer amyloid precursor protein (APP). The C57Bl/6J mouse strain appears to be relatively susceptible to cerebral amyloidosis, whereas the Swiss Webster (SW) strain appears more resistant. We investigated whether NEP specific activity in brain and kidney homogenates from SW and C57 mice of 6, 40, and 80 weeks old varied according to mouse strain, age, and gender. Among the variables tested, NEP specific activity varied most dramatically across mouse strain, with the kidney and brain of SW mice displaying the highest activities. Aging was associated with a reduction in brain NEP specific activity in both strains. Gender-specific differences were identified in kidney but not in brain. We conclude that aging- and strain-dependent differences in NEP specific activity may play a role in the differential susceptibility of some mouse strains for developing cerebral amyloidosis following human APP overexpression.
Gamma-hexachlorocyclohexane (lindane) is a pesticide with the potential to produce long-term effects on fear or anxiety due to its targeting of the GABA(A) receptor in the brain. Multiple chemical sensitivity (MCS) is a human condition that has been attributed to repeated chemical exposures, with pesticides heavily implicated in the initiation of MCS. The symptoms in MCS patients are wide ranging but prominent among these in a subset of patients is increased evoked panic responses. Drawing a parallel between these responses in MCS patients and a panic model in rats, these studies explored a potential animal model for MCS. The effects of repeated lindane exposure on conditioned fear behavior was examined in adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. Animals were administered vehicle or lindane (intraperitoneally) for either 3 days/week (1, 2 or 5mg) or 5 days/week (2mg) over 2 weeks, and 18 days later were examined for anxiety levels on an elevated plus-maze. One day later, animals were trained for fear conditioning to an odor conditioned stimulus (CS). Freezing behavior was measured 1 day later in the context where pairing occurred, and then for a total of 6 days in a different environment in which either no CS or the CS was presented. After a second 18-day period of no treatment, rats were again tested for their freezing response to the CS for 2 days. Lindane pretreatment did not alter elevated plus-maze performance, nor did it alter contextual freezing behavior. However, pretreatment with lindane decreased the extinction of fear conditioning to the CS such that freezing behavior in controls was significantly lower than in lindane-pretreated rats, and this effect persisted during testing 18 days later. The results indicate that repeated low-level lindane exposure may produce long-lasting changes in anxiety-related neural circuitry. This suggests that odor-triggered symptoms associated with an aversive event may persist in MCS patients because of the ability of some chemicals to alter fear or anxiety circuitry in the brain.

Following proapoptotic signals such as calcium-induced mitochondrial permeability transition or translocation of proapoptotic proteins, mitochondria induce cell death through release of apoptogenic proteins. The mechanism of release and the identity of the released proteins are currently debated. Earlier attempts at identification of the apoptogenic proteins have been hampered by a high nonspecific background. Our aim was to develop a novel method where background release was eliminated, allowing proteins specifically released from mitochondria following proapoptotic stimulation to be identified. Liver mitochondria were immobilized and washed on cryogel monoliths prior to induction of protein release (calcium or Bid/Bax). Immobilized mitochondria exhibited normal morphology and swelling response and retained respiratory activity. The released proteins were collected, concentrated, separated on polyacrylamide gels which were cut into pieces, trypsin-digested, and analyzed using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Control samples contained no protein, and stimulation with calcium and Bid/Bax resulted in identification of 68 and 82 proteins, respectively. We conclude that, in combination with the robust proteomic approach, immobilization on cryogel monoliths is a fruitful approach for studying specific protein release from isolated mitochondria. We propose that this method is a powerful tool to further characterize the role of mitochondria in cell death induction.
Polyamine transport activities have been described in diverse multicellular systems, but their bioenergetic mechanisms and molecular identity remain unclear. In the present paper, we describe a high-affinity spermine/spermidine transport activity expressed in Drosophila S2 cells. Ion-replacement experiments indicate that polyamine uptake across the cell membrane is Na+-, K+-, Cl-- and Ca2+-independent, but pH-sensitive. Additional experiments using ionophores suggest that polyamine uptake may be H+-coupled. Pharmacological experiments show that polyamine uptake in S2 cells is selectively blocked by MGBG {methylglyoxal bis(guanylhydrazone) or 1,1'-[(methylethanediylidine)-dinitrilo]diguanidine} and paraquat (N,N-dimethyl-4,4'-bipyridylium), two known inhibitors of polyamine uptake in mammalian cells. In addition, inhibitors known to block the Slc22 (solute carrier 22) family of organic anion/cation transporters inhibit spermine uptake in S2 cells. These data and the genetic tools available in Drosophila will facilitate the molecular identification and further characterization of this activity.

The protease gamma-secretase plays a pivotal role in the synthesis of pathogenic amyloid-beta in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here, we report a further extension to a series of cyclohexyl sulfone-based gamma-secretase inhibitors which has allowed the preparation of highly potent compounds which also demonstrate robust Abeta(40) lowering in vivo (e.g., compound 32, MED 1mg/kg p.o. in APP-YAC mice).
Secretion of alpha-melanophore-stimulating hormone (alphaMSH) from pituitary melanotrope cells of the amphibian Xenopus laevis is under inhibitory synaptic control by three neurotransmitters produced by the suprachiasmatic nucleus: gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), neuropeptide Y (NPY) and dopamine (DA). These inhibitory effects occur through G(i)-protein-coupled receptors (G(i)PCR), and differ in strength: GABA(B)-receptor-induced inhibition is the weakest, whereas DA (via a D2-receptor) and NPY (via a Y1-receptor) strongly inhibit, with NPY having a long-lasting effect. Previously it was shown that DA inhibits two (R- and N-type channel) of the four voltage-operated Ca2+ channels in the melanotrope, and that only part of this inhibition is mediated by beta/gamma-subunits of the G(i) protein. We here demonstrate that also the Y1- and GABA(B)-receptor inhibit only part of the total Ca2+ current (I(Ca)), with fast activation and inactivation kinetics. However, GABA(B)-mediated inhibition is weaker than the inhibitions induced via Y1- and D2-receptors (-21 versus -27% and -30%, respectively). Using a depolarizing pre-pulse protocol it was demonstrated that GABA(B)-induced inhibition of I(Ca) most likely depends on Gbeta/gamma-subunit activation whereas Y1- and D2- induced inhibitions are only partially mediated by Gbeta/gamma-subunits. No differences were found between the Y1- and D2-induced inhibitions. These results imply that activation of different G(i)PCR inhibits the I(Ca) through different mechanisms, a phenomenon that may underlie the different potencies of the suprachiasmatic neurotransmitters to inhibit alphaMSH secretion.
A major role for Mller cells in the retina is to buffer changes in the extracellular K+ concentration ([K+]o) resulting from light-evoked neuronal activity. The primary K+ conductance in Mller cells is the inwardly rectifying K+ channel Kir4.1. Since this channel is constitutively active, K+ can enter or exit Mller cells depending on the state of the [K+]o. This process of [K+]o buffering by Mller cells (&quot;K+ siphoning&quot;) is enhanced by the precise accumulation of these K+ channels at discrete subdomains of Mller cell membranes. Specifically, Kir4.1 is localized to the perivascular processes of Mller cells in animals with vascular retinas and to the endfeet of Mller cells in all species examined. The water channel aquaporin-4 (AQP4) also appears to be important for [K+]o buffering and is expressed in Mller cells in a very similar subcellular distribution pattern to that of Kir4.1. To gain a better understanding of how Mller cells selectively target K+ and water channels to discrete membrane subdomains, we addressed the question of whether Kir4.1 and AQP4 associate with the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC) in the mammalian retina. Immunoprecipitation (IP) experiments were utilized to show that Kir4.1 and AQP4 are associated with DGC proteins in rat retina. Furthermore, AQP4 was also shown to co-precipitate with Kir4.1, suggesting that both channels are tethered together by the DGC in Mller cells. This work further defines a subcellular localization mechanism in Mller cells that facilitates [K+]o buffering in the retina.
ALS2/alsin is a member of guanine nucleotide exchange factors for the small GTPase Rab5 (Rab5GEFs), which act as modulators in endocytic pathway. Loss-of-function mutations in human ALS2 account for a number of juvenile recessive motor neuron diseases (MNDs). However, the normal physiological role of ALS2 in vivo and the molecular mechanisms underlying motor dysfunction are still unknown. To address these issues, we have generated mice homozygous for disruption of the Als2 gene. The Als2-null mice observed through 21 months of age demonstrated no obvious developmental, reproductive or motor abnormalities. However, immunohistochemical and electrophysiological analyses identified an age-dependent, slowly progressive loss of cerebellar Purkinje cells and disturbance of spinal motor neurons associated with astrocytosis and microglial cell activation, indicating a subclinical dysfunction of motor system in Als2-null mice. Further, quantitative epidermal growth factor (EGF)-uptake analysis identified significantly smaller-sized EGF-positive endosomes in Als2-null fibroblasts, suggesting an alteration of endosome/vesicle trafficking in the cells. Collectively, while loss of ALS2 does not produce a severe disease phenotype in mice, these Als2-null animals should provide a useful model with which to understand the interplay between endosomal dynamics and the long-term viability of large neurons such as Purkinje cells and spinal motor neurons.
Aberrant expression of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) is implicated in the process of invasion and angiogenesis of malignant tumors as well as in inflammatory diseases of the CNS. Therefore, the development of compounds that can inhibit or suppress MMP-9 is required to treat brain tumors. We investigated the effects of a ginseng saponin metabolite, compound K (20-O-(beta-D-glucopyranosyl)-20(S)-protopanaxadiol), on MMP-9 expression in human astroglioma cells. Compound K significantly inhibited the secretion and protein expression of MMP-9 induced by PMA. The inhibitory effect of compound K on MMP-9 expression correlated with decreased MMP-9 mRNA levels and suppression of MMP-9 promoter activity. The compound K-mediated inhibition of MMP-9 gene expression appears to occur via AP-1 because its DNA-binding and transcriptional activities were suppressed by the agent. Furthermore, compound K significantly repressed the PMA-mediated activation of p38 MAPK, ERK and JNK, which are upstream modulators of AP-1. Finally, compound K inhibited the in vitro invasiveness of glioma cells. Therefore, inhibition of MMP-9 expression by compound K might have therapeutic potential for controlling the growth and invasiveness of brain tumors.


Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an important demyelinating disease of the central nervous system, the aetiology of which is thought to have a possible viral component. In this study we investigated the possible involvement in MS of two herpes viruses: the neurotropic human herpesvirus 7 (HHV-7) and the related human herpesvirus 8 (HHV-8). Utilising fluorescent in situ hybridisation (FISH) techniques, we examined human post mortem tissues for the presence of immediate early and late viral gene or protein expression in MS patient normal appearing white matter (NAWM), lesional tissue and normal control brain samples. HHV-7 and/or HHV-8 mRNA or protein was detected in some individuals in all three sample categories and was restricted to oligodendrocytes, as determined by double mRNA FISH analysis or immuno fluorescence (IF). No samples showed evidence of viral mRNA when subjected to RT-PCR on extracted ribonucleic acid. We therefore conclude that there is little evidence in our particular sample cohort to suggest involvement of either HHV-7 or HHV-8 in MS.
Oxidative stress plays an important role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases, such as Parkinson's disease (PD). There are several methods to measure oxidative stress, being lipid peroxidation (LPO) one of the most frequently used. Endogenous plasma LPO was determined by a spectrofluorimetric method in fifty two patients with sporadic PD and in forty controls. To know the maximum capacity of lipids to peroxidate, LPO was also measured after co-incubation with Fe2+/H2O2 (exogenous LPO). All PD patients were taken L-dopa and the effect of this treatment on LPO levels was additionally studied. Urine catecholamines and their main metabolites were also analyzed, and their possible correlation to LPO statistically studied. Endogenous plasma LPO levels were 33% higher in PD group than in control group (P&lt;0.001). Exogenous plasma or oxidizability was also higher in PD patients compared to controls (20%, P&lt;0.05). The intake of L-dopa was negatively dose-related to endogenous and exogenous plasma LPO. In conclusion, plasma of PD patients has elevated levels of LPO and also is more prone to peroxidation than that in the control group. The results also suggest an antioxidant effect of L-dopa.
Cultures of astrocytes can be readily established and are widely used to study the biological functions of these glial cells in isolation. Unfortunately, contamination by microglia can confound results from such studies. Herein, a simple and highly effective modification of a common procedure to remove microglia from astrocyte cultures is described. After becoming confluent, astrocytes were exposed to a mitotic inhibitor for 5-6 days then treated with 50-75 mM l-leucine methyl ester (LME) for 60-90 min. Unlike previous protocols that employed lower LME concentrations on subconfluent cultures or during passage of astrocytes, this protocol effectively depleted microglia from high-density astrocyte monolayers. This was evidenced by the selective depletion of microglial-specific markers. Purified monolayers appeared morphologically normal 24h after LME treatment and expressed nitric oxide synthase-2 (NOS-2) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) proteins upon stimulation with LPS plus IFNgamma, albeit to a lower level than unpurified monolayers. This difference could be attributed to removal of contaminating microglia from monolayers and not to astrocyte dysfunction, since LME treatment did not alter global protein synthesis and a reactive phenotype could be induced in the purified monolayers. Thus, this modified protocol selectively depletes microglia from high-density primary astrocyte monolayers without compromising their functional integrity.
The cortical silent period (CSP) following transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the motor cortex can be used to measure intra-cortical inhibition and changes in a number of important pathologies affecting the central nervous system. The main drawback of this technique has been the difficulty in accurately identifying the onset and offset of the cortical silent period leading to inter-observer variability. We developed an automated method based on the cumulative sum (Cusum) technique to improve the determination of the duration and area of the cortical silent period. This was compared with experienced raters and two other automated methods. We showed that the automated Cusum method reliably correlated with the experienced raters for both duration and area of CSP. Compared with the automated methods, the Cusum also showed the strongest correlation with the experienced raters. Our results show the Cusum method to be a simple, graphical and powerful method of detecting low-intensity CSP that can be easily automated using standard software.
The gravity method for neuronal assembly analysis represents each neuron as a particle in N-space with a time varying charge that is a filtered version of the corresponding spike train, with appropriate rules for forces between and movements of the charged particles. Resulting trajectories reflect neuronal timing relationships. The usual short time constants in the filter restrict aggregation to highly synchronized neurons and reduce the sensitivity for delayed correlations; long time constants in the filter reduce selectivity. Here we describe an enhancement that modifies rules for assigning charge increment times to allow mixtures of short and long lag correlations. Charge increments for each pair are offset from the actual spike times by time lags defined by features in corresponding cross-correlograms; no such charge offsets are invoked if the correlogram is flat. Tuning increases charge products and aggregation of long lag correlated pairs. A second enhancement uses a new three-dimensional display of particle pair trajectories to parse the type of neuronal relationship. For each pair, we record and display the inter-particle distance and the distance each particle moves from its original location in the N-space. The resulting trajectories cluster according to the type of interaction between the represented neurons. Results from simulated networks and in vivo multi-site recordings show that these modifications detect assembly properties not identified by the standard methods.
Substantial evidence suggests that vagal afferent functions are modulated by agonists acting on afferent terminals in the solitary nucleus (NST). Actions of these agonists are implied through intracellular recordings from cultured nodose ganglion cells or second order NST neurons. While high-quality data have been obtained using these methods, techniques in which physiological measurements can be made directly on the afferent terminal fields, in situ, in the NST, would eliminate several potential interpretive problems inherent in these less direct approaches. This paper describes methods developed to directly measure changes in presynaptic cytoplasmic calcium in vagal afferents using time-lapse laser confocal microscopy on the in vitro brainstem slice. Calcium green dextran (CG) transported from the nodose ganglion clearly demonstrates vagal afferent fibers ramifying throughout the NST in the in vitro brainstem slice. CG-labeled vagal afferents can be repeatedly activated by focal electrical stimulation, by agonists acting on presynaptic ligand-gated ion channels, and by molecules that are presumed to act directly on vagal afferents based on previous physiological and immunocytochemical studies. Image and preparation stability are a challenge to the success of the experiment; however, methods described here should assist direct studies of transduction events within other afferent terminal fields in the CNS.
It has been proposed that new neurons in the adult brain might preferentially develop in the immediate vicinity of existing vasculature, an area that has been referred to as a &quot;vascular niche&quot;. The most common method for identifying neurons that arise as the result of mitotic activity is to label them with the thymidine analogue bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU), and a nuclear marker for mature neurons (NeuN). Unfortunately, commercially available forms of NeuN and the vasculature stain, RECA-1, are incompatible, as both antibodies are raised in the same species. This technical limitation has impeded the analysis of the relationship between new neurons and existing vasculature. In the present work we show that Isolectin-IB 4, a 114 k Da protein isolated from the seeds of the African legume, Griffonia simplicifolia, can be used to identify vasculature in conjunction with both NeuN and BrdU immunohistochemistry. Isolectin-IB 4 serves as an easy to use and robust marker for obtaining spatial information regarding the proximity of new neurons to vasculature in the mammalian brain.
Several recent studies have shown that highly undifferentiated neural stem cells (NSCs) grafted into the intact or injured adult spinal cord of animal either remain undifferentiated or show fate restriction to a astrocytic lineage. This indicates that functionally diverse roles expected of cellular replacement cannot be performed by the transplantation of highly immature precursors; rather, more differentiated or appropriate mixtures of more restricted neural precursors may be important in replacement strategies. In this study, we investigated the ability of lineage-restricted neural progenitors derived from adult mouse periventricular subependymal zone (SEZ) to integrate and differentiate into the chronically injured adult spinal cord. To this end, NSCs were grown as adherent cultures followed by expansion in non-adhesive dishes. This allowed us to grow NSCs as colonies of restricted neural precursors, illustrated by NCAM, nestin, Sox-2, A2B5, and GFAP immunostaining. The mixture of lineage-restricted precursors was directly implanted into the chronically injured spinal cord of immunosuppressed cats. The fate of the cells was traced with GFP fluorescence and immunocytochemistry for neural markers such as beta-III-tubulin, GFAP, and Ng2. After four weeks, transplanted cells survived, giving rise to neurons and in addition to cells with an astrocytic phenotype. We conclude that a mixture of more restricted neural precursors may be better suited than highly immature NSCs for neural replacement strategies after central nervous system (CNS) injuries.
The Golgi silver-impregnation method established itself as an important technique for distinguishing morphology at the individual neuron level. This technique has been especially useful for studying human neuroanatomy because it works on postmortem tissue but it is also unreliable and capricious. In this report, we describe a simple technique that was applied to human autopsy and tissue-bank material yielding useful results for the study of neuronal morphology in the brain stem and cerebellum. Human adult brain stems had been immersion-fixed in formalin for a period of time ranging from weeks to months. Brain stem tissue was cross-sectioned into 3-5mm thick slabs, centered about the cochlear nucleus. Slabs were processed under continuous vacuum (22-26 in. of Hg), a procedure that promoted penetration of reagents into the tissue. Tissue was sectioned using a Vibratome and mounted for light microscopy. The results demonstrated improved staining of neurons in the brain stem. Staining of the large synaptic endings of auditory nerve fibers called end bulbs of Held in the cochlear nucleus was especially evident. These results suggest that an age-graded series could be conducted to describe the development of these large auditory endings in humans.
Insights into cognitive neuroscience from neuroimaging techniques are now required to go beyond the localisation of well-known cognitive functions. Fundamental to this is the notion of reproducibility of experimental outcomes. This paper addresses the central issue that functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiments will produce more desirable information if researchers begin to search for reproducible evidence rather than only p value significance. The study proposes a methodology for investigating reproducible evidence without conducting separate fMRI experiments. The reproducible evidence is gathered from the separate runs within the study. The associated empirical Bayes and ROC extensions of the linear model provide parameter estimates to determine reproducibility. Empirical applications of the methodology suggest that reproducible evidence is robust to small sample sizes and sensitive to both the magnitude and persistency of brain activation. It is demonstrated that research findings in fMRI studies would be more compelling with supporting reproducible evidence in addition to standard hypothesis testing evidence.
Neuropsychologists have debated over whether the processing of segmental and suprasegmental units involves different neural mechanisms. Focusing on the production of Chinese lexical tones (suprasegmental units) and vowels (segmental units), this study used the adaptation paradigm to investigate a possible neural dissociation for tone and vowel production. Ten native Chinese speakers were asked to name Chinese characters and pinyin (Romanized phonetic system for Chinese language) that varied in terms of tones and vowels. fMRI results showed significant differences in the right inferior frontal gyrus between tone and vowel production (more activation for tones than for vowels). Brain asymmetry analysis further showed that tone production was less left-lateralized than vowel production, although both showed left-hemisphere dominance.
Humans are capable of recognizing objects, often despite highly adverse viewing conditions (e.g., occlusion). The term &quot;perceptual closure&quot; has been used to refer to the neural processes responsible for &quot;filling-in&quot; missing information in the visual image under such conditions. Closure phenomena have been linked to a group of object recognition areas, the so-called lateral-occipital complex (LOC). Here, we investigated the spatiotemporal dynamics of perceptual closure processes by coregistering data from high-density electrical recordings (ERPs) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) while subjects participated in a perceptual closure task. Subjects were presented with highly fragmented images and control scrambled images. Fragmented images were calibrated to be 'just' recognizable as objects (that is, perceptual closure was necessary), whereas the scrambled images were unrecognizable. Comparison of responses to these two stimulus classes revealed the neural processes underlying perceptual closure. fMRI revealed an object recognition system that mediates these closure processes, the core of which consists of the LOC regions. ERP recordings resulted in the well-characterized N(CL) component (for negativity associated with closure), a robust relative negativity over bilateral occipito-temporal scalp that occurs in the 230-400 ms timeframe. Our investigations further revealed an extended network of dorsal and frontal regions, also involved in perceptual closure processes. Inverse source analysis showed that the major generators of N(CL) localized to the identical regions within LOC revealed by the fMRI recordings and detailed the temporal dynamics across these LOC regions including interactions between LOC and these other nodes of the object recognition circuit.
Response conflict and random response selection have both been associated with activations on the medial frontal surface. Random response selection was typically studied using a 'free selection' paradigm, in which subjects have to select between equally legitimate responses which are in competition with each other. Therefore, one interpretation is that the generation of spontaneous actions is merely a special case of the induction of response conflict. It has been reported that the generation of spontaneous actions is tightly associated with activity in the pre-supplementary motor area (pre-SMA). Most studies of response conflict, on the other hand, suggest that activations in a different and more ventral area, the anterior cingulate, reflect response conflict. Nonetheless, contradictory results have also been reported. To clarify this issue, in this experiment, we have put together a version of the Eriksen flanker task and a free selection task to allow for a direct comparison. We confirmed our hypothesis that free selection is associated with the pre-SMA, whereas response conflict is associated in the anterior cingulate. The two clusters of activation do not overlap, and the peaks of them were about 30 mm apart. We conclude that the activity in the pre-SMA is related to the endogenous generation of action rather than response conflict.
Human posterior cingulate cortex (PCC) and retrosplenial cortex (RSC) form the posterior cingulate gyrus, however, monkey connection and human imaging studies suggest that PCC area 23 is not uniform and atlases mislocate RSC. We histologically assessed these regions in 6 postmortem cases, plotted a flat map, and characterized differences in dorsal (d) and ventral (v) area 23. Subsequently, functional connectivity of histologically guided regions of interest (ROI) were assessed in 163 [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose human cases with PET. Compared to area d23, area v23 had a higher density and larger pyramids in layers II, IIIc, and Vb and more intermediate neurofilament-expressing neurons in layer Va. Coregisrtration of each case to standard coordinates showed that the ventral branch of the splenial sulci coincided with the border between d/v PCC at -5.4 +/- 0.17 cm from the vertical plane and +1.97 +/- 0.08 cm from the bi-commissural line. Correlation analysis of glucose metabolism using histologically guided ROIs suggested important circuit differences including dorsal and ventral visual stream inputs, interactions between the vPCC and subgenual cingulate cortex, and preferential relations between dPCC and the cingulate motor region. The RSC, in contrast, had restricted correlated activity with pericallosal cortex and thalamus. Visual information may be processed with an orbitofrontal link for synthesis of signals to drive premotor activity through dPCC. Review of the literature in terms of a PCC duality suggests that interactions of dPCC, including area 23d, orient the body in space via the cingulate motor areas, while vPCC interacts with subgenual cortex to process self-relevant emotional and non-emotional information and objects and self-reflection.
This paper uses whole brain functional neuroimaging in neurologically normal participants to explore how reading aloud differs from object naming in terms of neuronal implementation. In the first experiment, we directly compared brain activation during reading aloud and object naming. This revealed greater activation for reading in bilateral premotor, left posterior superior temporal and precuneus regions. In a second experiment, we segregated the object-naming system into object recognition and speech production areas by factorially manipulating the presence or absence of objects (pictures of objects or their meaningless scrambled counterparts) with the presence or absence of speech production (vocal vs. finger press responses). This demonstrated that the areas associated with speech production (object naming and repetitively saying &quot;OK&quot; to meaningless scrambled pictures) corresponded exactly to the areas where responses were higher for reading aloud than object naming in Experiment 1. Collectively the results suggest that, relative to object naming, reading increases the demands on shared speech production processes. At a cognitive level, enhanced activation for reading in speech production areas may reflect the multiple and competing phonological codes that are generated from the sublexical parts of written words. At a neuronal level, it may reflect differences in the speed with which different areas are activated and integrate with one another.
Choroid plexus tumors consist of papillomas and carcinomas. A variety of germline and somatic genetic changes have been demonstrated for each of these subtypes. In this paper, the authors summarize the current knowledge of the genetic bases of these tumors.
The NPY receptors belong to the superfamily of G-protein coupled receptors and in mammals this family has five members, named Y1, Y2, Y4, Y5, and Y6. In bony fish, four receptors have been identified, named Ya, Yb, Yc and Y7. Yb and Y7 arose prior to the split between ray-fined fishes and tetrapods and have been lost in mammals. Yc appeared as a copy of Yb in teleost fishes. Ya may be an ortholog of Y4, but surprisingly no unambiguous receptor ortholog to any of the mammalian subtypes has yet been identified in bony fishes. Here we present the cloning and pharmacological characterization of a Y2 receptor in zebrafish, Danio rerio. To date, this is the first Y2 receptor outside mammals and birds that has been characterized pharmacologically. Phylogenetic analysis and synteny confirmed that this receptor is orthologous to mammalian Y2. We show that the receptor is pharmacologically most similar to chicken Y2 which leads to the conclusion that Y2 has acquired several novel characteristics in mammals. Y2 from zebrafish binds very poorly to the Y2-specific antagonist BIIE0246. Our pharmacological characterization supports our previous conclusions regarding the binding pocket of BIIE0246 in the human Y2 receptor.

A significant proportion of early onset parkinsonism is inherited as an autosomal-recessive trait (AR-EP). DJ-1 was identified as one of the causative genes for AR-EP (PARK7), and DJ-1 protein has been implicated in oxidative stress response through oxidation of one of the three cysteine residues (i.e., Cys106). However, the individual roles of these cysteine residues remained unclear. We show by a systematic mutagenesis analysis that Cys46 and Cys53 of DJ-1, but not Cys106, are susceptible to S-nitrosylation in vitro as well as in cultured cells. Furthermore, alanine substitution of Cys46 diminished dimerization of DJ-1, a fundamental feature of this protein. These results indicate that distinct cysteine residues of DJ-1 harbor differential roles in relation to its structure and function.
We have investigated the signaling of OX(1) receptors to cell death using Chinese hamster ovary cells as a model system. OX(1) receptor stimulation with orexin-A caused a delayed cell death independently of cytosolic Ca(2+) elevation. The classical mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways, ERK and p38, were strongly activated by orexin-A. p38 was essential for induction of cell death, whereas the ERK pathway appeared protective. A pathway often implicated in the p38-mediated cell death, activation of p53, did not mediate the cell death, as there was no stabilization of p53 or increase in p53-dependent transcriptional activity, and dominant-negative p53 constructs did not inhibit cell demise. Under basal conditions, orexin-A-induced cell death was associated with compact chromatin condensation and it required de novo gene transcription and protein synthesis, the classical hallmarks of programmed (apoptotic) cell death. However, though the pan-caspase inhibitor N-benzyloxycarbonyl-Val-Ala-Asp-(O-methyl)fluoromethyl ketone (Z-VAD-fmk) fully inhibited the caspase activity, it did not rescue the cells from orexin-A-induced death. In the presence of Z-VAD-fmk, orexin-A-induced cell death was still dependent on p38 and de novo protein synthesis, but it no longer required gene transcription. Thus, caspase inhibition causes activation of alternative, gene transcription-independent death pathway. In summary, the present study points out mechanisms for orexin receptor-mediated cell death and adds to our general understanding of the role of G-protein-coupled receptor signaling in cell death by suggesting a pathway from G-protein-coupled receptors to cell death via p38 mitogen-/stress-activated protein kinase independent of p53 and caspase activation.


Neonatal rats suspended in harnesses, limbs hanging freely, and injected with 100 mg/kg l-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA), engage in a behavior (air stepping) that closely resembles spontaneous locomotion. Rats no longer demonstrate this response after postnatal day 20 (P20). In the present experiment, an immunohistochemical analysis of the immediate early protein c-Fos was performed as a marker for cellular activity in the brains of suspended rat pups treated with l-DOPA at P15 and P25. Control rats were injected with saline at each age and subjected to the same behavioral protocol. Only P15 rat pups injected with L-DOPA engaged in air stepping and expressed the highest levels of c-Fos reactivity in output nuclei of the basal ganglia, as well as the pedunculopontine (PPN) and cuneiform (Cnf) nuclei. Twenty-five-day-old rats, which did not air step, exhibited reduced c-Fos labeling in these areas as well as in the locus coeruleus (LC). Our findings suggest that excitation of the basal ganglia resulted via afferents from the PPN and/or Cnf, which may develop before reciprocal inhibitory connections are fully mature. We propose that a circumscribed portion of the midbrain, which overlaps with the physiologically defined mesencephalic locomotor region (MLR), is necessary for the production of L-DOPA-induced locomotion. We propose further that this action is induced against a background of heightened arousal during the first three postnatal weeks but comes under inhibitory control in rat pups older than 20 days of age.
With increasing numbers of in vivo experiments in the field of neuroscience, the interest in methods for in vivo imaging of animal brains as small as those of mice has increased. Because highly specialized small bore scanners with high field strengths are not commonly available, clinical magnetic resonance imaging (cMRI) scanners have been used in the past to image rat and more recently also mouse brains in combination with specifically developed RF coils. These studies have demonstrated that imaging of small animal brains is feasible, and that tumor volumes measured by cMRI correlate well with histological tumor volume analysis. This protocol describes the cMRI settings at 1.5 T for imaging of mouse brain with resolutions up to 120 x 120 microm using an inexpensive, commercially available small loop surface coil. This allows easy establishment of a small animal MRI facility without the need for cost intensive dedicated small animal scanners or special custom made coils. In this study, we demonstrate high-resolution imaging of intracranial xenografts in a mouse glioma model and monitor the treatment effect of external field irradiation by cMRI.
The murine forkhead family of transcription factors consists of over 30 members, the vast majority of which is important in embryonic development. Implicated in processes such as proliferation, differentiation and survival, forkhead factors show highly restricted expression patterns. In search for forkhead genes expressed in specific neural systems, we identified multiple family members. We performed a detailed expression analysis for Foxj2, Foxk1 and the murine orthologue of the human ILF1 gene, which show a remarkable preference for complex cortical structures. In addition, a comprehensive examination of forkhead gene expression in dopamine neurons of the ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra pars compacta, revealed Ilf1 as a novel transcriptional regulator in midbrain dopamine neurons. These forkhead transcription factors may play a role in maintenance and survival of developing and adult neurons.
gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) is inhibitory in adult, but excitatory in neonatal, neurons. The switch from excitatory to inhibitory action is due to a negative shift in the equilibrium potential for the GABA(A) receptor-mediated postsynaptic current (E(GABA-PSC)). Here, we report that, in neonatal rat hippocampal CA1 neurons, presynaptic theta-burst activation induces not only a shift in E(GABA-PSC) towards that in adult neurons, but also a recruitment of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA)-receptor-mediated postsynaptic currents.
It has been demonstrated that subpopulations of myenteric neurons are differentially susceptible to the development of neuropathy in diabetes. Within the myenteric plexus are neurons that contain neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS). However, these are not a homogeneous population. Some of the nNOS-containing neurons also contain heme oxygenase 2 (HO2). Therefore, the aim of this study was to compare the effects of diabetes on HO2- and nNOS-containing neurons within the myenteric plexus of the rat ileum. Diabetes was induced in male Wistar rats (350-400 g) by a single i.p. injection of buffered streptozotocin (65 mg/kg). After 12 weeks, immunostaining of wholemount preparations of ileum revealed that diabetes induced a significant shift (P &lt; 0.001, chi-squared test for trend) towards increased neuronal cell body size in nNOS-immunoreactive neurons while HO2-immunoreactive neurons remained unaffected. Double-labeling studies revealed that approximately 50% of nNOS-containing neurons also contained HO2 and that the diabetes-induced change in size was confined to nNOS-immunoreactive neurons that did not contain HO2 (P &lt; 0.01). No change in the size distribution occurred in neurons in which nNOS and HO2 were colocalized. Differences in the response of these two subpopulations of nNOS-containing neurons to diabetes could occur because they supply different targets within the gastrointestinal tract or indicate that the antioxidant, HO2, protects those nNOS-containing neurons in which it is colocalized, against oxidative stress that occurs in diabetes.
There is considerable evidence that pharmacological doses of the pineal hormone, melatonin, are neuroprotective in diverse models of neurodegeneration including Parkinson's disease. However, there is limited information about the effects of physiological doses of this hormone in similar models. In this study, rats were chronically treated with melatonin via drinking water following partial 6-hydroxydopamine lesioning in the striatum. The two doses of melatonin (0.4 microg/ml and 4.0 microg/ml) were within the reported physiological concentrations present in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid respectively. At 2 weeks after surgery, the higher dose of melatonin significantly attenuated rotational behavior in hemi-parkinsonian rats compared to similarly lesioned animals receiving either vehicle (P &lt; 0.001) or the lower dose of melatonin (P &lt; 0.01). Animals were perfused or sacrificed 10 weeks after commencing melatonin treatment for immunohistochemical or mRNA studies. Animals treated with 4.0 microg/ml melatonin exhibited normal tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactivity in the lesioned striatum, whereas little or no TH immunofluorescence was visible in similarly lesioned animals receiving vehicle. In contrast, semiquantitative RT-PCR analysis revealed no group differences in TH mRNA, suggesting spontaneous recovery of this transcript as observed previously in partially lesioned animals. There were no significant differences in striatal GDNF mRNA levels between sham and lesioned animals. However, there was a significant (P &lt; 0.01) increase in GDNF mRNA expression in the intact contralateral striata of lesioned animals treated with vehicle. Interestingly, melatonin treatment attenuated this novel compensatory contralateral increase in striatal GDNF expression, presumably due to its neuroprotective effect. These findings support a physiological role for melatonin in protecting against parkinsonian neurodegeneration in the nigrostriatal system.
A series of high-affinity GABA(A) agonists with good oral bioavailability in rat and dog and functional selectivity for the GABA(A)alpha2 and -alpha3 subtypes is reported. The 7-trifluoromethylimidazopyrimidine 14g and the 7-propan-2-olimidazopyrimidine 14k are anxiolytic in both conditioned and unconditioned animal models of anxiety with minimal sedation observed at full BZ binding site occupancy.


The magnocellular neurons (MCNs) of the supraoptic nucleus (SON) and paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus are the principal site of biosynthesis of prepropeptide precursor of the antidiuretic hormone vasopressin (VP). This precursor is processed during anterograde axonal transportation to terminals in the posterior pituitary gland, where biologically active VP is stored until release into the general circulation in response to physiological activation of the SON by osmotic cues. By binding to V2-type receptors located in the kidney, VP decreases the amount of water lost in urine. Osmotic activation of the SON is accompanied by a dramatic morphological and functional remodeling. We have sought to understand the mechanistic basis of this plasticity in terms of the differential expression of genes. To identify such genes, we adopted an unbiased global approach based on suppressive subtractive hybridization-polymerase chain reaction (SSH-PCR) Using this method, we generated libraries of clones putatively differentially expressed in control vs. dehydrated SON. To rapidly screen these libraries, 1,152 clones were subjected to microarray analysis, resulting in the identification of 459 differentially expressed transcripts. cDNA clones corresponding to 56 of these RNAs were sequenced, revealing many of them to be novel expressed sequence tags (ESTs). Four transcripts were shown by in situ hybridization (ISH) to be significantly up- or downregulated in the SON after dehydration. These genes may represent novel effectors or mediators of SON physiological remodeling.
Benign essential blepharospasm (BEB) is a focal cranial dystonia affecting eye closure. Here, we tested the hypothesis that BEB is associated with abnormal plasticity of the neuronal circuits mediating reflex blinks. In patients with BEB and healthy age-matched controls, we used the conditioning protocol introduced by Mao and Evinger (2001) to induce long-term potentiation (LTP)-like plasticity in trigeminal wide dynamic range neurons of the blink reflex circuit. High-frequency trains of electrical stimuli were repeatedly given over the right supraorbital nerve (SO) and timed to coincide with the R2 response elicited by a preceding SO stimulus. High-frequency stimulation (HFS) resulted in a long-lasting and input-specific potentiation of the R2 response in both groups, yet the facilitation of the R2 response was markedly increased in patients relative to controls. Botulinum toxin (BTX) injections in both orbicularis oculi muscles normalized the previously enhanced LTP-like plasticity of the R2 response. The increased responsiveness to HFS provides first-time evidence that LTP-like plasticity is increased in the trigeminal reflex circuit of patients affected by BEB. The results also show that the enhanced modifiability is not fixed in BEB, because BTX injections can transiently restore normal LTP-like plasticity. We propose that an abnormal corneal input induced by excessive blinking exacerbates increased LTP-like plasticity in BEB. BTX treatment removes the latter and restores plasticity toward normal values. Our results support the concept that maladaptive reorganization contributes to the pathophysiology of focal dystonias.
In the adult rat hippocampus, granule cell mossy fibers (MFs) form excitatory glutamatergic synapses with CA3 principal cells and local inhibitory interneurons. However, evidence has been provided that, in young animals and after seizures, the same fibers can release in addition to glutamate GABA. Here we show that, during the first postnatal week, stimulation of granule cells in the dentate gyrus gave rise to monosynaptic GABAA-mediated responses in principal cells and in interneurons. These synapses were indeed made by MFs because they exhibited strong paired-pulse facilitation, high sensitivity to the metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist l-AP-4, and short-term frequency-dependent facilitation. MF responses were potentiated by blocking the plasma membrane GABA transporter GAT-1 with NO-711 or by allosterically modulating GABAA receptors with flurazepam. Chemical stimulation of granule cell dendrites with glutamate induced barrages of GABAA-mediated postsynaptic currents into target neurons. Furthermore, immunocytochemical experiments demonstrated colocalization of vesicular GABA transporter with vesicular glutamate transporter-1 and zinc transporter 3, suggesting that GABA can be taken up and stored in synaptic vesicles of MF terminals. Additional fibers releasing both glutamate and GABA into principal cells and interneurons were recruited by increasing the strength of stimulation. Both the GABAergic and the glutamatergic component of synaptic currents occurred with the same latency and were reversibly abolished by l-AP-4, indicating that they originated from the MFs. GABAergic signaling may play a crucial role in tuning hippocampal network during postnatal development. Low-threshold GABA-releasing fibers may undergo elimination, and this may occur when GABA shifts from the depolarizing to the hyperpolarizing direction.
The basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor Math1 (also called Atoh1) is both necessary and sufficient for hair cell development in the mammalian cochlea (Bermingham et al., 1999; Zheng and Gao, 2000). Previous studies have demonstrated that a dynamic pattern of Math1 expression plays a key role in regulating the number and position of mechanosensory hair cells. However, the factors that regulate the temporal and spatial expression of Math1 within the cochlea are unknown. The bHLH-related inhibitors of differentiation and DNA binding (Id) proteins are known to negatively regulate many bHLH transcription factors, including Math1, in a number of different systems. Therefore, Id proteins are good candidates for regulating Math1 in the cochlea. Results from PCR and in situ hybridization indicate that Id1, Id2, and Id3 are expressed within the cochlear duct in a pattern that is consistent with a role in regulation of hair cell development. In particular, expression of Ids and Math1 overlapped in cochlear progenitor cells before cellular differentiation, but a specific downregulation of Id expression was observed in individual cells that differentiated as hair cells. In addition, progenitor cells in which the expression of Ids was maintained during the time period for hair cell differentiation were inhibited from developing as hair cells. These results indicate a key role for Ids in the regulation of expression of Math1 and hair cell differentiation in the developing cochlea.
In layer 4 (L4) of the rat barrel cortex, a single whisker deflection evokes a stereotyped sequence of excitation followed by inhibition, hypothesized to result in a narrow temporal window for spike output. However, awake rats sweep their whiskers across objects, activating the cortex at frequencies known to induce short-term depression at both excitatory and inhibitory synapses within L4. Although periodic whisker deflection causes a frequency-dependent reduction of the cortical response magnitude, whether this adaptation involves changes in the relative balance of excitation and inhibition and how these changes might impact the proposed narrow window of spike timing in L4 is unknown. Here, we demonstrate for the first time that spike output in L4 is determined precisely by the dynamic interaction of excitatory and inhibitory conductances. Furthermore, we show that periodic whisker deflection results in balanced adaptation of the magnitude and timing of excitatory and inhibitory input to L4 neurons. This balanced adaptation mediates a reduction in spike output while preserving the narrow time window of spike generation, suggesting that L4 circuits are calibrated to maintain relative levels of excitation and inhibition across varying magnitudes of input.
Scan behavior in 10 captive predator-naive adult black tufted-ear marmosets (Callithrix penicillata) was investigated prior, during and following brief predator encounters (taxidermized oncilla cat -- Leopardus tigrinus) versus neutral stimulus exposures (stuffed toy). For each stimulus, three 9 min home-cage trials were conducted &gt; or = 72 h apart. Each trial was divided into three consecutive 3 min intervals: pre-exposure baseline observation, stimulus exposure, and post-exposure observation period. Post-exposure scan duration increased during the first two predator confrontations, while scan frequency increased significantly only after the first. Scan behavior remained constant within the last predator encounter, as it also did within and between the three neutral stimulus exposures. Although marmosets scanned more often and significantly longer after encountering the predator than the neutral stimulus, this response rapidly habituated by the second trial. Therefore, black tufted-ear marmosets in a familiar environment rapidly habituate to brief repeated predator encounters, possibly minimizing anti-predation costs once the degree of a potential threat has been adequately assessed.
Effects of maternal separation in rats have been extensively investigated, but no studies have examined its effects in rat adolescence. We examined the effects of neonatal infant-mother separation (MS) for 6h/day and early handling (EH) for 10 days during the first 2 weeks of life by comparing MS and EH groups to standard facility reared (SFR) controls. At adolescence, the animals were evaluated in a novel and familiar open-field, the light-dark box, and the sucrose consumption test. Behavioral indices included orienting behavior (rearing frequency and duration), impulsive behavior (movement velocity and risk taking by entering the center of the open field or the light compartment of the light-dark box), hyperactivity (ambulatory distance and stereotypic movement), and reward-seeking behavior (sucrose drinking time). The prolonged MS during the first 2 weeks of life resulted in decreased orienting behavior and increased impulsive behavior in adolescence. Measures of ambulatory and stereotypic movements showed that MS rats were hyperactive in the novel environment whereas EH rats were less active overall. The impulsive/hyperactive phenotype produced by this MS protocol may provide a useful animal model to investigate the neurological basis for the similar behavioral phenotype found in attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder.
Synapses of neurons use clathrin-mediated endocytic pathways for recycling of synaptic vesicles and trafficking of neurotransmitter receptors. Epsin 1 and huntingtin-interacting protein 1 (HIP1) are endocytic accessory proteins. Both proteins interact with clathrin and the AP2 adaptor complex and also bind to the phosphoinositide-containing plasma membrane via an epsin/AP180 N-terminal homology (ENTH/ANTH) domain. Epsin1 and HIP1 are found in neurons; however, their precise roles in synapses remain largely unknown. Using immunogold electron microscopy, we examine and compare the synaptic distribution of epsin1 and HIP1 in rat CA1 hippocampal synapse. We find that epsin1 is located across both sides of the synapse, whereas HIP1 displays a preference for the postsynaptic compartment. Within the synaptic compartments, espin1 is distributed similarly throughout, whereas postsynaptic HIP1 is concentrated near the plasma membrane. Our results suggest a dual role for epsin1 and HIP1 in the synapse: as broadly required factors for promoting clathrin assembly and as adaptors for specific endocytic pathways.
Olfactory sensory neuron (OSN) axonal extension and targeting occur within the olfactory nerve layer (ONL) of the olfactory bulb (OB). The ONL can be differentiated into sublaminae: the outer (ONLo), where axons broadly target regions of the OB in tight fascicles, and inner (ONLi), where axons perform final targeting in loosely organized fascicles. During perinatal development, cadherin-2 and its binding partner, gamma-catenin, are preferentially expressed by OSN axons in the ONLo vs. the ONLi. Given the expression of these cytoskeleton-associated molecules, we hypothesized that cytoskeletal elements of OSN axons may be differentially expressed across the ONL. We therefore examined cytoskeletal organization of OSN axons in the ONL, focusing on the day of birth (P0). We show that microfilaments, microtubules, and the intermediate filament (IF) vimentin are homogeneously expressed across the ONL at P0. In contrast, the IFs peripherin and alpha-internexin are preferentially localized to the ONLo at P0, with alpha-internexin expressed by a restricted subset of OSNs. We also show that OSN axons in the ONLo are significantly smaller than those in the ONLi. The data demonstrate that, as OSN axons begin to exit the ONLo and target a specific region of the OB, there is a down-regulation of cytoskeletal elements and bound extracellular adhesion molecules. The increase in axon diameter may reflect additional mechanisms involved in glomerular targeting or the formation of the large terminal boutons of OSN axons within glomeruli.

Seven families with six different SPG3A mutations were identified among 106 with autosomal dominant hereditary spastic paraplegia (HSP). Two mutations were novel (T162P, C375R). SPG3A was twice as frequent as SPG4 in patients with onset before age 10 years (31.8%). Later onset was not observed. The phenotype was pure HSP, but disease duration was longer than in non-SPG3A/SPG4 patients, leading ultimately to greater handicap.


Until half a century ago, associative learning played a fundamental role in theories of perceptual appearance [Berkeley, G. (1709) An Essay Towards a New Theory of Vision (Dublin), 1st Ed.]. But starting in 1955 [Gibson, J. J. &amp; Gibson, E. J. (1955) Psychol. Rev. 62, 32-41], most studies of perceptual learning have not been concerned with association or appearance but rather with improvements in discrimination ability. Here we describe a &quot;cue recruitment&quot; experiment, which is a straightforward adaptation of Pavlov's classical conditioning experiment, that we used to measure changes in visual appearance caused by exposure to novel pairings of signals in visual stimuli. Trainees viewed movies of a rotating wire-frame (Necker) cube. This stimulus is perceptually bistable. On training trials, depth cues (stereo and occlusion) were added to force the perceived direction of rotation. Critically, an additional signal was also added, contingent on rotation direction. Stimuli on test trials contained the new signal but not the depth cues. Over 45 min, two of the three new signals that we tested acquired the ability to bias perceived rotation direction on their own. Results were consistent across the eight trainees in each experiment, and the new cue's effectiveness was long lasting. Whereas most adaptation aftereffects on appearance are opposite in direction to the training stimuli, these effects were positive. An individual new signal can be recruited by the visual system as a cue for the construction of visual appearance. Cue recruitment experiments may prove useful for reexamining of the role of experience in perception.
The question of whether language affects perception has been debated largely on the basis of cross-language data, without considering the functional organization of the brain. The nature of this neural organization predicts that, if language affects perception, it should do so more in the right visual field than in the left visual field, an idea unexamined in the debate. Here, we find support for this proposal in lateralized color discrimination tasks. Reaction times to targets in the right visual field were faster when the target and distractor colors had different names; in contrast, reaction times to targets in the left visual field were not affected by the names of the target and distractor colors. Moreover, this pattern was disrupted when participants performed a secondary task that engaged verbal working memory but not a task making comparable demands on spatial working memory. It appears that people view the right (but not the left) half of their visual world through the lens of their native language, providing an unexpected resolution to the language-and-thought debate.
We report an experiment designed to investigate the temporal dynamics of the visuotactile crossmodal congruency effect. Vibrotactile targets were presented randomly to the index finger (top side of a hand-held cube) or thumb (bottom side) of either hand while visual distractors were presented randomly from one of the same four possible locations. The stimulus onset asynchrony (SOA) between the vibrotactile target and the visual distractor was varied on a trial-by-trial basis. Participants made speeded discrimination responses regarding the elevation of the vibrotactile targets (i.e., upper versus lower) while trying to ignore the visual distractors. The largest crossmodal congruency effects (defined as the difference in performance between incongruent and congruent elevation distractor trials) were obtained when the visual distractor preceded the vibrotactile target by 50-100 ms, although significant effects were also reported when the distractor followed the target by as much as 100 ms. These results are discussed in terms of the conjoint influence of response competition, crossmodal perceptual interactions (i.e., the ventriloquism effect), and exogenous spatial attention on the crossmodal congruency effect. The distinct temporal signatures of each of these effects are also highlighted.
We compared the responsiveness of a neural firing pacemaker in different dynamic states during the process of period-adding bifurcation to excitatory and inhibitory electrical field stimulus. In the region far from the bifurcation point, with the increase of the intensity of excitatory stimulus, the firing rate increased in an approximately linear manner and no firing pattern transition was observed. While in the region near the bifurcation point, the firing rate increased markedly higher accompanied with the transition of firing pattern when the intensity of excitatory stimulus remained the same. The stimulus-response of the region near the bifurcation point shifted upward significantly compared to that of the region far from the bifurcation point. Inhibitory stimulus with the same intensity, however, decreased the firing rate slightly without the transition of firing pattern in the region near the bifurcation point. These results suggest that the responsiveness in the region near the bifurcation point is more sensitive than that in the region far from the bifurcation point, which we named &quot;critical sensitivity&quot;, and this has directional selectivity.
The subiculum plays a key role in processing neuronal information from the hippocampus to different cortical and subcortical brain regions. The subicular projections to the nucleus accumbens and the prefrontal cortex have received increasing attention, as alterations of their activity seem to be involved in schizophrenia. Phencyclidine and other non-competitive antagonists of NMDA receptors (such as ketamine and MK-801) induce psychotic effects in humans that closely resemble the positive, negative and cognitive symptoms of schizophrenia. Using the MK-801 model of psychosis, we investigated the time course of alterations of synaptic transmission and plasticity at CA1-subiculum synapses of hippocampal brain slices 4 h, 24 h and 4 weeks after MK-801 treatment. We report here that systemic application of MK-801 causes a facilitation of LTP at CA1-subiculum synapses 24 h after treatment as compared with control LTP. Four weeks after MK-801 treatment, the magnitude of LTP reversed to control values. The priming of LTP 24 h after systemic application of MK-801 suggest a new form of metaplasticity that sheds light on the delayed facilitating effect of this drug on synaptic efficacy.
In the human glioblastoma cell line U87, the activity of serine racemase (SR), catalyzing the isomerisation of serine, was inversely regulated by D-serine and nitric oxide (NO), a neuromodulator and a neurotransmitter, respectively. SR activity was dose-dependently enhanced up to five times in cells treated with 10 mM D-serine, whereas it was inhibited by NO. Furthermore, D-serine was found to induce the denitrosylation of SR purified from mouse brain. These results suggest that serine racemase activity in astrocyte is regulated inversely by d-serine and NO. SR should be inhibited through nitrosylation by NO and activated through denitrosylation elicited by D-serine.
Correlations between the MRI-assessed volumes of the pulvinar, centromedian, and mediodorsal nuclei of the thalamus and 39 cortical Brodmann's areas were evaluated and compared in 41 unmedicated schizophrenia patients and 59 healthy comparison subjects. For the right pulvinar, positive intercorrelations with ipsilateral orbitofrontal and occipital cortices were significantly weaker while negative intercorrelations with dorsolateral prefrontal and temporopolar/entorhinal cortices were stronger in schizophrenia patients compared to healthy subjects. For the centromedian nucleus, positive correlation with the dorsolateral prefrontal area 46 in the right hemisphere was significantly weaker in patients than in healthy subjects. Higher cortical/pulvinar volume ratios for the right frontotemporal regions with stronger negative correlations in patients were associated with better performance on recall and semantic memory tasks. Right pulvinocortical disconnections in patients with schizophrenia may be related to visual attentional deficits whereas stronger-than-normal inverse pulvinar associations with the heteromodal cortical regions may reflect compensatory reliance on alternative information-processing strategies.

The long-term effects on isolation-induced aggressive behaviour and central NGF and BDNF levels of gestational exposures to ozone (O(3)) were evaluated in adult CD-1 mice. Females were exposed to O(3), at the dose of 0.0, 0.3 or 0.6 ppm from 30 days prior the formation of breeding pairs until gestational day 17. Litters were fostered at birth to untreated dams and, at adulthood, male offspring underwent five successive daily encounters (15 min each) with a standard opponent of the same strain, sex, weight and age. The encounters on day 1, 3 and 5 were videotaped and agonistic and non-agonistic behavioural items finely scored. O(3)-exposed mice showed a significant increase in freezing and defensive postures, a decrease in nose-sniffing behaviour and reduced progressively the aggressive behavioural profile displayed on day 1. Reduced NGF levels in the hippocampus and increased BDNF in the striatum were also found upon O(3) exposure.
Spontaneous development of lupus-like disease in MRL-lpr mice is accompanied by a constellation of behavioral deficits, including blunted responsiveness to sucrose. Although autoimmunity-induced damage of limbic areas is proposed to underlie this deficit, the systemic nature of the disease precludes inference of a causal relationship between CNS damage and functional loss. Based on the stimulatory effects of d-amphetamine sulfate (AMPH) on sucrose intake, the present study pharmacologically probes the functional status of central dopaminergic circuits involved in control of behavioral reward. The response rates were compared between diseased MRL-lpr mice and congenic MRL +/+ controls tested in the sucrose preference paradigm. Neuronal loss was assessed by Fluoro Jade B (FJB) staining of nucleus accumbens and the CA2/CA3 region. While control mice significantly increased intake of sucrose solutions 60 min after administration of AMPH (i.p., 0.5 mg/kg), the intake in drugged MRL-lpr mice was comparable to those given saline injection. Increased FJB staining was detected in the nucleus accumbens and hippocampus of diseased mice, and AMPH treatment neither altered this nor other measures of organ pathology. The results obtained are consistent with previously observed changes in the mesolimbic dopamine system of MRL-lpr mice and suggest that the lesion in the nucleus accumbens and deficits in dopamine release underlie impaired responsiveness to palatable stimulation during the progress of systemic autoimmune disease. As such, they point to a neurotransmitter-specific regional brain damage which may account for depressive behaviors in neuropsychiatric lupus erythematosus.
Intraventricular injections of the tachykinin NK3 receptor (NK3-R) agonist, senktide, suppress the ingestion of hypertonic (0.5 M) NaCl by decreasing the initial lick rate and accelerating the decay in lick rate in sodium deficient rats. The present experiment examined whether the effects of intraventricular injections of senktide on lick rate were selective for NaCl solution, or if the ability of NK3-R agonists to inhibit intake generalizes other sodium-containing solutions. The effects of lateral ventricular injections of isotonic saline or senktide (200 ng) on intake and lick rate of 0.5 M solutions of sodium chloride (NaCl), sodium acetate (Na acetate), sodium bicarbonate (Na bicarbonate), and monosodium glutamate (MSG) were measured in sodium deficient rats. Compared to saline injection, senktide injection had no effect on the lick rate or intake of Na bicarbonate. In contrast, intraventricular injection of senktide suppressed the intake of NaCl, Na acetate, and MSG compared to saline injection. Senktide injection accelerated the decay in lick rate for NaCl, Na acetate and MSG, but only suppressed the initial lick rate for NaCl and Na acetate. The results show that activation of NK3-R in sodium deficient rats suppresses the intake of tastes that are classified as &quot;salty&quot; tasting and that the decrease in intake reflects effects on the initial lick rate, the decay in lick rate, or both.
Mutations in alpha-synuclein gene cause familial form of Parkinson disease, and deposition of wild-type alpha-synuclein as Lewy bodies occurs as a hallmark lesion of sporadic Parkinson disease and dementia with Lewy bodies, implicating alpha-synuclein in the pathogenesis of Parkinson disease and related neurodegenerative diseases. Dopamine neurons in substantia nigra are the major site of neurodegeneration associated with alpha-synuclein deposition in Parkinson disease. Here we establish transgenic Caenorhabditis elegans (TG worms) that overexpresses wild-type or familial Parkinson mutant human alpha-synuclein in dopamine neurons. The TG worms exhibit accumulation of alpha-synuclein in the cell bodies and neurites of dopamine neurons, and EGFP labeling of dendrites is often diminished in TG worms expressing familial Parkinson disease-linked A30P or A53T mutant alpha-synuclein, without overt loss of neuronal cell bodies. Notably, TG worms expressing A30P or A53T mutant alpha-synuclein show failure in modulation of locomotory rate in response to food, which has been attributed to the function of dopamine neurons. This behavioral abnormality was accompanied by a reduction in neuronal dopamine content and was treatable by administration of dopamine. These phenotypes were not seen upon expression of beta-synuclein. The present TG worms exhibit dopamine neuron-specific dysfunction caused by accumulation of alpha-synuclein, which would be relevant to the genetic and compound screenings aiming at the elucidation of pathological cascade and therapeutic strategies for Parkinson disease.
KCNQ2 and KCNQ3 K+ channel subunits underlie the muscarinic-regulated K+ current (I(KM)), a widespread regulator of neuronal excitability. Mutations in KCNQ2- or KCNQ3-encoding genes cause benign familiar neonatal convulsions (BFNCs), a rare autosomal-dominant idiopathic epilepsy of the newborn. In the present study, we have investigated, by means of electrophysiological, biochemical, and immunocytochemical techniques in transiently transfected cells, the consequences prompted by a BFNC-causing 1-bp deletion (2043deltaT) in the KCNQ2 gene; this frameshift mutation caused the substitution of the last 163 amino acids of the KCNQ2 C terminus and the extension of the subunit by additional 56 residues. The 2043deltaT mutation abolished voltage-gated K+ currents produced upon homomeric expression of KCNQ2 subunits, dramatically reduced the steady-state cellular levels of KCNQ2 subunits, and prevented their delivery to the plasma membrane. Metabolic labeling experiments revealed that mutant KCNQ2 subunits underwent faster degradation; 10-h treatment with the proteasomal inhibitor MG132 (20 microm) at least partially reversed such enhanced degradation. Co-expression with KCNQ3 subunits reduced the degradation rate of mutant KCNQ2 subunits and led to their expression on the plasma membrane. Finally, co-expression of KCNQ2 2043deltaT together with KCNQ3 subunits generated functional voltage-gated K+ currents having pharmacological and biophysical properties of heteromeric channels. Collectively, the present results suggest that mutation-induced reduced stability of KCNQ2 subunits may cause epilepsy in neonates.
The pathophysiology of depression remains enigmatic, although abnormalities in serotonin signaling have been implicated. We have found that the serotonin 1B receptor [5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT1B) receptor] interacts with p11. p11 increases localization of 5-HT1B receptors at the cell surface. p11 is increased in rodent brains by antidepressants or electroconvulsive therapy, but decreased in an animal model of depression and in brain tissue from depressed patients. Overexpression of p11 increases 5-HT1B receptor function in cells and recapitulates certain behaviors seen after antidepressant treatment in mice. p11 knockout mice exhibit a depression-like phenotype and have reduced responsiveness to 5-HT1B receptor agonists and reduced behavioral reactions to an antidepressant.

A functional promoter polymorphism (-116C/G) of the X-box binding protein 1 gene (XBP1) gene was reported to be associated with schizophrenia in Asian subjects. In a replication attempt, three European case-control samples comprising 2,182 German, Polish, and Swedish subjects, were genotyped for the XBP1 -116C/G polymorphism. Allele and genotype frequencies were compared between schizophrenic patients and control subjects. There were no significant case-control differences in any of the three samples, although in a meta-analysis with previous results comprising 3,612 subjects there was a borderline association between the -116G-containing genotypes and schizophrenia. We conclude that the functional XBP1 gene polymorphism is not of major importance to schizophrenia in the European populations investigated. It cannot be excluded, however, that the XBP1 polymorphism is involved in schizophrenia in other populations or adds minor susceptibility to the disorder.
Uniparental isodisomy (iUPD) is a rare genetic condition caused by non-disjunction during meiosis that ultimately leads to a duplication of either the maternal or paternal chromosome in the affected individual. Two types of disorders can result, those due to imprinted genes and those due to homozygosity of recessive disease-causing mutations. Here, we describe the third known case of complete chromosome 4 iUPD of maternal origin. This condition became apparent during whole genome linkage studies of psychiatric disorders in the Portuguese population. The proband is an adult female with normal fertility and no major medical complaints, but a history of major depressive disorder and multiple suicide attempts. The proband's siblings and parents had normal chromosome 4 genotypes and no history of mood disturbance. A brief review of other studies lends support for the possibility that genes on chromosome 4 might confer risk for mood disorders. We conclude that chromosome 4 maternal uniparental disomy (UPD) is a rare disorder that may present with a major depressive phenotype. The lack of a common disease phenotype between this and two other cases of chromosome 4 iUPD [Lindenbaum et al. [1991] Am J Med Genet 49(Suppl 285):1582; Spena et al. [2004] Eur J Hum Genet 12:891-898) would suggest that there is no vital maternal gene imprinting on chromosome 4. However, since there is no reported case of paternal chromosome 4 UPD, paternal gene imprinting on chromosome 4 cannot be excluded.
Using the well-characterized, human diversity sample series, we show that the V129 prion allele has a very high frequency in South American populations relative to the East Asian populations from which it arose. We suggest there has been selection at the prion locus, possibly mediated by Kuru-like diseases, which has influenced its allele frequency.
Neuronal differentiation of neural progenitor cells is regulated by a variety of growth and transcription factors, that not only regulate cell fate of the progenitor cells but that can also regulate neuronal morphology. Suppressor of cytokine signaling-2 (SOCS2) is an intracellular regulator of Growth Hormone (GH) signaling that is expressed in neural stem cells and neurons during development and is required to overcome the inhibitory effects of GH on neuronal differentiation. SOCS2 also promotes neurite outgrowth, however, whether the mechanism by which SOCS2 regulates neuronal differentiation and neurite outgrowth is the same is not clear. Furthermore, whether the over-expression of SOCS2 has physiological in addition to morphological effects is unknown. To address these questions, we differentiated adult neural progenitor cells derived from wildtype C57BL/6 or SOCS2 over-expressing transgenic mice (SOCS2Tg) in the presence or absence of GH and determined effects on neuronal differentiation and morphology. Compared to wildtype cells, differentiation of SOCS2Tg neurospheres resulted in increased neurogenesis, which was not inhibited by GH. The neurons derived from these cells appeared more complex, with increased neurite outgrowth and number. GH did not, however, have any effect on neurite outgrowth of wildtype or SOCS2Tg neurons. Furthermore, basic electrophysiological analysis of wildtype and SOCS2Tg neurons derived from the neurospheres showed that they were both of an immature electrophysiological neuronal phenotype, indicating that although SOCS2 expression can regulate neuronal morphology, it appears to have little effect on neuronal ion channel expression.
A key component of the astrocyte cytoskeleton is the glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), which plays an essential role in neuron/astrocyte interactions. Environmental conditioning, such as visual experience manipulation, can affect neuronal and/or glial plasticity in specific brain areas. Previous work from our laboratory showed that short light deprivation throughout the period of GFAP maturation does not influence the expression profile of GFAP in mouse visual cortex; however, it was strong enough to affect neuronal phenotype. It was suggested that visual experience controls the maturation of the neuronal circuitry in this brain area. Therefore, to see whether the modifications of neuronal activity induced by light deprivation affect the maintenance of normal astrocytic phenotype, the dark rearing protocol was extended until the adult life. GFAP-immunoreactive cells were dramatically affected, showing an 80% decrease in number. In addition, GFAP protein level exhibited a 50% reduction, while its mRNA remained unaffected. Besides the visual cortex, two other areas of the brain not directly involved in vision, the hippocampus and the motor cortex, were chosen as internal controls. Unexpectedly, also in these areas, astrocytes were affected by light deprivation. The present results show that lack of visual experience for long periods of time deeply affects glial phenotype not only in visual areas but also in brain regions not directly involved in sensory processing.
The neurosphere culture system is widely used to expand neural stem/progenitor cells in vitro and to provide a source of cells for transplantation approaches to CNS disorders. This study describes the populations of neurones, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes which differentiated from embryonic day (E) 14 rat cortical and striatal tissue grown as neurosphere cultures over three passages. The percentages of cells that adopted neuronal phenotypes decreased with passage, astrocytic percentages increased and oligodendrocytic percentages remained constant. In the second part of this study, immunomagnetic separation was used to positively select neuronal progenitor cells from E14 rat cortical and striatal tissue using an antibody, 2F7, which recognises an epitope on the cell surface of pre- and post-mitotic neurones. These immunomagnetically selected cells were grown as neurosphere cultures over three passages and gave rise to significantly different percentages of neurones, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes than those found in the baseline study. In particular, the percentage of neurones arising from the second and third passages was significantly higher following immunoselection. This indicates that neuronal progenitor cells can be isolated using immunomagnetic separation and then expanded using the neurosphere culture system, to generate enriched populations of neurones that can be used in CNS repair.

Food preferences are acquired through experience and can exert strong influence on choice behavior. In order to choose which food to consume, it is necessary to maintain a predictive representation of the subjective value of the associated food stimulus. Here, we explore the neural mechanisms by which such predictive representations are learned through classical conditioning. Human subjects were scanned using fMRI while learning associations between arbitrary visual stimuli and subsequent delivery of one of five different food flavors. Using a temporal difference algorithm to model learning, we found predictive responses in the ventral midbrain and a part of ventral striatum (ventral putamen) that were related directly to subjects' actual behavioral preferences. These brain structures demonstrated divergent response profiles, with the ventral midbrain showing a linear response profile with preference, and the ventral striatum a bivalent response. These results provide insight into the neural mechanisms underlying human preference behavior.
The potential role of doublecortin (Dcx), encoding a microtubule-associated protein, in brain development has remained controversial. Humans with mutations show profound alterations in cortical lamination, whereas in mouse, RNAi-mediated knockdown but not germline knockout shows abnormal positioning of cortical neurons. Here, we report that the doublecortin-like kinase (Dclk) gene functions in a partially redundant pathway with Dcx in the formation of axonal projections across the midline and migration of cortical neurons. Dosage-dependent genetic effects were observed in both interhemispheric connectivity and migration of cortically and subcortically derived neurons. Surprisingly, RNAi-mediated knockdown of either gene results in similar migration defects. These results indicate the Dcx microtubule-associated protein family is required for proper neuronal migration and axonal wiring.
How does the brain synthesize low-level neural signals for simple shape parts into coherent representations of complete objects? Here, we present evidence for a dynamic process of object part integration in macaque posterior inferotemporal cortex (IT). Immediately after stimulus onset, neural responses carried information about individual object parts (simple contour fragments) only. Subsequently, information about specific multipart configurations emerged, building gradually over the course of approximately 60 ms, producing a sparser and more explicit representation of object shape. We show that this gradual transformation can be explained by a recurrent network process that effectively compares parts signals across neurons to generate inferences about multipart shape configurations.
Dynamic regulation of neuronal cytoskeletal machinery in response to extracellular cues enables distinct changes in neuronal development in the cerebral cortex. In this issue of Neuron, three related studies on doublecortin-like kinase, a microtubule-associated protein related to doublecortin, by Shu et al., Koizumi et al., and Deuel et al., provide evidence that doublecortin-like kinase is essential for proper neurogenesis, neuronal migration, and axonal wiring.
Repeated abuse of stimulant drugs, cocaine and amphetamine, is associated with extraneuronal dopamine accumulation in specific brain areas. Dopamine may be cytotoxic through the generation of reactive oxygen species, namely hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), resulting from dopamine oxidative metabolism. In this work, we studied the cytotoxicity in PC12 cells (a dopaminergic neuronal model) chronically and/or acutely exposed to cocaine or amphetamine, as compared to H2O2 exposure. Chronic cocaine treatment induced sensitization to acute cocaine insult and increased cocaine-evoked accumulation of extracellular dopamine, although no changes in dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) levels were observed. Moreover, dopamine was depleted in cells chronically exposed to amphetamine and acute amphetamine toxicity persisted in these cells, indicating that dopamine was not involved in amphetamine cytotoxicity. PC12 cells chronically treated with H2O2 were totally resistant to acute H2O2, but not to acute cocaine or amphetamine exposure, suggesting that the toxicity induced by these stimulant drugs is unrelated to adaptation to oxidative stress. Interestingly, chronic cocaine treatment largely, but not completely, protected the cells against a H2O2 challenge, whilst a decrement in intracellular ATP was observed. This study shows that chronic treatment of PC12 cells with cocaine or H2O2 modifies the cytotoxic response to an acute exposure to these agents.
For a virus to persist, it must actively curtail the host's antiviral immune response. Here, we review the conceptual basis by which this can occur and discuss the subsequent fate of differentiated cells infected over long periods of time. We also consider how the compromised antiviral immune response can be revigorated or replaced with a potent response that purges the virus and thereby terminates persistent infection.
In animals, two-choice drug discrimination studies have demonstrated that the behavioral effects of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) are mediated by dopaminergic and serotonergic systems. In order to delineate the relative role of these systems, three-choice paradigms have been used in animals, with findings indicating a more prominent role for serotonin. Human studies assessing the subjective and physiological effects of MDMA have also indicated a mixed action. To parallel animal studies, the participants in the present study were trained to discriminate among a prototypic dopaminergic agonist, d-amphetamine, a prototypic serotonergic agonist, meta-chlorophenylpiperazine (mCPP) and placebo and then were tested with two doses of MDMA. In addition, subjective and physiological effects were measured. The results demonstrated that humans could be trained to discriminate among 20 mg d-amphetamine, 0.75 mg/kg mCPP and placebo. When tested with 1.0 and 1.5 mg/kg, half the participants reported MDMA to be like amphetamine and half like mCPP. There were no clear differences between these two groups in other dimensions, although there was an indication that the individuals who discriminated MDMA as d-amphetamine were more sensitive to the effects of all the drugs. The subjective effects of all three drugs overlapped, although the effects of MDMA appeared more amphetamine-like.
Neural development involves the expression of ensembles of regulatory genes that control the coordinate and region-specific expression of a host of other genes, resulting in the unique structure, connectivity, and function of each brain region. Although the role of some specific genes in neural development has been studied in detail, we have no global view of the orchestration of spatial and temporal aspects of gene expression across multiple regions of the developing brain. To this end, we used transcriptional profiling to examine expression levels of 9955 genes in the hypothalamus, hippocampus, and frontal cortex across seven stages of postnatal development and up to four stages of prenatal development in individual male rats (six per group). The results reveal dramatic changes across development in &gt;97% of the neurally expressed genes. They also uncover a surprising degree of regional differentiation occurring after birth and through the first 2 weeks of life. Cluster analysis identifies 20 clusters of transcripts enriched in genes related to particular functions, such as DNA metabolism, nuclear function, synaptic vesicle transport, myelination, and neuropeptide hormone activity. Thus, groups of genes with related functions change in the brain at specific times, possibly marking critical periods for each function. These findings can broadly serve as a backdrop for studying the role of individual genes in neural development. They also underscore the importance of early postnatal life in the rat, which corresponds to late gestation in the human, as a critical late phase of neural organization and differentiation, even in subcortical regions.
Directing attention to some acoustic features of a sound has been shown repeatedly to modulate the stimulus-induced neural responses. On the contrary, little is known about the neurophysiological impact of auditory attention when the auditory scene remains empty. We performed an experiment in which subjects had to detect a sound emerging from silence (the sound was detectable after different durations of silence). Two frontal activations (right dorsolateral prefrontal and inferior frontal) were found, regardless of the side where sound was searched for, consistent with the well established role of these regions in attentional control. The main result was that the superior temporal cortex showed activations contralateral to the side where sound was expected to be present. The area extended from the vicinity of Heschl's gyrus to the surrounding areas (planum temporale/anterior lateral areas). The effect consisted of both an increase in the response to a sound delivered after attention was directed to detect its emergence and a baseline shift during the silent period. Thus, in absence of any acoustic stimulus, the search for an auditory input was found to activate the auditory cortex.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) of the hand representation in primary somatosensory cortex (area 3b) of macaque monkeys revealed an ipsilateral hand input undetected by most previous studies. Ipsilateral responses had a hemodynamic signature indistinguishable from that of contralateral hand responses. We explored the neural mechanisms of the fMRI effects using a second derivative analysis of field potentials [current source density (CSD) analysis] combined with action potential profiles, sampled from area 3b using linear array multielectrodes. In contrast to the predominantly excitatory contralateral response, the colocated ipsilateral response appeared dominated by inhibition, suggesting that ipsilateral inputs may have modulatory effects on contralateral input processing. Our findings confirm bimanual convergence at the earliest stage of cortical somatosensory processing in primates. They also illustrate the value of combined CSD and fMRI analyses in monkeys for defining hidden aspects of sensory function and for investigating the neuronal processes generating fMRI signals.
Local protein synthesis plays an essential role in the regulation of various aspects of axonal and dendritic function in adult neurons. At present, however, there is no direct evidence that local protein translation is functionally contributing to neuronal outgrowth. Here, we identified the mRNA encoding the actin-binding protein beta-thymosin as one of the most abundant transcripts in neurites of outgrowing neurons in culture. Beta-thymosin mRNA is not evenly distributed in neurites, but appears to accumulate at distinct sites such as turning points and growth cones. Using double-stranded RNA knockdown, we show that reducing beta-thymosin mRNA levels results in a significant increase in neurite outgrowth, both in neurites of intact cells and in isolated neurites. Together, our data demonstrate that local synthesis of beta-thymosin is functionally involved in regulating neuronal outgrowth.
In the adult mammalian brain, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is critically involved in long-term synaptic plasticity. Here, we show that supraspinal BDNF-tyrosine kinase receptor B (TrkB) signaling contributes to pain facilitation. We show that BDNF-containing neurons in the periaqueductal gray (PAG), the central structure for pain modulation, project to and release BDNF in the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM), a relay between the PAG and spinal cord. BDNF in PAG and TrkB phosphorylation in RVM neurons are upregulated after inflammation. Intra-RVM sequestration of BDNF and knockdown of TrkB by RNA interference attenuate inflammatory pain. Microinjection of BDNF (10-100 fmol) into the RVM facilitates nociception, which is dependent on NMDA receptors (NMDARs). In vitro studies with RVM slices show that BDNF induces tyrosine phosphorylation of the NMDAR NR2A subunit in RVM via a signal transduction cascade involving IP(3), PKC, and Src. The supraspinal BDNF-TrkB signaling represents a previously unknown mechanism underlying the development of persistent pain. Our findings also caution that application of BDNF for recovery from CNS disorders could lead to undesirable central pain.
Glial erbB1 receptors play a significant role in the hypothalamic control of female puberty. Activation of these receptors by transforming growth factor alpha (TGFalpha) results in production of prostaglandin E2, which then stimulates luteinizing hormone releasing hormone (LHRH) neurons to secrete LHRH, the neuropeptide controlling sexual development. Glutamatergic neurons set in motion this glia-to-neuron signaling pathway by transactivating erbB1 receptors via coactivation of AMPA receptors (AMPARs) and metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs). Because the metalloproteinase tumor necrosis factor alpha converting enzyme (TACE) releases TGFalpha from its transmembrane precursor before TGFalpha can bind to erbB1 receptors, we sought to determine whether TACE is required for excitatory amino acids to activate the TGFalpha-erbB1 signaling module in hypothalamic astrocytes, and thus facilitate the advent of puberty. Coactivation of astrocytic AMPARs and mGluRs caused extracellular Ca2+ influx, a Ca2+/protein kinase C-dependent increase in TACE-like activity, and enhanced release of TGFalpha. Within the hypothalamus, TACE is most abundantly expressed in astrocytes of the median eminence (ME), and its enzymatic activity increases selectively in this region at the time of the first preovulatory surge of gonadotropins. ME explants respond to stimulation of AMPARs and mGluRs with LHRH release, and this response is prevented by blocking TACE activity. In vivo inhibition of TACE activity targeted to the ME delayed the age at first ovulation, indicating that ME-specific changes in TACE activity are required for the normal timing of puberty. These results suggest that TACE is a component of the neuron-to-glia signaling process used by glutamatergic neurons to control female sexual development.
Programmed cell death, also called apoptosis, participates not only in normal physiologic processes such as development of the immune system, but also in many diseases. A loss of normal cell death may occur in cancer, and excessive cell death is found in a variety of neurodegenerative conditions. We describe 3 distinct pathways that regulate cell death. First, bilirubin, often thought to be a toxic end product of heme metabolism, serves as a physiologic cytoprotectant that may attenuate multiple forms of morbidity. In a second pathway, the glycolytic enzyme glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) mediates a novel cell death cascade. Cytotoxic stimuli, via nitric oxide generation, lead to the binding of GAPDH to the protein Siah1, translocation of GAPDH-Siah1 to the nucleus, and ultimately cell death. Third, cytochrome c, released from mitochondria early in apoptosis, synergizes with inositol-1,4,5-triphosphate (IP3) to elicit massive cellular calcium release, resulting in cell death. These pathways may regulate cell survival in a variety of pathologic states and represent fertile targets for novel therapies.
Honey bees begin life working in the hive. At approximately 3 weeks of age, they shift to visiting flowers to forage for pollen and nectar. Foraging is a complex task associated with enlargement of the mushroom bodies, a brain region important in insects for certain forms of learning and memory. We report here that foraging bees had a larger volume of mushroom body neuropil than did age-matched bees confined to the hive. This result indicates that direct experience of the world outside the hive causes mushroom body neuropil growth in bees. We also show that oral treatment of caged bees with pilocarpine, a muscarinic agonist, induced an increase in the volume of the neuropil similar to that seen after a week of foraging experience. Effects of pilocarpine were blocked by scopolamine, a muscarinic antagonist. Our results suggest that signaling in cholinergic pathways couples experience to structural brain plasticity.
A method to identify and sequence recombinant mouse acetylcholinesterase (rMoAChE) including the native and organophosphate-modified active-site peptides was developed using capillary liquid chromatography with electrospray ionization, quadrupole/time-of-flight mass spectrometry. Addition of 2-propanol to the reversed-phase gradient system and a decreased gradient slope improved the peptide resolution and the signal of the active-site peptide. The highest protein coverage and active-site peptide signal were achieved when the rMoAChE:chymotrypsin ratio of 5:1 was used with digestion at 37 degrees C. rMoAChE and the active-site peptide were identified and sequenced from chymotryptic digests of native, methyl paraoxon-, and ethyl paraoxon-inactivated rMoAChE showing unequivocally that the exact modification site was the active-site serine.
In a recent study so far published in abstract form, it was reported that the CB(2) receptor selective agonist AM1241 diminishes oedema produced as a result of mast cell degranulation in vivo. It is, however, not known whether other structurally different CB(2) agonists share this effect, and whether this is due to a direct effect on mast cell function. In the present study, we have investigated the effects of JWH133, a CB(2) receptor selective agonist, together with the anti-inflammatory agent palmitoylethanolamide and its analogue palmitoylisopropylamide, on compound 48/80-induced oedema and degranulation in vivo and in vitro. JWH133 (20 and 200 microg/mouse i.p.) significantly reduced the ability of compound 48/80 to induce oedema in vivo in the anaesthetised mouse following its injection into the ear pinna. Palmitoylethanolamide (200 microg/mouse i.p) also reduced the response to compound 48/80, whereas no firm conclusions could be drawn for palmitoylisopropylamide (20 and 200 microg/mouse i.p.). The CB(2) selective antagonist/inverse agonist SR144528 (60 microg/mouse i.p.) appeared to produce anti-inflammatory effects per se in this model, making it hard to interpret the effects of JWH133 in terms of CB(2) receptor mediated activation. In contrast to the situation in vivo, neither JWH133 (0.3 and 3 microM) nor palmitoylethanolamide (10 microM) affected mast cell degranulation, measured by following the release of the granular protein beta-hexosaminidase, produced by compound 48/80 in vitro in mouse skin slices. The two compounds were also ineffective in inhibiting the binding of [(3)H]pyrilamine to histamine H(1) receptors in vitro. It is concluded that the ability of JWH133 to affect mast cell dependent inflammation in vivo may be mediated by an indirect action upon the mast cells.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are toxic agents that may be involved in various neurodegenerative diseases. Recent studies indicate that ROS are also involved in persistent pain through a spinal mechanism. Since the major source of ROS in neurons is mitochondria, mitochondrial ROS generation was examined in dorsal horn neurons of neuropathic rats. Neuropathic rats were produced by L5 spinal nerve ligation and mitochondrial ROS was detected by the mitochondrial marker, Mitotracker Red CM-H(2)XRos (MT-Red). Neurons were identified immunohistochemically for the neuronal marker NeuN. The number of MT-Red positive cells was increased 60-100% in the neuropathic dorsal horn. Approximately 75-85% of MT-Red positive cells were neurons. These data suggest that increased mitochondrial ROS in dorsal horn neurons may contribute to central sensitization in neuropathic rats.
Recent studies have demonstrated that cholesterol metabolism has an important role in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis, suggesting that cholesterol-related genes may be significant genetic risk factors for AD. Based on the results of genome-wide screens, along with biological studies, we selected three genes as candidates for AD risk factors: ATP-binding cassette transporter A1 (ABCA1), cholesterol 25-hydroxylase (CH25H) and cholesterol 24-hydroxylase (CH24H). Case-control of North American Caucasians and AD families of Caribbean Hispanic origin were examined. Although excellent biological candidates, the case-control dataset did not support the hypothesis that these three genes were associated with susceptibility to AD. Similarly, no association was found in the Caribbean Hispanic families for CH25H. However, we did observe a possible interaction between ABCA1 and APOE in the Hispanics.
To further advance understanding of how social and individual factors can improve the health and functioning of older adults, the Behavior and Social Research Program at the National Institute on Aging (NIA) requested a study by the National Research Council. The Committee on Aging Frontiers in Social Psychology, Personality, and Adult Developmental Psychology was formed and charged with exploring research opportunities in social, personality, and adult developmental psychology. More specifically, it was charged with identifying research opportunities that have the added benefit of drawing on recent developments in the psychological and social sciences, including behavioral, cognitive, and social neurosciences, that are related to experimental work in social psychology, personality, and adult developmental psychology, and that also cross multiple levels of analysis.
Most excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitter receptors are concentrated at the postsynaptic density (PSD) facing pre-synaptic terminals containing the corresponding neurotransmitter [13]. The preferential accumulation of receptors at synapses is achieved by their specific interactions with a molecular scaffold that links them to the underlying cytoskeleton [4,5]. This scaffold forms the so-called PSD, which acts as a molecular machine and locally controls some aspects of synapse formation, maintenance, plasticity and function. In recent years, the use of single-molecule and real-time imaging has revealed that neurotransmitter receptors are in constant, rapid movement at the neuronal surface and are transiently trapped at PSDs so as to modify the number and composition of receptors that are available to respond to released neurotransmitter [68]. Such is the case for the glycine receptor (GlyR), the GABAA receptor (GABAAR), the glutamate -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole pro-pionic acid (AMPA) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, indicating that the phenomenon can be generalized. This dynamic behavior has profoundly modified our view of the synapse. The aim of this chapter is to review some aspects of our knowledge on receptor dynamics.
The cell biology of AMPAR synthesis, transport, targeting and surface expression is of crucial importance for correct neuronal function. These processes rely on spatially and temporally coordinated protein-protein interactions to facilitate and regulate receptor trafficking. While considerable advances have been achieved in unravelling the complexity and roles of some of these interactions, the dynamic aspects of AMPAR trafficking are less well-characterized. We have been working to visualize AMPAR movement in living hippocampal neurons to define the properties of AMPAR trafficking under basal and activated conditions. Here, we review current techniques and the progress achieved.
Information storage in the brain involves alterations in the strength of communication between neurons. This requires activity-dependent, long-lasting changes in synaptic transmission. Long-term potentiation (LTP) is a long lasting use-dependent increase in the efficiency of excitatory synaptic transmission that has been suggested to underlie certain forms of learning and memory [1]. The induction of LTP requires Ca(2+) entry through the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR). However, the region within the synapse whose regulation results in LTP is still controversial. Some groups suggest a pre-synaptic modification that results in an increase in the amount of glutamate released, whereas others suggest a post-synaptic modification, such as an increase in the number of receptors or a change in receptor properties [2]. Interestingly, the description of the silent synapse, synapses that contain NMDAR only but could acquire -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid receptor (AMPAR) as a result of synaptic activity, support a post-synaptic mechanism [35]. Glutamate receptors mediate most excitatory synaptic transmission in the brain. The ionotropic glutamate receptors are clustered with associated downstream signalling molecules that are found in the post-synaptic density (PSD), and the synaptic clustering of these receptors is critical for rapid and efficient synaptic transmission. This complex of receptors with signalling molecules can also undergo dynamic changes. In particular, changing the number of glutamate receptors at the synaptic membrane could constitute a critical mechanism for rapidly altering synaptic strength. Two major classes of ionotropic glutamate receptors exist, the NMDAR and the AMPAR. A third class, the kainate receptors, will not be discussed here as it has been reviewed elsewhere [6]. Both NMDAR and AMPAR are highly concentrated at excitatory synapses linked to the PSD but they interact with different sets of scaffolding proteins. In addition, whereas NMDAR are very stably localized at the PSD, AMPAR cycle rapidly to and from the synaptic membrane. This difference in trafficking behavior of NMDAR versus AMPAR may reflect their use of different mechanisms for anchoring to the PSD. The conversion of a silent synapse to a synapse with AMPAR, a change that creates a functional synapse, has been proposed as one of the main mechanisms for LTP induction. For these reasons, studies of the trafficking of AMPAR and their cycling in and out of the synapse have provided a large step in understanding LTP. Synaptic organization, assembly and trafficking have been studied extensively for other receptors, such as the acetylcholine receptor at the neuromuscular junction [7]. AMPAR trafficking has been one of the most extensively studied properties of the excitatory synapse because of its implication in synaptic plasticity. The complexity of the organization of the brain makes assaying receptor properties without disrupting the system difficult. A complete picture of synaptic regulation comes from combining a wide range of methodological approaches, such as electrophysiology, cell biology, biochemistry and genetics. The development of new methods or the adaptation of methods used in other systems has allowed a better understanding of the trafficking of AMPAR. Mechanisms of AMPAR trafficking have been reviewed elsewhere [3,8,9], and this chapter will present an overview of the different approaches that have been used to study the trafficking of AMPAR and its implication for synaptic plasticity, focusing on the contribution and the importance of each method.
RNA interference (RNAi) describes a conserved biological response to double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) resulting in the degradation of homologous messenger RNA. In the last few years, this process of sequence-specific, post-transcriptional gene silencing has become a key technique for rapidly assessing gene function in species ranging from plants to mammals. Fire et al. provided the first insight into the RNAi mechanism by identifying dsRNA as the trigger of RNAi in Caenorhabditis elegans in 1998 [1]. However, a similar gene-silencing phenomenon was reported in earlier studies in both plants and Neurospora [2,3]. The basic RNAi response starts with long dsRNA being processed into small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) by a ribonuclease (RNase) III enzyme, Dicer. Next, the siRNA is incorporated into the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC). For target RNA recognition to occur, the siRNA duplex must be unwound, allowing binding of one siRNA strand to the target mRNA. This is followed by RISC cleavage of the homologous mRNA. Recent work has shown that the RNAi machinery is also involved in antiviral responses, transposon silencing, development and heterochromatin formation [4].
Type A -aminobutyric acid (GABAA) receptors represent a large and diverse family of ligand-gated CI() channels that mediate the majority of fast inhibitory neurotransmission in the brain [1] by causing transient reduction in the probability of action potential firing due to plasma membrane hyperpolarization. Modifications of GABAA receptor function are believed to be critical for development and coordination of neuronal activity underlying all physiological and behavioral processes, and the vast majority of neurons in the brain express these receptors on their plasma membrane. Native, bicuculline-sensitive GABAA receptors are hetero-pentamers of subunits with multiple isoforms classified as:  (16),  (13),  (13), , ,  and  [24], with a common transmembrane topology comprising a large N-terminal domain, four transmembrane domains (TMs), and a major intracellular domain between TMs 3 and 4 [5] (Figure 4.1b and Figure 4.1c). Some of the most common subunits, such as 3 [6] and 2 [7] are essential for synaptic inhibition and organism survival. In contrast, individual isoforms of the  subunit are highly specialized to maintain function of neuronal circuits associated with specific behavioral phenotypes, including sedation, memory, anxiety, arousal and others [8,9]. GABAA receptors are also the main sites of action for a variety of compounds with potent sedative, hypnotic, anxiolytic and anticonvulsant effects, such as benzodiazepines, barbiturates, neurosteroids and anaesthetics [10,11].
The ability to molecularly manipulate protein expression in the rodent brain has proven to be a powerful tool in neuroscience. Specifically, the generation of transgenic mouse lines has allowed scientists to begin to answer important questions about the functional role of specific proteins. However, this technique still suffers from the lack of strict temporal and spatial regulation of protein expression as well as the possibility of genetic compensation. More recently, the expression of heterologous proteins in organotypic brain slices and dissociated neuronal cultures has become another valuable method to study protein function in neurons. In this system, temporal regulation is achieved by acute expression of proteins using various transfection techniques or viruses encoding the protein of choice. A major advantage of this approach is that it allows the direct comparison of cellular properties, such as dendritic spine morphology or synaptic function, between neurons expressing the protein of interest and neighboring control neurons from the same animal. However, a drawback of this technique is that placing dissociated neurons or brain slices in culture invariably results in a degree of cell death and abnormal synaptic rewiring that can perturb the results obtained from various cellular assays. In this chapter, we describe the use of Sindbis viral-mediated gene transfer to acutely express proteins in vivo in the rat brain. This relatively new technique allows acute expression of a protein of choice in a temporally and spatially restricted manner. Importantly, the neurons expressing the recombinant proteins are allowed to do so while remaining in their physiological environment in freely behaving animals. Cell-based assays on the infected neurons can then be performed using well-established standard preparations, such as acute brain slices.
Synaptic plasticity describes the ability of individual synapses to alter their strength of transmission in response to different stimuli or environmental cues. Persistent activity-dependent changes are often referred to as long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD), and represent respectively an increase and a decrease in the efficacy of synaptic transmission. Initially studied as a model for learning and memory, LTP and LTD are also thought to play a crucial role in the network hyperexcitability observed in pathological conditions and in the establishment of appropriate synaptic connections. The most extensive characterization of the cellular mechanisms involved in the induction and maintenance of long-term plasticity has been undertaken at glutamatergic synapses. However, considering the ubiquitous distribution of inhibitory synapses and their role in shaping individual and population activity, activity-dependent changes in the strength of inhibitory synapses would have important consequences on the development and the proper functioning of neuronal networks and, ultimately, on cognitive processes. Thus, information on long-term plasticity at inhibitory synapses is required to fully understand how activity-dependent changes in synaptic efficacy contribute to brain development and function in concert with plasticity at glutamatergic synapses. Surprisingly, plasticity at inhibitory synapses has only recently been reported. In this chapter, we summarize our current understandings of the cellular and molecular processes underlying inhibitory synaptic plasticity and the possible functions that this plasticity might serve in the developing and adult nervous system.
Alterations in the activity of post-synaptic neurotransmitter receptors including -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptors, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, kainate receptors and gamma hydroxybutric acid type A (GABAA) receptors make an important contribution to modulation of synapse strength, neuronal excitability and the plasticity of synapses. Changes in the strength of neurotransmitter receptor signalling are thought to be achieved, in part, by the modulation of channel gating and conductance or by regulating the number or location of receptors expressed on cell surface and synaptic membranes. Neurotransmitter receptor trafficking is now recognized as a key mechanism for altering the strength of synapses during synaptic plasticity by changing synaptic receptor number [1]. Here, we focus on receptor membrane trafficking and, in particular, receptor endocytosis as a mechanism to regulate the number of surface and synaptic neurotransmitter receptors. We briefly review some general cellular mechanisms that underlie surface membrane protein internalization and then discuss in detail some of the cell biological approaches that have been important for studies of neurotransmitter receptor trafficking.
Palmitoylation is the post-translational modification of proteins with palmitic acid (16-carbon saturated fatty acid) and regulates the membrane targeting, subcellular trafficking and function of proteins [1]. Palmitoylation occurs either through amide-linkage (N-palmitoylation) or thioester linkages (S-palmitoylation). S-palmitoylation occurs on cysteine residues in diverse sequence contexts and is more commonly found in most palmitoylated proteins. Here, the term of protein palmitoylation will mean S-palmitoylation. Protein palmitoylation is the frequent lipid modification of neuronal proteins and modifies many important proteins, including synaptic vesicle proteins, ion channels, guanosine triposphate (GTP)-binding proteins, neurotransmitter receptors and synaptic scaffolding proteins [2]. Examples include PSD-95, a protein that scaffolds receptors and signaling enzymes at the post-synapse; NCAM140, a neural cell adhesion molecule that localizes at the growth cone and regulates neurite outgrowth; and SNAP-25, a t-SNARE protein that regulates neurotransmitter release [2]. PSD-95 palmitoylation is necessary for sorting of PSD-95 to dendrites and participates in the post-synaptic clustering of PSD-95 in dendritic spines, thereby regulating the clustering of -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isox-azole propionic acid (AMPA)-type glutamate receptors [3]. Unlike other irreversible lipid modifications such as myristoylation and prenylation, palmitoylation is relatively labile and palmitate on proteins turns over rapidly. Importantly, the specific extracellular signal regulates protein-palmitoylation levels [4]. At post-synaptic sites, palmitate continuously turns over on PSD-95. Depalmitoylation of PSD-95 is enhanced by glutamate receptor-mediated synaptic activity, and this process dissociates PSD-95 and AMPA receptors from the postsynaptic sites [3]. Although the actions of enzymes that add or remove protein palmitate might mediate the dynamic regulation of palmitoylation, the enzymes have been elusive. Recent genetic studies in yeast have identified proteins that mediate palmitoylation. Erf2p [57] and Akr1p [8] are palmitoyl-transferases (PATs) for yeast Ras2p and yeast casein kinase2 (Yck2p), respectively (Figure 5.1). Erf2p and Akr1p are integral membrane proteins harboring a cysteine-rich domain containing a conserved DHHC (Asp-His-His-Cys) motif. In genomes of human and mouse, 23 kinds of DHHC-containing proteins are predicted (Figure 5.2). To identify the physiological PATs for substrates, systemically evaluating functions of the family of 23 DHHC-containing proteins is necessary. For this purpose, we isolated all mouse DHHC proteins and established a screening method that allows us to identify the candidate PAT for specific substrates [9]. We found that a subset of DHHC proteins specifically palmitoylates PSD-95 (P-PATs), and that DHHC proteins have substrate specificity (Figure 5.2) [9]. P-PAT activity regulates synaptic clustering of PSD-95 and AMPA receptors, as well as modulating AMPA receptor function in hippocampal neurons. Thus, the DHHC protein-mediated reaction is a potential general mechanism of protein palmitoylation in cells. In this chapter, we describe procedures to screen the DHHC protein family to identify the specific PAT. The procedures include three steps.
Heisenbergs Uncertainty Principle, originating from quantum mechanics, can also be appropriately applied to the study of receptor dynamics in cell membranes. Essentially, the uncertainty is introduced because to measure or track receptor movements in cell membranes, we really need to tag the proteins, which in itself could alter receptor mobility. The nature of the tag might involve a sequence of amino acids inserted into the protein (structural modification), or simply the addition of an antibody to a native epitope on the receptor. In either example, the accuracy of measurements of mobility will innately have a degree of uncertainty associated with them. The key objective of any method employed to measure receptor movements is to minimize this uncertainty while maximizing the resolution fidelity for an appropriate population of receptors. To date, the principal and most technically accessible methods for monitoring the dynamic movement of receptors within the membrane of neuronal or other cells most commonly involves some form of biochemical or optical procedure. Optical approaches have one critical advantage in that they provide reasonably high temporal resolution, especially when images of membrane receptors or clusters of receptors are obtained from live cells that are monitored using organic fluorophores or quantum dots, in concert with the rapid acquisition capabilities of confocal microscopy. However, both biochemical and optical techniques require certain assumptions to be made before they can impart information about the movements of functional receptors in the cell membrane. Such techniques will, to some extent, inevitably include receptors from several pools (e.g., cell surface membrane and intracellular pools), some of which might be nonfunctional, or have limited involvement in maintaining the appropriate excitable state of the neurone. The functional approaches described in this chapter use a different strategy based on electrophysiological methods. This provides a measure of the current which results only from the binding of activating ligands to their respective ligand-gated ion channels (LGIC) thereby resolving only those receptors that actually contribute to the excitable state of the neuron. This can include both synaptic and extrasynaptic pools of functional receptors but, importantly, it will discount submembranous receptors. As such, the influence these tagged receptors contribute to the metaplastic changes (potentiation or depression) of the synaptic response can, in principle, be readily monitored. As we will see, this method of functional tagging requires that particular receptor isoforms carry either a biophysical or pharmacological reporter, or tag, that can be readily studied in live cells, and that such reporters provide distinctive functional signatures. This could be manifest by the activation, modulation or ablation of receptor function, depending on the tag and its ligand as described in the proceeding sections.
Synaptic plasticity in the brain has been implicated to play a role in major brain functions, including learning and memory, developmental plasticity, recovery after injury and drug addiction. The current understanding of the mechanisms of synaptic plasticity derives from molecular and cellular analysis of long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD). LTP and LTD are readily elicited from many brain regions with different induction and expression mechanisms. At least two different induction mechanisms for LTP and LTD exist, one that depends on activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and another that does not. The expression of NMDA receptor-dependent and receptor-independent LTP and LTD seem to have overlapping but different signalling mechanisms [1]. Most of the molecular details on NMDA receptor-dependent LTP and LTD have come from studies in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. At least in this region of the brain, regulation of -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptors seems to underlie post-synaptic changes associated with NMDA receptor-dependent LTP and LTD. Especially, evidence exists that changes in AMPA receptor phosphorylation is one of the mechanisms critical for the expression of NMDA receptor-dependent bidirectional synaptic plasticity. This review will summarize the recent findings from our work using gene knockin mice lacking specific phosphorylation sites on the GluR1 subunit of AMPA receptors, and discuss the implications of our results that elucidate the basic mechanisms of NMDA receptor-dependent synaptic plasticity.
Various classes of retroviruses, adenoviruses and adeno-associated viruses have been successfully adapted for development of recombinant vectors with the aim of long-term gene delivery to different cell types in different tissues [1]. Lentiviruses belong to a class of retroviruses that efficiently infect both dividing and non-dividing (post-mitotic) cells, making the recombinant lentiviral vectors applicable for stable, long-term gene delivery to neurons [14]. The latest, state-of-the-art generations of the lentiviral vectors have a large (about 9 kilobases) transfer capacity, and gene delivery via these vectors is devoid of cellular cytotoxicity or humoral response. Thus, whereas these vectors are being developed primarily for clinical applications in gene therapy, they provide an excellent and easy-to-use tool for gene manipulation in cultured neurons as well as in neurons in vivo, something that has been long missing in basic neuroscience research. Here, we first briefly review the history of the development of the currently used lentiviral vector systems, and then focus on the use of these vectors for gene delivery and gene knockdown in pyramidal neurons in rodent brains. We discuss the experimental advantages of stereotactic injections of lentiviral particles, including the high spatiotemporal control over the introduced genetic manipulation and the fact that only a small population of neurons is affected within otherwise intact neuronal networks. In our view, lentiviral vectors provide in many ways an optimal tool for the study of gene functions in small populations or even individual neurons in vivo, which can be combined with physiological analysis of the infected neurons either in vivo or in vitro.
Over the last 10 years, large-scale genomic sequencing has resulted in the completion of the mouse and human genomes and those of several invertebrate model organisms, including the nematode worm and fruit fly. Of the approximately 30,000 proteins that are likely to exist in a particular mammalian genome, as many as 30% of these are estimated to be represented in the brain. However, reductionist approaches (such as one gene or one protein at a time) have to date provided functional information for only 10 to 15% of predicted proteins. Consequently, a large gap exists between the number of known genes and the identification of the corresponding proteins function. Similarly, the synaptic function is not known for the vast majority of all proteins expressed in the brain, or even the 500 to 1000 components of the post-synaptic density (PSD) revealed by proteomic analyses [16]. Therefore, one long-term goal of neuroscience research is to understand the role each and every gene plays in regulating aspects of nervous system function and synaptic physiology. The availability of genomic data sets is greatly facilitating the implementation of additional genome-wide projects, providing new research tools and reagents to the wider scientific community. Although varied in approach, these programs have all benefited from the availability of genomic sequence information and have the common goal of determining functions for the entire set of genes of a particular organism. These resources therefore have direct applicability to gene function determination in the nervous system. Several of the many projects include: the identification and cataloguing of the entire collection of expressed proteins (transcriptome) for a particular organism, including human, mouse, rat, fly and worm, and the determination of their expression pattern and subcellular localization; the identification of the protein constituents (proteome) of particular tissues, cell types or subcellular compartments (for instance, the PSD); the systematic identification of the entire complement of protein-protein interactions for a particular organism or biological process within that organism; the systematic knockdown/disruption of every gene in a particular organism by RNA interference (RNAi) or gene knockout approaches; and the production of large sets of physiologically relevant mutant phenotypes in several model organisms, including the mouse. These ongoing projects are beginning to provide new data sets and resources that can be directly accessed by the neuroscience community and which, over the next few years, will provide an expanding source of information and reagents that can be directly implemented into studies of neuronal physiology. The availability and standardization of such datasets will benefit biologists in the long term, whereby less time producing similar reagents on a small scale will be required. In addition, these resources will also allow a systems biology approach to understanding brain function and the regulation of the synapse [7]. Here, we review some of the newly available genomic and post-genomic resources, which could have a direct relevance for current and future studies of synapse biology.
A major challenge in neurobiology is to better understand the physiological role of the proteinprotein interactions and post-translational modifications important for regulating the activity and plasticity of synapses. A significant effort has been undertaken over the past 10 years to identify the protein components of the post-synaptic domain and the protein machinery important for regulating the activity of the neurotransmitter receptors that mediate the electrophysiological responses responsible for synaptic activity. Of significant contribution to this effort has been the systematic identification of the protein constituents and proteinprotein interactions of the synapse, using proteomic and yeast two-hybrid approaches and the identification and characterization of the signalling pathways, enzymes and synaptic substrates of particular receptor post-translational modifications (such as phosphorylation, palmitoylation, ubiquitination and nitrosylation) important in the regulation of neurotransmitter receptor activity and synaptic plasticity [15]. Essential to the functional characterization of the molecular machinery important for regulating synapse development, synaptic transmission and synaptic plasticity has been the development of methods for altering the constituents of a neuron either genetically or by changing the activity of a protein of interest. Although homologous recombination in embryonic stem (ES) cells is now a standard method to mutate the germ line of mice and hence interfere with the activity of a particular gene of interest [6], this approach still has several limitations. These include the high costs of producing and maintaining transgenic animals, complications due to embryonic lethality and the potential consequences on nervous-system development of introducing into the animal a particular mutation. Other potential limitations include genetic compensation, spatial and temporal specificity and the restriction of working with mouse tissues. As a consequence, a significant effort has been directed toward developing and improving methods for introducing biological agents (including DNA, proteins, antibodies and biologically active or proteinprotein interaction-blocking peptides) into either single or large populations of neurons. Here, we consider some techniques that have emerged for transfecting and transducing neurons with DNA and biologically active macromolecules. We focus, in particular, on the use of these approaches for studying the molecular mechanisms important for regulating the activity and plasticity of synapses and the functional regulation of the key ionotropic glutamate receptors (NMDA receptors, AMPA receptors and kainate receptors) and inhibitory ligand-gated ion channels (GABAA and glycine receptors) at excitatory and inhibitory synapses, respectively [1,710].
Most questions in modern cell biology have been approached using reductionist methods, i.e., by studying one gene, one protein or one specific protein modification at a time. This reductionism has been necessary, given the complexity of biological systems and lack of tools for developing more integrative methodologies. It is, nonetheless, responsible for most of our knowledge of biological systems. However, a more thorough understanding of complex systems will require the simultaneous observation of their many characteristics. Proteomic methodologies, especially those that are mass spectrometry based, have enabled the large-scale study of protein modifications, protein abundance and protein interactors. Only by using such integrative approaches will we develop rigorous models that more accurately reflect actual cellular processes. Proteomics is the study of the set or subset of all proteins expressed in an organism, tissue or cell culture. While proteomics is by no means a novel idea, recent advances in mass spectrometry and the determination of the complete genomic sequences of several organisms greatly enhance its usefulness [13]. Only by mass spectrometry can one efficiently identify the individual protein components derived from protein complexes, and only large-scale genomic data allows amino acid sequences to be reliably assigned to peptide fragments identified by mass spectrometry. Most proteomics-based studies today seek to answer four basic questions: Which proteins were found? What is the relative abundance of the proteins found? What modifications were found on the proteins? Which proteins physically associate with one another? One type of proteomics experiment, protein profiling, involves the identification of the proteins present in a complex, cell culture, tissue or organism. However, unlike genomes, proteomes are dynamic with changes that reflect their current functional state. Thus, analyzing changes in the abundance and modifications of proteins in a complex could be considered a functional study (functional proteomics). While several proteomic-based methods exist, most are based on a standard sequence of experiments: a protein complex is obtained by biochemical prefraction-ation or affinity purification; the sample is subjected to enzymatic digestion (usually trypsin); the resulting peptides can be labeled for future analysis; and the peptides are analyzed by mass spectrometry to determine their identity and characteristics. At the core of most modern proteomic studies lies mass spectrometry (MS) [2,3]. A mass spectrometer is, in essence, a detector that measures the mass-to-charge ratio (m/z) of ionized particles and detects the relative number of ions at each m/z ratio. In general, peptide fragments generated by enzymatic cleavage (typically trypsin) are ionized most commonly by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) or electrospray ionization (ESI) and injected into a mass spectrometer. In most cases, peptides with specific m/z ratios can be selected by quadrupole exclusion or time of flight (TOF) selection. These peptides can then be fragmented by cleavage at peptide bonds via collision with a gaseous matrix. The masses of the fragments can then be determined by a second mass analysis (often by TOF or ion trap MS) to determine the amino acid sequence of peptides. Prefractionation of samples by nanoflow high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and increases in sensitivity and accuracy of mass spectrometers allows for the identification of up to 1000 or more peptides per sample. In this way, complex mixtures can be resolved and the protein compositions elucidated.
Bringing together the latest information into one easily accessible resource, The Dynamic Synapse: Molecular Methods in Ionotropic Receptor Biology explores the diverse tools and technologies used to study synaptic processes. Written by world-renowned leaders in the field, the book delineates newly developed techniques, methods, and conceptual advances used for studying neurotransmitter receptors and other synaptic proteins. A broad array of molecular, biochemical, imaging, and electrophysiological approaches for studying the biology of synapses are described. Specific topics include the use of proteomics to study synaptic protein complexes, the development of phosphorylation state-specific antibodies, post-genomic tools applied to the study of synapses, and RNA interference in neurons. In addition, several chapters focus on methods for gene and protein delivery into neuronal tissue. The use of biochemical, electrophysiological, and optical tagging techniques to study the movement and membrane trafficking of neurotransmitter receptors in the membranes of live nerve cells are also discussed. To complement these approaches, the application of state-of-the-art approaches for achieving long-term alterations in the genetic complement of neurons in vivo using viral vectors or homologous recombinations of ES cells is also described.
Animal models of cognitive impairment are critically important for determining the neural bases of learning, memory, and attention. These cognitive functions are the result of complex interactions of a variety of neural systems and thus cannot be well studied by simple in vitro models. Animal models of cognitive impairment are critical for determining the neural basis of cognitive function as well as for testing the efficacy of potential therapeutic drugs and the neurocognitive toxicity of environmental contaminants and drugs of abuse. A variety of models have used classic monkey, rat, and mouse models. Newer, nonmammalian complementary models with fish, flies, and flatworms are being developed. These will play an important role in both high-throughput screening of potential toxic or therapeutic compounds and in the determination of the neuromolecular bases of cognitive function.
Since its discovery in the early 1950s, the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor system in the brain has been implicated in many fundamental functions, including neuronal plasticity, neurotoxicity, learning, and memory (Riedel et al., 2003). The aim of this chapter is to summarize the current findings on the role of glutamate-receptor systems in learning and memory in different animal models and humans. The structure, localization, and pharmacology of these receptors will not be discussed in this chapter. For those who are interested in these particular topics, we refer them to an excellent recent review (Riedel et al., 2003).
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) were first manufactured in the 1930s for industrial use. While they were eventually banned in the 1970s, their extreme stability allowed them to bioaccumulate over time, such that they remain one of the most prevalent environmental contaminants. A large number of research studies have focused on the neurotoxic properties of PCBs. Interpreting and synthesizing the results of these studies is challenging because special consideration must be given to (a) the class of PCB congeners examined, (b) the age at the time of PCB exposure, and (c) the specific neurological or behavioral function assessed. Nevertheless, animal models of developmental PCB exposure have contributed significantly to our understanding of the specific cognitive domains affected by exposure. In particular, a number of well-controlled experiments using animal models have assessed cognitive function, specifically executive function, following developmental PCB exposure in monkeys and rodents. Generally speaking, executive functions are higher-order cognitive processes involved in the planning, sequencing, and control of goal-directed behaviors. Specifically, these processes include formulating strategies as well as initiating, inhibiting, and shifting responding when necessary. This chapter reviews the experiments examining executive function in animals following PCB exposure. The results of the animal studies are then compared and contrasted with the results of relevant epidemiological studies using cognitive tasks that tap similar functional domains. To provide some background, the different classes of PCB congeners (coplanar vs. ortho-substituted) are reviewed first. A brief summary of the literature on exposure to coplanar PCB congeners in animals during development is included, but coplanar PCBs will not be discussed in detail because they appear to have relatively minor effects on cognitive function. The remainder of the chapter focuses on research examining executive function in animals following exposure to single ortho-substituted PCB congeners as well as PCB mixtures.
Concern regarding human exposure to methylmercury (MeHg) has increased over the last several decades. Much of this concern is motivated by a growing public awareness of the deleterious and sometimes irreversible effects of MeHg that have been noted in human populations and in studies of laboratory animals. MeHg poses significant neurotoxic risks that span sensory and motor domains, associated especially with adult-onset exposures, and cognitive domains, associated with developmental exposure. MeHgs neurotoxic profile, therefore, is influenced not just by the dose, but also by the developmental period of exposure. In this chapter, we describe the pattern of effects associated with MeHg exposure during development. Data from animal models are emphasized because these models provide control over diet, dose, and developmental windows. Animal studies also permit linkages to be drawn between the behavioral and neural mechanisms underlying MeHgs behavioral toxicity. It is argued here that such exposure presents a specific pattern of effects that can be characterized at the behavioral level as altered sensitivity to reinforcing consequences of responding, that is, as a deficit in the response-reinforcer relationship. In contrast, discrimination and memorial processes are relatively immune to developmental exposure. This pattern of behavioral effects corresponds to the pattern of effects seen in neural development after MeHg exposure. The development of cortical structures, as well as of monoamine and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurotransmitter pathways, is especially sensitive to MeHg exposure. The overall pattern of neural and behavioral effects points to developmental MeHg exposure as a model of how damage to the development of frontal cortical areas can have long-lasting behavioral consequences, especially on behavioral tasks that emphasize the acquisition of a response-reinforcer relationship, choice, or perseveration.
The identification of the A peptide as a major component of amyloid deposited in brain vessels and subsequently of parenchymal plaques in the brains of Alzheimers victims [1] led to a focus on this molecule as a key element in the pathophysiology of Alzheimers disease (AD). Subsequent work found that some mutations causing the disease occurred in the amyloid precursor protein (APP) that is processed, in some circumstances, into the A peptide [2]. Ultimately, all mutations causing AD have been demonstrated to result in overproduction of the long variant of the A peptide [3]. Thus the pathology, genetics, and the in vitro neurotoxicity of the A peptide has led to a focus on the aggregation and accumulation of this material as a prime target for therapies designed to treat AD. As for other disorders, development of animal models to understand amyloid pathology became an important research goal. Our lab and many others attempted to mimic the AD condition in rodent brain by direct injections of the peptide [4, 5]. These efforts were largely unsatisfactory. Similarly, a number of other research groups attempted to create transgenic models overexpressing various forms of the APP gene. After many failures to create models that deposit amyloid in a manner similar to AD, and after a couple of retracted claims, the first APP transgenic mouse that deposited amyloid in a manner similar to AD was developed [6]. Because of the platelet-derived growth-factor promoter used, this mouse is referred to as the PDAPP mouse. Shortly thereafter, other APP transgenic mice were successfully developed with amyloid pathology similar to AD: the Tg2576 mouse of Hsiao [7] and the APP23 mouse of Novartis [8]. In a variety of informative ways, these mice have been crossed with other genetically modified mice. One of these was the presenilin-1 (PS1) mouse of Duff [9]. The presenilin gene codes for a critical component of the gamma secretase complex, which determines the length of the A peptide during processing of the APP. Mutations of this gene can also cause early-onset AD in humans. Our group and several others found that crosses between the PS1 mice and the APP mice resulted in accelerated amyloid pathology as the mice age [10]. This chapter focuses on the behavioral abnormalities in the APP transgenic models. It is important to recognize that these are not models of AD, as they lack the tau pathology and the neuron loss found consistently in the human disorder. However, the mouse models mimic in considerable detail the amyloid deposition found in the human disease, and they are all largely similar, irrespective of the mutations used or the promoters employed.
Although most behavioral experiments have been conducted in rats, mice are rapidly becoming the preferred rodent of study in many labs because their genetics are well known, their genome has been sequenced, and they can be genetically manipulated. To date, several different approaches have been used to generate a behavioral phenotype for study. In forward genetics, the analysis proceeds from phenotype to genotype. This is a classical approach, and it includes mice where spontaneous mutations have been identified in certain genes [1] or where mice have been subjected to radiation [2] or chemical mutagenesis [3]. This approach also pertains to mouse strains that have been shown to display a certain phenotype or to animals that have been selectively bred for a given behavioral trait [46]. Although forward genetics can provide very interesting animal models, the genetic basis of the abnormal behavior is often obscure. This limitation requires the site(s) of the mutation(s) to be mapped and sequenced [79], which can be quite laborious and time consuming. Consequently, many investigators have adopted reverse genetics, where the analysis proceeds from genotype to phenotype. Here, a specific gene is targeted for disruption or modification, and the mutants are evaluated for behavioral abnormalities. Investigators typically employ transgenesis to produce either gain of function through expression of hybrid genes and duplication of endogenous genes or loss of function by expressing dominant-negative hybrid genes, toxic genes, or disrupting endogenous genes [1014]. These gene-targeting approaches in embryonic stem cells, or in one-cell embryos, may lead to alterations in expression of other members of the same gene family, with behavioral compensation occurring during development and adulthood [15]. This developmental compensation is a common criticism of transgenic experiments. However, it should be emphasized that such compensation is rarely the basis of study in mutant mice per se, and there are many incidences where compensation by nonmutant family members does not appear to contribute to the phenotype [16]. Nevertheless, to obviate this criticism of developmental compensation, some investigators have begun using systems that induce or suppress expression of specific genes at certain ages or within a given brain region [1719]. More recently, reduction in gene expression in vivo has been accomplished through the introduction of RNA interference that targets a specific RNA species [20]. Although this approach does not completely suppress expression of the target gene, it can reduce it (80%) to levels sufficient to produce quantifiable biochemical and behavioral changes. Together, forward and reverse genetic approaches have provided important insights into the roles that selected genes play in the composition of a given behavioral phenotype. Most of these approaches have some limitations because behaviors in humans are controlled not by a single gene, but by many genes interacting in concert with the environment. Analyses are currently proceeding where (a) qualitative trait loci in mice are identified, (b) mice with known genetic mutations are outcrossed to other mutants, or (c) mice with known genetic backgrounds are exposed to differing environmental conditions [2123]. This multitude of approaches with mice has and will continue to yield novel insights into the genetic and molecular antecedents that affect behavior.
Cognitive impairment is common in a variety of neurological and psychiatric conditions, including stroke, Alzheimers disease (AD), Parkinsons disease, traumatic brain injury, and schizophrenia. Currently available medications are relatively ineffective in treating cognitive dysfunction. Thus, cognitive dysfunction represents an important unmet medical need, and developing treatments is a major area of research interest in the pharmaceutical industry. Identification of potential pharmacological treatments for cognitive disorders is highly dependent on the availability of adequate animal models [1]. Animal models of cognitive function are used in the identification and validation of molecular targets and serve as screening tools to identify and evaluate specific compounds for their potential efficacy. Ideally, animal models of cognition could provide a prediction of the specific conditions for which compounds would be most useful and could be combined with toxicology and safety pharmacology models to estimate the therapeutic index. Given the duration and expense of clinical trials, particularly for progressive degenerative conditions such as Alzheimers disease, it is becoming more important in drug discovery to maximize the potential for success through the development of high-quality animal models and their judicious use in selecting compounds for advancement into human studies. The term cognition model requires some clarification. The term is frequently applied to the means by which cognitive processes are assessed in animals. Thus, the radial arm maze and the Morris water maze are often described as cognition models. However, perhaps a more precise use of the term cognition model would apply it exclusively to such measurements made in the context of some disease-relevant impairment of performance. Here, the term would not be applied to the radial maze or the water maze itself, but rather to the use of these tools in animals impaired, for example, by overexpression of -amyloid in an attempt to mimic aspects of Alzheimers disease. To avoid confusion, the use of the term model in this chapter is restricted to the latter case, and the terms assay or measure are used to describe the tasks and procedures used to assess cognitive function.
The importance of cholinergic activity in the brain to learning and memory function was first recognized more than 30 years ago, when relatively low doses of certain muscarinic acetylcholine-receptor antagonists (e.g., the belladonna alkaloids atropine and scopolamine) were found to induce transient cognitive deficits in young human volunteers that resembled those observed in elderly (unmedicated) subjects [1]. This work and a number of subsequent clinical studies indicated that antimuscarinics disrupt attention [24], the acquisition of new information, and the consolidation of memory [1,4,5]. Later studies found that scopolamine could alter certain features of the human electroencephalogram (e.g., delta, theta, alpha, and beta activity) in a fashion that mimics some of the changes observed in patients with Alzheimers disease (AD) (reviewed by Ebert and Kirch [6]). In support of these cited pharmacological investigations, a considerable number of studies of the brains of elderly people and of AD patients have shown damage or abnormalities in forebrain cholinergic projections that are important to memory structures (e.g., cortex, hippocampus), and these results correlate well with the level of cognitive decline [7,8]. Interestingly, scopolamine appears to negatively affect cognitive performance to a greater extent in elderly subjects than in younger subjects [911], and it impairs subjects with AD more dramatically than nondemented elderly subjects [12]. Similarly, aged rodents display cognitive impairments in many learning and memory tasks [13], manifest cholinergic deficits [1416], and are more sensitive to the disruptive effects of scopolamine than young rats [16]. Moreover, lesions in young animals that damage cholinergic input from the basal forebrain (e.g., nucleus basalis magnocellularis, medial septum/diagonal band) to the neocortex or hippocampus disrupt performance of a variety of memory-related tasks. These findings, particularly the early studies cited, led to the development of the so-called cholinergic hypothesis, which essentially states that a loss of cholinergic function in the central nervous system (CNS) contributes significantly to the cognitive decline associated with advanced age and AD (reviewed by Bartus [17]). Using this hypothesis as a guiding principle, scopolamine (and to a lesser extent other antimuscarinic agents) has been used extensively as an amnestic drug in animals to model the cognitive dysfunction associated with human dementia and Alzheimers disease. While a few studies have been conducted using scopolamine as an amnestic agent in nonhuman primates (e.g., Aigner and Mishkin [18] and Terry et al. [19]), the majority of studies have been conducted in rodents, particularly rats. In addition, scopolamine-reversal experiments in rodents have been used extensively as an initial screening method to identify therapeutic candidates for cognitive disorders such as AD.
Lead is probably the most-studied environmental contaminant with respect to the effects of developmental exposure on cognition in children or animal models. It has been known since the 1940s that lead poisoning in children can result in permanent behavioral sequelae, including poor school performance, impulsive behavior, and short attention span [1], that were observations later replicated by other investigators [24]. Early in the 1970s, deficits in intelligence quotient (IQ), fine motor performance, and behavioral disorders such as distractibility and constant need for attention were observed in children who had never exhibited overt signs of toxicity [5, 6]. In 1979 Needleman et al. [7] reported decreased IQ and increased incidence of distractibility and inattention in middle-class children who had not been exposed to lead from paint. Early studies of the effects of developmental exposure to lead in animals focused on determining deficits on a wide variety of tasks characterizing the constellation of the effects of lead [8]. Exposures in various studies included postnatal, lifetime, in utero, or in utero plus postnatal. Researchers also sought to identify a dose or body burden that did not produce adverse effects. A series of experiments with monkeys in our laboratory documented adverse effects in a group of monkeys with peak blood lead concentrations averaging 15 g/dl during infancy, with steady-state levels over most of the lifespan averaging 11 g/dl. Animals with lower body burdens have apparently not been assessed. The current CDC (Centers for Disease Control) level of concern is 10 g/dl for children, although it is clear that there are adverse effects on cognition at blood concentrations below 10 g/dl [9, 10]. More recently, experimental researchers have focused on developing paradigms to explore the behavioral mechanisms responsible for the constellation of effects observed in previous studies; these studies generally used doses that are known to produce robust impairment.
Ethanol (ethyl alcohol, alcohol) has been widely studied in many different formats and at many levels of complexity. Given the wealth of available information, this brief chapter cannot begin to recapitulate the literature on the many and varied facets of ethanol. For a solid introduction to the history of the use of ethanol as a research tool and details on its general absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion, and toxicology, we refer the reader to the informative and interesting chapter in the recent edition of Goodman and Gilman [1].
Chronic administration of low doses of the neurotoxin MPTP to macaque monkeys results in primarily attentional and executive function-type cognitive deficits in animals devoid of parkinsonian motor deficits. The fronto-executive deficits in these animals may serve as a model for the cognitive deficits of early parkinsonism as well as for the cognitive deficits characteristic of other disorders such as ADHD and chronic schizophrenia. Continued administration of low doses of MPTP to these animals can result in the evolution of a parkinsonian motor disorder, making this a useful animal system for studying the progression of symptoms in parkinsonism.
Animal models of traumatically induced cognitive impairment are designed to reproduce those features of human traumatic brain injury (TBI) that result in long-term cognitive impairment and disability. The sequelae of behavioral impairments associated with human TBI include disruption along nearly every level of information processing. However, the most severely affected cognitive domains are memory and information-processing speed and efficiency [1]. Both retrograde and anterograde memory deficits are common following TBI. Memory function seems to be particularly vulnerable to head injury, and Levin and coworkers [2] suggest that long-term memory processes are disproportionately affected compared with other areas of cognitive functioning following TBI.
Various species of macaques, particularly Macaca mulatta (rhesus), have played an important role in our current understanding of the anatomical sites and in the behavioral and molecular mechanisms involved in cognition and memory. These versatile animals have been taught to perform a broad landscape of behavioral paradigms, many of which are relevant to human learning and memory. The rhesus monkey shares 92 to 95% genetic homology with the human species, and these animals enjoy a cognitive domain that allows for evaluation of higher-order cognitive and executive function. Nonverbal human cognitive tasks have been adapted for nonhuman primates, and vice versa, without reservation that a form of declarative memory is readily accessible in these animals. Numerous operant paradigms have been designed to evaluate aspects of reference memory, attention, and working memory (both short term and long term). Despite the various macaque species employed, and the variety of testing modalities applied, the largely consistent finding is that, with age, there is a decrement in memory-related task performance [14]. Without doubt there are macaques (and other nonhuman primate families) within the aging population that do not appear to exhibit age-dependent decrements in memory-related task performance. The potential for successful cognitive aging in these animals obviously has a human counterpart. The ability to study the differences at anatomical, cellular, neurochemical, and functional levels between animals that are successful vs. nonsuccessful with regard to cognitive aging has largely been the domain of rodent studies. Very few labs have used this approach with regard to nonhuman primates [e.g., 5, 6]. Part of the difficulty resides in the relatively long lifespan of macaques. Most often it is not possible to know whether an aged subject that displays cognitive impairment is that way because of true age-related impairment, or because the animal was below the range of normal intelligence for these animals from early on.
In the development and use of animal models of cognitive dysfunction, it is important to develop complementary models to exploit the unique advantages of the different species. Nonmammalian vertebrates such as fish provide the opportunity to directly observe neurodevelopmental processes and determine the impact of developmental permutations on learning and memory. Zebrafish in particular are valuable because of the availability of morpholine techniques to transiently suppress specific parts of genomic expression. Invertebrate models such as C. elegans and drosophila provide other advantages, particularly the elegant genetic manipulations available. The simple nervous systems in these models are useful in determining mechanisms of cognitive function. The development of new methods for high-throughput tests of cognitive function for fish can provide a means for rapid screening of potential toxic agents as well as promising therapeutic agents. It is equally important to develop specific tests of various aspects of cognitive function, including habituation, associative learning, memory, and attention as well as to be able to differentiate changes in sensorimotor function from cognition. Key in the use of nonmammalian models is the determination of which mechanisms of cognitive function are similar to mammals and which are different. Nonmammalian models can be used in concert with classic mammalian models to determine the neural bases of cognitive function and to aid in the discovery of toxicants and potential therapeutic agents.
The cholinergic systems essential involvement in both preclinical and clinical aspects of cognition processes has been proposed and reviewed extensively elsewhere. Terry and Buccafusco [1] provide the latest review on this subject. According to this review, all currently approved FDA drugs for the treatment of Alzheimers disease are cholinesterase inhibitors, which exert their efficacy apparently through stimulation of both muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs) and nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). Gene targeting (knockout) technologies allow us to replace the gene of interest with one that is inactive, altered, or irrelevant [2]. In the case of a completed deletion, a gene is knocked out in vivo, and a mutant organism with a deficit in the gene product is generated. The lack of suitable embryonic stem (ES) cell lines prevents the application of these technologies into rats [3]. However, mice and humans are both mammals, and both species contain a similar number of genes that show a high degree of similarity [4,5]. Therefore, in rodents, mouse is a better species for employing the knockout approach compared with rat. In theory, knockout (KO) mice contain a targeted gene that is deleted; therefore, no product of the mutated gene is synthesized in the null mutants [6]. These mutant mouse lines, which have inactivating mutations of the individual genes, can be studied in a battery of physiological, pharmacological, behavioral, biochemical, and neurochemical tests to confirm or invalidate a hypothesis on the effects of specific proteins in the function of the brain. Mller [7] provided an excellent review article regarding targeted mouse mutants from vector design to phenotype analysis. The cited article provides detailed technical information on how to generate KO mice, including selection markers and screening strategies, potential problems and pitfalls, as well as construct design. Moreover, Bolivar et al. [8] have summarized behavioral profiles in all available knockout mice. They also provide updated information on available KO mice through their Web site, which is identified in their article. Additional information about Internet resources regarding transgenic rodent production is provided by Wells and Carter [3]. Because gene-targeting techniques enable us to analyze diverse aspects of gene function in whole animals, measurable phenotypes relevant to human pathology could be obtained in a good mouse model of human disease. However, for most diseases in the central nervous system (CNS), the coexistence of malfunctions in multiple subtypes of the same receptor or in multiple neurotransmitters typically contribute to a complex phenotype such as cognition. For example, Buccafusco and Terry [9] demonstrate that multiple CNS targets are needed to elicit beneficial effects on memory and cognition. Therefore, generating multiple mouse mutants that mimic all facets of a multifactorial disease would help us to address individual subsets of symptoms of the disease. In short, knockout technologies provide a powerful tool to reveal and refine treatment strategies for human disorders by building bridges between genetics and the pathogenesis of disease. Behavioral phenotypes discovered in the mutant can be used to evaluate (screen) the efficacy of potential new pharmacological therapies. For example, by evaluating the results of specific behavioral tests  including learning and memory tests in mAChR, nAChR, and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) KO mice  our knowledge of cognitional impairment would be broadened. This, in turn, will improve our ability to identify potential new drug therapies for the treatment of cognitional aspects of such diseases as Alzheimers disease, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and schizophrenia. This chapter focuses on: Available cholinergic receptor KO mouse models, including muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) KO mice, nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) KO mice, and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) KO mice. Cognitional-related data for mAChR KO mice. Limitations on KO mouse models and future directions.
Nicotinic acetylcholine-receptor systems are critical neural components of cognitive functions. Nicotine and nicotinic agonists have been shown to improve cognition in rats in numerous studies [1315, 27, 31, 59]. Similarly, nicotinic-receptor antagonists  the subject of this chapter  can cause cognitive impairments in rats. The use of nicotinic-receptor antagonists in an animal model of cognitive impairment has clinical relevance because it models the functional effect of nicotinic-receptor loss. Studies have shown that patients with Alzheimers disease suffer a dramatic reduction in hippocampal and cortical nicotine-receptor density that parallels the cognitive decline associated with this disease [5658]. Significant nicotinic-receptor loss also occurs in Parkinsons disease [9], and postmortem studies in schizophrenics show a decrease in the number of 7 nicotinic receptors in the brain [8, 19]. Both of these diseases can also include cognitive decline. Thus animal studies wherein nicotinic receptors are blocked with antagonists can be useful in developing animal models of how these diseases  Alzheimers, Parkinsons, and schizophrenia  affect cognition. The predominant nicotinic-receptor antagonist used in cognitive studies with rats is mecamylamine, a noncompetitive antagonist that is not selective for particular nicotinic-receptor-subtype recognition sites. Mecamylamine has been shown to impair cognitive function on a variety of tasks, and this chapter reviews the effects of mecamylamine on task performance. In addition, a small number of studies have examined other nonspecific nicotinic antagonists, including chlorisondamine and d-tubocurarine, and the receptor-subunit-specific 42 (dihydro--erythroidine hydrobromide [DHE]) and 7 (methyllycaconitine [MLA]) antagonists, and these will also be discussed. In addition, many studies use the peripheral nicotinic blocker hexamethonium to show the specificity of mecamylamine effects to the central nervous system (CNS).
Featuring contributions from distinguished researchers in the field of cognitive therapy research, Animal Models of Cognitive Impairment examines some of the most popular and successful animal archetypes used in the context of drug discovery. It provides integrated coverage of the latest research concerning neuronal systems relevant to cognitive function and dysfunction, assimilating reviews of this research within the context of each chapter. This approach is unique in that it brings together molecular and neurochemical methodologies, behavioral applications in translational models, and clinical applications. This book comprehensively discusses a wide variety of animal models of cognitive impairment, including genetic, lesion, pharmacological, and aging related impairments. It also explores the significance of this research in regards to the treatment of various addictions and disorders such as stroke, autism, Alzheimer's, schizophrenia, and ADHD.



Jerzy Konorski (1903-1973) exerted a vital influence on the development of physiological psychology and neurobiology. Konorski and his friend and collaborator, Stefan Miller, distinguished instrumental conditioned reflexes as a separate type of acquired behavior, different from classical (Pavlovian) conditioned reflexes. In a series of pioneering studies Konorski demonstrated basic differences between the two types of conditioned reflexes. After the Second World War, he reinterpreted the results of research on conditioned reflexes on the basis of the mechanisms of Sherringtonian neurophysiology and introduced the term plasticity of the nervous system. His work, &quot;Conditioned reflexes and neuron organization&quot;, published in 1948, signaled Konorski's place as one of the founders of contemporary neuroscience. He contributed significantly to the understanding of complex interactions of various classes of behaviors: innate and acquired, those driven by opposite motivations, and those elicited by cues signaling different contingencies. In his book &quot;Integrative activity of the brain&quot; (1967), Konorski analyzed the brain as a complex system directing the functioning of the organism as a whole.

Robots are the tools for taking advantage of the skills of computers in achieving complicated tasks. This has been made possible owing to the &quot;numerical image explosion&quot; which allowed us to easily obtain spatial coordinates, three dimensional reconstruction, multimodality imaging including digital subtraction angiography (DSA), computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and magneto encephalography (MEG), with high resolution in space, time, and tissue density. Neurosurgical robots currently available at the operating level are being described. Future evolutions, indications and ethical aspects are examined.
Evidence continues to build for the role of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) in reducing cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) formation rate, and thus, intracranial pressure. ANP binds to choroid plexus (CP) epithelial cells. This generates cGMP, which leads to altered ion transport and the slowing of CSF production. Binding sites for ANP in CP are plentiful and demonstrate plasticity in fluid imbalance disorders; however, specific ANP receptors in epithelial cells need confirmation. Using antibodies directed against NPR-A and NPR-B, we now demonstrate immunostaining not only in the choroidal epithelium (including cytoplasm), but also in the ependyma and some endothelial cells of cerebral microvessels in adult rats (Sprague-Dawley). The choroidal and ependymal cells stained almost universally, thus substantiating the initial autoradiographic binding studies with 125I-ANP. Because ANP titers in human CSF have previously been shown to increase proportionally to increments in ICP, we propose a compensatory ANP modulation of CP function to down-regulate ICP in hydrocephalus. Further evidence for this notion comes from the current finding of increased frequency of &quot;dark&quot; epithelial cells in CP of hydrocephalic (HTx) rats, which fits our earlier observation that the &quot;dark&quot; choroidal cells, associated with states of reduced CSF formation, are increased by elevated ANP in CSF. Altogether, ANP neuroendocrine-like regulation at CSF transport interfaces and blood-brain barrier impacts brain fluid homeostasis.
We investigated, at both light and ultrastructural levels, the fate of swollen astrocytes and remodeling of neurites connected to disseminated, dying neurons in the ischemic neocortical penumbra. Specimens from left cerebral cortex were cut coronally at the infundibulum and observed by light and electron microscopy. We measured synapses and spines, and the thickness of neuritic trunks in the neuropil on electron microscopy photos. We also determined percent volume of axon terminals and spines by Weibel's point-counting method. Astrocytic swelling gradually subsided from day 4 after the ischemic insult, with increases in cytoplasmic glial fibrils and GFAP-positive astrocytes. Disseminated dying electron-dense neurons were fragmented by invading astrocytic cell processes and accumulated as granular pieces. The number of synapses and spines and total percent volume of axon terminals and spines decreased with an increasing sparsity of synaptic vesicles until day 4. One to 12 weeks after the ischemic insult, these values increased to or exceeded control values, and sprouting and increased synaptic vesicles were seen. Axons that had been attached to the dying neurons appeared to have shifted their connections to the spines and the neurites of the surviving neurons, increasing their thickness. Astrocytic restitution and neuronal remodeling processes started at 4 days continuing until 12 weeks after ischemic insult.



In this study, we investigated 40 patients (18 male, 22 female; mean age = 64.5 +/- 11.0; GCS = 9 to 14) with acute supratentorial spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (SICH) at admission by using a 1-tesla magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) unit equipped for single-shot echo-planar spin-echo isotropic diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) sequences. All DWI studies were obtained within 48 hours after symptom onset. Regional apparent diffusion coefficient (rADC) values were measured in 3 different regions of interest (ROIs) drawn freehand on the T2-weighted images at b 0 s/mm2 on every section in which hematoma was visible: 1) the perihematomal hyperintense area; 2) 1 cm of normal appearing brain tissue surrounding the perilesional hyperintense rim; 3) an area mirroring the region including the clot and perihematomal hyperintense area placed in the contralateral hemisphere. rADC mean values were higher in perihematomal hyperintense and in contralateral than in normal appearing areas (p &lt; 0.001), with increased rADC mean levels in all regions examined. Our findings show that rADC values indicative of vasogenic edema were present in the perihematomal area and in normal appearing brain tissue located both ipsilateral and contralateral to the hematoma, with lower levels in non-injured areas located in the T2 hyperintense rim around the clot.





Evidence from numerous neuropathological observations and in vivo clinical imaging studies suggests a prominent role of activated microglia, the main effector cell of the brain's innate immune system, in Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative diseases. Though the comprehensive molecular definition of the microglial activation process is still incomplete, the de novo expression of 'peripheral benzodiazepine-binding sites (PBBS)' by activated but not resting microglia has been established as a useful descriptor of functional state changes in microglia. As microglial transformation to an activated state is closely linked to progressive changes in brain disease, the detection of activated microglia can provide information about disease distribution and rate of disease progression. Positron emission tomography (PET) and [(11)C](R)-PK11195, a specific ligand of the PBBS, have been used to study systematically microglial activation in vivo. Significant microglial activation is present in the brains of patients with neurodegenerative dementia even at early and possibly preclinical stages of the disease with a spatial distribution reflecting different clinical phenotypes. We review some of the posited functions of activated microglia in the pathophysiology of dementia and speculate on the relationship between increased regional [(11)C](R)-PK11195 signals and the ensuing changes in brain volume. Finally, we provide a brief outlook on the development of new radioligands for the PBBS.
According to the amyloid cascade hypothesis, both familial and sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD) is caused by the toxic effect of over-production and/or aggregation of beta-amyloid (Abeta). Recent cell and animal studies have linked the production of Abeta to high levels of cholesterol and the use of statins, compounds inhibiting the de novo synthesis of cholesterol. Epidemiological studies have also supported such linkage by showing a reduced prevalence of AD for subjects taking statins. A limited number of clinical studies have been published trying to elucidate the effect of statin treatment on amyloid precursor protein (APP) processing and metabolism of brain cholesterol in AD in humans and this review focuses on the current state of these clinical studies. The results are contradictory, but the overall interpretation suggests that statin treatment probably does not have a direct impact through lowering of cholesterol on the APP processing and Abeta production in humans. To confirm this, further clinical studies needs to be performed with extended treatment periods and where several parameters (lipid profile, lipoproteins, sterols, biomarkers related to AD and APP metabolites) are analyzed, both in the cerebrospinal fluid and plasma. The pleiotropic effects of statins should be investigated further. One approach is presented in this review.
A workshop was held in Gteborg in June 2005 to discuss the place of valproate in treating adult epilepsies. Consensus positions were developed on the epilepsy types for which the drug is most suitable and the use of valproate in women of child-bearing age, in men and in patients with psychiatric comorbidity. Valproate was considered to be effective across a broad variety of epilepsy syndromes and seizure types and should be considered a suitable choice for first-line monotherapy of juvenile myoclonic epilepsy and other idiopathic generalized epilepsies. The use of valproate by women of child-bearing age is associated with potential harm to the foetus. A conservative approach to treatment is recommended in these patients whereby alternative antiepileptic drugs should be proposed to women planning pregnancies wherever satisfactory seizure control can be thereby maintained. In cases where valproate is used during pregnancy, either because the pregnancy was unplanned or because alternative treatment options of equivalent efficacy are unavailable, appropriate counselling, precautionary measures and monitoring should be provided. The evidence for an impact of valproate on male reproductive health is equivocal and considerations of male fertility should not be taken into account in deciding whether to prescribe valproate to men. Valproate can be proposed safely to patients with comorbid psychiatric disease or underlying psychiatric vulnerability.
Paraneoplastic neurological syndromes (PNS) can be defined as remote effects of cancer that are not caused by the tumor and its metastasis or by infection, ischemia or metabolic disruptions. In most patients, the neurological disorder develops before the cancer becomes clinically overt and the patient is referred to the neurologist who has the charge of identifying a neurological disorder as paraneoplastic. They are usually severely disabling. PNS are rare and are seen in less than 1% of patients with cancer. PNS depend on an autoimmune process triggered by cancer and directed to antigens common to both the cancer and the nervous system designated as onconeural antigens. Because of their high specificity (&gt;90%), the best way to diagnose neurological disorders as paraneoplastic is to identify one of the well-characterized onconeural antibodies in the patient's serum. In addition, as these antibodies are associated with a restricted range of cancer, they permit orientating the search of the underlying tumor at a stage where it is frequently not clinically overt. This is a critical point, as today the best way to stabilize PNS is probably to treat the cancer as soon as possible. Unfortunately, about one-third of the patients do not have detectable antibodies and 5-10% have an atypical antibody that is not well characterized.
Contemporary licensed treatments for multiple sclerosis fail to provide a solution for the disease because their effects are limited to a modest reduction in the frequency of new episodes. They do not reduce disability or materially influence the progressive phase of the disease. A contemporary strategy for management requires a more detailed analysis of the separate contributions to the clinical features and overall course made by inflammation, axonal injury, compensatory mechanisms, and remyelination. From this formulation emerges the need either for early and fully effective suppression of the inflammatory response, limiting the damage to all components of the axon-glial unit; or the development of strategies for axonal and myelin repair that solve the issues of controlled differentiation, delivery and timing of these cell and growth factor-based interventions.
This presentation discusses the immunobiology of the Guillain Barr syndromes (GBS), the world's leading cause of acute autoimmune neuromuscular paralysis. By gaining an understanding of the clinical and pathophysiological pathways operating in GBS, we can hope to develop novel immunotherapies that will improve clinical outcome. Here we focus on GBS mediated by anti-ganglioside antibodies and highlight the correlations between anti-ganglioside antibody patterns and clinical phenotypes, the development of models of GBS, and the application of novel therapies based on inhibition of complement activation.
Autoimmune disorders of neuromuscular transmission are caused by antibodies (abs) directed against membrane proteins at the motor end-plate. Myasthenia gravis (MG) is due, in most cases, to abs against the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR). Anti-AChR-positive MG actually includes different disease entities: weakness can be confined to extrinsic ocular muscles or can be generalized; patients with generalized MG (G-MG) can be subdivided on the basis of age of onset, HLA association and thymic pathology. About 15% of G-MG patients are anti-AChR-negative; in a proportion of these cases serum abs against the muscle- specific kinase (MuSK) are found. Anti-MuSK-positive MG is characterized by predominant involvement of bulbar muscles and very low frequency of thymic pathology. The Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS) is caused by abs against voltage-gated calcium channels at nerve terminal. LEMS is characterized by muscle weakness and autonomic disturbances and it is paraneoplastic in over 50% of the cases. In neuromyotonia and cramp-fasciculation syndrome, that are thought to be due to anti-voltage-gated potassium channel abs, signs of peripheral nerve hyperexcitability can be associated with CNS features.
The neuromuscular junction (NMJ) is a prototype synapse and myasthenia gravis is the prototypic antibody-mediated disorder. There are now three other disorders of neuromuscular transmission caused by antibodies to other essential components of the NMJ. Antibodies to the muscle-specific kinase, MuSK, are defining a new form of myasthenia that can be associated with muscle atrophy. Antibodies to voltage-gated calcium channels are responsible for muscle weakness and autonomic dysfunction in the Lambert Eaton myasthenic syndrome. Antibodies to voltage-gated potassium channels are found in patients with a range of disorders affecting the NMJ, the autonomic system or the central nervous system. The pathogenic mechanisms probably depend on the IgG subclass of the antibodies and are only partly shared between the diseases.
It is presently unclear whether polymorphic variations in the oxidized low-density lipoprotein receptor 1 (OLR1), or low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 (LRP1), genes act as risk factors for Alzheimer's disease (AD). In the present study, we have investigated the extent of amyloid beta protein (Abeta) deposition as cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) or senile plaques (SP) in relationship to OLR1 +1071 and +1073 polymorphisms and LRP1 C766T polymorphism in patients with AD There was an increased Abeta40 load as CAA, but not as SP, in frontal cortex of AD patients carrying OLR1+1073 CC genotype, compared to those with CT, TT or CT+TT genotypes, but only in those individuals without apolipoprotein (APOE) epsilon4 allele. No differences in total Abeta or Abeta42 load as CAA or SP between OLR1+1073 genotypes was seen, nor were there any differences between OLR1+1071 and LRP1 genotypes for any measure of Abeta. Present data suggests that homozygosity for the C allele for OLR1+1073 polymorphism, selectively in individuals without APOE epsilon4 allele, may impair clearance of Abeta, and particularly Abeta40, from the brain across the blood-brain barrier, leading to its 'diversion' into perivascular drainage channels, thereby increasing the severity of CAA in such persons.





Gap junctions are arrays of cell-to-cell channels that allow diffusion of small molecules between neighboring cells. The individual channels are formed by the four-transmembrane connexin (Cx) proteins. Recently, multiple proteins have been found to interact at the cytoplasmic site with the most abundant connexin, Cx43, but physiological data about the role of these interactions is scarce. Here, molecular detail about Cx43 interactions is presented and the putative roles of Cx43-interacting proteins are discussed. Emphasis is on new insights into the interactions of c-Src and ZO-1 with Cx43, interacting proteins discovered within the last 2 years (drebrin, CIP85, CCN3), and feedback between gap junctions, adherens junctions (N-cadherin and catenins) and the cytoskeleton (microtubules and actin).
Gap junctions are formed of at least 20 connexin proteins in mammals and possibly pannexins as well. Of the connexins, at least 5 (Cx30.2, Cx37, Cx40, Cx43 and Cx45) are prominently expressed in the heart and each shows regional and cell type specific expression. Contributions of each of these connexins to heart function has been in many cases illuminated by connexin null mice. The cardiac connexin genes whose genomic organization and transcriptional controls have been studied most thoroughly indicate more complex possibilities for alternate promoter usage than originally thought as well a multiple transcription factor binding sites; presumably, such complexity governs developmental timing and regional connexin expression patterns. The structure of cardiac connexin proteins indicate four primarily alpha-helical transmembrane domains, cytoplasmic amino and carboxyl termini and a cytoplasmic loop, all of which contain some regions of alpha-helix, and extracellular loops that are primarily Beta-structure. A number of proteins that bind to cardiac connexins are known, and more are certain to be discovered, linking the connexin into an intercellular signaling complex, the nexus. Binding sites may either correspond to structured regions within the connexin molecules or be unstructured, leading to presumably low-affinity and dynamic interactions.
Photoreceptor survival depends on the integrity of retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells. The pathophysiology of several retinal degenerations involves oxidative stress-mediated injury and RPE cell death; in some instances it has been shown that this event is mediated by A2E and its epoxides. Photoreceptor outer segments display the highest DHA content of any cell type. RPE cells are active in DHA uptake, conservation, and delivery. Delivery of DHA to photoreceptor inner segments is mediated by the interphotoreceptor matrix. DHA is necessary for photoreceptor function and at the same time is a target of oxidative stress-mediated lipid peroxidation. It has not been clear whether specific mediators generated from DHA contribute to its biological properties. Using ARPE-19 cells, we demonstrated the synthesis of 10,17S-docosatriene [neuroprotectin Dl (NPDI)]. This synthesis was enhanced by the calcium ionophore A-23187, by IL-1 3P, or by supplying DHA. Added NPD1 (50nM) potently counteracted H2O2/tumor necrosis factor-alpha oxidative stress-triggered apoptotic DNA damage in RPE. NPD1 also up-regulated the anti-apoptotic proteins Bcl-2 and Bcl-xL and decreased pro-apoptotic Bax and Bad expression. Moreover, NPD1 (50nM) inhibited oxidative stress-induced caspase-3 activation. NPD1 also inhibited IL-1beta-stimulated expression of COX-2. Furthermore, A2E-triggered oxidative stress induction of RPE cell apoptosis was also attenuated by NPD1. Overall, NPD1 protected RPE cells from oxidative stress-induced apoptosis. In conclusion, we have demonstrated an additional function of the RPE: its capacity to synthesize NPD1. This new survival signaling is potentially of interest in the understanding of the pathophysiology of retinal degenerations and in exploration of new therapeutic modalities.











In summary, the scheme of basal ganglia function presented here, in conjunction with known features of anatomical organization and dopamine neurotransmission provides a hypothesis for the pathophysiology of tics. According to the hypothesis, clusters of striatal neurons (matrisomes) become abnormally active in inappropriate contexts leading to inhibition of GPi or SNpr neurons that would normally be active to supress unwanted movements. The inhibition of htese GPi or SNpr neurons would then disinhibit thalamocortical circuits. Leading to the production of tics. Activity-dependent dopamine effects would inappropriately reinforce these activity patterns leading to stereotyped repetion. Over time, exactly which striatal neuronal clusters are overactive may change under various influences so that the produced movement change over time. This hypothesis is testable directly but requires a valid animal model of tics or higher resolution functional imaging techniques. Continuing work on basic basal ganglia physiology, pathophysiology, and functional imaging in TS is advancing our knowledge of neural circuit abnormalities in TS, but much more work is still needed.





Clearly, the root cause of intractability in epilepsy is currently unknown. Whereas the aforementioned findings may shed light on putative underpinnings, they are by no means an exhaustive list of possibilities. However, new and more effective animal models are continually being created or discovered that take into account genetic predisposition for seizure. At the moment, amygdala kindling appears to be the best choice of the intact animal models. In this vein, the genetically predisposed seizure-prone (Fast kindling) and seizure-resistant (Slow kindling) strains may help speak to many important remaining questions in human epilepsy. Hopefully, these models, to some degree, target correct human subpopulations that are prone or resistant to epilepsy and, when used appropriately, could expedite epilepsy research and future discoveries leading to pharmacoresistance and intractability.



The benefit of cochlear implantation crucially depends on the ability of the brain to learn to classify neural activity evoked by the cochlear implant. Brain plasticity is a complex property with massive developmental changes after birth. The present paper reviews the experimental work on auditory plasticity and focuses on the plasticity required for adaptation to cochlear implant stimulation. It reviews the data on developmental sensitive periods in auditory plasticity of hearing, hearing-impaired and deaf, cochlear-implanted, animals. Based on the analysis of the above findings in animals and comparable data from humans, a cochlear implantation within the first 2 years of age is recommended.
Psychophysical measures attempt to capture and compare subjective experiences objectively. In the chemical senses, these techniques have been instrumental in describing relationships between oral sensation and health risk, but they are often used incorrectly to make group comparisons. This chapter reviews contemporary methods of oral sensory assessment, with particular emphasis on suprathreshold scaling. We believe that these scales presently offer the most realistic picture of oral sensory function, but only when they are used correctly. Using converging methods from psychophysics, anatomy, and genetics, we demonstrate valid uses of modern chemosensory testing in clinical diagnosis and intervention.
There has been gradual increase of interest in olfactory dysfunction since it was realised that anosmia was a common feature of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD) and Alzheimer-type dementia. It is an intriguing observation that a premonitory sign of a disorder hitherto regarded as one of movement or cognition may be that of disturbed sense of smell. In this review of aging, IPD, parkinsonian syndromes, tremor, Alzheimer's disease (AD), motor neuron disease (MND), Huntington's chorea (HC) and inherited ataxia, the following observations are made: (1) olfactory senescence starts at about the age of 36 years in both sexes and accelerates with advancing years, involving pleasant odours preferentially; (2) olfactory dysfunction is near-universal, early and often severe in IPD and AD developing before any movement or cognitive disorder; (3) normal smell identification in IPD is rare and should prompt review of diagnosis unless the patient is female with tremor-dominant disease; (4) anosmia in suspected progressive supranuclear palsy and corticobasal degeneration is atypical and should likewise provoke diagnostic review; (5) subjects with hyposmia and one ApoE4 allele have an approximate 5-fold increased risk of later AD; (6) impaired sense of smell may be seen in some patients at 50% risk of parkinsonism, and possibly in patients with unexplained hyposmia; (7) smell testing in HC and MND where abnormality may be found is not likely to be of clinical value, and (8) biopsy of olfactory nasal neurons reveals non-specific changes in IPD and AD and at present will not aid diagnosis.


The gene SNCA (or NACP), which codes for alpha-synuclein, a small synaptic protein involved in dopaminergic neurotransmission, maps to a quantitative trait locus for alcohol preference and is differentially expressed in specific brain regions in alcohol-preferring versus -nonpreferring rats. Moreover, elevated alpha-synuclein messenger RNA (mRNA) and protein levels in peripheral blood have been shown to be associated with craving in patients with alcoholism. The focus of this study was to evaluate gene expression, including the levels of alpha-synuclein mRNA, in peripheral blood in nonhuman primates that were induced to drink ethanol (4 months) and then allowed 14 months of 22-h/day access to ethanol (4% wt/vol) or water compared to alcohol-nave controls. Differential gene expression, including alpha-synuclein mRNA levels, was measured in 18 cynomolgus macaque monkeys, 8 that had been chronically self-administering ethanol for 18 months and 10 that were alcohol nave. Cynomolgus monkeys in this study self-administered ethanol at average rates of between 1.2 and 4.2g/kg/day. This group of ethanol-drinking monkeys had a highly significant 3.21-fold higher level of alpha-synuclein mRNA in peripheral blood than alcohol-nave controls. These data agree with recent reports of elevated alpha-synuclein mRNA and protein in the blood of human alcoholics, support the concept of an association between alpha-synuclein and alcoholism, and demonstrate, for the first time, a biomarker present in rats, monkeys, and humans for the consumption of ethanol.
Acetaldehyde is the first active breakdown product (i.e., metabolite) generated during alcohol metabolism. It has toxic properties but also exerts other actions on the body (i.e., has pharmacological properties). Recent studies have shown that the direct administration of acetaldehyde, especially into the brain, induces several effects that mimic those of alcohol. High doses of acetaldehyde induce sedative as well as movement- and memory-impairing effects, whereas lower doses produce behavioral effects (e.g., stimulation and reinforcement) that are characteristic of addictive drugs. When acetaldehyde accumulates outside the brain (i.e., in the periphery), adverse effects predominate and prevent further alcohol drinking. To investigate the role of acetaldehyde in mediating alcohol's effects, investigators have pharmacologically manipulated alcohol metabolism and the production of acetaldehyde within the body (i.e., endogenous acetaldehyde production). Studies manipulating the activity of the enzyme catalase, which promotes acetaldehyde production in the brain, suggest that acetaldehyde contributes to many behavioral effects of alcohol, especially its stimulant properties. However, it remains controversial whether acetaldehyde concentrations obtained under normal physiological conditions are sufficient to induce significant pharmacological effects. Current evidence suggests that the contribution of acetaldehyde to alcohol's effects is best explained by a process in which acetaldehyde modulates, rather than mediates, some of alcohol's effects.
Although it has been known for many years that alcoholism and tobacco addiction often co-occur, relatively little information is available on the biological factors that regulate the co-use and abuse of nicotine and alcohol. In the brain, nicotine acts at several different types of receptors collectively known as nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). Alcohol also acts on at least some of these receptors, enhancing the function of some nAChR subtypes and inhibiting the activity of others. Chronic alcohol and nicotine administration also lead to changes in the numbers of nAChRs. Natural variations (i.e., polymorphisms) in the genes encoding different nAChR subunits may be associated with individual differences in the sensitivity to some of alcohol's and nicotine's effects. Finally, at least one subtype of nAChR may help protect cells against alcohol-induced neurotoxicity.

Biomarkers are likely to be important in the study of Alzheimer disease (AD) for a variety of reasons. A clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer disease is inaccurate even among experienced investigators in about 10% to 15% of cases, and biomarkers might improve the accuracy of diagnosis. Importantly for the development of putative disease-modifying drugs for Alzheimer disease, biomarkers might also serve as indirect measures of disease severity. When used in this way, sample sizes of clinical trials might be reduced, and a change in biomarker could be considered supporting evidence of disease modification. This review summarizes a meeting of the Alzheimer's Association's Research Roundtable, during which existing and emerging biomarkers for AD were evaluated. Imaging biomarkers including volumetric magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography assessing either glucose utilization or ligands binding to amyloid plaque are discussed. Additionally, biochemical biomarkers in blood or cerebrospinal fluid are assessed. Currently appropriate uses of biomarkers in the study of Alzheimer disease, and areas where additional work is needed, are discussed.
During the first two decades of the life of this Journal (ADAD) much progress has been made in our understanding of Alzheimer disease (AD). Advancing knowledge, however, has been accompanied by increasing appreciation of the complexity and heterogeneity of this disease. Prevention and cure continue to elude us as the number of afflicted and the cost of their care continues to increase. New techniques together with long-term prospective follow-up studies, as well as utilization of data accumulated in existing data bases, are needed to move the field forward. We expect that during the next two decades, as new information accrues, reports published in ADAD will continue to contribute to the dissemination and elucidation of critical issues in Alzheimer research.
Early diagnosis and treatment of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) ultimately will require identification of its pathogenic mechanism. Such a mechanism must explain the hallmark of early AD--a profound inability to form new memories. For many years, the most promising hypothesis maintained that memory failure derived from neuron death induced by insoluble deposits of amyloid fibrils. Newer findings, however, suggest that memory loss, especially in early AD, may be a failure in synaptic plasticity caused by small soluble A beta oligomers (&quot;ADDLs&quot;). ADDLs are neurologically potent toxins that rapidly inhibit long-term potentiation and reversal of long-term depression, classic paradigms for learning and memory. In human samples, ADDLs show striking increases in AD brain and CSF. The ADDL hypothesis is considerably reinforced by nerve cell biology studies showing that ADDLs specifically attack synapses, essentially acting as gain-of-function pathogenic ligands. Selective damage by ADDLs to memory-linked synaptic mechanisms provides an appealing explanation for early AD memory loss and suggests that ADDLs provide a valid target for therapeutics and diagnostics.

Radix Glycyrrhizae (RG) is a medicinal herb extensively utilized in numerous Chinese medical formulae for coordinating the actions of various components in the recipes and strengthening the body functions. In this report, we demonstrate that the aqueous extract of Radix Glycyrrhizae is capable of stimulating the c-Jun N-terminal kinase and p38 subgroups of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), and the nuclear factor-kappaB (NFkappaB) in Jurkat T-lymphocytes. The activation magnitudes of MAPKs and NFkappaB were dose-dependent (EC(50) approximately 1 mg/ml) and time-dependent (maximal around 15-30 minutes). Stimulations of MAPKs and NFkappaB were not associated with changes in intracellular Ca(2+) mobilization. Similar activation profiles of MAPK and NFkappaB were obtained from THP-1 monocytes treated with the extract. In terms of chemotactic activity, the SDF-induced chemotaxis of Jurkat cells and THP-1 cells were inhibited by RG extract at 1-10 mg/ml, while a lower RG concentration (0.1-0.3 mg/ml) potentiated the SDF-induced chemotaxis for the former, but not the latter cell type. Given the fact that MAPKs and NFkappaB are important signaling intermediates for lymphocyte activities, our results suggest that Radix Glycyrrhizae may contain active constituents capable of modulating immuno-responses through various intracellular signaling pathways.

The concept of a dichotomous versus a continuous aggression model continues to be debated within the research literature. The Impulsive/Premeditated Aggression Scale (IPAS; M. S. Stanford, R. J. Houston, C. W. Mathias, et al., 2003) is a newly developed self-report instrument designed to classify an individual's aggressive behavior as predominantly premeditated or predominantly impulsive. The IPAS consists of 30-items that are scored on a 5-point Likert scale. This study used a nonrandom sample of convenience (N = 85) from a forensic state hospital. Principal-components analysis of the 30 items revealed 2 distinct factors (Impulsive and Premeditated Aggression), which accounted for 33% of the variance. The results of this study further validate the bimodal classification of aggression through its application to a forensic sample. The implications for general assessment, diagnosis, and treatment are discussed.
Community-based population survey data were used to explore whether remaining in school, independent of achievement status, was associated with lower rates of psychopathology in adulthood among participants self-reporting exposure to child physical and/or sexual abuse. Remaining in school, independent of one's achievement status, was significantly associated with a lower probability of experiencing externalizing but not internalizing disorders. Theoretical and educational implications of these results are discussed.
Apoptosis signal-regulating kinase 1 (ASK1) is a mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase that plays an important role in oxidative stress-induced apoptosis. In the present study, we used ASK1 knockout (KO) mice to examine the possibility that ASK1 is involved in the neural cell apoptosis that occurs during retinal development and ischemic injury. ASK1 was expressed in retinal neurons, including retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), but retinal structure and extent of cell death during development were normal in ASK1 KO mice. On the other hand, the strain was less susceptible to ischemic injury, and the number of surviving retinal neurons was significantly increased compared with that in wild-type mice. Interestingly, ischemia-induced phosphorylation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38), which mediates RGC apoptosis, was almost completely suppressed in ASK1 KO mice. In such retinas, the numbers of cleaved caspase-3- and TUNEL-positive neurons were apparently decreased compared with those in wild-type mice. Furthermore, cultured RGCs from ASK1 KO mice were resistant to H(2)O(2)-induced apoptosis. Our findings suggest that ASK1 is involved in the neural cell apoptosis after various kinds of oxidative stress. Thus, inhibition of the ASK1-p38 pathway could be useful for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases including glaucoma.
The accumulation of the amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) in the brain is considered to have a primary role in Alzheimer's disease (AD). In addition to the extracellular accumulation of Abeta in the parenchyma and cerebrovasculature, emerging evidence indicates that intraneuronal Abeta also plays a pathophysiological role in AD. It is unclear, however, if the intracellular and extracellular pools of Abeta are unrelated or connected. In these studies, we sought to establish a relationship between these two pools of Abeta. We identified an inverse relationship between intracellular and extracellular Abeta in the 3xTg-AD transgenic model of AD. Using an immunotherapy approach, we further found that extracellular Abeta was cleared before intracellular Abeta. After the antibody dissipated, however, the reappearance of extracellular plaques was preceded by the accumulation of intraneuronal Abeta. Taken together, these results provide strong experimental evidence that intraneuronal Abeta may serve as a source for some of the extracellular amyloid deposits.
The role of nitric oxide (NO) in the occurrence of intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) oscillations in pituitary GH3 cells was evaluated by studying the effect of increasing or decreasing endogenous NO synthesis with L-arginine and nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), respectively. When NO synthesis was blocked with L-NAME (1 mM) [Ca2+]i, oscillations disappeared in 68% of spontaneously active cells, whereas 41% of the quiescent cells showed [Ca2+]i oscillations in response to the NO synthase (NOS) substrate L-arginine (10 mM). This effect was reproduced by the NO donors NOC-18 and S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP). NOC-18 was ineffective in the presence of the L-type voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels (VDCC) blocker nimodipine (1 microM) or in Ca2+-free medium. Conversely, its effect was preserved when Ca2+ release from intracellular Ca2+ stores was inhibited either with the ryanodine-receptor blocker ryanodine (500 microM) or with the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor blocker xestospongin C (3 microM). These results suggest that NO induces the appearance of [Ca2+]i oscillations by determining Ca2+ influx. Patch-clamp experiments excluded that NO acted directly on VDCC but suggested that NO determined membrane depolarization because of the inhibition of voltage-gated K+ channels. NOC-18 and SNAP caused a decrease in the amplitude of slow-inactivating (IDR) and ether--go-go-related gene (ERG) hyperpolarization-evoked, deactivating K+ currents. Similar results were obtained when GH3 cells were treated with L-arginine. The present study suggests that in GH3 cells, endogenous NO plays a permissive role for the occurrence of spontaneous [Ca2+]i oscillations through an inhibitory effect on IDR and on IERG.
Voltage-dependent (Kv)4.2-encoded A-type K+ channels play an important role in controlling neuronal excitability and are subject to modulation by various protein kinases, including ERK. In studies of ERK modulation, the organic compound U0126 is often used to suppress the activity of MEK, which is a kinase immediately upstream from ERK. We have observed that the inactivation time constant of heterologously expressed Kv4.2 channels was accelerated by U0126 at 1-20 microM. This effect, however, was not Kv4 family specific, because U0126 also converted noninactivating K+ currents mediated by Kv1.1 subunits into transient ones. To determine whether U0126 exerted these effects through kinase inhibition, we tested U0125, a derivative of U0126 that is less potent in MEK inhibition. At the same concentrations, U0125 had effects similar to those of U0126 on channel inactivation. Finally, we expressed a mutant form of Kv4.2 in which three identified ERK phosphorylation sites (T602, T607, and S616) were replaced with alanines. The inactivation of K+ currents mediated by this mutant was still accelerated by U0126. Our data favor the conclusion that the increase in the rate of channel inactivation by U0126 is likely to be independent of protein kinase inhibition and instead represents a direct action on channel gating.
Reduced fasting or postprandial gastric volumes have been implicated in the pathophysiology of functional dyspepsia. The mechanisms that underlie the control of gastric fundic volume are incompletely understood, partly because of an inability to accurately measure fundic volume in vivo in small animals. Small animals are useful models to evaluate mechanisms, e.g., in knockout animals. The aim of this study was to determine whether an ultrasonometric technique accurately monitors fundic contraction and relaxation in mice in vivo and to determine the effect of modulation of cholinergic, nitrergic, and serotonergic pathways on fundic size and compliance in the intact mouse innervated stomach. Two to four piezoelectric crystals (diameter 1 mm, 24-microm resolution) were glued to the serosal side of fundus and used to measure distance. Validation studies showed excellent correlation between measured changes and actual changes in distances between crystals and excellent reproducibility. The expected responses to pharmacological modulation with bethanechol and nitroglycerin were demonstrated. Atropine increased the distance between the crystals, suggesting a baseline cholinergic regulation of fundic volume. Bethanechol, Nomega-nitro-L-arginine, and the 5-HT1B/D agonist sumatriptan decreased the distance between the crystals, suggesting fundic contraction. Atropine, nitroglycerin, and buspirone caused an increase in intercrystal distance consistent with fundic relaxation. Fundic compliance was investigated by changing intragastric pressure via an implanted catheter. Sumatriptan increased compliance, whereas buspirone increased the distance between crystals but did not change compliance. The data suggest that ultrasonomicrometry is a useful tool that can reproducibly and accurately measure changes in fundic size and the response to pharmacological agents.
Generating &quot;views&quot; over reference ontologies allows them to be customized for use within specific application contexts. In this project we investigated the operations necessary to generate one such custom ontology view. We catalogued the involved operations as a first step in defining the requirements of a formal view definition language.
Integrative neuroscience involves the integration and analysis of diverse types of neuroscience data involving many different experimental techniques. This data will increasingly be distributed across many heterogeneous databases that are web-accessible. Currently, these databases do not expose their schemas (database structures) and their contents to web applications/agents in a standardized, machine-friendly way. This limits database interoperation. To address this problem, we describe a pilot project that illustrates how neuroscience databases can be expressed using the Web Ontology Language, which is a semantically-rich ontological language, as a common data representation language to facilitate complex cross-database queries. In this pilot project, an existing tool called 'D2RQ' was used to translate two neuroscience databases (NeuronDB and CoCoDat) into OWL, and the resulting OWL ontologies were then merged. An OWL-based reasoner (Racer) was then used to provide a sophisticated query language (nRQL) to perform integrated queries across the two databases based on the merged ontology. This pilot project is one step toward exploring the use of semantic web technologies in the neurosciences.
This conference begins with a personal evocation of the author's grandfather, Gaspar Cruz y Martn, Anatomic Sculptor at the Faculty of Medicine of San Carlos--the commemorative medal depicting Cajal that can be seen today at the Cajal Teaching Room Museum in the Medical College of Madrid is due to his hand. The talk goes on to compile a little anthology of texts on women by Cajal, chosen as literary counterparts to his scientific writings. Women are seen by Cajal under the light of beauty, love, marriage, family and even feminism. The anthology ends with a series of &quot;misogynistic stings&quot;--as Dr. Cruz y Hermida calls them--which alternate negative criticism with open praise, mostly showing the admiration that women caused in the sensitive intelligence of the great humanist. The conference finishes with an account of the last moments of Cajal and the moving words by D. Tefilo Hernando, who was at the side of the Maestro when he passed away.
The term 'creativity', meaning to produce something out of nothing, is not accurate. A definition that included the establishment, the founding or the introduction of something anew for the first time would be rather appropiate. The most accurate interpretation of the creativity process is the one proposed by Alfred Rothenberg which establishes the hypothesis that creativity is due to what he calls a 'janusian thinking' characterized by conceiving simultaneously two or more opposed ideas, images or concepts. Two examples illustrate such way of thinking: one is Einstein's General Theory of Relativity and the other is Darwin's Theory of Natural Selection. The overcome of a dualistic thinking while keeping full consciousnees, that is, the utilization of both the primary and the secondary processes postulated by Freud, would be the key to creative thinking. From a neurophysiological point of view, it is very likely that the right hemisphere is rather connected to creativity, given that it is a mental state that requires non-focalized attention, greater right hemisphere activation, and low levels of prefrontal cortical activation allowing cognitive inhibition.




VIP is a peptide synthesised in the pituitary gland and is involved in the stimulation of prolactin secretion. However, to date it has not been determined whether VIP is able to regulate the proliferation of pituitary prolactin-producing cells, like other factors involved in the regulation of prolactin such as estradiol or dopamine. The aim of the present study was to address whether VIP is involved in regulating the proliferation of pituitary prolactin-secreting cells. Thus, we performed an in vitro study on monolayer cultures of rat pituitary cells, neutralising the possible paracrine effect of VIP by immunoblockade of the peptide and later determining the degree of proliferation of prolactin-secreting cells. The effects of immunoblockade were validated by determining the levels of VIP in the culture media, which were decreased (P &lt; 0.01), and modifications in the patterns of the immunohistochemical reaction to prolactin-positive cells. Immunoblockade of VIP decreased the proliferation of pituitary prolactin-positive cells at all antibody concentrations analysed, mainly between 3 and 12 h (P &lt; 0.01). Moreover, immunoblockade decreased the sizes of the cellular and nuclear areas, except at 1 h, at which point it only decreased the nuclear area of prolactin-positive cells. The results obtained suggest that-in the same way as it regulates the secretion of the hormone-VIP could be involved in regulating the proliferation of prolactin cells, like estradiol or dopamine.



Visual neglect after stroke is often associated with a failure to explore contralesional space. Here, we show that guanfacine, a noradrenergic agonist that modulates dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, improves leftward space exploration in selected right-hemisphere patients with neglect. The positive effects of guanfacine were associated with extended ability to maintain attention on task. The results suggest that neuropharmacological targeting of intact frontal areas might be one way to enhance cognitive function after damage to posterior brain regions in selected individuals.
Motor sequence learning is abnormal in presymptomatic Huntington's disease (p-HD). The neural substrates underlying this early manifestation of HD are poorly understood. To study the mechanism of this cognitive abnormality in p-HD, we used positron emission tomography to record brain activity during motor sequence learning in these subjects. Eleven p-HD subjects (age, 45.8 +/- 11.0 years; CAG repeat length, 41.6 +/- 1.8) and 11 age-matched control subjects (age, 45.3 +/- 13.4 years) underwent H(2) (15)O positron emission tomography while performing a set of kinematically controlled motor sequence learning and execution tasks. Differences in regional brain activation responses between groups and conditions were assessed. In addition, we identified discrete regions in which learning-related activity correlated with performance. We found that sequence learning was impaired in p-HD subjects despite normal motor performance. In p-HD, activation responses during learning were abnormally increased in the left mediodorsal thalamus and orbitofrontal cortex (OFC; BA 11/47). Impaired learning performance in these subjects was associated with increased activation responses in the precuneus (BA 18/31). These data suggest that enhanced activation of thalamocortical pathways during motor learning can compensate for caudate degeneration in p-HD. Nonetheless, this mechanism may not be sufficient to sustain a normal level of task performance, even during the presymptomatic stage of the disease.
Schizotypal personality research holds the promise of critically important insights into the etiology and ultimate prevention of schizophrenia. This article provides a critical overview of diagnostic, developmental, demographic, psychosocial, genetic, neurodevelopmental, psychophysiological, neurochemical, neurocognitive, brain imaging, and prevention-treatment issues pertaining to this personality disorder. It is argued that genetic and early environmental influences act in concert to alter brain structure/function throughout development, resulting in disturbances to basic cognitive and affective processes that give rise to three building blocks of schizotypy-cognitive-perceptual, interpersonal, and disorganized features. Two clinical subtypes are hypothesized: (a) neurodevelopmental schizotypy, which has its roots in genetic, prenatal, and early postnatal factors, is relatively stable, has genetic affinity to schizophrenia, and may benefit preferentially from pharmacological intervention, and (b) pseudoschizotypy, which is unrelated to schizophrenia, has its roots in psychosocial adversity, shows greater symptom fluctuations, and may be more responsive to psychosocial intervention.
The behavioral and neuropsychiatric symptoms of dementia and Alzheimer's disease have become an increasingly important focus of clinical research. These symptoms also pose a tremendous challenge to families and caregivers. The late afternoon/evening exacerbation of behavioral symptoms in dementia has been recognized by clinicians for &gt;60 years. Researchers have utilized a variety of increasingly sophisticated tools to examine the circadian, hormonal, physiological, and epidemiological correlations with sundowning behavior. Although treatment remains largely empirical, an improved understanding of the complex relationships that drive sundowning behavior should lead to more effective therapies in the future.
System identification is a growing approach to sensory neurophysiology that facilitates the development of quantitative functional models of sensory processing. This approach provides a clear set of guidelines for combining experimental data with other knowledge about sensory function to obtain a description that optimally predicts the way that neurons process sensory information. This prediction paradigm provides an objective method for evaluating and comparing computational models. In this chapter we review many of the system identification algorithms that have been used in sensory neurophysiology, and we show how they can be viewed as variants of a single statistical inference problem. We then review many of the practical issues that arise when applying these methods to neurophysiological experiments: stimulus selection, behavioral control, model visualization, and validation. Finally we discuss several problems to which system identification has been applied recently, including one important long-term goal of sensory neuroscience: developing models of sensory systems that accurately predict neuronal responses under completely natural conditions.
Functional brain imaging with positron emission tomography and magnetic resonance imaging has been used extensively to map regional changes in brain activity. The signal used by both techniques is based on changes in local circulation and metabolism (brain work). Our understanding of the cell biology of these changes has progressed greatly in the past decade. New insights have emerged on the role of astrocytes in signal transduction as has an appreciation of the unique contribution of aerobic glycolysis to brain energy metabolism. Likewise our understanding of the neurophysiologic processes responsible for imaging signals has progressed from an assumption that spiking activity (output) of neurons is most relevant to one focused on their input. Finally, neuroimaging, with its unique metabolic perspective, has alerted us to the ongoing and costly intrinsic activity within brain systems that most likely represents the largest fraction of the brain's functional activity.
To make a decision, a system must assign value to each of its available choices. In the human brain, one approach to studying valuation has used rewarding stimuli to map out brain responses by varying the dimension or importance of the rewards. However, theoretical models have taught us that value computations are complex, and so reward probes alone can give only partial information about neural responses related to valuation. In recent years, computationally principled models of value learning have been used in conjunction with noninvasive neuroimaging to tease out neural valuation responses related to reward-learning and decision-making. We restrict our review to the role of these models in a new generation of experiments that seeks to build on a now-large body of diverse reward-related brain responses. We show that the models and the measurements based on them point the way forward in two important directions: the valuation of time and the valuation of fictive experience.
The Wnt signaling pathway regulates multiple events in development and disease in both vertebrates and invertebrates. Recently, the noncanonical Wnt signaling cascades, those that do not signal through beta-catenin, have gained prominence for their role in the regulation of cellular polarity. It is not surprising that cellular polarization influences a number of different developmental events within the nervous system, including neurulation and neural tube closure, cellular migration, and uniform orientation of cells within an epithelial plane (planar cell polarity). In this review, we describe the differences between the canonical and noncanonical pathways, summarize recent data illustrating the roles of the noncanonical Wnt pathway in different polarizing events during neural development, and discuss the potential molecular mechanisms that underlie the generation of cellular asymmetry and polarity.
Homeostasis is a specialized form of regulation that precisely maintains the function of a system at a set point level of activity. Recently, homeostatic signaling has been suggested to control neural activity through the modulation of synaptic efficacy and membrane excitability ( Davis &amp; Goodman 1998a, Turrigiano &amp; Nelson 2000, Marder &amp; Prinz 2002, Perez-Otano &amp; Ehlers 2005 ). In this way, homeostatic signaling is thought to constrain neural plasticity and contribute to the stability of neural function over time. Using a restrictive definition of homeostasis, this review first evaluates the phenomenological and molecular evidence for homeostatic signaling in the nervous system. Then, basic principles underlying the design and molecular implementation of homeostatic signaling are reviewed on the basis of work in other, simplified biological systems such as bacterial chemotaxis and the heat shock response. Data from these systems are then discussed in the context of homeostatic signaling in the nervous system.
Intrinsic spinal networks, known as central pattern generators (CPGs), control the timing and pattern of the muscle activity underlying locomotion in mammals. This review discusses new advances in understanding the mammalian CPGs with a focus on experiments that address the overall network structure as well as the identification of CPG neurons. I address the identification of excitatory CPG neurons and their role in rhythm generation, the organization of flexor-extensor networks, and the diverse role of commissural interneurons in coordinating left-right movements. Molecular and genetic approaches that have the potential to elucidate the function of populations of CPG interneurons are also discussed.
Changes in synaptic efficacy are thought to be crucial to experience-dependent modifications of neural function. The diversity of mechanisms underlying these changes is far greater than previously expected. In the last five years, a new class of use-dependent synaptic plasticity that requires retrograde signaling by endocannabinoids (eCB) and presynaptic CB1 receptor activation has been identified in several brain structures. eCB-mediated plasticity encompasses many forms of transient and long-lasting synaptic depression and is found at both excitatory and inhibitory synapses. In addition, eCBs can modify the inducibility of non-eCB-mediated forms of plasticity. Thus, the eCB system is emerging as a major player in synaptic plasticity. Given the wide distribution of CB1 receptors in the CNS, the list of brain structures and synapses expressing eCB-mediated plasticity is likely to expand.
Brainstem parasympathetic circuits that modulate digestive functions of the stomach are comprised of afferent vagal fibers, neurons of the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS), and the efferent fibers originating in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMV). A large body of evidence has shown that neuronal communications between the NTS and the DMV are plastic and are regulated by the presence of a variety of neurotransmitters and circulating hormones as well as the presence, or absence, of afferent input to the NTS. These data suggest that descending central nervous system inputs as well as hormonal and afferent feedback resulting from the digestive process can powerfully regulate vago-vagal reflex sensitivity. This paper first reviews the essential &quot;static&quot; organization and function of vago-vagal gastric control neurocircuitry. We then present data on the opioidergic modulation of NTS connections with the DMV as an example of the &quot;gating&quot; of these reflexes, i.e., how neurotransmitters, hormones, and vagal afferent traffic can make an otherwise static autonomic reflex highly plastic.
Neuroecology is the study of adaptive variation in cognition and the brain. The origin of neuroecology dates from the 1980s, when researchers in behavioral ecology began to apply the methods of comparative evolutionary biology to cognitive processes and the underlying neural mechanisms of cognition. The comparative approach, however, is much older. It was a mainstay of ethology, it has been part of the study of neuroanatomy since the seventeenth century, and it was used by Darwin to marshal evidence for the theory of natural selection. Neuroecology examines the relations between ecological selection pressures and species or sex differences in cognition and the brain. The goal of neuroecology is to understand how natural selection acts on cognition and its neural mechanisms. This chapter describes the general approach of neuroecology, phylogenetic comparative methods used in the field, and new findings on the cognitive mechanisms and brain structures involved in mating systems, social organization, communication, and foraging. The contribution of neuroecology to psychology and the neurosciences is the information it provides on the selective pressures that have influenced the evolution of cognition and brain structure.
Although the functions of sleep remain largely unknown, one of the most exciting hypotheses is that sleep contributes importantly to processes of memory and brain plasticity. Over the past decade, a large body of work, spanning most of the neurosciences, has provided a substantive body of evidence supporting this role of sleep in what is becoming known as sleep-dependent memory processing. We review these findings, focusing specifically on the role of sleep in (a) memory encoding, (b) memory consolidation, (c) brain plasticity, and (d) memory reconsolidation; we finish with a summary of the field and its potential future directions.
It is usually assumed that stressful life events interfere with our ability to acquire new information. However, many studies suggest that stressful experience can enhance processes involved in learning. The types of learning that are enhanced after stressful experiences include classical fear and eyeblink conditioning, as well as processes related to learning about threatening stimuli. Stressful life experiences do seem to interfere with processes involved in memory, often expressed as deficits in the retention or retrieval of information that was acquired prior to and was unrelated to the stressful experience. The trends are limited, as are their implications, because most studies examine adult males, yet the effects of stress on learning processes are influenced by age and sex differences. With respect to mechanisms and anatomical substrates, the effects of stress on learning are usually dependent on the action of stress hormones in combination with neuronal activities within the hippocampus, amygdala, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and the prefrontal cortex.
Traditional approaches to the study of cognition emphasize an information-processing view that has generally excluded emotion. In contrast, the recent emergence of cognitive neuroscience as an inspiration for understanding human cognition has highlighted its interaction with emotion. This review explores insights into the relations between emotion and cognition that have resulted from studies of the human amygdala. Five topics are explored: emotional learning, emotion and memory, emotion's influence on attention and perception, processing emotion in social stimuli, and changing emotional responses. Investigations into the neural systems underlying human behavior demonstrate that the mechanisms of emotion and cognition are intertwined from early perception to reasoning. These findings suggest that the classic division between the study of emotion and cognition may be unrealistic and that an understanding of human cognition requires the consideration of emotion.
The uncoupling proteins (UCPs) are attracting an increased interest as potential therapeutic targets in a number of important diseases. UCP2 is expressed in several tissues, but its physiological functions as well as potential therapeutic applications are still unclear. Unlike UCP1, UCP2 does not seem to be important to thermogenesis or weight control, but appears to have an important role in the regulation of production of reactive oxygen species, inhibition of inflammation, and inhibition of cell death. These are central features in, for example, neurodegenerative and cardiovascular disease, and experimental evidence suggests that an increased expression and activity of UCP2 in models of these diseases has a beneficial effect on disease progression, implicating a potential therapeutic role for UCP2. UCP2 has an important role in the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes by inhibiting insulin secretion in islet beta cells. At the same time, type 2 diabetes is associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease and atherosclerosis where an increased expression of UCP2 appears to be beneficial. This illustrates that therapeutic applications involving UCP2 likely will have to regulate expression and activity in a tissue-specific manner.
Intermittent excessive behaviors (IEB) characterize a variety human disorders including binge eating, drug abuse, alcoholism, aberrant sexual conduct, and compulsive gambling. Clinical co-morbidity exists among IEB, and limited treatment options are available. The use of behavioral models of bingeing and other feeding protocols is beginning to clarify neural similarities and differences that exist between IEB directed toward obtaining and consuming food and IEB directed toward obtaining and consuming drugs of abuse. Research from this laboratory using a limited access binge-type eating protocol may provide new insight into IEB.
Clinical neuropsychologists who assess patients from diverse cultural and linguistic backgrounds face unique ethical challenges. In this article, we address 4 critical questions relevant to ethics of cross-cultural neuropsychology: (a) Should culture or race be considered in neuropsychological testing? (b) Should race- and ethnicity-specific normative data be used in the clinical neuropsychological evaluation? (c) Who is competent to design and translate tests for ethnic minority groups and non-English speakers and who is competent to administer and interpret them? and (d) Are neuropsychology training programs adequately preparing clinicians to be competent in the assessment of cross-cultural groups? The overall aims of the article are to highlight the complexity of these clinical and ethical issues, to provide comprehensive and balanced information to help guide clinician choices, and to stimulate future research in this area.
Previous work examining the cortical-subcortical distinction as it relates to cognitive patterns has not typically used genetic confirmation to identify these groups, controlled for age, or used a comprehensive battery to assess specific cognitive abilities. The present study is the first to include only genetically confirmed Familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) and Huntington's disease (HD) patients to evaluate this distinction. Ten patients with FAD, 11 patients with HD, and 17 matched healthy individuals were compared on a comprehensive neuropsychological battery that included tasks of language, memory, attention, visual-spatial, and executive function. The only neuropsychological measures to differentiate the two clinical groups were Animal Fluency and Letter Fluency; performance on all other measures did not differ. Although the neuropsychological battery adequately distinguished between clinical and healthy individuals, it was not useful to further differentiate the cortical or subcortical nature of the disease. FAD and HD appear to have similar neuropsychological profiles; therefore the cortical versus subcortical cognitive distinction may not be clinically meaningful.

To investigate magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings of very mild dementia, 485 participants were randomly selected in a community. Three hundred and forty participants were of Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) 0 (healthy), 113 were of CDR 0.5 (questionable dementia), and 32 were of CDR 1 and 2 (including 20 Alzheimer's disease, AD). Cortical atrophy, white matter lesion, etc., were visually assessed. We found that each part of the brain showed atrophy in older adults for CDR 0. For CDR 0.5, the relationships between MRI findings and age were weaker, and for AD, there were no such relationship. Atrophy related with dementia severity was found to be limited to the lateral and medial temporal lobes. For CDR 0.5, amygdala atrophy was the only finding indicating CDR effect but no age effect. The amygdala or anterior entorhinal atrophy is important for discriminating very mild dementia from normal elderly.


Two independent measures, 5-HIAA and the Rorschach Suicide Constellation (S-CON), both related to suicide, were studied in an attempt to explore any relationship between the two. Lumbar puncture and the Rorschach were performed in standardized manner on 38 consecutive psychiatric inpatients, who had made a recent suicide attempt. Low CSF 5-HIAA was significantly related to the S-CON (rs = -.517, p = .033) and the Vista variable in the S-CON appeared to play an important role for the correlation. The results indicate that suicide attempters with low CSF 5-HIAA in this sample tended to experience more discomfort and pain during self-inspection. These results raise questions whether shame may be involved in the psychobiology of suicide.
The present study focused on the evaluation of the effects of operant behavioural (OBT) and cognitive behavioural (CBT) treatments for fibromyalgia syndrome (FMS). One hundred and twenty-five patients who fulfilled the American College of Rheumatology criteria for FMS were randomly assigned to OBT (n = 43), CBT (n = 42), or an attention-placebo (AP) treatment (n = 40) that consisted of discussions of FMS-related problems. Assessments of physical functioning, pain, affective distress, and cognitive and behavioural variables were performed pre-treatment and post-treatment as well as 6 and 12 months post-treatment. Patients receiving the OBT or CBT reported a significant reduction in pain intensity post-treatment (all Fs &gt; 3.89, all Ps &lt; 0.01). In addition, the CBT group reported statistically significant improvements in cognitive (all Fs &gt; 7.95, all P &lt; 0.01) and affective variables (all Fs &gt; 2.99, all Ps &lt; 0.02), and the OBT group demonstrated statistically significant improvements in physical functioning and behavioural variables (all Fs &gt; 5.99, all Ps &lt; 0.001) compared with AP. The AP group reported no significant improvement but actually deterioration in the outcome variables. The post-treatment effects for the OBT and CBT groups were maintained at both the 6- and 12-month follow-ups. These results suggest that both OBT and CBT are effective in treating patients with FMS with some differences in the outcome measures specifically targeted by the individual treatments compared with an unstructured discussion group. The AP group showed that unstructured discussion of FMS-related problems may be detrimental.
Auditory brainstem response (ABR) reflects activation of the neural generators along the ascending auditory pathway when a sound is heard. In this study, we explored the relationship between brainstem encoding of click and speech signals in normal-learning children and in those with language-based learning problems. To that end, ABR was recorded from both types of stimuli. We found that the normal pattern of correlation between click- and speech-evoked ABRs was disrupted when speech-evoked ABRs were delayed. Thus, delayed responses to speech were not indicative of clinically abnormal responses to clicks. We conclude that these two responses reflect largely separate neural processes and that only processes involved in encoding complex signals such as speech are impaired in children with learning problems.
We ascertained a large Italian family with an autosomal dominant form of non-syndromic sensorineural hearing loss with vestibular involvement. A genome-wide scan found linkage to locus DFNA11. Sequencing of the MYO7A gene in the linked region identified a new missense mutation resulting in an Ala230Val change in the motor domain of the myosin VIIA. Myosin VIIA has already been implicated in several forms of deafness, but this is the third mutation causing a dominant form of deafness, located in the myosin VIIA motor domain in a region never involved in hearing loss until now. A modelled protein structure of myosin VII motor domain provides evidence for a significant functional effect of this missense mutation.


This paper concerns the ethics of human neuromodulation using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). We examine the challenges of modulating the brain with TMS through the research ethics lens and in clinical medicine for treating frank pathology, primarily in psychiatric diseases. We also consider contemporary issues raised in the neuroethics literature about managing unexpected findings, and relate these to TMS and to other frontier neurotechnology that is becoming openly available in the public domain. We argue that safety and informed consent are of paramount importance for TMS, but that personal values and sociocultural factors must also be considered when examining the promise of this technology and applications that ought to be highlighted for extra precautions.
This paper reviews the effects of single and repetitive transcranial magnetic stimuli (rTMS) delivered to one cortical area and measured across distributed brain regions using electrophysiological measures (e.g. motor thresholds, motor evoked potentials, paired-pulse stimulation), functional neuroimaging (including EEG, PET and fMRI) and behavioural measures. Discussion is restricted to changes in excitability in the primary motor cortex and behaviour during motor tasks following transcranial magnetic stimulation delivered to primary motor and premotor areas. Trains of rTMS have lasting effects on the excitability of intrinsic and corticofugal neurones, altering the responsiveness of local and remote sites. These effects lead to distributed changes in synaptic activity at rest, and during a range of motor tasks. It is possible to impair or improve performance following rTMS, but for most simple motor tasks performance is unaltered. Changes in distributed activity observed with functional imaging during motor behaviour may represent compensatory activity, enabling maintenance of performance; stimulation of additional cortical areas appears to impair performance. A detailed understanding of the distributed changes in excitability following rTMS may facilitate future attempts to modulate motor behaviour in the healthy brain and for therapeutic purposes.
Delusion has always been a central topic for psychiatric research with regard to etiology and pathogenesis and to diagnosis, treatment, and forensic relevance. Throughout the history of psychiatry as a scientific discipline, there has been dissent on the issue of whether chronic delusion is a nosological entity of its own or just a specific type of another mental disorder, e.g. schizophrenia, mania, or personality disorder, and there already is a considerable literature on this. This article seeks to elucidate the central lines of thought that have governed the scientific debate on delusions and delusion-associated phenomena since the early 19th century. Special attention is given to the practical relevance of these theoretical considerations for forensic questions and psychiatric research. Due to the complex features of delusions, research in this area may well become paradigmatic for many other complicated psycho(patho)logical phenomena, e.g. consciousness, hallucinations and psychotic depression.
There are at least 9 studies that provide evidence that insomnia is a significant risk factor for recurrent and new onset major depressive disorder (MDD), two of which suggest that this association also exists specifically for the elderly. In this study, archival data from a community sample of healthy elderly participants were used to assess the extent to which insomnia predicts future illness in this age cohort. Out of the 147 participants with no prior history of mental illness, 66 participants were classified as having no insomnia, 47 had indeterminate insomnia, and 34 had persistent insomnia. Twelve participants developed MDD during the 1-year follow-up period. Two had no insomnia, 4 had indeterminate insomnia, and 6 had persistent insomnia. Persistent insomnia with onset of depression occurred only in female participants and was significantly associated with middle insomnia. These data suggest that elderly participants with persistent insomnia are at greater risk for the development of new onset depression.
Interactions of the human NPY (neuropeptide Y) receptor Y1 with the two endogenous agonists NPY and peptide YY and two non-peptide antagonists were investigated using site-directed mutagenesis at 17 positions. The present study was triggered by contradictions among previously published reports and conclusions that seemed inconsistent with sequence comparisons across species and receptor subtypes. Our results show that Asp287, at the border between TM (transmembrane) region 6 and EL3 (extracellular loop 3) influences peptide binding, while two aspartic residues in EL2 do not, in agreement with some previous studies but in disagreement with others. A hydrophobic pocket of the Y1 receptor consisting of Tyr100 (TM2), Phe286 (TM6) and His298 (EL3) has been proposed to interact with the amidated C-terminus of NPY, a theory that is unsupported by sequence comparisons between Y1, Y2 and Y5. Nevertheless, our results confirm that these amino acid residues are critical for peptide binding, but probably interact with NPY differently than proposed previously. Studies with the Y1-selective antagonist SR120819A identified a new site of interaction at Asn116 in TM3. Position Phe173 in TM4 is also important for binding of this antagonist. In contrast with previous reports, we found that Phe173 is not crucial for the binding of BIBP3226, another selective Y1 receptor antagonist. Also, we found that position Thr212 (TM5) is important for binding of both antagonists. Our mutagenesis results and our three-dimensional model of the receptor based on the high-resolution structure of bovine rhodopsin suggest new interactions for agonist as well as antagonist binding to the Y1 receptor.
Amine oxidases, the major enzymes of biogenic amines metabolism, are considered to be biological regulators, especially for cell growth and differentiation. A primary involvement of amine oxidases in cancer growth inhibition and progression, especially by means of aldehydes, H(2)O(2) and other reactive oxygen species, the amine oxidase-mediated products of biogenic amines oxidation, has been demonstrated. Amine oxidases are involved in cancer growth inhibition because of the higher content in tumour cells of biogenic amines in comparison to normal cells. The cytotoxic effect can be explained by a damage to cell membranes and/or nuclei or, indirectly, through modulation of membrane permeability transition and therefore apoptosis. The oxidation products of biogenic amines appears to be also carcinogenic, while acrolein, produced from the oxidation of spermine and spermidine, should be a key compound both carcinogenic and cytotoxic. The cancer inhibition/promotion effect of amine oxidases could be explained by taking into consideration the full pattern of the enzyme content of the cell. The balance of amine oxidases and antioxidant enzymes appear to be a crucial point for cancer inhibition or progression. A long lasting imbalance of these enzymes appears to be carcinogenic, while, for a short time, amine oxidases are cytotoxic for cancer cells.
Endomorphin (EM)-1 and EM-2 are tetrapeptides located within the mammalian central nervous system and immune tissues, with high affinity and specificity for micro-opioid receptors. Most of the literature has focused on the analgesic properties of EM-1 and EM-2 in animal models of neuropathic or neurogenic pain, but there is persuasive evidence emerging that EMs can also exert potent anti-inflammatory effects in both acute and chronic peripheral inflammation. The purpose of this review is to present and evaluate the evidence for anti-inflammatory properties of EM-1 and EM-2 with a view to their potential for use in chronic human inflammatory disease. Distribution of EMs within the immune system and functional roles as immunomodulatory agents are summarized and discussed. Possible milestones to be met revolve around issues of peptide stability, biodegradability problems and optimal route and method of delivery. The potential for delivery of a low-cost drug with both peripheral anti-inflammatory and analgesic properties, effective in low doses, and targeted to the site of inflammation, should focus our attention on further development of EMs as potent therapeutic agents in chronic inflammation.
Imprinted genes are monoallelically expressed in a parent-of-origin-dependent manner and can affect brain and behavioural phenotypes. The X chromosome is enriched for genes affecting neurodevelopment and is donated asymmetrically to male and female progeny. Hence, X-linked imprinted genes could potentially influence sexually dimorphic neurobiology. Consequently, investigations into such loci may provide new insights into the biological basis of behavioural differences between the sexes and into why men and women show different vulnerabilities to certain mental disorders. In this review, we summarise recent advances in our knowledge of X-linked imprinted genes and the brain substrates that they may act upon. In addition, we suggest strategies for identifying novel X-linked imprinted genes and their downstream effects and discuss evolutionary theories regarding the origin and maintenance of X-linked imprinting.
Julie Axelrod was a laboratory technician until the age of 42, when he finally achieved his PhD and independence. He worked at the National Institutes of Health for most of his career. Among his early pioneering research achievements in applying chemical and biochemical approaches to neuroscience were the discoveries of the painkiller acetaminophen (Tylenol, Paracetamol) and the liver microsomal drug-metabolizing enzymes, and the establishment of catechol-O-methyltransferase as an important enzyme in catecholamine metabolism. He shared the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1970 for his discovery that the reuptake of noradrenaline (norepinephrine) into the nerve endings from which it was released represented a novel method of neurotransmitter inactivation. An important corollary was the finding that antidepressant drugs acted as inhibitors of this uptake process. Subsequent work in his laboratory on the control of melatonin biosynthesis in the pineal gland provided new insights into the way in which the nervous system controls circadian rhythms, and offered an early model system in which to study the rapid control of mammalian gene expression. Axelrod continued actively in research until shortly before his death, and trained many students who have gone on to become leaders of the new field of biochemical neuropharmacology.

Julius Bernstein belonged to the Berlin school of &quot;organic physicists&quot; who played a prominent role in creating modern physiology and biophysics during the second half of the nineteenth century. He trained under du Bois-Reymond in Berlin, worked with von Helmholtz in Heidelberg, and finally became Professor of Physiology at the University of Halle. Nowadays his name is primarily associated with two discoveries: (1) The first accurate description of the action potential in 1868. He developed a new instrument, a differential rheotome (= current slicer) that allowed him to resolve the exact time course of electrical activity in nerve and muscle and to measure its conduction velocity. (2) His 'Membrane Theory of Electrical Potentials' in biological cells and tissues. This theory, published by Bernstein in 1902, provided the first plausible physico-chemical model of bioelectric events; its fundamental concepts remain valid to this day. Bernstein pursued an intense and long-range program of research in which he achieved a new level of precision and refinement by formulating quantitative theories supported by exact measurements. The innovative design and application of his electromechanical instruments were milestones in the development of biomedical engineering techniques. His seminal work prepared the ground for hypotheses and experiments on the conduction of the nervous impulse and ultimately the transmission of information in the nervous system. Shortly after his retirement, Bernstein (1912) summarized his electrophysiological work and extended his theoretical concepts in a book Elektrobiologie that became a classic in its field. The Bernstein Centers for Computational Neuroscience recently established at several universities in Germany were named to honor the person and his work.
The Chromatin Immunoprecipiation (ChIP) provides a powerful technique for identifying the in vivo association of transcription factors with regulatory elements. However, obtaining meaningful information for promoter interactions is extremely challenging when the promoter is a member of a class of highly homologous elements. Use of PCR primers with small numbers of mutations can limit cross-hybridization with non-targeted sequences and distinguish a pattern of binding for factors with the regulatory element of interest. In this report, we demonstrate the selective in vivo association of NF-kappaB, p300 and CREB with the human Igamma1 promoter located in the intronic region upstream of the Cgamma1 exons in the immunoglobulin heavy chain locus. These methods have the ability to extend ChIP analysis to promoters with a high degree of homology.

Increasing the emotionality of target material often facilitates memory performance which may be linked to the liberation of glucose. Conversely, increasing mental effort leads to reduced performance and measurable falls in blood glucose. A 2 x 2, parallel groups experiment examined these two phenomena directly by assessing blood glucose levels and memory for neutral and emotional word lists, both with and without a secondary task. Co-performing the secondary task significantly reduced blood glucose in the neutral word condition only and resulted in a global reduction of memory performance in both neutral and emotional word conditions. Processing emotional material resulted in significantly raised blood glucose levels, however, there was no advantage for memory of emotional words. A follow-up study confirmed that the emotionality manipulation was effective. We conclude that there exists a clear relationship between reduced blood glucose and impaired memory performance during periods of mental effort. However, the relationship between physiological and cognitive processes associated with processing emotional material are more complex.
Thymeleatoxin (TMX), an activator of Ca2+-sensitive protein kinase C (cPKC) isoforms, was used to assess the PKC isoform specificity of cholinergic potentiation of glucose (11 mM)-induced pulsatile 5-HT/insulin release (PIR) from single mouse pancreatic islets. TMX (100 nM) and carbachol (Cch, 50 microM) enhanced PIR approximately 3-fold while reducing the underlying [Ca2+]i oscillations (duration and amplitude) by approximately 40-50%. Both effects were ablated by the specific PKC inhibitor bisindolylmaleimide and chronic TMX pretreatment. Cch also evoked an initial transient [Ca2+]i rise and surge of 5-HT release, which remained unaffected by chronic TMX pretreatment. It is concluded that the immediate cholinergic responses are insensitive to cPKC. In contrast, specific activation of a cPKC isoform mediates sustained cholinergic potentiation of glucose-induced insulin secretion.
Understanding how neurons represent, process, and manipulate information is one of the main goals of neuroscience. These issues are fundamentally abstract, and information theory plays a key role in formalizing and addressing them. However, application of information theory to experimental data is fraught with many challenges. Meeting these challenges has led to a variety of innovative analytical techniques, with complementary domains of applicability, assumptions, and goals.
Previous studies have shown that mats made from fibronectin (FN) integrate well into spinal cord lesion sites and support extensive axonal growth. Using immunohistochemistry, we have investigated the non-neuronal factors that contribute to these properties. Extensive vascularization was observed in FN mats by 1 week along with heavy macrophage infiltration by 3 days post-implantation. By 1 week post-implantation, laminin tubules had formed and were associated with axons and p75 immunoreactive Schwann cells. By 4 weeks post-implantation, most axons were associated with Schwann cell derived myelin. Few oligodendrocytes were present within the mat, even with an increase in the number of oligodendrocyte precursors around the implant site by 7 days post-implantation. Astrocyte proliferation also occurred in the intact tissue, with a prominent glial scar forming around the implant within 4 weeks. However, by 2 months post-implantation astrocytes were present in the FN implant site and were intermingled with the axons. Axonal ingrowth and integration of the FN mats is probably due to the ability of FN mats to support and organize infiltration of Schwann cells and deposition of laminin. At later time points, myelinated axons remain in the implant site, even after other elements (e.g. macrophages and laminin) have disappeared. Both of these properties are likely to be important in the design of biomaterial bridges for CNS regeneration.
We have previously shown that a novel synthetic hydrogel channel composed of poly(2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate-co-methyl methacrylate) (pHEMA-MMA) is biocompatible and supports axonal regeneration after spinal cord injury. Our goal was to improve the number and type of regenerated axons within the spinal cord through the addition of different matrices and growth factors incorporated within the lumen of the channel. After complete spinal cord transection at T8, pHEMA-MMA channels, having an elastic modulus of 263+/-13 kPa were implanted into adult Sprague Dawley rats. The channels were then filled with one of the following matrices: collagen, fibrin, Matrigel, methylcellulose, or smaller pHEMA-MMA tubes placed within a larger pHEMA-MMA channel (called tubes within channels, TWC). We also supplemented selected matrices (collagen and fibrin) with neurotrophic factors, fibroblast growth factor-1 (FGF-1) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3). After channel implantation, fibrin glue was applied to the cord-channel interface, and a duraplasty was performed with an expanded polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE) membrane. Controls included animals that had either complete spinal cord transection and implantation of unfilled pHEMA-MMA channels or complete spinal cord transection. Regeneration was assessed by retrograde axonal tracing with Fluoro-Gold, and immunohistochemistry with NF-200 (for total axon counts) and calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP, for sensory axon counts) after 8 weeks survival. Fibrin, Matrigel, methylcellulose, collagen with FGF-1, collagen with NT-3, fibrin with FGF-1, and fibrin with NT-3 increased the total axon density within the channel (ANOVA, p&lt;0.05) compared to unfilled channel controls. Only fibrin with FGF-1 decreased the sensory axon density compared to unfilled channel controls (ANOVA, p&lt;0.05). Fibrin promoted the greatest axonal regeneration from reticular neurons, and methylcellulose promoted the greatest regeneration from vestibular and red nucleus neurons. With Matrigel, there was no axonal regeneration from brainstem motor neurons. The addition of FGF-1 increased the axonal regeneration of vestibular neurons, and the addition of NT-3 decreased the total number of axons regenerating from brainstem neurons. The fibrin and TWC showed a consistent improvement in locomotor function at both 7 and 8 weeks. Thus, the present study shows that the presence and type of matrix contained within synthetic hydrogel guidance channels affects the quantity and origin of axons that regenerate after complete spinal cord transection, and can improve functional recovery. Determining the optimum matrices and growth factors for insertion into these guidance channels will improve regeneration of the injured spinal cord.
We describe a two-dimensional stochastic model of intercellular Ca(2+) wave (ICW) spread in glia that includes contributions of external stimuli, ionotropic and metabotropic P2 receptors, exo- and ecto-nucleotidases, second messengers, and gap junctions. In this model, an initial stimulus evokes ATP and UTP release from a single cell. Agonists diffuse and are degraded both in bulk solution and at cell surfaces. Ca(2+) elevation in individual cells is determined by bound agonist concentrations s and by number and features of P2 receptors summed with that generated by IP(3) diffusing through gap junction channels. Variability of ICWs is provided by randomly distributing a predetermined density of cells in a rectangular grid and by randomly selecting within intervals values characterizing the extracellular compartment, individual cells, and interconnections with neighboring cells. Variability intervals were obtained from experiments on astrocytoma cells transfected to express individual P2 receptors and/or the gap junction protein connexin43. The simulation program (available as Supplementary Material) permits individual alteration of ICW components, allowing comparison of simulations with data from cells expressing connexin43 and/or various P2 receptor subtypes. Such modeling is expected to be useful for testing phenomenological hypotheses and in understanding consequences of alteration of system components under experimental or pathological conditions.
Slow waves are rhythmic depolarizations that underlie mechanical activity of many smooth muscles. Slow waves result through rhythmic Ca(2+) release from intracellular Ca(2+) stores through inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3)) sensitive receptors and Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release. Ca(2+) oscillations are transformed into membrane depolarizations by generation of a Ca(2+)-activated inward current. Importantly, the store Ca(2+) oscillations that underlie slow waves are entrained across many cells over large distances. It has been shown that IP(3) receptor-mediated Ca(2+) release is enhanced by membrane depolarization. Previous studies have implicated diffusion of Ca(2+) or the second messenger IP(3) across gap junctions in synchronization of Ca(2+) oscillations. In this study, a novel mechanism of Ca(2+) store entrainment through depolarization-induced IP(3) receptor-mediated Ca(2+) release is investigated. This mechanism is significantly different from chemical coupling-based mechanisms, as membrane potential has a coupling effect over distances several orders of magnitude greater than either diffusion of Ca(2+) or IP(3) through gap junctions. It is shown that electrical coupling acting through voltage-dependent modulation of store Ca(2+) release is able to synchronize oscillations of cells even when cells are widely separated and have different intrinsic frequencies of oscillation.
The principal phyto-oestrogens (PO) in food are isoflavones, lignans, coumestans and prenylated flavonoids, with isoflavones and lignans being the most commonly found in UK diets. Until recently obtaining accurate data on the PO content of foods was hampered by lack of suitable analytical methods and validation techniques. Furthermore, although PO data exist for some foods, these foods may not be available in the UK. The aim of the present study was to construct a new, comprehensive isoflavone (total genistein + daidzein) database. Using data, mainly from recent GC-MS analysis, for approximately 300 foods available in the UK, and extensive recipe calculations, a new database was constructed containing approximately 6000 foods allocated an isoflavone value. By analysing 7 d weighed food diaries, the database was subsequently used to estimate isoflavone intake in two groups of healthy volunteers, omnivores (n 9) and vegetarians (n 10). Mean isoflavone intake in the vegetarian and omnivorous group was 7.4 (sem 3.05) and 1.2 (sem 0.43) mg/d, respectively. Mean intake for the total group was 4.5 (sem 1.89) mg/d. Main food sources of isoflavones for the vegetarian group were soya milk (plain), meat-substitute foods containing textured vegetable protein and soya protein isolate, soya mince, wholemeal bread and rolls, white bread and rolls, croissants and pitta breads, beans, raisins and soya sauce. Main food sources of isoflavones for the omnivorous group were soya yogurts, wholemeal bread and rolls, white bread and rolls, garlic bread, nan bread and brown bread, sultanas and scones.

Well over 80 years ago Philip Smith described the beneficial clinical effects of adrenocortical extracts in animal models of adrenal insufficiency. In the ensuing years, scientists across the globe have sought to understand the mechanisms by which adrenal hormones and their synthetic analogues produce their complex and varied actions. Particular attention has focused on the glucocorticoids, partly because they have a vital place in the treatment of inflammatory and autoimmune disorders but also because dysregulation of the secretion and/or activity of endogenous glucocorticoids is increasingly implicated in a number of common disorders that pose a growing clinical burden, such as obesity, type II diabetes, the metabolic syndrome, hypertension and depression. This review considers some of the key advances that have been made in our understanding of the physiology, pathology and pharmacology of the glucocorticoids. Emphasis is placed on the molecular mechanisms of glucocorticoid signalling and the complex mechanisms that regulate the access of steroids in the systemic circulation to their receptors in their various target cells and tissues. In addition, consideration is given to the irreversible 'organisational' actions of glucocorticoids in perinatal life and to the potential role of the steroids in the aetiology of disease.
While there were early papers about the extracellular actions of purines, the role of ATP as a purinergic neurotransmitter in nonadrenergic, noncholinergic nerves in the gut and bladder in 1972 was a landmark discovery, although it met considerable resistance for the next 20 years. In the early 1990s, receptors for purines were cloned: four P1 receptor subtypes and seven P2X ionotropic and eight P2Y metabotropic receptor subtypes are currently recognized and characterized. The mechanisms underlying ATP release and breakdown are discussed. Purines and pyrimidines have major roles in the activities of non-neuronal cells as well as neurons. This includes fast signalling roles in exocrine and endocrine secretion, platelet aggregation, vascular endothelial cell-mediated vasodilation and nociceptive mechanosensory transduction, as well as acting as a cotransmitter and neuromodulator in most, if not all, nerve types in the peripheral and central nervous systems. More recently, slow (trophic) purinergic signalling has been implicated in cell proliferation, migration, differentiation and death in embryological development, wound healing, restenosis, atherosclerosis, ischaemia, cell turnover of epithelial cells in skin and visceral organs, inflammation, neuroprotection and cancer.
Dopamine has moved from being an insignificant intermediary in the formation of noradrenaline in 1957 to its present-day position as a major neurotransmitter in the brain. This neurotransmitter is involved in the control of movement and Parkinson's disease, the neurobiology and symptoms of schizophrenia and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. It is also considered an essential element in the brain reward system and in the action of many drugs of abuse. This evolution reflects the ability of several famous names in neuropharmacology, neurology and psychiatry to apply new techniques to ask and answer the right questions. There is now excellent knowledge about the metabolism of dopamine, dopamine receptor systems and the structural organisation of dopamine pathways in the brain. Less is known about the function of the different receptors and how the various dopamine pathways are organised to produce normal behaviour, which exhibits disruption in the disease states mentioned. In particular, we have very limited information as to why and how the dopamine system dies or becomes abnormal in Parkinson's disease or a neurodevelopmental disorder such as schizophrenia. Dopamine neurones account for less than 1% of the total neuronal population of the brain, but have a profound effect on function. The future challenge is to understand how dopamine is involved in the integration of information to produce a relevant response rather than to study dopamine in isolation from other transmission systems. This integrated approach should lead to greater understanding and improved treatment of diseases involving dopamine.


Patients with right hemisphere (RH) lesions often display a spatial bias in attention towards the ipsilesional hemifield. The behavioural manifestations of this spatial bias are typically interpreted as reflecting increased or enhanced attention for stimuli within the 'intact' ipsilesional field, and impaired attentional functioning within the contralesional field. In the healthy brain, goal-driven and stimulus-driven attentional processes interact to determine which stimuli should be prioritized for selection. Although unilateral brain damage increases the relative attentional salience of stimuli within the ipsilesional field, it might also cause problems in filtering or attenuating task-irrelevant information. We examined whether goal-driven attention modulates the processing of ipsilesional and contralesional information in 6 patients with unilateral brain damage following RH stroke (5 male, 1 female; mean age 60.8 years) and a group of age and sex-matched controls. We used a flanker task in which participants made speeded judgements on a central target item (a coloured letter). On each trial the target was flanked by a coloured letter in the left and right hemifields. In separate blocks, participants were instructed to judge either the identity or the colour of the central target and to ignore the flankers. The flanker on one side could be congruent, incongruent or neutral with respect to the target, on either the letter or the colour dimension, whereas the flanker on the other side was always neutral on both dimensions. Healthy controls showed significant interference from incongruent flankers on either side. Crucially, however, this effect only occurred for the task-relevant dimension [F(2,10) = 24.60; P &lt; 0.001]. For patients, however, both the task-relevant and task-irrelevant dimensions of ipsilesional flankers interfered with response times [task-relevant: F(2,10) = 7.50, P &lt; 0.05; task-irrelevant: F(1,5) = 6.20, P &lt; 0.05]. Conversely, contralesional flankers influenced response times only when the target and distractor were incongruent on the task-relevant dimension [F(2,10) = 4.85; P &lt; 0.05]. Our findings demonstrate that following RH damage, goal-driven biases cannot constrain the processing of task-irrelevant features of ipsilesional stimuli. We speculate that a lateralized bias in spatial attention leads to unselective prioritization of all feature-based attributes of stimuli appearing within the ipsilesional hemifield, whether or not they are relevant to performance. Attentional selection for ipsilesional stimuli in disorders such as spatial neglect and extinction may not therefore be entirely normal, as previously assumed.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are G protein-coupled receptors involved in the regulation of glutamatergic transmission. Recent studies indicate that excitatory group I mGluRs (mGluR1 and mGluR5) contribute to neurotoxicity and hyperexcitability during epileptogenesis. In this study, we examined the distribution of mGluR1alpha and mGluR5 immunoreactivity (IR) in hippocampal resection tissue from pharmaco-resistant temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) patients. IR was detected with panels of receptor subtype specific antisera in hippocampi from TLE patients without (non-HS group) and with hippocampal sclerosis (HS group) and was compared with that of non-epileptic autopsy controls (control group). By immunohistochemistry and immunoblot analysis, we found a marked increase of mGluR5 IR in hippocampi from the non-HS compared with the control group. High mGluR5 IR was most prominent in the cell bodies and apical dendrites of hippocampal principal neurons and in the dentate gyrus molecular layer. In the HS group, this increase in neuronal mGluR5 IR was even more pronounced, but owing to neuronal loss the number of mGluR5-immunoreactive neurons was reduced compared with the non-HS group. IR for mGluR1alpha was found in the cell bodies of principal neurons in all hippocampal subfields and in stratum oriens and hilar interneurons. No difference in mGluR1alpha IR was observed between neurons in both TLE groups and the control group. However, owing to neuronal loss, the number of mGluR1alpha-positive neurons was markedly reduced in the HS group. The up-regulation of mGluR5 in surviving neurons is probably a consequence rather than a cause of the epileptic seizures and may contribute to the hyperexcitability of the hippocampus in pharmaco-resistant TLE patients. Thus, our data point to a prominent role of mGluR5 in human TLE and indicate mGluR5 signalling as potential target for new anti-epileptic drugs.
Abnormalities of both memory and emotion have been reported in patients with unilateral damage to the anteromedial temporal lobe, probably reflecting the functions of the amygdala and hippocampus in these processes. Emotion and memory are also known to interact: emotional experiences often leave remarkably durable autobiographical memories. To explore this interaction, and to extend prior studies to the domain of autobiographical memory, we investigated the recollection of real-life emotional events in patients with unilateral damage to the anteromedial temporal lobe. Twenty-three patients who had undergone unilateral temporal lobectomy for the treatment of epilepsy (12 left, 11 right) and 20 healthy comparison participants completed an emotional autobiographical memory test. Participants were asked to recollect their five most emotional memories from any time in their lives and then they completed a word-cued autobiographical memory task. Participants dated each memory and gave ratings on scales of pleasantness, intensity, significance, novelty, vividness and frequency of rehearsal. Left temporal lobectomy (LTL) and healthy comparison groups generated similar numbers of pleasant and unpleasant memories, whereas the right temporal lobectomy (RTL) group produced significantly fewer memories of unpleasant events (P &lt; 0.01). When memories were further categorized according to pleasantness and intensity, the RTL group produced significantly fewer unpleasant/high intensity memories than the other groups (P &lt; 0.01). All groups reported more memories from between the ages of 10 and 30 (the so-called autobiographical memory 'bump'). The results demonstrate a positive bias in the recollection of autobiographical memory following right-sided anteromedial temporal damage. This finding is consistent with the notion that the right, but not the left, anteromedial temporal lobe is involved in the retrieval of negatively valenced, high-intensity memories.
Exposure to misleading information, presented after a critical episode, can alter or impair memory reports about that episode. Here, we examine vulnerability to misleading information in patients with traumatic brain injury (TBI). The ability to initiate an effective retrieval strategy and inhibit irrelevant or interfering information requires participation from the prefrontal cortices, which are susceptible to damage following brain injury. We report that TBI patients are more prone to interference effects produced by misleading information during a cued-recall task and are more likely to accept this information as the product of 'remembering' compared with healthy controls. The results are consistent with a model proposing that patients are captured by highly accessible responses eliminating their opportunity to engage in recollection. Correlations between the cued-recall interference task and other executive measures helped elucidate the processes underlying 'capture'. In TBI patients, reduced recollection produced by a misleading prime was associated with impaired prospective remembering when engaged in a background task. A common functional deficit that may underlie poor performance on both tasks is the failure to inhibit previously relevant but currently irrelevant information. Subjective reports pertaining to the subject's cued-recall response were indexed by electrodermal activity. In control subjects, larger skin conductance responses (SCRs) were associated with a greater frequency of guess reports, suggesting that SCRs provide a marker for uncertainty regarding the candidacy of a selected response. TBI patients did not show this relationship, suggesting that impairments of post-retrieval evaluation might also underlie greater false acceptance of misinformation. Discussion focuses on the role of the prefrontal cortex and cognitive processes that mediate the selection and evaluation of memories.
Spasticity is most commonly defined as an inappropriate, velocity dependent, increase in muscle tonic stretch reflexes, due to the amplified reactivity of motor segments to sensory input. It forms one component of the upper motor neuron syndrome and often leads to muscle stiffness and disability. Spasticity can, therefore, be measured through electrophysiological, biomechanical and clinical evaluation, the last most commonly using the Ashworth scale. None of these techniques incorporate the patient experience of spasticity, nor how it affects people's daily lives. Consequently, we set out to construct a rating scale to quantify the perspectives of the impact of spasticity on people with multiple sclerosis. Qualitative methods (in-depth patient interviews and focus groups, expert opinion and literature review) were used to develop a conceptual framework of spasticity impact, and to generate a pool of items with the potential to convert this framework into a rating scale with multiple dimensions. This item pool was administered, in the form of a questionnaire, to a sample of people with multiple sclerosis and spasticity. Guided by Rasch analysis, we constructed and validated a rating scale for each component of the conceptual framework. Decisions regarding item selection were based on the integration and assimilation of seven specific analyses including clinical meaning, ordering of thresholds, fit statistics and differential item functioning. The qualitative phase (17 patient interviews, 3 focus groups) generated 144 potential scale items and a conceptual model with eight components addressing symptoms (muscle stiffness, pain and discomfort and muscle spasms,), physical impact (activities of daily living, walking and body movements) and psychosocial impact (emotional health, social functioning). The first postal survey was sent to 272 people with multiple sclerosis and had a response rate of 88%. Findings supported the development of scales for each component but demonstrated that five item response options were too many. The 144-item questionnaire, reformatted with four-item response options, was administered with four validating instruments to an independent sample of 259 people with multiple sclerosis (response rate 78%). From the responses, an 88-item instrument with eight subscales was developed that satisfied criteria for reliable and valid measurement. Correlations with other measures were consistent with predictions. The 88-item Multiple Sclerosis Spasticity Scale (MSSS-88) is a reliable and valid, patient-based, interval-level measure of the impact of spasticity in multiple sclerosis. It has the potential to advance outcomes measurement in clinical trials and clinical practice, and provides a new perspective in the clinical evaluation of spasticity.
Animal experiments have suggested that apoptotic programmed cell death is responsible for an important portion of the delayed ischaemic brain damage. Antiapoptotic signalling through erythropoietin (EPO) binding to its receptor (EPOR) is triggered by systemic or local hypoxia and may exist in the post-ischaemic brain, and a neuroprotective effect by EPO was described recently and proposed for clinical stroke treatment. The objective of the study was to determine whether apoptosis occurs in human ischaemic stroke and to describe its topographical distribution. An autopsy cohort consisting of 13 cases of fatal ischaemic stroke (symptom duration from 15 h to 18 days) treated at the Department of Neurology, Helsinki University Central Hospital and 3 controls were studied. DNA damage was investigated by immunofluorescent TUNEL-labelling in combination with apoptotic cell morphology and by visualization of a major signalling system of apoptosis, Fas-FasL (Fas-ligand), by the immunoperoxidase technique. The relationship of EPO and EPOR in the face of TUNEL-labelled and necrotic cell death was co-registered in human cerebral neurons undergoing different stages of ischaemic change. TUNEL-labelled cells with apoptotic morphology were disproportionately more frequent, 148% (30) [mean (SE)] in the periinfarct versus 97% (22) in the core, as percentage of the cells in the contralateral hemisphere (P = 0.027). The apoptotic cell percentage reached up to 26% (2) of all cells in periinfarct area. A linear correlation was found for Fas and its counterpart FasL expression (r(S) = 0.774, P &lt; 0.001). Ischaemia induced widespread neuronal expression of EPOR, which was inversely related to the severity of ischaemic neuronal necrosis (P &lt; 0.05). To conclude, these data verify the predominance of apoptosis in the periphery of human ischaemic infarctions. Fas and FasL were linearly overexpressed supporting that this 'death-receptor' complex may promote the completion of cell death. Increased EPO signalling may be a cellular response for survival in less severely damaged areas. These results support antiapoptotic therapies against delayed neuronal cell death in human ischaemic stroke.
Chemokines and chemokine receptors play a key role in the transmigration of leucocytes across the blood-brain barrier (BBB). CCR2 is the major receptor for CCL2, a potent monocyte and T cell chemoattractant. CCR2 and CCL2 have been consistently associated with a pathogenic role in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, using knockout and transgenic mice, neutralizing antibodies, peptide antagonists and DNA vaccination. However, the significance of CCL2 and CCR2 in multiple sclerosis is enigmatic, because CCL2 levels are consistently decreased in the CSF of patients with this disease and other chronic neuroinflammatory conditions, despite abundant expression within lesional multiple sclerosis tissues. This study used an in vitro BBB model to test the hypothesis that CCL2 is removed from the extracellular fluid by CCR2-positive migrating cells as they cross the BBB, resulting in decreased CSF CCL2 levels. We showed that CCR2-positive T cells and monocytes migrated selectively across the in vitro BBB, and that CCL2 on the abluminal (tissue) side was consumed by migrating T cells and monocytes. Next, we used a new anti-CCR2 antibody to show that CCR2-positive mononuclear inflammatory cells could be readily detected in appropriate positive control tissues, but that CCR2+ cells were very infrequently found in multiple sclerosis lesions. We then showed that CCR2 receptor density on T cells and monocytes was specifically downregulated upon in vitro BBB transmigration in response to CCL2, but not irrelevant chemokines. These findings document a novel strategy for analysing chemokine receptor function in inflammatory CNS disease, and support the hypothesis that CCL2 is consumed by migrating inflammatory cells, which downregulate CCR2, as they cross the BBB.
Four different ligand-receptor binding pairs of the GDNF (glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor) family exist in mammals, and they all signal via the transmembrane RET receptor tyrosine kinase. In addition, GRAL (GDNF Receptor Alpha-Like) protein of unknown function and Gas1 (growth arrest specific 1) have GDNF family receptor (GFR)-like domains. Orthologs of the four GFRalpha receptors, GRAL and Gas1 are present in all vertebrate classes. In contrast, although bony fishes have orthologs of all four GDNF family ligands (GFLs), one of the ligands, neurturin, is absent in clawed frog and another, persephin, is absent in the chicken genome. Frog GFRalpha2 has selectively evolved possibly to accommodate GDNF as a ligand. The key role of GDNF and its receptor GFRalpha1 in enteric nervous system development is conserved from zebrafish to humans. The role of neurturin, signaling via GFRalpha2, for parasympathetic neuron development is conserved between chicken and mice. The role of artemin and persephin that signal via GFRalpha3 and GFRalpha4, respectively, is unknown in non-mammals. The presence of RET- and GFR-like genes in insects suggests that a ProtoGFR and a ProtoRET arose early in the evolution of bilaterian animals, but when the ProtoGFL diverged from existing transforming growth factor (TGFbeta)-like proteins remains unclear. The four GFLs and GFRalphas were presumably generated by genome duplications at the origin of vertebrates. Loss of neurturin in frog and persephin in chicken suggests functional redundancy in early tetrapods. Functions of non-mammalian GFLs and prechordate RET and GFR-like proteins remain to be explored.
Neurotrophins are structurally related neurotrophic polypeptide factors that regulate neuronal differentiation and are essential for neuronal survival, neurite growth and plasticity. It has until very recently been thought that the neurotrophin system appeared with the vertebrate species, but identification of a cephalochordate neurotrophin receptor (Trk), and more recently neurotrophin sequences in several genomes of deuterostome invertebrates, show that the system already existed at the stem of the deuterostome group. Comparative genomics supports the hypothesis that two whole genome duplications produced many of the vertebrate gene families, among those the neurotrophin and Trk families. It remains to be proven to what extent the whole genome duplications have driven macroevolutionary change, but it appears certain that the formation of the multi-gene copy neurotrophin and Trk receptor families at the stem of vertebrates has provided a foundation from which the various functions and pleiotropic effects produced by each of the four extant neurotrophins have evolved.

The retinal cone mosaic of the winter flounder, Pseudopleuronectes americanus, is extensively remodeled during metamorphosis when its visual system shifts from monochromatic to trichromatic. Here we describe the reorganization and re-specification of existing cone subtypes in which larval cones alter their spatial arrangement, morphology, and opsin expression to determine whether mechanisms controlling cell birth, mosaic position, and opsin selection are coordinated or independent. We labeled dividing cells with tritiated ((3)H) thymidine prior to mosaic remodeling to determine whether existing cone photoreceptors change phenotype. We also used in situ hybridization to identify mosaic type and opsin expression in transitional retinas to understand the sequence of transformation. Our data indicate that in the winter flounder retina the choice of new opsin species and the cellular rearrangement of the mosaic proceed independently. The production of the precise cone mosaic arrangement is not due to a stereotyped series of sequential cellular inductions, but rather might be the product of a set of distinct, flexible processes that rely on plasticity in cell phenotype.
Brain receptor patterns for the corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) receptors, CRF1 and CRF2, are dramatically different between monogamous and promiscuous vole species, and CRF physiologically regulates pair bonding behavior in the monogamous prairie vole. However, it is uncertain whether species differences also exist in the neuroanatomical distribution of the endogenous ligands for the CRF1 and CRF2 receptors, such as CRF and urocortin-1 (Ucn1). We compared the expression of CRF and Ucn1 in four vole species, monogamous prairie and pine voles, and promiscuous meadow and montane voles, using in situ hybridization of CRF and Ucn1 mRNA. Our results reveal that CRF mRNA expression patterns in all four vole species appear highly conserved throughout the brain, including the olfactory bulb, nucleus accumbens, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, medial preoptic area, central amygdala, hippocampus, posterior thalamus, and cerebellum. Similarly, Ucn1 mRNA primarily localized to the Edinger-Westphal nucleus in all four vole species. Immunocytochemistry in prairie and meadow voles confirmed localization of CRF and Ucn1 protein to these previously identified brain regions. These data demonstrate a striking dichotomy between the extraordinary species diversity of brain receptor patterns when compared to the highly conserved brain distributions of their respective ligands. Our findings generate novel hypotheses regarding the evolutionary mechanisms underlying the neural circuitry of species-typical social behaviors.
The activation of pain-suppressive, endogenous opioid neurotransmission after administration of a placebo with expectation of analgesia has been directly demonstrated in humans using molecular imaging techniques in recent work. Regional effects were described in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, pregenual anterior cingulate, anterior insula, and nucleus accumbens. However, it was also observed that the magnitude of these responses was subject to substantial individual and regional variation. The present study was undertaken to examine the contribution of various factors to the observed variability in the neurochemical responses to placebo administration. Multiple regression analyses were conducted on data from 19 healthy males to study to what degree expectations of analgesia and various elements of the experience of pain itself, in the absence of placebo, were associated with the individual and brain regional variability in endogenous opioid neurochemical responses to placebo. A model that included affective qualities of pain, the volume of algesic stimulus required to maintain pain over the experimental period within a moderate range, and the internal affective state of the volunteers contributed to 40-68% of the variance in the regional neurochemical responses to placebo. These initial data suggests that in the case of endogenous opioid mediated placebo analgesic responses, the individual experience of pain, in particular its affective elements, the internal affective state of the individuals during pain and a measure of sustained pain sensitivity are important factors contributing to the formation of a placebo effect. Further examination of individual variations in placebo responding will need to take into account the underlying process for which relief is required.
Sick animals display a constellation of behaviors, including anhedonia, anorexia, and reduced social interactions. Acute infection eliminates female mating behavior, but fails to attenuate mating behavior in male rats. These results have been attributed to the different reproductive strategies and parental investment of the two sexes. Males putatively suppress the symptoms of infection in order to &quot;deceive&quot; females into mating. We sought to investigate the mechanisms responsible for this suppression. Adult male CD-1 mice were treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS; a component of bacterial cell walls; 400 microg/kg), then paired 2 h later with a receptive female or juvenile male or remained isolated. Blood samples and brains of the males were collected 3 h post-LPS; hypothalamic interleukin-1 (IL-1) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha) gene expression was measured using RT-PCR. Contrary to our prediction, exposure to a female increased hypothalamic IL-1 and TNFalpha gene expression. LPS treatment significantly decreased testosterone and increased corticosterone secretions. Social interactions altered absolute corticosterone concentrations in saline-injected animals only. In order to determine whether increased production of hypothalamic cytokines reflected increased severity of sickness responses, body temperature was monitored in a second group of mice implanted with telemetric transmitters. Body mass, food intake, and consumption of sweetened condensed milk (a highly favored food) were also monitored in these mice for 72 h post-injection. LPS injections reduced milk intake, an effect that was modulated by social interactions; however, fever was unaltered relative to isolated animals. These results suggest that social interactions can adjust behavioral responses to infection although the ultimate cause of this adjustment remains unspecified.
In order to detect involvement of the central and peripheral nervous system in beta-thalassemic patients, 32 children and young adults (mean age 14.5 +/- 6.4 years) participated in a systematic neurophysiologic and intellectual prospective study. All patients were in a regular transfusion program, receiving subcutaneous desferrioxamine chelation and maintaining a mean serum ferritin level of 2,101.56 +/- 986.32 ng/ml. Study patients underwent neurophysiologic evaluation consisting of brainstem auditory, visual and somatosensory evoked potential examination (BAEP, VEP, SEP) as well as motor and sensory nerve conduction velocity studies (MCV, SCV). Additionally, the verbal, performance and total IQ were assessed in patients under 16 years of age using the Weschler Intelligence Scale for Children (WISC-III). The incidence of abnormal BAEP, VEP, SEP and NCVs was 0, 3.12, 3.12 and 18.75%, respectively, findings comparative to or better than previously reported. On the contrary, the prevalence of abnormal total IQ score was considerably high (36.4%), not correlating, however, to any of the parameters assessed (age, sex, ferritin level, BAEP, VEP, SEP, NCV). Factors associated with chronic illness, rather than the disease per se, could play a potential role in the development of cognitive dysfunction in beta-thalassemia patients.
The chromosome 13 linked amyloidopathies familial British dementia (FBD) and familial Danish dementia (FDD) are caused by mutations in the C-terminus of the BRI2 gene. In both diseases, novel peptides are deposited in amyloid plaques in the brain. Several laboratories have attempted to model these diseases in BRI2 transgenic mice with limited success. While high expression levels of BRI protein were achieved in transgenic lines, no ABri-amyloidosis was observed in aged mice. This review discusses the strategies chosen and problems experienced with the development of FBD/FDD models and suggests novel approaches to model the diseases in murine models.
A current tendency of research in clinical psychology consists in using an integrated quantitative and qualitative methodology. This approach is especially suited to the study of the therapeutic intervention where the researcher is himself part of the situation he is investigating. As to the tools of research, the combination of the semi-structured clinical interview, of psychometric scales and projective tests has proved to be pertinent to describe the multidimensional and fluctuating reality of the therapeutic relationship and the changes induced by it in the two partners. In arts therapeutic research the investigation of the artistic production or of the free expression of people may complete the psychometric and projective tools. The concept of &quot;expressive test&quot; is currently being used to characterise this method. In this context, the development of rating scales, based on the phenomenological and structural or holistic approach allows us making the link between qualitative analysis and quantification, leading to the use of inferential statistics, providing that we remain at the nominal or ordinal level of measurement. We are explaining the principle of construction of these rating scales and we are illustrating our practice with some examples drawn from studies we realized in clinical psychology.
The precise role of microglia in stroke and cerebral ischemia has been the subject of debate for a number of years. Microglia are capable of synthesizing numerous soluble and membrane-bound biomolecules, some known to be neuroprotective, some neurotoxic, whereas others have less definitive bioactivities. The molecular mechanisms through which microglia activate these molecules have thus become an important area of ischemia research. Here we provide a survey review that summarizes the key actions of microglial factors in cerebral ischemia including complement proteins, chemokines, pro-inflammatory cytokines, neurotrophic factors, hormones, and proteinases, as well several important messenger molecules that play a part in how these factors respond to extracellular signals during ischemic injuries. We also provide some new perspectives on how microglial intracellular signaling may contribute to the seemingly contradictory roles of several microglial effector molecules.
In most cell types, distinct forms of intercellular junctions have been visualized at the ultrastructural level. Among these, the septate junctions are thought to seal the neighboring cells and thus to function as the paracellular barriers. The most extensively studied form of septate junctions, referred to as the pleated septate junctions, is ultrastructurally distinct with an electron-dense ladder-like arrangement of transverse septa present in invertebrates as well as vertebrates. In invertebrates, such as the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster, septate junctions are present in all ectodermally derived epithelia, imaginal discs, and the nervous system. In vertebrates, septate junctions are present in the myelinated nerves at the paranodal interface between the myelin loops and the axonal membrane. In this review, we present an evolutionary perspective of septate junctions, especially their initial identification across phyla, and discuss many common features of their morphology, molecular organization, and functional similarities in invertebrates and vertebrates.
A vector-based RNAi expression system was developed using the Xenopus tropicalis U6 promoter, which transcribes small RNA genes by RNA polymerase III. The system was first validated in a Xenopus laevis cell line, designing a short hairpin DNA specific for the GFP gene. Co-transfection of the vector-based RNAi and the GFP gene into Xenopus XR1 cells significantly decreased the number of GFP-expressing cells and overall GFP fluorescence. Vector-based RNAi was subsequently validated in GFP transgenic Xenopus embryos. Sperm nuclei from GFP transgenic males and RNAi construct-incubated-sperm nuclei were used for fertilization, respectively. GFP mRNA and protein were reduced by approximately 60% by RNAi in these transgenic embryos compared with the control. This transgene-driven RNAi is specific and stable in inhibiting GFP expression in the Xenopus laevis transgenic line. Gene silencing by vector-based RNAi and Xenopus transgenesis may provide an alternative for 'repression of gene function' studies in vertebrate model systems.
Although neural stem and progenitor cells have been shown to differentiate into neurons, few studies have examined the physiological properties of the differentiated neurons derived from stem cells. Here we show that mouse brain progenitor cells (mBPCs) differentiated in culture by removal of mitogenic factors or addition of BDNF or GDNF express neuronal-specific proteins including MAP-2 and synaptobrevin II. However, these cells demonstrate small voltage-gated Na+ currents and are not able to generate action potentials. When the mBPCs are cocultured with developing rat hippocampal neurons, the stem cells differentiate into neurons expressing MAP-2, develop large voltage-gated Na+ currents, and are able to generate action potentials. To investigate the influence of a mature CNS environment on survival, differentiation, migration, and morphological integration, mBPCs were transplanted into the spinal cord of adult mice. Undifferentiated cells transplanted into the spinal cord exhibited limited migration and expressed NG2, but did not differentiate to express MAP-2. Predifferentiated cells migrated to both gray and white matter with about 23% cells developing MAP-2 immunoreactivity after 8 weeks. These results suggest that both the environment and state of differentiation may dictate migration and the differentiation pathway of stem cells after transplantation.

The complex interactions that occur between oligodendrocytes and axons during the process of central nervous system myelination and remyelination remain unclear. Elucidation of the cell-biological and -biochemical mechanisms supporting myelin production and elaboration requires a robust in vitro system that recapitulates the relationship between axons and oligodendrocytes in a manner that is open to molecular dissection. We provide evidence for an artificial axon culture system in which we observed oligodendrocytes extending large plasma membrane projections that frequently completely ensheathed fibers coated with a variety of extracellular matrix molecules. These membrane projections varied in extent and thickness depending upon the substrate and upon the diameter of the coated fiber. Matrigel-coated glass microfibers were found to support the development of thick membrane sheaths that extended for hundreds of microns and exhibited many features suggestive of the potential for true myelin deposition. Likewise, Matrigel-coated Vicryl fibers supported plasma membrane extensions that covered extremely large surface areas and occasionally wrapped the coated Vicryl fibers in more than one membrane layer. Our findings suggest that the deposition of molecular cues onto glass or polymer fibers either via adsorption or chemical modification may be a useful tool for the discovery or validation of axonal factors critical for myelination and remyelination. Herein, we provide evidence that polyglactin 910 and glass microfibers coated with adhesion factors may provide a reasonable system for the in vitro analysis of myelination, and may eventually serve a role in engineering artificial systems for neural repair.
We recorded deep pain and surface electromyographic (EMG) responses to stress in 22 migraineurs during headache-free periods, 18 patients with tension-type headache (TTH), and 44 healthy controls. Sixty minutes of cognitive stress was followed by 30 min relaxation. EMG and pain (visual analogue scale) in the trapezius, neck (splenius), temporalis and frontalis areas were recorded. TTH patients had higher pain responses in temporalis and frontalis (with similar trends for trapezius and splenius) and more potentiation of pain during the test than controls. Migraine patients developed more pain in the splenius and temporalis than controls. Muscle pain responses were more regional (more pain in the neck and trapezius compared with the temporalis and frontalis) in migraine than in TTH patients. TTH patients had delayed pain recovery in all muscle regions compared with controls, while migraine patients had delayed pain recovery in a more restricted area (trapezius and temporalis). EMG responses were not different from controls in headache patients, and EMG responses did not correlate with pain responses. TTH patients had delayed EMG recovery in the trapezius compared with controls and migraine patients. These results support the concept that (probably central) sensitization of pain pathways and the motor system is important in TTH. Less pronounced and more regional (either peripheral or central) trigeminocervical sensitization seems to be important in migraine. Surface-detectable muscular activation does not seem to be causal for pain during cognitive stress either in migraine or in TTH.
Metabotropic glutamate 5 (mGlu5) receptors have been recently implicated in prefrontal cortex (PFC)-dependent executive functions because inhibition of mGlu5 receptors impairs working memory and worsens cognitive-impairing effects of NMDA receptor antagonists. To better understand the mechanisms by which mGlu5 receptors influence PFC function, we examined the effects of selective mGlu5 receptor antagonist 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (MPEP), given alone or in combination with the NMDA receptor antagonist MK801, on ensemble single unit activity in the medial PFC (mPFC) of behaving rats. MPEP decreased the spontaneous burst activity of the majority of mPFC neurons. This inhibition was selective for the most active cells because greater decreases were observed in neurons with higher baseline firing rates. MPEP augmented the effects of MK801 on burst activity, variability of spike firing and random spike activity. These findings demonstrate that in awake animals mGlu5 receptors regulate the function of PFC neurons by two related mechanisms: (i) rate-dependent excitatory influence on spontaneous burst activity; and (ii) potentiation of NMDA receptor mediated effects on firing rate and burst activity. These mechanisms support the idea that modulation of mGlu5 receptors may provide a pharmacological strategy for fine-tuning the temporal pattern of firing of PFC neurons.
We investigate the extent to which functional circuits coupling cortical and subthalamic activity are multiple and segregated by frequency in untreated Parkinson's disease (PD). To this end, we recorded EEG and local field potentials (LFPs) from macroelectrodes inserted into the subthalamic nucleus area (SA) in nine awake patients following functional neurosurgery for PD. Patients were studied after overnight withdrawal of medication. Coherence between EEG and SA LFPs was apparent in the theta (3-7 Hz), alpha (8-13 Hz), lower beta (14-20 Hz) and upper beta (21-32 Hz) bands, although activity in the alpha and upper beta bands dominated. Theta coherence predominantly involved mesial and lateral areas, alpha and lower beta coherence the mesial and ipsilateral motor areas, and upper beta coherence the midline cortex. SA LFPs led EEG in the theta band. In contrast, EEG led the depth LFP in the lower and upper beta bands. SA LFP activity in the alpha band could either lead or lag EEG. Thus there are several functional sub-loops between the subthalamic area and cerebral cortical motor regions, distinguished by their frequency, cortical topography and temporal relationships. Tuning to distinct frequencies may provide a means of marking and segregating related processing, over and above any anatomical segregation of processing streams.
In speech perception, extraction of meaning from complex streams of sounds is surprisingly fast and efficient. By tracking the neural time course of syllable processing with magnetoencephalography we show that this continuous construction of meaning-based representations is aided by both top-down (context-based) expectations and bottom-up (acoustic-phonetic) cues in the speech signal. Syllables elicited a sustained response at 200-600 ms (N400m) which became most similar to that evoked by words when the expectation for meaningful speech was increased by presenting the syllables among words and sentences or using sentence-initial syllables. This word-like cortical processing of meaningless syllables emerged at the build-up of the N400m response, 200-300 ms after speech onset, during the transition from perceptual to lexical-semantic analysis. These findings show that the efficiency of meaning-based analysis of speech is subserved by a cortical system finely tuned to lexically relevant acoustic-phonetic and contextual cues.
The cellular and synaptic organization of new born mouse cerebellum maintained in organotypic slice cultures was investigated using immunohistochemical and patch-clamp recording approaches. The histological organization of the cultures shared many features with that observed in situ. Purkinje cells were generally arranged in a monolayer surrounded by a molecular-like neuropil made of Purkinje cell dendritic arborizations. Purkinje cell axons ran between clusters of small round cells identified as granule cells by Kv3.1b potassium channel immunolabelling. The terminal varicosities of the Purkinje cells axons enwrapped presumptive neurons of the cerebellar nuclei whereas their recurrent collaterals were in contact with Purkinje cells and other neurons. Granule cell axons established contacts with Purkinje cell somata and dendrites. Parvalbumin and glutamine acid decarboxylase (GAD) immunohistochemistry revealed the presence of presumptive interneurons throughout the culture. The endings of granule cell axons were observed to be in contact with these interneurons. Similarly, interneurons endings were seen close to Purkinje cells and granule cells. Whole cell recordings from Purkinje cell somata showed AMPA receptor-mediated spontaneous excitatory post-synaptic currents (sEPSCs) and GABAA receptor-mediated spontaneous inhibitory post-synaptic currents (sIPSCs). Similar events were recorded from granule cell somata except that in this neuronal type EPSPs have both a NMDA component and an AMPA component. In addition, pharmacological experiments demonstrated a GABAergic control of granule cell activity and a glutamatergic control of GABAergic neurons by granule cells. This study shows that a functional neuronal network is established in such organotypic cultures even in the absence of the two normal excitatory afferents, the mossy fibers and the climbing fibers.
In the last few years Purkinje cells have become a most interesting model to investigate cellular/molecular mechanisms of axon regeneration and plasticity. Adult Purkinje cells are most peculiar for their weak cell body response to axotomy, which is accompanied by a strong resistance to injury and a virtually absolute inability to regenerate severed neurites, even in the presence of favourable environmental conditions. The same neurons show a vigorous intrinsic inclination toward axonal sprouting and structural plasticity, which can be elicited by removing extrinsic growth-inhibitory cues. These features gradually develop during early postnatal life, but the underlying mechanisms and biological significance remain unclear. This article reviews recent studies aimed at addressing these questions with respect to the general issue of brain repair. Indeed, understanding the reasons for the extremely poor regenerative capacity of Purkinje cells will be most important to elucidate basic biological mechanisms of axon regeneration and plasticity, and to promote circuit rewiring in the adult CNS.
The physiological properties of Purkinje neurons play a central role in their ability to regulate information transfer through the cerebellum. A number of ion channels contribute to Purkinje neuron physiology including an abundance of P-type Ca2+ channels, particularly in the dendritic region. Purkinje neurons also express L-type Ca2+ channels both during development and in the mature state. However, a role for L-type channels in Purkinje neuron physiology has yet to be fully defined. In the current study we used physiological recordings from cultured Purkinje neurons and the L-type Ca2+ channel agonist S-(-)-Bay K to assess a potential role for L-type Ca2+ channels in spike firing. Results show that Bay K alters current-evoked spike firing in young, immature Purkinje neurons without dendritic structure and in older, more mature Purkinje neurons with dendritic structure. Bay K also enhanced Ca2+ signals associated with the current-evoked spike firing. The effect of Bay K was more prominent in the young Purkinje neurons than in the older Purkinje neurons, suggesting that L-type Ca2+ channels may be more important in the Purkinje neuron physiology during the early stages of development rather than at mature stages. In the older Purkinje neurons, immunohistochemical studies using antibodies to L-type Ca2+ channels showed more intense immunolabeling in the somatic region than in the dendritic region. This result suggests that L-type Ca2+ channels may play a more important role in somatic physiology than dendritic physiology, whereas P-type channels may play a more important role in dendritic physiology.
Since Purkinje cells are the sole output neurons of the cerebellar cortex, the postsynaptic integration of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs in this cell type is a pivotal step for cerebellar motor information processing. In Purkinje cells, Gi/o protein-coupled B-type gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor (GABABR) is expressed at the annuli of the dendritic spines that are innervated by the glutamatergic terminals of parallel fibers. The subcellular localization of GABABR suggests the possibility of postsynaptic interplay between GABABR and glutamate signaling. It has recently been demonstrated that GABABR indeed modulates alpha amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxalone propionate-type ionotropic glutamate receptor (AMPAR)-mediated and type-1 metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR1)-mediated signaling. Interestingly, GABABR exerts modulatory actions not only via the classical Gi/o protein-dependent signaling cascade but also via a Gi/o protein-independent interaction between GABABR and mGluR1. In this review, we compare the physiological nature, underlying mechanisms, and possible functional significance of these modulatory actions of GABABR.
Two-photon microscopy was used to image dye-loaded filopodia of Purkinje cells in acute rat cerebellar slices. In the process of examining filopodia in Purkinje cells from a period of rapid dendritic growth (P10-21), we observed a small subset of filopodia which appeared to form connections between two dendrites of the same cell, usually between the tips of two adjacent dendrites or the tip of a dendrite and the shaft of another. There were fewer of these 'filopodial bridges' present at P18-21 than at an earlier stage in development (P10-12) and they were absent in mature Purkinje cells. Filopodial bridges do not appear to be an artifact of living brain slice preparation as they may also be seen by dye-loading Purkinje cells in slices prepared from perfusion-fixed brain. They have varied morphologies which are mostly similar to conventional, unattached filopodia. However, when measured over tens of minutes, filopodial bridges were observed to be less motile than conventional filopodia as indicated by a reduced index of expansion. While the functions of these novel structures are unknown it is attractive to speculate that they play an instructive role in Purkinje cell dendritic development.
Purkinje cells, the first nerve cells to be described, are still one of the most interesting and useful experimental models to investigate different aspects of neural function. This special issue of The Cerebellum is dedicated to this very special neuron and contains a number of articles covering different topics of Purkinje cell research, from developmental neurobiology to neurophysiology and neuropathology. More than 150 years after their discovery, Purkinje cells remain one of the most popular neurons in the neuroscience community.
A subpopulation of neurones in the cerebellar nuclei projects to the inferior olive, the source of the climbing fibre input to the cerebellum. This nucleo-olivary projection follows the zonal and, probably also, the microzonal arrangement of the cerebellum so that closed loops are formed between the neurones in the olive, the cerebellar cortex and the nuclei. The nucleo-olivary pathway is GABAergic, but several investigators argue that its main effect is to regulate electrotonic coupling between cells in the inferior olive rather than inhibit the olive. However, there is now strong evidence that the nucleo-olivary fibres do inhibit the olive. Three functions have been suggested for this inhibition: (i) feedback control of background activity in Purkinje cells, (ii) feedback control of learning, and (iii) gating of olivary input in general. Evidence is consistent with (i) and (ii). Activity in the nucleo-olivary pathway suppresses both synaptic transmission and background activity in the olive. When learned blink responses develop, the blink related part of the olive is inhibited while blinks are produced. When the nucleo-olivary pathway is interrupted, there is a corresponding increase in complex spike discharge in Purkinje cells followed by a strong suppression of simple spike firing. Stimulation of the pathway has the opposite results. It is concluded that the nucleo-olivary fibres are inhibitory and that they form a number of independent feedback loops, each one specific for a microcomplex, that regulate cerebellar learning as well as spontaneous activity in the olivo-cerebellar circuit.




New neuroprotective agents on trial may potentially offer benefit to stroke patients without the associated hemorrhagic risk of thrombolytic therapy. Clinical investigation of these drugs has been designed to obtain the highest probability of success, or concentrates on the salvageable ischemic brain and use infarct growth on MRI as a surrogate end-point. Nine substances in 10 trials are currently being tested in three therapeutical strategies in patients with acute ischemic stroke. These strategies focus on: (1) the optimal management of serum glucose with the infusion of glucose, insulin and potassium to induce and maintain euglycemia; (2) the modulation of the inflammatory response with recombinant human interferon-beta(1a), and (3) interfering with the ischemic cascade using magnesium, albumin, the metal iron chelator DP-b99, the AMPA receptor antagonist zonampanel, the serotonin agonists repinotan and piclozotan, the free radical scavenger cerovive, and the membrane modulator citicoline. Future directions should develop neuroprotective compounds that are safe and well tolerated, are effective in a broad range of patients and can be used with or without rt-PA.
Although the management of stroke has improved remarkably over the last decade due mainly to the advent of thrombolysis, most neuroprotective agents, although successful in animal studies, have failed in humans. Our increasing knowledge concerning the ischemic cascade is leading to a considerable development of pharmacological tools suggesting that each step of this cascade might be a target for cytoprotection. Glutamate has long been recognized to play key roles in the pathophysiology of ischemia. However, although some trials are still ongoing, the results from several completed trials with drugs interfering with the glutamatergic pathway have been disappointing. Regarding the inhibition of glutamate release as a possible target for cytoprotection, it might be afforded either by decreasing glutamate efflux or by increasing glutamate uptake. In this context, it has been shown that glutamate transport is the primary and only mechanism for maintaining extracellular glutamate concentrations below excitotoxic levels. This transport is executed by the five high-affinity, sodium-dependent plasma membrane glutamate transporters. Among them, the transporter EAAT2 is responsible for up to 90% of all glutamate transport. We will discuss the effect of different neuroprotective tools (membrane stabilizers or endogenous neuroprotection) affecting glutamate efflux and/or expression of EAAT2. We will also describe the finding of a novel polymorphism in the EAAT2 promoter region which could be responsible for differences in both gene function and regulation under pathological conditions such as cerebral ischemia, and which might well account for the failure of glutamate antagonists in the clinical practice. These results may possess important therapeutic implications in the management of patients at risk of ischemic events, since it has been demonstrated that those patients with progressing stroke have higher plasma concentrations of glutamate which remain elevated up to 24 h when compared to the levels in patients without neurological deterioration.








Previous studies have shown that repeated sodium depletions using the natriuretic-diuretic furosemide induce progressive increases in NaCl ingestion. We investigated the role of taste in this behavioral sensitization in Sprague-Dawley rats using short-term lickometer testing along with 2-h stimulated intake tests. Our results show maximal licking across a range of NaCl concentrations after each of the three depletions, regardless of whether the solutions contained sucrose or were presented alone. Similarly, the presence of sucrose did not affect stimulated NaCl intake in long-term tests, although ingestion of NaCl solutions increased progressively with successive depletions. Finally, both licking and ingestion returned to baseline levels during need-free conditions. These results suggest that sodium imbalance acutely increases the salience of sodium taste and thereby the likelihood of NaCl ingestion, which may, in turn, contribute to progressive increases in NaCl intake that occur with multiple furosemide-induced sodium depletions.

Compared to younger adults, seniors (&gt; or = 60 yrs) often adopt a highly regular lifestyle, perhaps as an adaptive response to age-related changes in their sleep and circadian rhythms. At baseline, diary measures of lifestyle regularity (SRM-5) were obtained from 104 seniors of three separate groups. Thirty-three subjects were challenged by spousal bereavement or the need to care for a spouse at home with dementia (Challenged); 33 were suffering from formally diagnosed (DSM-IV) insomnia (Insomnia); and 38 were healthy, well-functioning older seniors in the second half of their eighth decade of life or later (Healthy Older). The objective of this study was to determine whether lifestyle regularity increased as a function of age within each of these three senior groups. Overall, age was significantly correlated with SRM-5 (r=0.41, p&lt;0.001), with the SRM score increasing by 0.67 units/decade. The same was true for the Challenged and Insomnia groups, which also showed a significant correlation between SRM and age (Challenged: r=0.48, p&lt;0.01; Insomnia: r=0.36, p&lt;0.05), though with a slightly faster rate of SRM increase in the Challenged (0.95 units/decade) than Insomnia (0.55 units/decade) group. Perhaps there was no correlation between age and SRM (r=0.07, n.s.) in the Healthy Older group due to the small age range, although this group did have a higher overall SRM score than the other two groups (p&lt;0.01). The study thus confirmed that the previously observed increase in lifestyle regularity over the adult lifespan persists into later life. This may represent an adaptive behavioral response that might be used in future therapeutic approaches.
Sleep disruption is a commonly encountered clinical feature in schizophrenic patients, and one important concern is to determine the extent of this disruption under &quot;real&quot; life situations. Simultaneous wrist actigraphy, diary records, and repeated urine collection for urinary 6-sulphatoxymelatonin (aMT6s) profiles are appropriate tools to assess circadian rhythms and sleep patterns in field studies. Their suitability for long-term recordings of schizophrenic patients living in the community has not been evaluated. In this case report, we document long-term simultaneous wrist actigraphy, light detection, repeated urine collection, and diary records as a suitable combination of non-invasive techniques to quantify and assess changes in sleep-wake cycles, light exposure, and melatonin profiles in a schizophrenic patient. The actigraph was well-tolerated by the patient, and compliance to diary records and 48 h urine collection was particularly good with assistance from family members. The data obtained by these techniques are illustrated, and the results reveal remarkable abnormal patterns of rest-activity patterns, light exposure, and melatonin production. We observed various rest-activity patterns, including phase-shifts, highly delayed sleep on- and offsets, and irregular rest-activity phases. The period of the rest-activity rhythm, light-dark cycle, and melatonin rhythm was longer than 24 h. These circadian abnormalities may reinforce the altered sleep patterns and the problems of cognitive function and social engagement associated with schizophrenic.
GABA is the main neurotransmitter of the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and plays a key role in the function of this master circadian pacemaker. Despite the evidence that disturbances of biological rhythms are common during aging, little is known about the GABAergic network in the SCN of the aging brain. We here provide a brief overview of the GABAergic structures and the role of GABA in the SCN. We also review some age-related changes of the GABAergic system occurring in the brain outside the SCN. Finally, we present preliminary data on the GABAergic system within the SCN comparing young and aging mice. In particular, our study on age-related changes in the SCN focused on the daily expression of the alpha3 subunit of the GABA(A) receptor and on the density of GABAergic axon terminals. Interestingly, our preliminary findings point to alterations of the GABAergic network in the biological clock during senescence.
Melatonin synthesis in retinal photoreceptors is under photic and circadian control and is regulated primarily by changes in the activity of arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase (AANAT). Previous investigations demonstrated that Aanat transcripts are predominantly expressed in the photoreceptor cells. AANAT activity is high at night and low during the day, and illumination of the retina during the night induces rapid reduction in the activity of this enzyme. The enzyme is subject to both transcriptional and post-translational regulatory mechanisms. AANAT transcription is regulated directly by the circadian clock via the E-box present in the promoter region of the gene; the photic environment and circadian clock also influence AANAT transcription via cAMP-responsive elements. The stability of AANAT is regulated by cAMP, and light, which decreases cAMP levels in photoreceptor cells, results in rapid degradation of AANAT protein by proteasomal proteolysis. The circadian rhythm in the levels of Aanat mRNA in the rat retina persists after the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus has been lesioned, indicative of its relative independence from the master clock in the brain. In non-mammalian vertebrates, the retinal clock controlling melatonin synthesis is in photoreceptor cells, but it has not been definitively localized in mammals. Several studies have also shown that dopamine plays an important role in the regulation of AANAT activity by acting via D2/D4-like receptors that are present on the photoreceptors. Finally, it is important to mention that AANAT, in addition to its role in melatonin synthesis, may play a detoxification role in the vertebrate retina by acetylating arylalkylamines that may react with retinaldehyde.
The Syrian hamster is a rodent species in which the photoperiodic change in the melatonin peak duration is pivotal for the synchronization of annual functions, like reproduction. In this species, the activity of arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase (AANAT), the key enzyme for the rhythmic synthesis of melatonin, is precisely controlled and time-gated, suggesting regulatory mechanisms different from those in the rat or mouse. At the beginning of the night, norepinephrine (NE) elicits a rapid and sustained phosphorylation of CREB into pCREB and a transient synthesis of the immediate early gene products c-FOS and c-JUN that peak 3 h after dark onset. c-FOS synthesis requires both pCREB and the pERK1/2 pathways. Interestingly, injection of the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide before, but not after, the c-FOS/c-JUN peak markedly reduces Aanat mRNA levels. This finding suggests that the c-FOS/c-JUN dimer is required for transcriptional activation of the Aanat gene. During daylight, exogenous noradrenergic stimulation cannot stimulate Aanat expression and, therefore, melatonin synthesis. The inhibitory transcription factor ICER is present in the pineal gland but with highest values when AANAT may be activated, suggesting the blockade takes place upstream of Aanat expression. Preliminary experiments indicate that the diurnal inhibition of AANAT occurs at the level of the adrenergic receptor signalling pathway, but it is not known whether this is sufficient to explain the pineal resistance to NE during the daytime. Together, these findings demonstrate that AANAT regulation in the Syrian hamster requires a complex intracellular signalling cascade, different from that described in laboratory rodents like mice and rats.
In seasonal species, photoperiod exerts tight regulation of reproduction to ensure that birth occurs at the most favorable time of yr. A distinct photoneuroendocrine circuit composed of the retina, suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus, and pineal gland transduces daylength into a rhythmic secretion of melatonin. The duration of the night-time rise of this hormone conveys daylength information to the organism. Melatonin is known to mediate the control of seasonal reproduction, but how it modulates sexual activity is far from understood. Recent data indicate that the product of the KiSS-1 gene is a potent stimulator of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis and may play, together with its receptor GPR54, a central role in the neuroendocrine regulation of gonadotropin secretion. This article briefly reviews these findings and presents arguments that KiSS-1 could take part in the seasonal control of reproduction.
Circadian rhythms are still expressed in animals that display daily torpor, implying a temperature compensation of the pacemaker. Nevertheless, it remains unclear how the clock works in hypothermic states and whether torpor itself, as a temperature pulse, affects the circadian system. To reveal changes in the clockwork during torpor, we compared clock gene and neuropeptide expression by in situ hybridization in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) and pineal gland of normothermic and torpid Djungarian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus). Animals from light-dark (LD) 8ratio16 were sacrificed at 8 time points throughout 24 h. To investigate the effect of a previous torpor episode on the clock, we sacrificed a group of normothermic hamsters 1 day after torpor. In normothermic animals, Per1 peaked at zeitgeber time (ZT)4; whereas, Bmal1 reached maximal expression between ZT16 and ZT19. AVP mRNA in the SCN showed highest levels at ZT7. On the day of torpor, the levels of all mRNAs investigated, except for AVP mRNA, were increased during the torpor bout. Moreover, the Bmal1 rhythm was advanced. On the day after the hypothermia, Bmal1 and AVP rhythms showed severely depressed amplitude. Those distinct amplitude changes of Bmal1 and AVP on the day after a torpor episode expression suggests that torpor affects the circadian system, probably by altered translational processes that might lead to a modified protein feedback on gene expression. In the pineal gland, an important clock output, Aanat expression, peaked between ZT16 and ZT22 in normothermic animals. Aanat levels were significantly advanced on the day of hypothermia, an effect which was still visible 1 day afterward. In summary, this study showed that daily torpor affects the phase and amplitude of rhythmic clock gene and clock-controlled gene expression in the SCN. Furthermore, the rhythmic gene expression in a peripheral oscillator, the pineal gland, is also affected.
The aims of this study were to address three related questions: (1) Do the photosensitive ganglion cells of the mouse convey light information to the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) at P0? (2) Do the differentiating rods and cones contribute to light-evoked FOS induction within the murine SCN at P4? (3) How does light-evoked FOS induction within the SCN of melanopsin knockout (Opn4-/-) mice differ at P4 and P14? Our approaches took advantage of the published descriptions of murine ocular development, melanopsin knockout (Opn4-/-) mouse, and light-induced expression of FOS (the phosphoprotein product of immediate early gene c-fos) within the SCN as a marker of retinohypothalamic tract competence. Collectively, our results show that photosensitive melanopsin-dependent retinal ganglion cells provide light information to the murine SCN on the day of birth, and possibly beforehand, and that developing rods and cones fail to provide light information to the SCN during early postnatal life. On the basis of previous publications and data presented here, we suggest that at ages around P14 the rods and cones might be capable of fully compensating for the loss of melanopsin-photosensitive ganglion cells if exposure to light is of sufficiently long duration. These results are related to the broader context of recent findings and the potential role(s) of a neonatal photoreceptor.
In mammals, the complex interaction of neural, hormonal, and behavioral outputs from the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) drives circadian expression of events, either directly or through coordination of the timing of peripheral oscillators. Melatonin, one of the endocrine output signals of the clock, provides the organism with circadian information and can be considered as an endogenous synchronizer, able to stabilize and reinforce circadian rhythms and to maintain their mutual phase-relationship at the different levels of the circadian network. Moreover, exogenous melatonin, through an action on the circadian clock, affects all levels of the circadian network. The molecular mechanisms underlying this chronobiotic effect have also been investigated in rats. REV-ERB alpha seems to be the initial molecular target.
Intravenous tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) is standard treatment for eligible patients with acute ischemic stroke, but may be less effective for very severe strokes caused by proximal intracranial artery occlusions. We report the case of a woman with a devastating stroke who recovered completely following emergency revascularization of an occluded proximal middle cerebral artery using a novel treatment approach that combines both intravenous (i.v.) and intra-arterial (IA) tPA. This case illustrates the potential value of the combined i.v.-IA thrombolytic approach, which is an emerging investigational treatment strategy for selected patients with severe acute ischemic stroke.

Building on prior research, which has suggested a relationship between aggression and left frontal activity, our study tested the hypothesis that proneness to impulsive aggression would be related to relative left frontal overactivation. EEG one-hertz resting alpha power frontal asymmetry was examined in 65 pediatric male psychiatric patients with a history of impulsive aggression and comorbid mood and disruptive behavior disorders. The strongest finding, which emerged from this analysis, was a finding of relative increases in left frontal activity compared with right frontal activity. The results also indicated that greater left frontal activity correlated positively with the severity of psychiatric disturbance. These findings suggest that relative increases in left frontal activity may be related to a locus of neurophysiological disruption associated with psychopathology characterized by behavioral and affective disinhibition. Results are discussed within a model of behavioral inhibition system-behavioral activation system theory.

The neurodegenerative diseases are in need of drugs that are capable of treating their many different presentations. Some drugs have recently been developed and approved by the authorities for use in Alzheimer's disease; their beneficial effects are no longer questionable. From the discussion about what to call these drugs (anti-dementia drugs?), it is apparent that pharmacology research has veered from pursuing the myth of the fountain of eternal youth back to the reality of the struggle for survival of neurons whenever they are attacked, long before the signs of dementia have developed (antiapoptotic drugs?). The neurosciences teach that there is a biology of cognition (hence a pharmacology of cognition), and that the brain is the permanent area of the confrontation between neurogenesis and apoptosis. Pharmacology has taken this new understanding on board, and has finally defined its objective as preventing the decline of the neuron as much as of cognitive performance. It remains for clinicians to confirm the authenticity of this worldwide project.





Pharmacotherapy for Parkinson's disease is focused on dopaminergic drugs, mainly the dopamine precursor levodopa and dopamine receptor agonists. The elimination half-life (t(1/2)) of levodopa from plasma (in combination with a decarboxylase inhibitor) of about 1.5 hours becomes more influential as the disease progresses. The long-duration of response to levodopa, which is evident in early Parkinson's disease, diminishes and after a few years of treatment motor performance is closely correlated to the fluctuating plasma concentrations of levodopa. Absorption of levodopa in the proximal small intestine depends on gastric emptying, which is erratic and may be slowed in Parkinson's disease. The effects of levodopa on motor function are dependent on gastric emptying in patients in the advanced stages of disease. The current treatment concept is continuous dopaminergic stimulation (CDS). Sustained-release formulations of levodopa may provide more stable plasma concentrations. Oral liquid formulations shorten the time to reach peak concentration and onset of effect but do not affect plasma levodopa variability. The t(1/2) of levodopa can be prolonged by adding a catechol-O-methyltransferase inhibitor (entacapone or tolcapone), which may reduce fluctuations in plasma concentrations, although both peak and trough concentrations are increased with frequent administration. Intravenous and enteral (duodenal/jejunal) infusions of levodopa yield stable plasma levodopa concentrations and motor performance. Enteral infusion is feasible on a long-term basis in patients with severe fluctuations. Among the dopamine receptor agonists the ergot derivatives bromocriptine, cabergoline, dihydroergocryptine and pergolide, and the non-ergot derivatives piribedil, pramipexole and ropinirole, have longer t(1/2) compared with levodopa. Thus, they stimulate dopamine receptors in a less pulsatile manner, yet pharmacokinetic studies of repeated doses of dopamine receptor agonists are few. Optimisation of these drugs is often performed with standardised titration schedules. Apomorphine and lisuride have short t(1/2) and are suitable for subcutaneous infusion, with results similar to those of levodopa infusion. Transdermal administration of dopamine receptor agonists such as rotigotine might be an alternative in the future. In general, initial dopamine receptor agonist monotherapy is associated with poorer motor performance and lower incidence of motor complications compared with levodopa. Buccal administration of the monoamine oxidase-B inhibitor selegiline (deprenyl) provides better absorption and less formation of metabolites compared with standard tablets. To conclude, several new drugs, formulations and routes of administration have been introduced in the treatment of Parkinson's disease during the last decade, mainly with CDS as the aim. CDS can be approached by optimising the use of dopaminergic drugs based on pharmacokinetic data.

gamma-Hydroxybutyrate (GHB) is an endogenous short chain fatty acid and a, mostly oral, pharmacological compound that has been utilised in a variety of ways. Endogenously, GHB is synthesised locally within the CNS, mostly from its parent compound GABA. Sodium oxybate is the sodium salt of GHB and is used for the exogenous oral administration of GHB. It is likely that supraphysiological concentrations of GHB from exogenous administration produce qualitatively different neuronal actions than those produced by endogenous GHB concentrations. Evidence suggests a role for GHB as a neuromodulator/neurotransmitter. Under endogenous conditions and concentrations, and depending on the cell group affected, GHB may increase or decrease neuronal activity by inhibiting the release of neurotransmitters that are co-localised with GHB. After exogenous administration, most of the observed behavioural effects appear to be mediated via the activity of GHB at GABA(B) receptors, as long as the concentration is sufficient to elicit binding, which does not happen at endogenous concentrations. Endogenous and exogenous GHB is rapidly and completely converted into CO(2) and H(2)O through the tricarboxylic acid cycle (Krebs cycle). Sodium oxybate has been observed to modulate sleep in nonclinical study participants, and sleep and wakefulness in clinical populations, including groups with insomnia, fibromyalgia and narcolepsy. In narcolepsy, sodium oxybate has shown dose-related effects on various properties of sleep, including increases in slow-wave sleep duration and delta power, and a reduced number of night-time awakenings. Furthermore, multiple measures of daytime sleepiness and cataplexy demonstrated consistent short- and long-term improvement in response to night-time sodium oxybate therapy. The most common reported adverse events include dose-related headache, nausea, dizziness and somnolence.
The pathophysiology of mood disorders involves several genetic and social predisposing factors, as well as a dysregulated response to chronic stress. Accumulated evidence during the last two decades has implicated disturbances in brain serotonin and/or noradrenaline (norepinephrine) neurotransmission in the aetiology of depression. In fact, current pharmacological treatment for mood disorders is based on the use of drugs that act mainly by enhancing brain serotonin and noradrenaline neurotransmission by blockade of the active reuptake mechanism for these neurotransmitters. However, current antidepressant drugs have a delayed onset of therapeutic action, and a substantial number of patients do not respond adequately to them. In addition, these drugs have a number of adverse effects that limit patient compliance. In view of this, there is an intense search to identify novel (receptor) targets for antidepressant therapy. Recent studies have indicated that several neuropeptides and their receptors are potential candidates for the development of novel antidepressant treatment. In this context, galanin is of particular interest, since it is co-localised with serotonin in the dorsal raphe nucleus and with noradrenaline in the locus coeruleus, nuclei known to play a major role in affective disorders and in the action of antidepressant drugs. The actions of galanin are mediated by three receptor subtypes (GAL1, GAL2 and GAL3), which are coupled to different intracellular effector systems. Studies in rats have shown that galanin administered intracerebroventricularly is a potent inhibitor of mesencephalic serotonergic neurotransmission, as indicated by a long-lasting reduction in the release of serotonin in the hippocampus. This inhibitory effect is related to activation of the galanin receptors located on the dorsal raphe neurons. Moreover, intracerebroventricular galanin alters the gene expression of serotonin 5-HT1A autoreceptors in the dorsal raphe and also changes their functional activity. In addition, galanin produces a functional blockade of postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptor-mediated responses. Both pharmacological and genetic studies suggest a role for galanin in depression-like behaviour in rodent models. Transgenic mice overexpressing galanin under the control of the platelet-derived growth factor-beta promoter display increased immobility in the forced swim test. Intracerebroventricular administration of galanin in the rat increases depression-like behaviour, and this is fully blocked by the nonselective peptide galanin receptor antagonist M35. Importantly, M35 alone administered intracerebroventricularly produces an antidepressant-like effect. Recently, newly developed receptor-specific nonpeptidergic galanin GAL3 receptor antagonists (SNAP-37889 and SNAP-398299), which cross the blood-brain barrier after systemic administration, have shown antidepressant-like activity in several animal models. On the other hand, stimulation of the GAL2 receptor at the raphe level by local application of the GAL2 receptor agonist galanin (2-11) has been shown to increase serotonin levels in the hippocampus and dorsal raphe. These results indicate an important (mainly inhibitory) role of galanin as a regulator of brain serotonin and 5-HT1A receptor-mediated transmission, which may be of potential importance for understanding mood disorders and for the development of antidepressant drugs. Taken together, the present evidence suggests that antidepressant efficacy may be associated with compounds acting as antagonists at the GAL3 and/or possibly GAL1 receptors, and/or agonists at the GAL2 receptor.
Atypical antipsychotics have greatly enhanced the treatment of schizophrenia. The mechanisms underlying the effectiveness and adverse effects of these drugs are, to date, not sufficiently explained. This article summarises the hypothetical mechanisms of action of atypical antipsychotics with respect to the neurobiology of schizophrenia.When considering treatment models for schizophrenia, the role of dopamine receptor blockade and modulation remains dominant. The optimal occupancy of dopamine D(2) receptors seems to be crucial to balancing efficacy and adverse effects - transient D(2) receptor antagonism (such as that attained with, for example, quetiapine and clozapine) is sufficient to obtain an antipsychotic effect, while permanent D(2) receptor antagonism (as is caused by conventional antipsychotics) increases the risk of adverse effects such as extrapyramidal symptoms. Partial D(2) receptor agonism (induced by aripiprazole) offers the possibility of maintaining optimal blockade and function of D(2) receptors. Balancing presynaptic and postsynaptic D(2) receptor antagonism (e.g. induced by amisulpride) is another mechanism that can, through increased release of endogenous dopamine in the striatum, protect against excessive blockade of D(2) receptors. Serotonergic modulation is associated with a beneficial increase in striatal dopamine release. Effects on the negative and cognitive symptoms of schizophrenia relate to dopamine release in the prefrontal cortex; this can be modulated by combined D(2) and serotonin 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonism (e.g. by olanzapine and risperidone), partial D(2) receptor antagonism or the preferential blockade of inhibitory dopamine autoreceptors. In the context of the neurodevelopmental disconnection hypothesis of schizophrenia, atypical antipsychotics (in contrast to conventional antipsychotics) induce neuronal plasticity and synaptic remodelling, not only in the striatum but also in other brain areas such as the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. This mechanism may normalise glutamatergic dysfunction and structural abnormalities and affect the core pathophysiological substrates for schizophrenia.
In humans, age-related memory impairments begin in mid-life and cognitive weakening continues with advancing age. An important aspect of defining memory decline is the distinction between dementia as a result of neurological diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, and memory loss not specifically associated with disease. Within the population of elderly without dementia, there is considerable variability in memory. This variability is likely to be a result of the interaction of genetic make-up and environment, which influences several processes for cell maintenance and repair including oxidative damage and cholesterol metabolism, leading to disruption of Ca(2+) homeostasis, and ultimately Ca(2+)-dependent processes that underlie memory. In humans, several methods have been employed to distinguish biological markers of aging that may predict cognitive decline. Memory deficits associated with normal aging and Alzheimer's disease have been linked to a decrease in the volume of brain structures, such as the hippocampus and to genetic markers, such as apolipoprotein E. In this regard, examination of CSF for biomarkers of disease can help in differentiating normal aging from Alzheimer's disease. Measures of oxidative stress and cholesterol in plasma correlate with memory deficits; research suggests that treatments that reduce oxidative stress or cholesterol through exercise, diet or the use of antioxidant vitamins may delay cognitive decline.Nevertheless, to date, very little treatment is available to reverse memory deficits in later life. In this regard it is important to identify individuals at risk for memory deficits in order to discriminate different mechanisms of brain aging and develop treatments. Considerable effort is driving research to develop accurate biological markers of brain aging. In turn, these markers will provide information on mechanisms of aging and cognitive decline and point to potential treatments. Accordingly, the effectiveness of treatment needs to be verified for both cognitive changes and biological markers that are specific for age-related memory deficits.
Multiple factors contribute to individual differences in reading ability. The two most thoroughly examined are socioeconomic status (SES) and phonological awareness (PA). Although these factors are often investigated individually, they are rarely considered together. Here we propose that SES systematically influences the relationship between PA and reading ability, and test this prediction in 150 first-graders of varying SES and PA. Results confirm a multiplicative relationship between SES and PA in decoding skills, such that decreased access to resources may amplify cognitive risk factors for poor decoding, whereas greater access to resources may buffer reading skills among children with weaker PA. Attempts to identify the cognitive and experiential factors driving development must acknowledge the complex, synergizing relations between these factors.
Patient AM, with left visuospatial neglect, and 31 healthy participants performed a parity judgment task on numbers presented to their right parafovea. Target numbers were preceded by a pair of digits (prime) appearing peripherally for 100ms either in their left (LVF) or in their right visual field (RVF), which participants had to ignore. In healthy participants, when primes were arithmetically related to the following target, performance was significantly slower than when primes and targets were not related. In contrast, AM's performance was slower in the related than in the control condition when prime digits appeared in his RVF, whereas it was faster in the related than in the control condition when prime digits appeared in his LVF. This suggests that neglected numbers were nevertheless processed at least until the level of stored arithmetic knowledge. Thus, visuospatial neglect does not prevent neglected numbers from accessing their representations in arithmetic networks, which seems to be a highly automatised skill. Moreover, AM's pattern of data (i.e., interference from RVF primes vs. facilitation from LVF primes) supports the hypothesis of a link between conscious attention and inhibitory processes, as proposed by Fuentes and Humphreys (1996).
In the last 20 years, several important developments have markedly expanded our understanding of the hemispatial neglect syndrome and, more broadly, of the brain's representation of objects, space, and action. This review follows seven &quot;threads&quot; of scientific development to evaluate some of the changes in our thinking about the mechanisms of neglect, its key characteristics, the spatial frames of reference affected, the psychophysical properties of neglect phenomena, the relationship of neglect in various sensory modalities, the role of deficits in arousal and general attention, and the critical neuroanatomic substrates of the disorder. The progress reviewed illustrates that the cognitive neuropsychology approach to the study of neglect complements insights gleaned from neurophysiological studies in the monkey, functional neuroimaging studies of attention and perception, and other investigative techniques, and thus serves as fertile ground for a convergence approach to cognitive neuroscience.
We review the significant cognitive neuropsychological contributions to our understanding of spoken word production that were made during the period of 1984 to 2004-since the founding of the journal Cognitive Neuropsychology. We then go on to identify and discuss a set of outstanding questions and challenges that face future cognitive neuropsychological researchers in this domain. We conclude that the last 20 years have been a testament to the vitality and productiveness of this approach in the domain of spoken word production and that it is essential that we continue to strive for the broader integration of cognitive neuropsychological evidence into cognitive science, psychology, linguistics, and neuroscience.
We investigated processing of numerical order information and its relation to mechanisms of numerical quantity processing. In two experiments, performance on a quantity-comparison task (e.g. 2 5; which is larger?) was compared with performance on a relative-order judgment task (e.g. 2 5; ascending or descending order?). The comparison task consistently produced the standard distance effect (faster judgments for far relative to close number pairs), but the distance effect was smaller for ascending (e.g. 2 5) compared to descending pairs (e.g. 5 2). The order task produced a pair-order effect (faster judgments for ascending pairs) and a reverse distance effect for consecutive pairs in ascending order. The reverse effect implies an order-specific process, such as serial search or direct recognition of order for successive numbers. Thus, numerical quantity and order judgments recruited different cognitive mechanisms. Nonetheless, the reduced distance effect for ascending pairs in the quantity task implies involvement of order-related processes in magnitude comparison. Accordingly, distance effects in the quantity-comparison task are not necessarily a process-pure measure of magnitude representation.
Despite the considerable success of contemporary associative models of learning in stimulating new behavioral research and modest success in providing direction to both neuroscience and psychotherapy, these models are confronted with at least three challenges. The first challenge is to the assumption that animals encode only one or a few summary statistics to capture what has been experienced over many training trials. This assumption is contrary to overwhelming evidence that the brain retains episodic information. The second challenge is that the learning-performance distinction has been largely ignored. Most models erroneously assume that behavior is a nearly perfect reflection of what has been encoded. The third challenge is to account for interactions between stimuli that have been presented separately (e.g., stimulus interference) as well as between stimuli that have been presented together (e.g., stimulus competition).
In this paper we analyze a popular divisive normalization model of V1 with respect to the relationship between its underlying coding strategy and the extraclassical physiological responses of its constituent modeled neurons. Specifically we are interested in whether the optimization goal of redundancy reduction naturally leads to reasonable neural responses, including reasonable distributions of responses. The model is trained on an ensemble of natural images and tested using sinusoidal drifting gratings, with metrics such as suppression index and contrast dependent receptive field growth compared to the objective function values for a sample of neurons. We find that even though the divisive normalization model can produce &quot;typical&quot; neurons that agree with some neurophysiology data, distributions across samples do not agree with experimental data. Our results suggest that redundancy reduction itself is not necessarily causal of the observed extraclassical receptive field phenomena, and that additional optimization dimensions and/or biological constraints must be considered.
The NeuroTalk interface, described in a companion paper allows for a standardized method of communication with implanted modules that contain custom application specific integrated circuits (ASIC). Here, we describe an example of one such ASIC that has been designed for use in a visual prosthesis. The ASIC is small enough to be incorporated within a 16-channel multielectrode stimulation array implanted in the cortex. In this paper we describe a version designed to operate over a 4-wire buss called NeuroTalk 2. Other versions of the ASIC operate using a single coil input for power and data, over a transcutaneous magnetic link.
With the availability of modern application specific integrated circuit (ASIC) design tools, simulation packages, and low-cost commercial silicon foundry processes, it is becoming increasingly easy for any laboratory, or small company, to develop a custom ASIC. For stimulation, as well as recording, chips that perform specialized functions can be designed, fabricated, and tested within a time period of 2-3 months. In many cases, the desired functionality can only be obtained by using VLSI design methods. Despite this increase in ASIC functionality, as related to neural engineering applications, there exists no common interface protocol for communicating with, and controlling, neural engineering ASICs. This would be analogous to each company that manufactures PC-based systems to have no common method of communication, e.g. USB, GBIB, RS-232, etc. While it might seem elusive, we propose the specification and development of a universal interface protocol for neural engineering ASICs. We have named this interface, NeuroTalk.
An implantable neural recording front-end has been designed in two versions. The first is a multi-channel signal-conditioning ASIC for use with any neural recording probe technology. This ASIC was implemented in a commercial 0.5 mum CMOS process, includes 16 parallel amplifier channels, and measures 2.3 mm2 The amplifiers have a gain of 59.5 dB, a high cutoff frequency at 9.1 kHz and consume 75 microW per channel. The low cutoff frequency is independently tunable on each channel to accept or reject field potentials. This chip is small enough to be chronically packaged for experiments in awake behaving animals or it can be integrated into a fully implantable neural recording microsystem. The second version of the front-end is a neural recording probe with integrated signal conditioning circuitry on the back-end implemented in a 3 microm CMOS process. This version dissipates 142 microW and includes 64 to 8 site selection, 8 per-channel amplifiers each having a gain of 50.2 dB, a tunable low cutoff frequency, and a 7 kHz upper cutoff frequency. Real-time site impedance and circuit testing has been integrated in this design.
Local field potentials (LFPs) are used to monitor the activity of large groups of neurons with macroelectrodes. Historically traditional linear statistical analysis techniques based on second order moments have been used to analyze these signals. We describe a new method based on power demodulation for estimating the instantaneous firing rate that is common to the neural activity of the most prominent neurons sensed by the electrodes. Correlated firing rates among neighboring neurons are common in many neurological structures and pathologies such as tremor. We validate our estimator with a Monte Carlo simulation based on a novel statistical model of LFPs. Our results show that the power demodulation approach can achieve a correlation of &gt;0.80 with the common firing rate. This suggests that it may be possible to estimate the common intensity of a group neurons in recordings which are too noisy or contain too many neurons to apply spike detection or spike sorting algorithms.
We are investigating the computational properties of principal neurons in the mammalian brain. To manage the small size and intricate structure of neuronal dendrites, we employ advanced optical imaging techniques in combination with automatic image reconstruction and computational modeling to study their complex spatio-temporal pattern of activity.
High-resolution functional magnetic resonance imaging (hi-res fMRI) promises to bridge the gap between the macro- and the microview of brain function afforded by conventional neuroimaging and invasive cell recording, respectively. Hi-res fMRI (nominal voxel sizes &lt; or = (2 mm)3) is robustly achievable in human studies today using widely available clinical 3-Tesla scanners. However, the neuroscientific exploitation of the greater spatial detail poses three challenges: (1) Fine-scale neuronal activity patterns are inaccurately depicted in the hemodynamic images obtained. (2) Single small voxels yield very noisy measurements. (3) For groups of subjects, the interindividual correspondency mapping is unknown at the fine scale of millimeters. Here we argue that these challenges can be met by abstracting from the regional fine-scale activity patterns themselves and instead asking how well they distinguish the experimental conditions.
Driver sleepiness due to sleep deprivation is a causative factor in 1% to 3% of all motor vehicle crashes. In recent studies, the importance of developing driver fatigue countermeasure devices has been stressed, in order to help prevent driving accidents and errors. Although numerous physiological indicators are available to describe an individual's level of alertness, the EEG signal has been shown to be one of the most predictive and reliable, since it is a direct measure of brain activity. In the present study, multichannel EEG data that were collected from 20 sleep-deprived subjects during real environmental conditions of driving are presented for the first time. EEG data's annotation made by two independent Medical Doctors revealed an increase of slowing activity and an acute increase of the alpha waves 5-10 seconds before driving events. From the EEG data that were collected, the Relative Band Ratio (RBR) of the EEG frequency bands, the Shannon Entropy, and the Kullback-Leibler (KL) Entropy were estimated for each one second segment. The mean values of these measurements were estimated for 5 minutes periods. Analysis revealed a significant increase of alpha waves relevant band ratios (RBR), a decrease of gamma waves RBR, and a significant decrease of KL entropy when the first and the last 5-min periods were compared. A rapid decrease of both Shannon and K-L entropies was observed just before the driving events. Conclusively, EEG can assess effectively the brain activity alterations that occur a few seconds before sleeping/drowsiness events in driving, and its quantitative measurements can be used as potential sleepiness indicators for future development of driver fatigue countermeasure devices.
A 64-channel neural processor has been developed for use in an implantable neural recording microsystem. In the scan mode, the processor is capable of detecting positive, negative, and biphasic spikes with programmable thresholds. It collects action potential information from the input channels, tags the activities with the associated channel address, compresses and finally packs the activity information in a serial digital bit stream to be sent to an external host. In the monitor mode, two channels can be selected and viewed at high resolution for studies where the entire signal is of interest.
Stroke patients have a decreased ability in performing activity of daily living (ADL) tasks such as in 'drinking a glass of water', 'turning a key', 'picking up a spoon', 'lifting a bag', 'reaching a bottle' and 'lifting and carrying a bottle'. These tasks can be quantified by measuring forces and torques exerted on the objects. However, the resulting force and torque time series represent information at a very low level of abstraction and don't inform clinicians what really distinguishes patients from normal controls in performing these tasks. We conduct an extensive quantitative analysis of these tasks and derive interesting features from the time signals that characterize the differences in behavior between patients and normal controls. We show that 'drinking a glass' and 'turning a key' are the most discriminative tasks; furthermore we show that the ability or disability to synchronize the thumb and the middle finger is one of the most important features.
Localization of the cognitive activity in the brain is one of the major problems in neuroscience. Current techniques for neuro-imaging are based on functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI), Positron Emission Tomography (PET), and Event Related Potential (ERP) recordings. The highest temporal resolution is achieved by ERP, which is crucial for temporal localization of activities. However, the spatial resolution of scalp topography for ERP is low. There is a severe limitation for the parametric inverse solution algorithms that they can only perform well for the temporally uncorrelated sources. In this study, a spatial decomposition method is proposed to separate the temporally correlated sources using their topographies prior to their localization.
This paper introduces Neurodevelopmental Engineering, a new interdisciplinary research area at the intersection of developmental neuroscience and bioengineering. Specifically, it presents current results of the design and development process of a set of instrumented toys equipped with a variety of sensors for behavioral analysis of infants in minimally structured environmental conditions. First the multidisciplinary design approach is presented, then the detailed functional and technical specifications of the proposed biomechatronic toys and of their scenarios of use are described. Finally, a clear picture of ongoing implementation of the proposed technology is provided together with preliminary results of verification tests.
The problem of the evaluation of brain connectivity has become a fundamental one in the neurosciences during the latest years, as a way to understand the organization and the interaction of several cortical areas during the execution of cognitive or motor tasks. Following an approach that derives from the graph theory, we analyzed the architectural properties of the networks obtained by the use of DTF measures on the cortical signals estimated from the high resolution EEG recordings. The present work aims at analyse the structure of cortical connectivity during the imagination of a limb movement in spinal cord injured patients, by the computation of the characteristic path length L and the cluster indices Cin and Cout.
The technique of blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was used to provide a spatial-temporal mapping of nociceptive activation in brain. We contrived to obtain an illustration of the pain related regions by injecting formalin at the hindpaw using a 4.7 T MR system in alpha-chloralose anesthetized rats. In order to obtain the pain response, we avoided any invasive surgery on animals to purify the signal of nociception. The dynamic data were analyzed by mapping correlation coefficient and the time activity curves were calculated by atlas-based region of interest selection. The BOLD signals showed obvious difference in anterior cingulated cortex, somatosensory cortex, medial thalamus, and striatum after stimulation. The results not only show the global somatotopic organization of noxious stimulation on hindpaw in rats, but also provided invaluable information for neuroscience research.
In the analysis of epileptic electroencephalographic (EEG) and magnetoencephalography (MEG) data, spike separation is diagnostically important because localization of epileptic focus often depends on accurate extraction of spiky activity from the raw data. In this paper, we present a method to automatically extract spikes using the wavelet transform combined with morphological filtering based on a circular structuring element. Our experimental results have shown that this method is highly effective in spike separation. Comparisons with the wavelet, bandpass filter, empirical mode decomposition (EMD), and independent component analysis (ICA) methods show that the new method is more effective in estimating both spike amplitudes and locations.
The recently proposed signal space separation (SSS) method can transform the multichannel magnetic measurements of brain (MEG) into parts that correspond to inner sources and undesired external interferences. In this paper, we extend this method by decomposing the signal into deep and superficial regions. This is realized by manipulating the SSS coefficients using a scheme that exploits beamspace methodology. It relies on estimating a linear transformation which maximizes the power of the source space of interest over the power of remaining part. We demonstrate that this method yields a simple and direct way to decompose the signal into deep and/or superficial parts.
This paper presents an application of wavelet filtering to single-trial P300 component analysis. The objective of this study is to introduce a new method for analyzing the P300 component, when performing a given cognitive task, in this case, a two-choice reaction time task. The discrete wavelet transform with Daubechies wavelet is employed to detect the presence of P300 in individual trials. Wavelet filtering is applied to remove noise and unwanted frequency components from discrete wavelet transform (DWT) coefficients based on prior knowledge of event-related potentials (ERPs). The filtering mask is computed from the grand-average of wavelet coefficients over all participants. With this filtering, the P300 component is accurately localized in both time and scale. The findings suggest the procedure to have considerable potential for the analysis of time-series data in the behavioral neurosciences.
We apply an adaptive approach to optimal experimental design in the context of estimating the unknown parameters of a model of a neuron's response. We present an algorithm to choose the optimal (most informative) stimulus on each trial; this algorithm can be implemented efficiently even for high-dimensional stimulus and parameter spaces (in particular, no high-dimensional numerical optimizations or integrations are required). Our simulation results show that model parameters can be estimated much more efficiently using this adaptive algorithm rather than random sampling. We also show that this adaptive approach leads to superior performance in the case that the model parameters are nonstationary, as would be expected in real experiments.
Sevoflurane is a volatile anesthetic which is reported to cause epileptiform EEG changes together with undesired symptoms such as convulsions. In this paper, an algorithm for the automatic detection of these EEG changes is presented which could enable safer induction of anesthesia with sevoflurane by informing the clinicians about the epileptiform EEG. EEG was recorded from 60 healthy female patients during sevoflurane anesthesia. A neurophysiologist classified the EEG waveforms. Each anesthesia period lasted 6 minutes. 48 signal features were extracted from the raw EEG. 5-sec segments of EEG were classified based on the extracted features using a decision tree with a logistic regression based decisions and the classification results were compared to the neurophysiologist's classifications. Awake EEG was recognized with 69%/96% (sensitivity/specificity), Burst suppression with 56%/98%, Epileptiform EEG with 83%/87%, normal slow anesthesia EEG with 86%/64%, slow anesthesia EEG with monophasic pattern with 65%/80%, and slow anesthesia EEG with monophasic pattern and spikes with 54%/84%
The aim of this pilot study was to assess the usefulness of independent component analysis (ICA) to detect cardiac artifacts and power line interferences in magnetoencephalogram (MEG) recordings. We recorded MEG signals from six subjects with a 148-channel whole-head magnetometer (MAGNES 2500 WH, 4D Neuroimaging). Epochs of 50 s with power line noise, cardiac, and ocular artifacts were selected for analysis. We applied a statistical criterion to determine the number of sources, and a robust ICA algorithm to decompose the MEG epochs. Skewness, kurtosis, and a spectral metric were used to mark the studied artifacts. We found that the power line interference could be easily detected by its frequency characteristics. Moreover, skewness outperformed kurtosis when identifying the cardiac artifact.
Until now, in EEG studies the activity of the brain during simple or complex tasks have been recorded in a single subject. Often, during such EEG recordings, subjects interacts with the external devices or the researchers in order to reproduce conditions similar to the those usually occurring in the real-life. However, in order to study the concurrent activity in subjects interacting in cooperation or competition activities, the issue of the simultaneous recording of their brain activity became mandatory. The simultaneous recording of hemodynamic or neuroelectric activity of the brain is called &quot;hyperscanning&quot;. We would like present results obtained by EEG hyperscannings performed on a group of subjects engaged in cooperative games. The EEG hyperscannings have been performed with the simultaneous use of high resolution EEG devices on groups of three and four subjects while they were playing cooperative games. The analysis of such data have been conducted with analysis method that taken into account the particular nature of the data simultaneously gathered from different subjects. We called these methods hypermethods. In particular, we estimate the concurrent activity in multiple brains of the group and we depicted the causal connections between regions of different brains (hyperconnectivity). The resulting causality patterns will link certain areas of the brain of a subject to the waveforms obtained from the other brain areas of another subject of the same group. Results obtained in a study of several groups recorded by the hyperscanning reveals causal links between prefrontal areas of the different subjects when they are performing cooperative games in different frequency bands. Hypermethods for hyperscanning will open a different area for the study of neuroscience, in which the activity of multiple brains during social cooperation could be investigated. In such area the importance of EEG will be relevant due to its temporal and spatial resolution now obtainable w- ith the high resolution EEG techniques.
The problem of the definition and evaluation of brain connectivity has become a central one in neuroscience during the latest years, as a way to understand the organization and interaction of cortical areas during the execution of cognitive or motor tasks. In this paper we propose the use of the DTF method on cortical signals estimated from high resolution EEG recordings. An application of the proposed technique to the estimation of cortical connectivity pattern in normal subjects and in one spinal cord injured patient is also provided.
Assessment of brain connectivity among different brain areas during cognitive or motor tasks is a crucial problem in neuroscience today. Aim of this work is to use a neural mass model to assess the effect of various connectivity patterns in the power spectral density (PSD) of cortical EEG, and investigate the possibility to derive connectivity circuits from real EEG data. To this end, a model of an individual region of interest (ROI) has been built as the parallel arrangement of three populations. The present study suggests that the model can be used as a simulation tool, able to produce reliable intracortical EEG signals. Moreover, it can be used to look for simple connectivity circuits, able to explain the main features of observed cortical PSD. These results may open new prospective in the use of neurophysiological models, instead of empirical models, to assess effective connectivity from neuroimaging information.
Causal coherence analysis was applied to beat-to-beat mean intracranial pressure (ICP) and RR interval signals that were recorded from twelve normal pressure hydrocephalus patients. Data were organized into two groups including an ICP B-Wave group and a control baseline group. Maximal classic coherence between ICP and RR interval within [0.04-0.15] Hz was found to be significantly greater than zero for both B-wave and control groups. Causal coherence analysis further revealed that feedforward coherence due to RR interval's effect on ICP always exists for both B-wave and baseline ICP state while feedback coherence from ICP to RR interval was enhanced during the occurrence of B-wave.





The temporal deployment of attention to tactile stimuli delivered to the same or to a symmetrical position of the body was assessed in 6 Right-Brain Damaged (RBD) patients with left tactile extinction and 6 healthy controls. Two different tasks called Temporal (T) and Spatio-Temporal (ST) extinction were used. In the T task single or double electro tactile stimuli were delivered to the same point to the left or, in separate blocks, to the right index finger. Double stimuli were separated by different Stimulus Onset Asynchronies (SOAs). In the ST task, stimuli could be single (left or right) or double (left and right). Double stimuli were delivered to the index finger of both hands simultaneously or sequentially. In both tasks subjects were asked to report the number of the stimuli they perceived. In the ST task, subjects were also requested to report the stimuli location. Results show that in both tasks RBD patients' detection of left sided stimuli was significantly lower than of right sided stimuli detection, mainly at shortest SOAs. Moreover, detection of left sided stimuli was higher when two stimuli were delivered in sequence and in symmetrical body areas and in different sides of the space than when stimuli were delivered in sequence in the same body area. Results suggest that the interaction between spatial and temporal variables enhances the ability of tactile extinction patients to detect left sided stimuli.


In the fourth part of this review article, research on the topic of acupuncture and functional magnetic resonance imaging is described. Needle as well as painless laserneedle stimulation have led to significant changes in different areas of the brain. With the help of modern biomedical engineering equipment and neuroscience, some of acupuncture's secrets have begun to be revealed. The neuro-modulating effects require further investigation in a larger population sample.
Batteries of transcription factors have been proposed to control stem cell self-renewal and lineage progression by eliciting cascades of gene expression. Nuclear receptors provide an ideal model to study the transcriptional regulation of gene expression because they can activate as well as repress gene expression through ligand binding and recruitment of transcriptional coactivators or corepressors. Recent progress in defining specific roles of some nuclear receptors and their coregulators in stem cell self-renewal and differentiation provides a first glimpse of the regulatory events involved and is the beginning of a very promising area of research. This review summarizes the current state of knowledge regarding nuclear receptors and their roles in stem cell biology. These studies not only facilitate an understanding of stem cell biology but also provide a basis for the development of therapeutic drugs for the treatment of a variety of diseases.
Protein kinase A (PKA) is a broad-specificity serine/threonine protein kinase whose spatial and temporal regulation is maintained through interactions with A-kinase anchoring proteins (AKAPs). Subcellular localization of AKAPs through unique targeting domains provides a mechanism by which PKA can respond to localized microdomains of cyclic AMP (cAMP) and phosphorylate nearby substrates. For nearly 40 years, cAMP has been known to be a potent modulator of the immune system. cAMP levels are regulated by G-protein-coupled receptors, adenylyl cyclases (AC), and phosphodiesterases (PDEs). This review discusses recent progress made in the discovery of PKA substrates in T lymphocytes and in the identification of AKAPs in T lymphocytes. Because PKA is activated by cAMP, generation and maintenance of cAMP in T cells is also discussed. These findings are framed in the context of understanding the complexity of cAMP and, thus, PKA signaling and are intended to provide the reader with an overview of current literature, as well as an awareness of questions and concerns to consider.
Thin acute slices and dissociated cell cultures taken from different parts of the brain have been widely used to examine the function of the nervous system, neuron-specific interactions, and neuronal development (specifically, neurobiology, neuropharmacology, and neurotoxicology studies). Here, we focus on an alternative in vitro model: brain-slice cultures in roller tubes, initially introduced by Beat Ghwiler for studies with rats, that we have recently adapted for studies of mouse cerebellum. Cultured cerebellar slices afford many of the advantages of dissociated cultures of neurons and thin acute slices. Organotypic slice cultures were established from newborn or 10-15-day-old mice. After 3-4 weeks in culture, the slices flattened to form a cell monolayer. The main types of cerebellar neurons could be identified with immunostaining techniques, while their electrophysiological properties could be easily characterized with the patch-clamp recording technique. When slices were taken from newborn mice and cultured for 3 weeks, aspects of the cerebellar development were displayed. A functional neuronal network was established despite the absence of mossy and climbing fibers, which are the two excitatory afferent projections to the cerebellum. When slices were made from 10-15-day-old mice, which are at a developmental stage when cerebellum organization is almost established, the structure and neuronal pathways were intact after 3-4 weeks in culture. These unique characteristics make organotypic slice cultures of mouse cerebellar cortex a valuable model for analyzing the consequences of gene mutations that profoundly alter neuronal function and compromise postnatal survival.
Once the tools for controlling calcium gradients became available to electrophysiologists, they began the quest for understanding the role of Ca2+ in the control of neuronal activity. In the early 1970s Paul Feltz and I spent a rich period in K. Krnjevic's laboratory in Montreal, and I was already involved in a research, which showed that an increase in intracellular Ca2+ concentration can lead to hyperpolarization of motoneurones. At about the same time, a potassium conductance activated by intracellular calcium injection was identified in mammals and snails. Since then, most of my work has dealt with the study of Ca2+ entry in neurons. Here I review the progress that led fi rst to the biophysical characterization and, later, to the molecular identification of T-type calcium channels. With the advent of new optical methods, in particular two-photon microscopy, we may be on the brink of a step forward in our understanding of how T channels play a role in the integrative processes that take place in a large cortical neuron such as the Purkinje cell.
Repetitive firing neuron or activation of synaptic transmission plays an important role in the modulation of synaptic efficacy, such as long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD). These activity-dependent changes in synaptic efficacy are thought to be critical to learning and memory; however, the underlying mechanisms remain to be defined. Endogenous cannabinoids (eCBs) are diffusible modulators that are released from depolarized postsynaptic neurons and act on presynaptic terminals. Persistent release of eCBs can lead to long-term modulation of synaptic plasticity in the brain. Given a broad distribution of eCB receptors in the brain, the eCB signaling system could contribute to use-dependent modification of brain functions.
Early in development, network activity in the hippocampus is characterized by giant depolarizing potentials (GDPs). These potentials consist of recurrent membrane depolarizations with superimposed fast action potentials separated by quiescent intervals. They are generated by the interplay of glutamate and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) that, in the immediate postnatal period, is depolarizing and excitatory. Here, we review some recent data concerning the functional role of GDPs in shaping synaptic currents at low-probability mossy-fiber (MF)-CA3 synapses. A pairing procedure was used to correlate GDPs-associated calcium increase in the postsynaptic cell with stimulation of afferent inputs. The pairing protocol caused the appearance of synaptic responses or persistently enhanced the number of successes in &quot;presynaptically&quot; silent or low-probability synapses, respectively. In double-pulses experiments, this effect was associated with a significant reduction in the paired-pulse ratio and a significant increase in the inverse squared value of the coefficient of variation of response amplitude, suggesting that long-term potentiation (LTP) expression was due to the increased probability of transmitter released. In the absence of pairing, no significant changes in synaptic efficacy could be detected. When the interval between GDPs and MF stimulation was increased, the potentiating effect progressively declined and reached the control level in less than 4 s. Mossy-fiber responses were identified on the basis of their paired-pulse facilitation, short-term frequency facilitation, and sensitivity to the group III metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) agonist, 2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (L-AP4). Using these criteria, we found that MFs release mainly GAB A onto CA3 pyramidal cells or GABAergic interneurons. In line with their GABAergic nature, MF responses were blocked by the GABAA receptor antagonists bicuculline or gabazine and were potentiated by NO-711, a blocker of the GABA transporter GAT-1, and by flurazepam, an allosteric modulator of GABAA receptors. In addition, chemical stimulation of granule cell dendrites with glutamate in the presence of 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX) induced into target neurons barrages of L-AP4-sensitive GABAA-mediated postsynaptic currents, further supporting the GABAergic phenotype of granule cells. As in MF, pairing GDPs with Schaffer collateral stimulation induced a persistent potentiation of spontaneous and evoked alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA)-mediated responses at poorly developed CA3-CA1 synapses. This effect was mediated by an increase in calcium in the postsynaptic cell via voltage-dependent calcium channels activated by the depolarizing action of GABA during GDPs. We provide evidence also that, at these connections, cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) is the signaling molecule necessary for enhancing synaptic efficacy, since GDPs-induced potentiation was prevented by the membrane permeable PKA inhibitor (PKI 14-22) applied in the bath or by the membrane impermeable form of PKI (PKI 6-22) applied via the patch pipette. In conclusion, it is suggested that GDPs translate specific patterns of pre- and postsynaptic activity into long-lasting changes in synaptic strength and stabilize synaptic connections, thus contributing to the structural refinement of the hippocampal circuit.

Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neurotoxicity (CIPN) is a major clinical problem since it is the dose-limiting side effect of a significant number of antineoplastic drugs. The incidence of CIPN varies depending on the conditions, but severe neuropathy can occur in up to 40% of patients undergoing a polichemotherapy regimen. Moreover, even when CIPN is not a dose-limiting side effect, its onset may severely affect the quality of life of cancer patients and cause chronic discomfort. Currently, no treatment is available which can significantly improve the clinical signs and symptoms of CIPN. In recent years, new agents have been proposed as neuroprotectants, and some of them have been more specifically studied for CIPN. So far, the most interesting results for future applications have been obtained in the pre-clinical studies involving cytokines and growth factors. For several of these drugs, in fact, sound hypotheses have been formulated to support the idea of a protective role on selected neuronal targets. However, this theoretical basis has frequently failed to lead to consistent results in pre-clinical and clinical applications. We will review the state-of-the-art of CIPN treatment with growth factors and focus on the future prospects opened up by the most recent pre-clinical and clinical studies.
Currently available therapies for brain ischemia, with a few exceptions, provide only symptomatic relief in patients. Recent investigations in experimental models provided an understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms that lead to neurodegeneration in ischemic injury, and also indicate targets for prevention and amelioration of the devastating consequences of stroke. An enormous increase in intracellular free Ca(2+) levels following stroke activates Ca(2+)-dependent enzymes, contributing to neuronal death and dysfunction. Additionally, ischemic injury generates highly reactive free radicals and triggers release of cytotoxic cytokines for activation of cysteine proteases. A number of studies already indicated a prominent role for the cysteine proteases of the calpain and caspase families in the pathogenesis of brain ischemia. Proteolytic activities of these proteases degrade various cytoskeletal proteins and membrane proteins, destabilizing the structural integrity and forcing the neurons to delayed death in ischemic penumbra. Some current studies have unequivocally confirmed the neuronal apoptosis in ischemia and showed that administration of calpain and caspase inhibitors alone or in combination can provide functional neuroprotection in various animal models of cerebral ischemia. This article will discuss the molecular structures and activities of calpain and caspase inhibitors and their therapeutic efficacy in experimental brain ischemia. However, further investigations are necessary for improvements in the structural design of calpain and caspase inhibitors for their persistent therapeutic efficacy in animal models of stroke and for clinical trials in the future.
More than one and a half billion people worldwide suffer from moderate to severe chronic pain, the National Institute of Health estimates that pain costs health services approximately 100 billion US Dollar annually. Existing drugs for the treatment of pain are often associated with serious side effects and rapid development of tolerance, thus, there is a need for new, more selective, molecules. Ion channels play an important role throughout the pain response, from nociception via transient receptor potential (TRP) channels or ATP-sensitive receptors, propagation of action potentials by voltage-sensitive sodium and potassium channels to control of the release of neurotransmitters from presynaptic terminals of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurones in the dorsal horn by voltage-gated calcium channels. Venoms are complex mixtures of bioactive molecules that have evolved for prey capture and defence, many of these molecules have a high selectivity for physiological processes, including modulation of ion channel function, which has not been matched by man made molecules. Thus, venoms represent an extensive source of molecules for the development of therapeutic agents. This report will review the key ion channel targets for pain relief, and venom-derived molecules and their analogues acting at these targets. We will concentrate particularly on peptides isolated from Conus venom as these represent one of the best-characterised toxin families. Our current knowledge of the molecular pharmacology of these toxin molecules will be reviewed and problems associated with using peptides as therapeutics will be discussed, along with strategies to overcome these.
Schizophrenia has been associated with a dysfunction of brain dopamine (DA). This, so called, DA hypothesis has been refined as new insights into the pathophysiology of schizophrenia have emerged. Currently, dysfunction of prefrontocortical glutamatergic and GABAergic projections and dysfunction of serotonin (5-HT) systems are also thought to play a role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Refinements of the DA hypothesis have lead to the emergence of new pharmacological targets for antipsychotic drug development. It was shown that effective antipsychotic drugs with a low liability for inducing extra-pyramidal side-effects have affinities for a range of neurotransmitter receptors in addition to DA receptors, suggesting that a combination of neurotransmitter receptor affinities may be favorable for treatment outcome.This review focuses on the interaction between DA and 5-HT, as most antipsychotics display affinity for 5-HT receptors. We will discuss DA/5-HT interactions at the level of receptors and G protein-coupled potassium channels and consequences for induction of depolarization blockade with specific attention to DA neurons in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and the substantia nigra zona compacta (SN), neurons implicated in treatment efficacy and the side-effects of schizophrenia, respectively. Moreover, it has been reported that electrophysiological interactions between DA and 5-HT show subtle, but important, differences between the SN and the VTA which could explain (in part) the effectiveness and lower propensity to induce side-effects of the newer atypical antipsychotic drugs. In that respect the functional implications of DA/5-HT interactions for schizophrenia will be discussed.
AEOL-10150, a small-molecule antioxidant analogous to the catalytic site of superoxide dismutase, is under development by Aeolus (formerly Incara) as a potential subcutaneous treatment for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), stroke, spinal cord injury, lung inflammation and mucositis. The compound is currently undergoing a phase I clinical trial for ALS. In October 2005, the company had applied for Fast Track status, and planned to submit a special protocol assessment for a pivotal phase II/III trial.


Extensive research suggests that a number of plant-derived chemicals and traditional Oriental herbal remedies possess cognition-enhancing properties. Widely used current treatments for dementia include extracts of Ginkgo biloba and several alkaloidal, and therefore toxic, plant-derived cholinergic agents. Several non-toxic, European herbal species have pan-cultural traditions as treatments for cognitive deficits, including those associated with ageing. To date they have not received research interest commensurate with their potential utility. Particularly promising candidate species include sage (Salvia lavandulaefolia/officinalis), Lemon balm (Melissa officinalis) and rosemary (Rosmarinus officinalis). In the case of sage, extracts possess anti-oxidant, estrogenic, and anti-inflammatory properties, and specifically inhibit butyryl- and acetyl-cholinesterase. Acute administration has also been found to reliably improve mnemonic performance in healthy young and elderly cohorts, whilst a chronic regime has been shown to attenuate cognitive declines in sufferers from Alzheimer's disease. In the case of Melissa officinalis, extracts have, most notably, been shown to bind directly to both nicotinic and muscarinic receptors in human brain tissue. This property has been shown to vary with extraction method and strain. Robust anxiolytic effects have also been demonstrated following acute administration to healthy humans, with mnemonic enhancement restricted to an extract with high cholinergic binding properties. Chronic regimes of aromatherapy and essential oil respectively have also been shown to reduce agitation and attenuate cognitive declines in sufferers from dementia. Given the side effect profile of prescribed cholinesterase inhibitors, and a current lack of a well tolerated nicotinic receptor agonist, these herbal treatments may well provide effective and well-tolerated treatments for dementia, either alone, in combination, or as an adjunct to conventional treatments.
Sigma receptors are classified into sigma(1) and sigma(2) subtypes. These subtypes display a different tissue distribution and a distinct physiological and pharmacological profile in the central and peripheral nervous system. The characterization of these subtypes and the discovery of new specific sigma receptor ligands demonstrated that sigma receptors are novel targets for the therapeutic treatment of neuropsychiatric diseases (schizophrenia, depression, and cognition), brain ischemia, and cocaine addiction. Furthermore, imaging of sigma(1) receptors in the human brain using specific PET radioligands has started. In addition, the two sigma receptor subtypes are also expressed on tumor cells, where they could be of prognostic relevance. The ability of sigma(2) receptor agonists to inhibit tumor cell proliferation through mechanisms that might involve apoptosis, intracellular Ca(2+), and sphingolipids has promoted the development of sigma(2) receptor agonists as novel therapeutic drugs for treating cancer. Consequently, sigma(2) receptor ligands have been demonstrated to be potentially useful tumor imaging ligands. In this article, we focus on the sigma receptor ligands as therapeutic agents and as radiopharmaceuticals.
Increasing evidence indicates that inflammation is involved in the pathogenesis of many neurological, particularly neurodegenerative diseases. Even if inflammation is not a primary causative process, its presence may contribute to the continued loss of CNS neurons. Therefore, it seems reasonable to propose that use of anti-inflammatory drugs might diminish the cumulative effects of inflammation in the brain. Indeed, some epidemiological studies performed to date, especially in Alzheimer's disease, suggests that sustained use of anti-inflammatory drugs (AIDs) may prevent or slow down the progression of neurodegenerative diseases. However, small number of clinical trials carried out so far using AIDs, were minimal and equivocal in their outcome. Potential reasons for these mixed results include timing of AIDs administration, nonselective inhibition of cyclooxygenase (COX), inappropriate use of particular anti-inflammatory drugs for a given disease or disease progression/ severity, sub-optimal dose in target site, or limited penetration to the brain through the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Therefore, design of AIDs for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases based upon better BBB penetration, and with minimal adverse events, would be appropriate. In addition, relevant genetic differences among patients should be considered planning new AIDs, for improved efficacy. Furthermore, due to the possible co-involvement of oxidative stress and excitotoxicity in the pathogenesis of these diseases, combination therapy with antioxidants or glutamate antagonists or a multi-potent drug might be much more effective in successfully treating neurodegenerative diseases.
How cannabinoids influence immune function has been examined extensively in the last 30 years. Studies on drug-abusing humans and animals, as well as in vitro models employing immune cell cultures, have shown that marijuana, natural and endogenous cannabinoid compounds are immunomodulators. These substances modulate host resistance to bacterial, protozoan and viral infections as well as they can profoundly affect the Th1/Th2 response. Recently, two types of cannabinoid receptor, CB1 and CB2, have been discovered. While CB1 is expressed primarily in the brain, CB2 is peculiar of the immune cells. Cannabinoid receptors have been shown to be involved in some but not all of immune effects. Nevertheless, their identification provides a specific mechanism of action in the attempting to find out how exogenous cannabinoids and endogenous cannabinoid system affect the immune apparatus, strengthen the hypothesis of cannabinoids as immunomodulators. As support to this theory, enough evidence exists to suggest that the cannabinoid system significantly affects almost every component of the immune response machinery and impacts the functioning also of the cytokine network. The evaluation of the biological consequences of these drug-induced cytokine changes has also dramatically become important considering not only the impact of cytokines on immune system per se but also envisaging their influence in cancer, inflammation, autoimmune disease, brain injury, hematopoietic colony formation in which cannabinoids have demonstrated a clear role as important modulators.
Several human diseases are associated with the presence of toxic fibrillar protein deposits. These diseases called protein misfolding disorders, are characterized by the accumulation of misfolded protein aggregates in diverse tissues. Strong evidence indicates that the conversion of a normal soluble protein into a beta-sheet-rich oligomeric structure and further fibrillar aggregation are the key events in the disease pathogenesis. Therefore, a promising therapeutic target consists of the prevention and dissolution of misfolded protein aggregates. Peptides designed to specifically bind to the pathogenic protein and block and/or reverse its abnormal conformational change constitute a new class of drugs. This article reviews this approach, describing diverse compounds reported to have this activity.
The performance- and alertness-sustaining/restoring effects of modafinil during sleep deprivation in normal, healthy adults were reviewed. Results indicate that modafinil is efficacious for sustaining/restoring objective performance and alertness during sleep deprivation with few adverse effects. At appropriate dosages, modafinil restores performance and alertness to non-sleep deprived levels. Modafinil also impairs post-sleep deprivation recovery sleep, but from the few studies available addressing this issue, it is unclear whether these sleep impairments translate into post-sleep performance impairments. Further research is needed to determine whether modafinil restores performance on simple cognitive tasks only or whether modafinil additionally restores executive functions (e.g., abstract thought, critical reasoning, planning, decision-making, situational awareness, and effective judgment) which are critical in most modern operational settings. In addition, studies are needed to determine whether modafinil use during sleep deprivation is preferable to that of other available controlled stimulants (such as dextroamphetamine) or non-controlled stimulants (such as caffeine). Such studies would be comprised of direct, head-to-head comparisons among various stimulants across a range of dosages.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia with aging, that is pathologically characterized by senile plaques that contain amyloid-beta peptides (Abeta) and neurofibrillary tangles comprised of phosphorylated tau. Genetic and biological studies provide evidence that the production and deposition of Abeta contribute to the etiology of AD. gamma-Secretase is the pivotal enzyme in generating the C terminus of Abeta, that determines its aggregability and propensity for deposition. Drugs that regulate the production of Abeta by inhibiting gamma-secretase activity could provide an effective therapeutics for AD, although recent studies suggest that gamma-secretase plays important roles in novel signaling pathways that play essential roles in embryonic development. This review focuses on recent progresses in the gamma-secretase biology that shed substantial light on the proteolytic mechanism, regulation and composition of this unusual enzyme. Moreover, we review the recent development of inhibitors and provide a direction for the effective treatment of AD through inhibition of gamma-secretase activity.
Neuronal nicotinic receptors (nAChRs) are a heterogeneous family of ion channels differently expressed in the nervous system where, by responding to the endogenous neurotransmitter acetylcholine, they contribute to a wide range of brain activities and influence a number of physiological functions. Over recent years, the application of newly developed molecular and cellular biological techniques has made it possible to correlate the subunit composition of nAChRs with specific nicotine-elicited behaviours, and refine some of the in vivo physiological functions of nAChR subtypes. The major new findings are the widespread expression of nAChRs, outside the nervous system, their specific and complex organisation, and their relevance to normal brain function. Moreover, the combination of clinical and basic research has better defined the involvement of nAChRs in a growing number of nervous pathologies other than degenerative diseases. However, there are still only a limited number of nicotinic-specific drugs and, although some nicotinic agonists have an interesting pharmacology, their clinical use is limited by undesirable side effects. Some selective nicotinic ligands have recently been developed and used to explore the complexity of nAChR subtype structure and function in the expectation that they will become rational therapeutic alternatives in a number of neurodegenerative, neuropsychiatric and neurological disorders. In this review, we will discuss the molecular basis of brain nAChR structural and functional diversity mainly in pharmacological and biochemical terms, and summarise current knowledge concerning the newly discovered drugs used to classify the numerous receptor subtypes and treat the brain diseases in which nAChRs are involved.
The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPAR-gamma) belongs to a large group of nuclear receptors controlling reproduction, metabolism, development and immune response. Upon activation by specific agonists, these receptors form dimers and translocate to the nucleus, where they act as agonist-dependent transcription factors and regulate gene expression by binding to specific promoter regions of target genes. The observation that PPAR-gamma is involved in the regulation of macrophage differentiation and activation in the peripheral organs has prompted the investigation of the functional role of PPAR-gamma in microglial cells, the main macrophage population of the CNS. The present review summarizes the several lines of evidence supporting that PPAR-gamma natural and synthetic agonists may control brain inflammation by inhibiting several functions associated to microglial activation, such as the expression of surface antigens and the synthesis of nitric oxide, prostaglandins, inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. Moreover, one of the major natural PPAR-gamma agonist, 15d-prostaglandin J(2) may contribute to the safe elimination of activated microglia by inducing apoptosis. Synthetic PPAR-gamma agonists do not entirely reproduce the range of 15d-prostaglandin J(2) effects, suggesting that PPAR-gamma independent mechanisms are also involved in the action of this prostaglandin. In addition to microglia, PPAR-gamma agonists affect functions and survival of other neural cells, including astrocytes, oligodendrocytes and neurons. Although most of the evidence comes from in vitro observations, an increasing number of studies in animal models further supports the potential therapeutic use of PPAR-gamma agonists in human brain diseases including multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that generally begins in middle age with abnormalities of movement, cognition, personality, and mood. Neuronal loss is most marked among the medium-sized projection neurons of the dorsal striatum. HD is an autosomal dominant genetic disorder caused by a CAG expansion in exon 1 of the HD gene, encoding an expanded polyglutamine (polyQ) tract near the N-terminus of the protein huntingtin. Despite identification of the gene mutation more than a decade ago, the normal function of this ubiquitously expressed protein is still under investigation and the mechanisms underlying selective neurodegeneration in HD remain poorly understood. Detailed postmortem analyses of brains of HD patients have provided important clues, and HD transgenic and knock-in mouse models have facilitated investigations into potential pathogenic mechanisms. Subcellular fractionation and immunolocalization studies suggest a role for huntingtin in organelle transport, protein trafficking, and regulation of energy metabolism. Consistent with this, evidence from vertebrate and invertebrate models of HD indicates that expression of the polyQ-expanded form of huntingtin results in early impairment of axonal transport and mitochondrial function. As well, alteration in activity of the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) type glutamate receptor, which has been implicated as a main mediator of excitotoxic neuronal death, especially in the striatum, is an early effect of mutant huntingtin. Proteolysis and nuclear localization of huntingtin also occur relatively early, while formation of ubiquitinated aggregates of huntingtin and transcriptional dysregulation occur as late effects of the gene mutation. Although each of these processes may contribute to neuronal loss in HD, here we review the data to support a strong role for NMDA receptor (NMDAR)-mediated excitotoxicity and mitochondrial dysfunction in conferring selective neuronal vulnerability in HD.
In the last few years, there has been a great increase in our understanding of pain mechanisms. Given the complexity of the mechanisms involved in pain modulation, it is surprising that the pharmacological control of pain through the application of relatively simple analgesics can be effective. Nevertheless, the application of single analgesics is not always effective in diverse painful conditions such as chronic pain syndromes. In these circumstances, we can take advantage of the complexity of pain regulation and try to identify new targets in these intricate processes. It is becoming clear that the combination of different mechanisms, which improves efficacy with reduced toxicity, is necessary for the reliable pharmacotherapy of pain, and is at the forefront in the search for better analgesics. Serotonin is involved at multiple levels in the regulation of nociception. In particular, the raphe nuclei may play a crucial role in integrating the nociceptive and affective information through descending projections to the spinal cord and ascending projections to the forebrain. In these nuclei, 5-HT1A receptors function as somatodendritic autoreceptors controlling the release of serotonin in terminal areas. Different studies have shown that, by preventing this inhibitory control of serotonin release, it is possible to enhance the analgesic effect of drugs that increase serotonin levels (i.e. antidepressants, opiates, and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) by facilitating descending, and also ascending, pathways involved in pain modulation. Therefore, 5-HT1A receptors may be used as a new target in the search for new pharmacological approaches in the augmentation of analgesia.
This review provides an overview of ligands for the excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs), a family of high-affinity glutamate transporters localized to the plasma membrane of neurons and astroglial cells. Ligand development from the perspective of identifying novel and more selective tools for elucidating transporter subtype function, and the potential of transporter ligands in a therapeutic setting are discussed. Acute pharmacological modulation of EAAT activity in the form of linear and conformationally restricted glutamate and aspartate analogs is presented, in addition to recent strategies aimed more toward modulating transporter expression levels, the latter of particular significance to the development of transporter based therapeutics.
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors play essential roles in the normal physiology of neurons, and these receptors are also largely responsible for glutamate-induced excitotoxicity. Since treatments of glutamate-induced excitotoxicity by NMDA receptor inhibitors often result in adverse side effects, alternative treatment approaches have been actively sought in recent years. One potential approach is to target proteins and enzymes down stream of the NMDA receptor signaling pathways. Extensive studies in recent years have demonstrated that PDZ domains of PSD-95 play critical roles in scaffolding the NMDA receptor/neuronal nitric oxide synthase pathway. Therefore, PSD-95 PDZ domains become attractive targets for treatment of glutamate-induced overproduction of nitric oxide. The strategy is to develop small compounds that can effectively block protein-protein interactions mediated by the PDZ domains of PSD-95. Biochemical and structural studies of PDZ/target interactions have indicated that developing small molecules to compete with PDZ targets is a feasible approach. We provide an example demonstrating the discovery and further development of small molecules capable of disrupting PSD-95/NMDA receptor and/or PSD-95/neuronal nitric oxide synthase complexes.
Transgenic mice models for Alzheimer's disease (AD) are essential to the understanding of disease pathophysiology, develop robust behavioral models and predict outcomes from pharmacological interventions. In the last 10 years, numerous mice models have been developed particularly focusing on the amyloid precursor protein-processing pathway and Tau pathology since brain amyloid deposits and Tau tangles are some of the primary neuropathological consequences of AD. Current views on the amyloid hypothesis and mice models relating to the role of soluble Abeta oligomers and intracellular Abeta in AD pathophysiology will be reviewed. Several novel transgenic mice models that have recently been developed and their potential impact on understanding disease pathogenesis will also be summarized.
Corticosteroids are the mainstay treatment for most severe inflammatory disorders. Due to the considerable toxicity associated with their long-term use, there is a great need for alternative treatments. Recently, two closely related neuropeptides with potent neuromodulatory activities, vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and pituitary adenylyl cyclase activating peptide (PACAP) have emerged as candidate molecules for the treatment of such pathologies. These peptides act primarily on three high affinity receptor subtypes expressed on multiple immune cell types, and orchestrate a cytokine response that is primarily anti-inflammatory. In this regard, systemic treatment with these peptides has been shown to greatly reduce the clinical symptoms and alter the pathogenic and cytokine profiles in animal models of rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn's disease, septic shock, and multiple sclerosis. Likewise, VIP and PACAP receptor knockout and overexpressing mice show altered immune responses in different models. We review here data demonstrating the potential effectiveness of these peptides in immune disorders, discuss receptor pharmacology and signaling pathways, describe the development of receptor specific agonists and antagonists, and discuss pharmaceutical considerations relevant to the specific delivery of analogs to the appropriate targets.
Patients with hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection have a higher prevalence of psychiatric illness compared with the general US population, and the prevalence of HCV infection in patients with severe mental illness ranges between 8% and 19%, which is four to nine times that of the general US population (1.8%). Given the association between HCV infection and psychiatric illness, gastroenterologists are on the front line of identifying comorbid psychiatric and substance use disorders and conducting a psychosocial pretreatment risk-benefit assessment for HCV infection. The use of interferon-alpha (IFN)-based therapies in combination with ribavirin (RBV) to eradicate HCV has been associated with frequent neuropsychiatric adverse effects (eg, affective, anxiety, cognitive, and psychotic symptoms) that compromise the management of both HCV patients with and those without a preexisting history of psychiatric illness. Consequently, gastroenterologists have been reluctant to engage patients with HCV and comorbid psychiatric illness in antiviral treatment due to concerns about exacerbating or precipitating neuropsychiatric symptoms. Despite the clinical challenge that HCV treatment of patients with comorbid HCV and psychiatric illness presents, recent research indicates that HCV treatments can be safely administered to patients with psychiatric illness provided that there is a comprehensive pretreatment assessment, a risk-benefit analysis, and ongoing follow-up of neuropsychiatric symptoms during antiviral therapy. The process of pretreatment assessment involves screening patients for psychiatric and substance use disorders, educating patients about the treatment process, and addressing available psychosocial support. Most psychotropic medications (antidepressants, mood stabilizers, antipsychotics, and neuroleptics) are thought to be safe to use in the management of patients with HCV and psychiatric illness and for the management of IFN- and RBV-induced neuropsychiatric adverse effects. Nonetheless, the prophylactic use of psychotropic medications to prevent IFN- and RBV-induced neuropsychiatric adverse effects remains a controversial topic. The use of IFN and RBV in patients with HCV and severe mental illness can be done safely with expert psychiatric follow-up. In this review, we discuss the process of pretreatment assessment of patients with HCV and psychiatric illness and specifically address IFN- and RBV-induced depression in patients receiving HCV treatment.
There is an increasing interest in how oxidative stress can cause cells to go into apoptosis in both normal ageing and in neurodegenerative disorders. Previous research has implicated insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) as being involved in the pathogenesis in Alzheimer's disease (AD) by protecting the neurons through reducing neuronal susceptibility to oxidative stress. IGF-1 receptor (IGF-1R) polymorphisms alter cerebral and systemic levels of IGF-1 and may alter the function of the receptor. We genotyped the IGF-1R gene by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) to assess whether this gene polymorphism can be linked to dementia. We used leukocyte DNA from 72 patients with AD, 75 patients with vascular dementia (VaD), 14 patients with mixed dementia (AD+VaD), and a control group consisting of 209 individuals without a history of progressive neurological disorders. Analysis of gene frequency for gender revealed a significant difference between female VaD patients and female controls carrying at least one A allele (OR = 1.8, CI 95% 1.1-2.9, p = 0.02), but not for male patients. In addition, we found a strong tendency to a difference between all cases of female dementia patients and controls carrying the A allele (OR = 1.5, CI 95% 0.99-2.2, p = 0.054). Our results suggest that the A allele of IGF-1R may be involved in the pathogenesis of VaD in females.
We investigated the effect of apolipoprotein E (ApoE) on the whole brain in 51 individuals with mild cognitive impairment using voxel-based morphometry. Between cases heterozygous for the ApoE epsilon4 (n = 15) and those who were ApoE epsilon4 noncarriers (n = 28), only the right parahippocampal gyrus, with the entorhinal cortex included, reached the level of statistical significance. In cases homozygous for the epsilon4 allele (n = 8) versus noncarriers, the greatest atrophy was located in the right amygdala followed by the right parahippocampal gyrus, the left amygdala and the left medial dorsal thalamic nucleus.


The Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) is one of the most commonly used instruments in the evaluation of global cognitive status, but only few studies have investigated the relationship among its components in terms of factorial structure. We have considered data from the Italian Longitudinal Study on Aging (ILSA), carried out in Italy in 1992 on a sample of 5,632 subjects aged 65-84 years, and followed up in 1996. The aim of our study was to investigate static factorial structure in three groups of elderly (subjects with a diagnosis of dementia at baseline; subjects free of dementia at baseline, but incident cases at follow-up; subjects who never developed dementia during the 4-year follow-up). Considering our results, we could hypothesize that MMSE static structure reflects the cognitive profile of elderly, and is thus influenced by subjects' potential to develop dementia.
The objective of the present study is to evaluate the association between the occurrence of delirium and the cognitive outcome in elderly subjects. Hospital files of 572 patients who underwent hip or knee replacement between 1998 and 2004 were examined. A sample of 90 elderly subjects (31 with evidence of post-operative delirium), non-demented at baseline, was screened for cognitive decline and dementia. Diagnosis of dementia was highly associated with the occurrence of delirium. The relative risk for the diagnosis of dementia among subjects with previous history of delirium, according to the IQcode screening, was 10.5 (95% CI: 3.3-33.2). Such patients had a significantly higher mean IQcode score (3.75) as compared to controls (3.1; p &lt; 0.001). Cognitive functions most affected in these patients were memory, orientation and abstract thinking. We conclude that the occurrence of post-operative delirium in cognitively unimpaired elderly subjects is associated with a worse cognitive outcome and an increased risk of dementia.

Our purpose in this study was to compare the prevalence and pattern of Axis I and II comorbidities between patients with and without nocturnal panic (NP) attacks. One hundred and sixteen subjects with panic disorder (PD; according to DSM-IV criteria) were included: We assessed Axis I and II comorbidities using the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis I and II disorders, respectively. Of the sample, 27.6% of subjects had recurrent nocturnal panic attacks (NP group). Subjects with NP did not differ from those without in any sociodemographic or clinical characteristics. In the sample (94 subjects), 81% had at least one lifetime comorbid Axis I disorder, without significant differences between subjects with and without nocturnal panic even when considering comorbidity rates for single disorders; a trend toward significance was found for anorexia nervosa and somatization disorder, which both were more frequent among subjects with NP. Concerning Axis II disorders, 49.1% of the sample (57 subjects) met the criteria for at least one personality disorder, without significant differences between patients with and without NP. No significant differences were detected in comorbidity rates for any single Axis II personality disorder. Personality might play a relevant role in influencing treatment approaches to PD, but it does not appear to be a differential focus of concern in patients with compared to those without NP.
This research review examines the recent articles that have investigated the relationship between mood, anxiety, and physical illness (e.g., asthma, autoimmune disorders, cancer, cardiovascular disease, obesity, and sexual dysfunction). There is growing evidence of an overall negative impact of depression and other mood states, and anxiety on numerous physical illnesses and conditions, and their outcome.
Serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRIs) are considered first-line treatments for obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Many patients achieve some response but remain symptomatic despite an adequate SRI trial. Recent neuroimaging data found abnormally high glutamatergic concentrations in children with OCD. Following selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) treatment, a decrease in OCD symptom severity was associated with a decrease in caudate glutamatergic concentrations. We initiated an investigation of adjunctive topiramate (an anticonvulsant agent with glutamatergic properties) in the treatment of patients with OCD who were partially or nonresponsive to SRI treatment. Sixteen consecutive outpatients with OCD (mean age = 41.1 years; range = 21-58 years), who were partial or nonresponders to SRI monotherapy or SRI combination therapy (antipsychotic, other antidepressant, or benzodiazepines), and had topiramate added over a minimum of 14 weeks, were reviewed. Baseline and endpoint Clinical Global Impression-Severity (CGI-S) and CGI-Improvement (CGI-I) were evaluated retrospectively. Eleven of 16 patients were responders (68.8%) with a CGI-I score of much improved or very much improved. The mean dose of topiramate was 253.1 +/- 93.9 mg/day. The mean time to response was 9.2 +/- 4.5 weeks. CGI-S scores decreased significantly from initiation of topiramate until 26 weeks, from 6.1 +/- 0.9 to 4.5 +/- 1.3 (P &lt; .001). This case series suggests some preliminary evidence that the addition of topiramate may be useful in treatment-resistant OCD.
Although the glia derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is defined as a molecule that maintains neuronal cells, it possesses a range of functions outside the nervous system. For example, it is essential for uretric branching in kidney morphogenesis and for regulating the differentiation of stem cells during spermatogenesis, cardiac, hair follicle and vascular differentiation and the maintenance of immune cells. In the present work, the presence of GDNF in carp peripheral blood leukocytes (PBL) and head kidney cells (HK) was evidenced and its evolutionary importance in both neural and immune systems development was suggested. Using the northern-blot technique, we could observe the expression of two different transcripts of this gene. GDNF upregulation was detected using semi-quantitative PCR, following ex vivo treatment of PBL and HK cells with the immunomodulator AS101 which was previously shown to inhibit IL-10 and to up-regulate GDNF protein levels in human SVG astrocyte cell line, in 6-OHDA hemi-parkinsonian mice in vivo and in rat glomerular mesengial cells in vitro.
Language disorders have been reported after severe falciparum malaria but the deficits have not been described in detail. We assessed language outcome in three groups of children aged 6 to 9 years (n=487): those previously admitted to Kilifi District Hospital, Kenya, with cerebral malaria (CM; n=152; mean age 7y 4 mo [SD 1y 1mo]; 77 males, 75 females); or those with malaria and complicated seizures (M/S; n=156; mean age 7y 4mo [SD 1y 2mo]; 72 males, 84 females); and those unexposed to either condition (n=179; mean age 7y 6mo [SD 1y 1mo]; 93 males, 86 females). Median age at hospital admission was 28 months (interquartile range [IQR] 19 to 44 mo) among children with a history of CM and 23 months (IQR 12 to 35mo) among children with a history of M/S. A battery of eight assessments covering the major facets of speech and language was used to measure language performance. Cognitive performance, neurological/motor skills, behaviour, hearing, and vision were also measured. Eighteen (11.8%) of the CM group, 14 (9%) of the M/S group, and four (2.2%) of the unexposed group were found to have a language impairment. CM (odds ratio 3.68, 95% confidence interval 1.09 to 12.4, p=0.04) was associated with significantly increased odds of an impairment-level score relative to the unexposed group. The results suggest that falciparum malaria is one of the most common causes of acquired language disorders in the tropics.
The purpose of the study was to determine the prevalence of 'soft' motor deficits in school-aged children with either developmental language disorder (DLD), autism (with high IQ [HiAD] or low IQ [LoAD]), or low IQ without autism (LoIQ), and to evaluate the utility of a refined neurological examination to discriminate between these groups. A total of 242 children (74% male), aged 7 or 9 years, were evaluated as part of a longitudinal, multi-institutional study, with a standardized neurological examination that included Denckla's Physical and Neurological Examination for Soft Signs. Most of the scores separated children into two groups defined by nonverbal IQ, with the DLD and HiAD groups performing better than the LoAD and LoIQ groups. Exceptions included motor impersistence and stereotypies, which were more likely in the autistic groups. The neurologists' summary clinical impressions indicated better sensory/motor skills, oromotor skills, and praxis in the HiAD than in the DLD children. Inability/unwillingness to perform tasks was much more frequent in LoAD than LoIQ children.
It has been suggested that some hemispheric asymmetries change in a systematic way from young adulthood to older age. However, little is known whether these changes are due to differential aging of a single hemisphere or based on age-related alterations of interhemispheric interactions. A sample of 281 right-handed neurologically healthy participants (151 women), ranging from age 20 to 79, was investigated with a line-bisection task. Previous studies indicate the midpoint estimation shows a consistent leftward bias from the veridical center, which is accentuated when the left hand is used to bisect lines. These findings support the view of a right hemispheric superiority in spatial attention. This study revealed this pattern to be stable in men throughout adulthood. However, women from 50 to 69 years of age showed a reduced leftward bias and a reduced hand effect compared to men and younger women. The results suggest that developmental changes in hemispheric asymmetry of spatial attention are more pronounced in women and support the view that neuromorphological changes during adulthood differ between sexes.
Wild-type and myelin-deficient rats received a single intraparenchymal injection of TS1, a specific combination of IGF-1 and transferrin (Tf), into their corpus callosum at postnatal day 4. The fate of endogenous stem cells in the brain was examined by the expression of the stem cell marker nestin, together with Tf, neurofilaments and glial fibrillary acidic protein from 2 to 14 days after injection. Treated mutants lacked nestin expression in the ventricular wall and had an increase in nestin-labeled radial cell processes in the subventricular regions, and extended into the parenchyma. The subventricular zone was populated by healthy new oligodendrocytes (OLs). BrdU incorporation showed that these cells originated by proliferation and were identified as OLs based upon Tf expression. Thus, TS1 is an effective treatment to promote endogenous subventricular zone progenitor proliferation, migration and OL lineage specification. This strategy offers for the first time the possibility of myelin restoration to treat myelin disorders.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is predominantly a clinical problem of young persons, resulting in chronic cognitive and behavioral deficits. Specifically, the physiological response to a diffuse biomechanical injury in a maturing brain can clearly alter normal neuroplasticity. To properly evaluate and investigate developmental TBI requires an understanding of normal principles of cerebral maturation, as well as a consideration of experience-dependent changes. Changes in neuroplasticity may occur through many age-specific processes, and our understanding of these responses at a basic neuroscience level is only beginning. In this article, we will particularly discuss mechanisms of TBI-induced altered developmental plasticity such as altered neurotransmission, distinct molecular responses, cell death, perturbations in neuronal connectivity, experience-dependent 'good plasticity' enhancements and chronic 'bad plasticity' sequelae. From this summary, we can conclude that 'young is not always better' and that the developing brain manifests several crucial vulnerabilities to TBI.
Resveratrol (RES) is a phytoestrogen that has the ability to bind to estrogen receptors (ERs) and evoke biological effects that parallel those exerted by endogenous and synthetic estrogens. We have shown in previous studies that adult female rats acutely exposed to RES exhibit estrous cycle irregularity, ovarian hypertrophy, and alterations in sociosexual behavior. The present experiment characterizes the prolonged effects of maternal RES exposure throughout the lactational period on subsequent behavior, reproductive tissues, and brain morphology of the adult offspring. During adulthood, female offspring exposed to RES throughout nursing exhibited reduced body weight and increased ovarian weight, but exhibited normal estrous cyclicity and sociosexual behavior, without changes in the volume of the sexually dimorphic nucleus of the preoptic area or the anteroventral periventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. During adulthood, males exposed to RES throughout nursing exhibited decreased body weight and plasma testosterone concentration, increased testicular weight, and reduced sociosexual behavior. These males also had significantly smaller sexually dimorphic nucleus of the preoptic area volumes and larger anteroventral periventricular nucleus volumes compared to male controls. These data suggest that postnatal exposure to RES may affect estrogenic activity in specific peripheral tissues (e.g., the gonads), while inducing antiestrogenic effects in the brain. Thus, the present study supports recent in vitro and in vivo findings that RES differs from most other phytoestrogens by acting as a possible mixed ER agonist/antagonist, depending on the tissue-specific availability of ER subtypes that are preferentially localized in specific brain regions and throughout the reproductive tract. More importantly these data indicate that maternal consumption of phytoestrogens during lactation can have lasting effects on the offspring that may not become apparent until they reach adulthood.
The Notch signaling pathway plays a variety of roles in cell fate decisions during development. Previous studies have shown that reduced Notch signaling results in premature differentiation of neural progenitor cells, while increased Notch activities promote apoptotic death of neural progenitor cells in the developing brain. Whether Notch signaling is involved in the specification of neuronal subtypes is unclear. Here we examine the role of Notch1 in the development of neuronal subtypes in the spinal cord using conditional knockout (cKO) mice lacking Notch1 specifically in neural progenitor cells. Notch1 inactivation results in accelerated neuronal differentiation in the ventral spinal cord and gradual disappearance of the ventral central canal. These changes are accompanied by reduced expression of Hes1 and Hes5 and increased expression of Mash1 and Neurogenin 1 and 2. Using markers (Nkx2.2, Nkx6.1, Olig2, Pax6 and Dbx1) for one or multiple progenitor cell types, we found reductions of all subtypes of progenitor cells in the ventral spinal cord of Notch1 cKO mice. Similarly, using markers (Islet1/2, Lim3, Sim1, Chox10, En1 and Evx1/2) specific for motor neurons and distinct classes of interneurons, we found increases in the number of V0-2 interneurons in the ventral spinal cord of Notch1 cKO mice. Specifically, the number of Lim3+/Chox10+ V2 interneurons is markedly increased while the number of Lim3+/Islet+motor neurons is decreased in the Notch1 cKO spinal cord, suggesting that V2 interneurons are generated at the expense of motor neurons in the absence of Notch1. These results provide support for a role of Notch1 in neuronal subtype specification in the ventral spinal cord.
The Notch signaling pathway is known to influence cell fate in the developing mammalian nervous system. Previous work in the mouse telencephalon has shown that activated Notch1 promotes radial glial and astrocytic character in vivo, and fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-responsive neural progenitor character in vitro. In light of studies suggesting that Notch3 can antagonize Notch1, we tested the effects of activated Notch3 (NICD3) in the mouse telencephalon. Infection of embryonic day 9.5 telencephalic progenitors in vivo with NICD3 promoted radial glial/progenitor character embryonically and astrocyte fate postnatally. In addition, expression of NICD3 in telencephalic progenitors in vitro increased neurosphere frequency in FGF2, but was incompatible with neurosphere growth in epidermal growth factor (EGF). Thus, in the developing telencephalon, Notch1 and Notch3 function similarly, and may activate similar signaling cascades. Consistent with this notion, expression of an activated form of the Notch effector CBF1 (CBF1-VP16), or of the pathway target Hes5 promoted radial glial/progenitor character in vivo. Interestingly, unlike NICD1 and NICD3, CBF1-VP16 and Hes5 did not inhibit neurosphere growth in EGF, suggesting that this effect may be mediated at least in part by CBF1/Hes-independent signaling.
Women are better than men at verbal memory tasks, such as remembering word lists. These tasks depend on declarative memory. The declarative/procedural model of language, which posits that the lexicon of stored words is part of declarative memory, while grammatical composition of complex forms depends on procedural memory, predicts a female superiority in aspects of lexical memory. Other neurocognitive models of language have not made this prediction. Here we examine the prediction in past-tense over-regularizations (e.g. holded) produced by children. We expected that girls would remember irregular past-tense forms (held) better than boys, and thus would over-regularize less. To our surprise, girls over-regularized far more than boys. We investigated potential explanations for this sex difference. Analyses showed that in girls but not boys, over-regularization rates correlated with measures of the number of similar-sounding regulars (folded, molded). This sex difference in phonological neighborhood effects is taken to suggest that girls tend to produce over-regularizations in associative lexical memory, generalizing over stored neighboring regulars, while boys are more likely to depend upon rule-governed affixation (hold+-ed). The finding is consistent with the hypothesis that, likely due to their superior lexical abilities, females tend to retrieve from memory complex forms (walked) that men generally compose with the grammatical system (walk+-ed). The results suggest that sex may be an important factor in the acquisition and computation of language.

The degree of control that an organism has over a stressor potently modulates the impact of the stressor, with uncontrollable stressors producing a constellation of outcomes that do not occur if the stressor is behaviorally controllable. It has generally been assumed that this occurs because uncontrollability actively potentiates the effects of stressors. Here it will be suggested that in addition, or instead, the presence of control actively inhibits the impact of stressors. At least in part, this occurs because (i) the presence of control is detected by regions of the ventral medial prefrontal cortex (mPFCv); and (ii) detection of control activates mPFCv output to stress-responsive brain stem and limbic structures that actively inhibit stress-induced activation of these structures. Furthermore, an initial experience with control over stress alters the mPFCv response to subsequent stressors so that mPFCv output is activated even if the subsequent stressor is uncontrollable, thereby making the organism resilient. The general implications of these results for understanding resilience in the face of adversity are discussed.
Understanding individual response to a drug-what determines its efficacy and tolerability-is the major bottleneck in current drug development and clinical trials. Intracellular response and metabolism, for example through cytochrome P-450 enzymes, may either enhance or decrease the effect of different drugs, dependent on the genetic variant. Microarrays offer the potential to screen the genetic composition of the individual patient. However, experiments are &quot;noisy&quot; and must be accompanied by solid and robust data analysis. Furthermore, recent research aims at the combination of high-throughput data with methods of mathematical modeling, enabling problem-oriented assistance in the drug discovery process. This article will discuss state-of-the-art DNA array technology platforms and the basic elements of data analysis and bioinformatics research in drug discovery. Enhancing single-gene analysis, we will present a new method for interpreting gene expression changes in the context of entire pathways. Furthermore, we will introduce the concept of systems biology as a new paradigm for drug development and highlight our recent research-the development of a modeling and simulation platform for biomedical applications. We discuss the potentials of systems biology for modeling the drug response of the individual patient.
Major depression is a common, disabling, and often difficult-to-treat illness. Decades of research into the neurobiology and treatment of depression have greatly advanced our ability to manage this disorder. However, a number of challenges remain. A substantial number of depressed patients do not achieve full remission despite optimized treatment. For patients who do achieve resolution of symptoms, depression remains a highly recurrent illness, and repeated episodes are common. Finally, little is known about how depression might be prevented, especially in individuals at increased risk. In the face of these challenges, a number of exciting research efforts are currently under way and promise to greatly expand our knowledge of the etiology, pathophysiology, and treatment of depression. This review highlights these future prospects for depression research with a specific focus on lines of investigation likely to generate novel, more effective treatment options.
The US National Institute of Mental Health supported an initiative to facilitate the development of pharmacological agents for enhancing neurocognition in patients with schizophrenia. This has been accomplished through a consensus-building process that has included representatives from academia, the pharmaceutical industry, and government. The group has addressed obstacles to drug development that include (i) the lack of a well-accepted instrument for measuring neurocognition in clinical trials; (ii) the lack of a consensus on the best molecular target or targets for drug development; (iii) the lack of a consensus regarding the optimal trial design for either comedication that improves cognition when added to an antipsychotic or a broad spectrum agent that improves cognition and treats psychosis; and (iv) the approaches of regulatory agencies such as the US Food and Drug Administration to approving and labeling a new agent.
The persistence of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) into adolescence and adulthood has now been accepted as a clinical entity. The rate of prevalence among adults is assumed to be from 2% to 4%. With increasing age, a symptom change has to be considered; disturbance of attention becomes more prominent, whereas hyperactivity often diminishes or changes to inactivity. Neuroimaging studies show a high striatal dopamine transporter (DAT) availability in most adults with ADHD; this can be reduced by stimulants. Nicotine seems to have a stimulant-like action on the DAT. In most adults with ADHD, therapy has to be multimodal, combining psychotherapy and medication. Methylphenidate is the first-line drug in adult ADHD; further options are amphetamine and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors. Nonresponders to methylphenidate seem to have no elevated DAT availability prior to therapy. Combination with other psychiatric disorders occurs frequently in adults with ADHD; in these patients additional pharmacological treatment with special regard to the comorbid disease is recommended.
Understanding the mechanisms of symptoms in patients with gastrointestinal disorders remains a great challenge. One of the major problems facing clinicians in this area is the limited information gained from subjective outcome measures commonly used to assess these conditions. To address this, various stimulation and recording techniques, commonly used by neurologists, have been adapted to study gastrointestinal sensory processing. This review article provides an overview of this expanding research area and discusses the advantages and disadvantages of each approach.
Achalasia is a disorder of esophageal motility that has been well documented for over 300 years. Despite this, the initiating factor or factors and the underlying mechanisms leading to the characteristic features of achalasia, the absence of distal esophageal peristalsis and abnormal lower esophageal sphincter relaxation, are still not well understood. Recent work has shed light on changes in neurotransmission and cell signaling in the lower esophagus and lower esophageal sphincter that lead to achalasia. A number of recent reviews have thoroughly discussed diagnostic and therapeutic modalities and the reader is referred to these for in-depth review of these topics. The focus of this review will be on our current understanding of the physiology of esophageal peristalsis and lower esophageal sphincter function as it relates to achalasia and on available evidence for etiology and proposed pathophysiologic mechanisms.


The recent evidence that neurogenesis occurs throughout adulthood and neural stem cells (NSCs) reside in the adult central nervous system (CNS) suggests that the CNS has the potential for self-repair. Beside this potential, the function of newly generated neuronal cells in the adult brain remains the focus of intense research. The hippocampus of patients with depression show signs of atrophy and neuronal loss. This suggests that adult neurogenesis may contribute to the biology of depression. The observations that antidepressants, like fluoxetine, increase neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus (DG) and neurogenesis is required for the behavioral effect of antidepressants, lead to a new theory for depression and the design of new strategies and drugs for the treatment of depression. However, the role of adult neurogenesis in the etiology of depression remains the source of controversies and debates.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease, characterized in the brain by amyloid plaque deposits and neurofibrillary tangles. It is the most common form of dementia among older people. There is at present no cure for AD, and current treatments consist mainly in drug therapy. Potential therapies for AD involve gene and cellular therapy. The recent confirmation that neurogenesis occurs in the adult brain and neural stem cells (NSCs) reside in the adult central nervous system (CNS) provide new opportunities for cellular therapy in the CNS, particularly for AD, and to better understand brain physiopathology. Hence, researchers have aimed at characterizing neurogenesis in patients with AD. Studies show that neurogenesis is increased in these patients, and in animal models of AD. The effect of drugs used to treat AD on neurogenesis is currently being investigated, to identify whether neurogenesis contributes to their therapeutic activities.
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a highly prevalent functional gastrointestinal disorder affecting up to 3-15% of the general population in Western countries. It is characterised by unexplained abdominal pain, discomfort and bloating in association with altered bowel habits. The pathophysiology of IBS is considered to be multifactorial, involving disturbances of the brain-gut-axis: IBS has been associated with abnormal gastrointestinal motor functions, visceral hypersensitivity, psychosocial factors, autonomic dysfunction and mucosal inflammation. Traditional IBS therapy is mainly symptom oriented and often unsatisfactory. Hence, there is a need for new treatment strategies. Increasing knowledge of brain-gut physiology, mechanisms, and neurotransmitters and receptors involved in gastrointestinal motor and sensory function have led to the development of several new therapeutic approaches. This article provides a systematic overview of recently approved or novel medications that show promise for the treatment of IBS; classification is based on the physiological systems targeted by the medication. The article includes agents acting on the serotonin receptor or serotonin transporter system, novel selective anticholinergics, alpha-adrenergic agonists, opioid agents, cholecystokinin antagonists, neurokinin antagonists, somatostatin receptor agonists, neurotrophin-3, corticotropin releasing factor antagonists, chloride channel activators, guanylate cyclase-c agonists, melatonin and atypical benzodiazepines. Finally, the role of probiotics and antibacterials in the treatment of IBS is summarised.
The amyloid hypothesis, which states that beta-amyloid (Abeta) aggregates cause the onset and progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), is a leading proposal to explain AD aetiology. Based on this hypothesis, compounds that inhibit gamma-secretase, one of the enzymes responsible for forming Abeta, are potential therapeutics for AD. Preclinical studies clearly establish that gamma-secretase inhibitors can reduce brain Abeta in rodent models. The initial investigation of the effects of a gamma-secretase inhibitor on Abeta-induced cognitive deficits in transgenic mice showed that modest Abeta reductions (15-30%) are sufficient to reverse Abeta-induced cognitive deficits in Tg2576 mice. Extending these studies to other gamma-secretase inhibitors and other models with Abeta-induced cognitive deficits will be important. Unfortunately, gamma-secretase inhibitors also cause abnormalities in the gastrointestinal tract, thymus and spleen in rodents. These changes likely result from inhibition of Notch cleavage, a transmembrane receptor involved in regulating cell-fate decisions. Two recent studies in rodents suggest that Abeta reduction using gamma-secretase inhibitors can be partially separated from Notch inhibition. Given the uncertain Abeta reduction target and the potential for mechanism-based toxicity, biomarkers for efficacy and toxicity would be helpful in clinical trials. The first report of gamma-secretase inhibitors in clinical trials was recently published. In this study, LY-450139 reduced plasma Abeta, but not cerebrospinal fluid Abeta. Taken together, the results of studies to date suggest that gamma-secretase inhibitors have the potential to address a large unmet medical need if the technical challenges can be overcome.
Phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE4) belongs to an important family of proteins that regulates the intracellular level of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). Several lines of evidence indicate that targeting PDE4 with selective inhibitors may offer novel strategies in the treatment of age-related memory impairment and Alzheimer's disease. The rationale for such an approach stems from preclinical studies indicating that PDE4 inhibitors can counteract deficits in long-term memory caused by pharmacological agents, aging or overexpression of mutant forms of human amyloid precursor proteins. In addition to their pro-cognitive and pro-synaptic plasticity properties, PDE4 inhibitors are potent neuroprotective, neuroregenerative and anti-inflammatory agents. Based on the fact that Alzheimer's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that is characterised by cognitive impairment, and that neuroinflammation is now recognised as a prominent feature in Alzheimer's pathology, we have concluded that targeting PDE4 with selective inhibitors may offer a novel therapy aimed at slowing progression, prevention and, eventually, therapy of Alzheimer's disease.

The aim of this study was to examine whether the levator veli palatini (LVP) muscle might be involved in the regulation of velopharyngeal function during the transition between the oral and pharyngeal phases during swallowing, and to examine whether LVP muscle activity could be regulated in relation to the volume of swallowing. Eight normal adults participated in this study. Smoothed EMG signals of the LVP muscle were collected. At the same time, palatoglossus muscle activity was also monitored. Each subject swallowed water at five different volumes: 12.5%, 25%, 50%, 100%, and 150 (or 200) % of the optimum volume for swallowing, which was individually determined for each subject. LVP muscle activity was positively correlated with changes in swallowing volume. The LVP muscle was involved in the regulation of swallowing during the transition from the oral to pharyngeal phases.
Recent evidence suggests that people who score low on measures of sociability may be at risk for certain types of psychopathology, including mood and anxiety disorders. In an attempt to extend these findings to other forms of psychopathology, we examined levels of neuroticism and extraversion in relation to eating problems in a non-clinical sample of undergraduate women. The Eysenck Personality Questionnaire (EPQ), Eating Disorders Inventory (EDI), and the Eating Attitudes Test (EAT-26) were completed by 196 first-year undergraduate females. We found that high neuroticism was related to high scores on both of the EDI subscales (Bulimia and Drive for Thinness) as well as high scores on the EAT-26 measure, replicating previous work. In addition, neuroticism served as a moderator such that lower extraversion (i.e., introversion) was related to greater disordered eating, but only for those women who scored high on neuroticism. Thus, a combination of neuroticism and introversion may be a risk-factor for symptoms of eating disorders in a non-clinical sample of university women.
Three open-ended questions based on Steiner-Adair (1986) were used to study gender concepts in relation to ideals in adolescent boys and girls and eating-disordered girls. The answers were coded according to themes emanating from the collected data and not predetermined. Dichotomous differences were found between the genders regarding perceived ideals of body size, but clinical and nonclinical girls perceived ideals of society and media similarly. Individual gender concepts differed substantially from the perceived ideals, and were most often focused on lifestyle and life conditions. However, the clinical girls were somewhat more likely to emphasize appearance and loving relationships.
Recently, a new category of persons, claiming to suffer from exposure to electromagnetic fields, has been described in the literature. In Sweden, electrohypersensitivity (EHS) is an officially fully recognized functional impairment (i.e., it is not regarded as a disease). Survey studies show that somewhere between 230,000-290,000 Swedish men and women report a variety of symptoms when being in contact with electromagnetic field (EMF) sources. The aim of our studies has been to investigate possible alterations, in the cellular and neuronal systems of these person' skin. As controls, age- and sex-matched persons, without any subjective or clinical symptoms or dermatological history, served. Immunohistochemistry using antisera to the previously characterized marker substances of interest has been utilized. In summary, it is evident from our preliminary data that various alterations are present in the electrohypersensitive person' skin. In view of recent epidemiological studies, pointing to a correlation between long-term exposure from power-frequent magnetic fields or microwaves and cancer, our data ought to be taken seriously and further analyzed.
This paper describes a number of articles that have been published on amino acid analysis using CE during the period from June 2003 to May 2005. This review article follows the previous ones of Smith (Electrophoresis 1999, 20, 3078-3083), Prata et al. (Electrophoresis 2001, 22, 4129-4138), and Poinsot et al. (Electrophoresis 2003, 24, 4047-4062). Several new developments in amino acid analysis with CE are reported concerning UV detection, LIF, MS, and NMR. In addition, we describe articles concerning clinical and pharmaceutical studies, neuroclinical applications, and agricultural and food analysis.
Sexual dimorphisms in the hypothalamus are mediated in several cases by local aromatization of androgens to estrogens during the perinatal period. In this series of experiments, the contributions of the two estrogen receptors (ERs), ERalpha and ERbeta, to the differentiation of the sexually dimorphic subpopulation of dopaminergic neurons in the anteroventral periventricular area (AVPV) was examined. In the first experiment, numbers of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactive (-ir) AVPV neurons in ERbeta knockout and wild-type (WT) mice of both sexes were measured. In the second experiment, the average number of TH-ir neurons in the medial portion of the AVPV in ERalpha knockout, ERbeta knockout, double-ER knockout, and WT mice of both sexes was calculated. In both experiments TH-ir cell numbers were sexually dimorphic as expected, with female individuals of all genotypes exhibiting more TH-ir neurons than WT males. Interestingly the average number of TH-ir neurons in all knockout males was significantly higher than in WT male littermates. In fact, TH-ir cell numbers in all knockout males were equivalent to females. In a final experiment, C57BL/6J female mice were treated during the first 3 postnatal days with either estradiol, or a specific agonist for one of the two ERs. Additional male and female pups received vehicle injections. Treatments with estradiol or either ER-specific agonist significantly reduced the number of TH-ir AVPV neurons in female brains. Our data demonstrate that both ERalpha and ERbeta are involved in the sexual differentiation of the AVPV in mice.
The insulin receptor-related receptor (IRR) is a member of the insulin receptor family that, on its own, recognizes neither insulin nor any of the identified insulin-related peptides. In both the nervous system and peripheral tissues, IRR mRNA is detected in cells that also express trkA, the nerve growth factor tyrosine kinase receptor. In the ovary, the trkA gene is transiently activated in thecal-interstitial cells of large antral follicles at the time of the preovulatory surge of gonadotropins. The present study shows that the IRR gene is expressed in the same ovarian compartment, that IRR mRNA content increases strikingly in these cells in the afternoon of the first proestrus, and that--as in the case of trkA mRNA--the increase is caused by gonadotropins. The IRR mRNA species primarily affected is that encoding the full-length receptor; its increased abundance was accompanied by a corresponding change in IRR protein content. An extensive molecular search using several approaches, including the screening of cDNA libraries and PCR amplification with degenerate primers, did not yield an IRR ligand. Phylogenetic analysis of 20 insulin-related sequences and 15 relaxin family peptides from selected vertebrates indicated that the mammalian genome is unlikely to contain an additional ligand expressed from a distinct gene that is closely related to the insulin family. Although the functional nature of the relationship between IRR and trkA receptors is unknown, the remarkable temporal and spatial specificities of their coordinated expression in the ovary before ovulation suggests that they target a functionally related set of downstream events associated with the ovulatory process.
Changes in genomic DNA methylation are important events in normal and pathological cellular processes, contributing both to normal development and differentiation as well as to cancer and other diseases. We describe here a method to analyze global genomic DNA methylation, using a luminometric technology to quantitate methylation sensitive restriction digestions. The method is called LUminometric Methylation Assay (LUMA), and is based on a polymerase extension assay using the Pyrosequencing platform. The method is quantitative, highly reproducible and uses an internal control for DNA input. No modification of genomic DNA is needed and the total running time is only six hours. The method is suitable for analyzing clinical material, as well as determining dynamic changes in global methylation/demethylation events. This report describes the method in detail and gives an example of its application in epigenetic research.




Epileptic EEG paroxysms can interfere with cognitive processes producing transitory effects, such as those related to a single spike, as well as long-lasting effects, such as in electrical status epilepticus during slow-wave sleep (ESES). Focal spike-related disruption of cortical functions can produce transitory cognitive impairment, with neuroanatomical specificity between the site of the epileptic focus and the impaired cognitive tasks. ESES represents a model of the long-lasting effects of continuous spike-wave activity on higher cortical functions. The duration of ESES and the localization of interictal foci seem to play a major role in influencing the degree and type of cognitive dysfunction, suggesting that the ESES clinical picture results from a localized disruption of EEG activity caused by focal epileptic activity during sleep. Recently, Giulio Tononi's group reported that a local increase of slow-wave activity (SWA) during sleep after learning is associated with improved performance of the learned task after sleep (Huber et al., Nature 2004;430:78-81). On the basis of these findings, we can speculate that prolonged focal epileptic activity during sleep (as occurring in ESES) interferes with local SWA at the site of the epileptic focus, impairing the neural processes and, possibly, the local plastic changes associated with learning and other cognitive functions.
Antiepileptic drug (AED) guidelines are developed to improve medical decision making, to provide guidance and recommendation for patient management, to develop standards to judge or assess clinical practice, and to keep the cost-benefit ratio at an acceptable level. These guidelines are derived from evidence-based medicine (EBM), a four-tiered grading system that is used to analyze clinical trials and published experiments independent of clinical bias and experience. Although guidelines may not answer all questions it is critical that clinicians using them consider the available evidence, as well as the quality of the evidence, when incorporating the information in their decision making.
Decisions about when to start or to stop antiepileptic drug (AED) treatment must be informed by reliable information of the natural history of epilepsy, the effect of treatment, and the social context of the individual. Ultimately the patient will be the decision maker, the clinician or health-care professional, the provider and interpreter of information. While observational studies will provide information on natural history, the most reliable information on the effect of intervention will come from randomised controlled trials in relevant populations of patients. However, these need to be large enough to allow interpretation not just of the average effect across the recruited patients, but also some estimate of the effects for an individual based on the prognostic effects that most effect outcomes. When trials are of sufficient size they can allow the development of predictive models that assist decision making. The Medical Research Council studies of AED withdrawal and early epilepsy and single seizures provide examples of such trials.
Dr. Jordan (PRO) argues that when refractory NCSE is combined with acute brain injury, it produces synergistically compounded brain damage that is time dependent. Treating to EEG burst-suppression is the most rapid and effective method for stopping NCSE. The risks of burst-suppression are common to many intensive care interventions and can be minimized with expert management. Dr. Hirsch (CON) argues that treating with coma-inducing medication is highly risky and has a high mortality rate, often due to iatrogenic complications. It remains unclear if nonconvulsive seizures cause permanent neuronal injury. Nonconvulsive seizures should be diagnosed and treated as quickly as possible,but with non-coma-inducing treatments in most cases [corrected]




Basic principles of the neurobiology of aging were reviewed within selected topic areas chosen for their potential relevance to epileptogenesis in the aging brain. The availability of National Institute on Aging-supported aged mouse and rat strains and other biological resources for studies of aging and age-associated diseases was presented, and general principles of animal use in gerontological research were discussed. Neurobiological changes during normal brain aging were compared and contrasted with neuropathological events of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and age-associated memory impairment (AAMI). Major themes addressed were the loss of synaptic connections as vulnerable neurons die and circuits deteriorate in AD, the absence of significant neuron loss but potential synaptic alteration in the same circuits in AAMI, and the effects of decreased estrogen on normal aging. The &quot;calcium hypothesis of brain aging&quot; was examined by a review of calcium dyshomeostasis and synaptic communication in aged hippocampus, with particular emphasis on the role of L-type voltage-gated calcium channels during normal aging. Established and potential mechanisms of hippocampal plasticity during aging were discussed, including long-term potentiation, changes in functional connectivity, and increased gap junctions, the latter possibly being related to enhanced network excitability. Lastly, application of microarray gene chip technology to aging brain studies was presented and use of the hippocampal &quot;zipper slice&quot; preparation to study aged neurons was described.

The clinical features of dystonia have not been evaluated in Southeast Asia. We therefore investigated the clinical spectrum and characteristics of dystonia in Singapore, a multi-ethnic Southeast Asian country comprising 77% Chinese, 14% Malays, and 8% Indians. We identified all dystonia patients from the Movement Disorders database and Botulinum Toxin clinic between 1995 and November 2004. Their medical records were reviewed to verify the diagnosis of dystonia and obtain demographic and clinical data using a standardized data collection form. A total of 119 (73%) patients had primary dystonia whilst 45 (27%) had secondary dystonia. There were 77% Chinese, 9% Malays, and 8% Indians. The most common focal dystonia were cervical dystonia (47%), writer's cramp (32%), and blepharospasm (11%). There was no significant difference in the distribution of dystonia between the different races. Males were noted to have earlier onset of dystonia overall. There was a significant male predominance in primary dystonia overall (M:F 1.6:1, P=0.008) and in the subgroup of focal dystonia (M:F 1.6:1, P=0.037). This contrasts with previous studies that found a female predominance. The role of genetic, hormonal, and environmental factors and their interactions need to be investigated to better understand the gender differences in the occurrence of dystonia.
Plasticity of glutamatergic synapses is considered to be a pivotal mechanism underlying the ability of the CNS to re-configure its neural circuits. A large number of studies have focused on investigating how individual proteins, biochemical pathways and structural processes alter both the induction and maintenance of synaptic plasticity. However, it is likely that synaptic plasticity involves temporally and spatially coordinated regulation of multiple protein complexes within the activated neural circuit. By using a global proteomics-based approach we have now been able to reveal that highly diverse protein classes exhibit altered expression in response to both the activation of glutamate receptors and the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) of glutamatergic synaptic strength in the hippocampus; a brain area where plastic synaptic modification is believed to be key to cognitive processes, such as spatial learning. Of the 2946 resolvable protein spots detected in this study, 79 (2.7%) were significantly altered in abundance in response to 100 microM glutamate application (all P &lt; 0.05). The majority (56 out of 79) of these changes were due to the activation of the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptor. Likewise, the induction of LTP was associated with an altered abundance of 2.4% of the detectable proteome during the early (10 min) phase and 1.7% during the late (4 h) phase of its development. Observed changes in temporal and protein class-specific patterns of expression depict a widespread shift from metabolic to structural protein alteration as the plasticity process matures.
In the septohippocampal formation alpha7 nicotinic receptors (alpha7 nAChRs) are predominantly expressed by neurons well positioned to modulate hippocampal theta oscillation, such as GABAergic interneurons in the hippocampus, and by both GABAergic and cholinergic septal neurons. In the present experiments, we evaluated the efficacy of the recently developed selective alpha7 nAChR agonist PNU-282987 on hippocampal theta oscillation in anaesthetized rats. This compound shows high affinity for the rat alpha7 nAChRs (Ki = 26 nM) but a negligible activity at other nAChRs. Systemic administration of PNU-282987 significantly enhanced the power (by 40%) of hippocampal theta oscillation induced by electrical stimulation of the brainstem reticular formation. In contrast, the amnesic and muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine significantly decreased the power (by 68%) of the stimulation-induced theta oscillation. Given the connection between hippocampal theta oscillation and cognitive processes, it is proposed that precognitive actions of alpha7 nAChR agonists could be mediated, at least in part, by modulation of hippocampal oscillatory activity.
Serotonin (5-HT) has been implicated in the aetiology of a number of psychiatric conditions, including depression, anxiety and antisocial personality disorder. The development of these disorders may arise from alterations in underlying motivational and cognitive processes such as emotional recognition, reinforcement processing and central inhibitory control. This study aimed to localize where in the brain 5-HT modulates neuropsychological processes relevant to putative 5-HT disorders, using functional magnetic resonance imaging. We examined the effect of the antidepressant mirtazapine on brain activations associated with behavioural inhibition and reinforcement processing in healthy subjects. Forty-five men were randomly allocated to receiving mirtazapine or placebo in a double-blind fashion. A Go/No-Go, Reward/No-Reward and Loss/No-loss task were performed during functional magnetic resonance imaging using a 1.5 Tesla Philips Gyroscan scanner. Blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) responses were analysed using SPM2. Task activations were largely consistent with previous findings. Mirtazapine modulated brain activations in the Go/No-Go and Reward/No-Reward task. During behavioural inhibition, enhanced activations were observed in the right orbitofrontal cortex (BA47). Increased activations in bilateral parietal cortex were found during the Reward task while no significant interaction was observed in the Loss task. Our results support the suggestion of an important role of serotonin in modulating basic processes involved in psychiatric disorders. Combining drug challenge with fMRI (pharmacoMRI; pMRI) is a promising tool for investigating these processes in healthy as well as patient groups.
Roman rat strains, genetically selected for high (RHA) or low (RLA) active avoidance acquisition in the two-way shuttle box, differ in dopaminergic activity. These two strains appear to be a valid laboratory model of divergent sensation/novelty and substance-seeking profiles. RHA rats show higher ethanol intake and preference than do RLA rats, and it was suggested that RHA rats are more tolerant than RLA to the effects of alcohol. In the hole-board test, we found that the non-alcohol-preferring RLA rats showed enhanced responsiveness to the stimulatory effects of intraperitoneal administration of 0.25 g/kg ethanol when compared with RHA rats. In situ hybridization analysis showed higher levels of preprodynorphin in the accumbens shell and higher levels of preproenkephalin in the cingulate cortex in RHA rats. RLA rats showed higher levels of enkephalin gene transcripts in restricted areas of the dorsal striatum. Finally, differences in cholecystokinin gene transcript, suggestive of a different arrangement of certain interneurons, were found in different cortical areas. The differences in peptide gene expression found between the two strains might reflect the differences in alcohol preference and sensitivity. RHA rats may have more predictive value than other rodent alcoholism models, as high initial tolerance to ethanol is a risk factor for alcoholism in humans.
Reelin, a large extracellular matrix glycoprotein, is secreted by several neuron populations in the developing and adult rodent brain. Secreted Reelin triggers a complex signaling pathway by binding lipoprotein and integrin membrane receptors in target cells. Reelin signaling regulates migration and dendritic growth in developing neurons, while it can modulate synaptic plasticity in adult neurons. To identify which adult neural circuits can be modulated by Reelin-mediated signaling, we systematically mapped the distribution of Reelin in adult rat brain using sensitive immunolabeling techniques. Results show that the distribution of intracellular and secreted Reelin is both very widespread and specific. Some interneuron and projection neuron populations in the cerebral cortex contain Reelin. Numerous striatal neurons are weakly immunoreactive for Reelin and these cells are preferentially located in striosomes. Some thalamic nuclei contain Reelin-immunoreactive cells. Double-immunolabeling for GABA and Reelin reveals that the Reelin-immunoreactive cells in the visual thalamus are the intrinsic thalamic interneurons. High local concentrations of extracellular Reelin selectively outline several dendrite spine-rich neuropils. Together with previous mRNA data, our observations suggest abundant axoplasmic transport and secretion in pathways such as the retino-collicular tract, the entorhino-hippocampal ('perforant') path, the lateral olfactory tract or the parallel fiber system of the cerebellum. A preferential secretion of Reelin in these neuropils is consistent with reports of rapid, activity-induced structural changes in adult brain circuits.
Multiple sclerosis is an inflammatory disease of the central nervous system characterized by inflammation, demyelination, axonal degeneration and accumulation of neurological disability. Previously, we demonstrated that stem cells constitute a possible endogenous source for remyelination. We now addressed the question of whether neurogenesis can occur in neuroinflammatory lesions. We demonstrated that, in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, induced in rats 1,1'-dioctadecyl-6,6'-di(4sulphopentyl)-3,3,3',3'tetramethylindocarbocyanin(DiI)-labelled ependymal cells not only proliferated but descendants migrated to the area of neuroinflammation and differentiated into cells expressing the neuronal markers beta-III-tubulin and NeuN. Furthermore, these cells were immunoreactive for bromodeoxyuridine and PCNA, markers for cells undergoing cell proliferation. Using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique on freshly isolated 1, DiI-labelled cells from spinal cord lesions we demonstrated the ability of these cells to fire overshooting action potentials similar to those of immature neurones. We thus provide the first evidence for the initiation of neurogenesis in neuroinflammatory lesions in the adult spinal cord.
Kainate receptors (KARs) are widely expressed the basal ganglia. In this study, we used electron microscopic immunocytochemistry and whole-cell recording techniques to examine the localization and function of KARs in the rat globus pallidus (GP). Dendrites were the most common immunoreactive elements, while terminals forming symmetric or asymmetric synapses and unmyelinated axons comprised most of the presynaptic labeling. To determine whether synaptically released glutamate activates KARs, we recorded excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) in the GP following single-pulse stimulation of the internal capsule. 4-(8-Methyl-9H-1,3-dioxolo[4,5 h]{2,3}benzodiazepine-5-yl)-benzenamine hydrochloride (GYKI 52466, 100 microm), an alpha-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptor antagonist, reduced but did not completely block evoked EPSCs. The remaining EPSC component was mediated through activation of KARs because it was abolished by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2, 3-dione (CNQX), an AMPA/KAR antagonist. The rise time (10-90%) and decay time constant (tau) for those EPSCs were longer than those of AMPA-mediated EPSCs recorded before GYKI 52466 application. KAR activation inhibited EPSCs. This inhibition was associated with a significant increase in paired-pulse facilitation ratio, suggesting a presynaptic action of KAR. KAR inhibition of EPSCs was blocked by the G-protein inhibitor, N-ethylmaleimide (NEM), or the protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor calphostin C. Our results demonstrate that KAR activation has dual effects on glutamatergic transmission in the rat GP: (1) it mediates small-amplitude EPSCs; and (2) it reduces glutamatergic synaptic transmission through a presynaptic G-protein coupled, PKC-dependent, metabotropic mechanism. These findings provide evidence for the multifarious functions of KARs in regulating synaptic transmission, and open up the possibility for the development of pharmacotherapies to reduce the hyperactive subthalamofugal projection in Parkinson's disease.
Activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3) is a widely used marker of damaged primary sensory neurons that is induced in essentially all dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons by spinal nerve axotomy. Whether such injuries induce its expression in neurons of adjacent DRGs remains unknown. Following L5 spinal nerve ligation, experimental but not sham-operated rats develop thermal and mechanical hypersensitivity. In the L4 DRG, 11-12% of neurons were ATF3 positive by 1 day post-surgery, and numbers remain unchanged at 2 weeks. Importantly, sham exposure of the L5 spinal nerve produced a nearly identical number of ATF3-positive neurons in the L4 DRG and also a substantial increase in the L5 DRG, with a similar time-course to experimental animals. There was no correlation between behaviour and magnitude of ATF3 expression. Co-localization studies with the DRG injury markers galanin, neuropeptide Y and nitric oxide synthase (NOS) showed that approximately 75, 50 and 25%, respectively, of L4 ATF3-positive neurons co-expressed these markers after L5 transection or sham surgery. Additionally, increases in galanin and NOS were seen in ATF3-negative neurons in L4. Our results strongly suggest that the surgical exposure of spinal nerves induces ATF3 in the L4-5 DRG, irrespective of whether the L5 nerve is subsequently cut. This probably reflects minor damage to the neurons or their axons but nevertheless is sufficient to induce phenotypic plasticity. Caution is therefore warranted when interpreting the phenotypic plasticity of DRG neurons in adjacent ganglia in the absence of positive evidence that they are not damaged.
Treatment of rats with methylazoxymethanol (MAM) on gestational day (GD)17 disrupts corticolimbic development in the offspring (MAM-GD17 rats) and leads to abnormalities in adult MAM-GD17 rats resembling those described in schizophrenic patients. The underlying changes in specific cortical and limbic cell populations remain to be characterised. In schizophrenia, decreases in inhibitory gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-containing interneurons that express the calcium-binding protein parvalbumin have been reported in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. In this study we analysed the expression of parvalbumin (PV), calretinin (CR) and calbindin (CB) in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus of MAM-GD17 rats. Exposure in utero to MAM led to a significant decrease in the number of neurons expressing PV in the hippocampus, but not the prefrontal cortex. Neurons expressing CR or CB were not affected in either structure. The neurochemical changes in MAM-GD17 rats were accompagnied by increased hyperlocomotion after administration of phencyclidine (PCP), analogous to the hypersensitivity of schizophrenic patients to PCP. Therefore, the developmental MAM-GD17 model reproduces key neurochemical and behavioural features that reflect cortical and subcortical dysfunction in schizophrenia, and could be a useful tool in the development of new antipsychotic drugs.
Spinal cord injury causes damage to ascending and descending tracts, as well as to local circuits, but relatively little is known about the effect of such injury on sensory neurons located within adjoining ganglia. We have therefore used immunocytochemistry for activating transcription factor-3 (ATF3), a sensitive marker of axonal damage, in order to examine the effects of spinal cord injury in rats on dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. A 50-g static compression injury applied to the dorsal surface of the T12 thoracic spinal cord led to an up-regulation of ATF3 that was maximal at 1 day and affected 12-14% of DRG neurons in ganglia caudal to the injury (T13-L3). A similar response was seen after a T12 hemisection that transected the dorsal columns except that compression injury, but not hemisection, also evoked ATF3 expression in ganglia just rostral to the injury (T10, T11). ATF3 was up-regulated exclusively in DRG neurons that were of large diameter and immunoreactive for heavy neurofilament. Small-diameter cells, including the population that binds the lectin Grifffonia simplicifolia IB4, did not express ATF3 immunoreactivity. A similar pattern of ATF3 expression was induced by dorsal rhizotomy. The data show for the first time that ATF3 is up-regulated after spinal cord and dorsal root injury, but that this up-regulation is confined to the large-diameter cell population.
Quantitative and conventional microdialysis were used to investigate the effects of constitutive deletion of the prodynorphin gene on basal dopamine (DA) dynamics in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) and the responsiveness of DA neurons to an acute cocaine challenge. Saline- and cocaine-evoked locomotor activity were also assessed. Quantitative microdialysis revealed that basal extracellular DA levels were decreased, while the DA extraction fraction, an indirect measure of DA uptake, was unchanged in dynorphin (DYN) knockout (KO) mice. The ability of cocaine to increase NAc DA levels was reduced in KO. Similarly, cocaine-evoked locomotor activity was decreased in KO. The selective kappa opioid receptor agonist U-69593 decreased NAc dialysate DA levels in wildtype mice and this effect was enhanced in KO. Administration of the selective kappa opioid receptor (KOPr) antagonist nor-binaltorphimine to KO mice attenuated the decrease in cocaine-induced DA levels. However, it was ineffective in altering the decreased locomotor response to cocaine. These studies demonstrate that constitutive deletion of prodynorphin is associated with a reduction of extracellular NAc DA levels and a decreased responsiveness to acute cocaine. Data regarding the effects of U-69593 and nor-binaltorphimine in KO suggest that the kappa opioid receptor is up-regulated as a consequence of prodynorphin gene deletion and that this adaptation underlies the decrease in basal DA dynamics and cocaine-evoked DA levels observed in DYN KO mice. These findings suggest that the phenotype of DYN KO mice is not solely due to loss of endogenous opioid peptide but also reflects developmental compensations that occur at the level of the opioid receptor.
Several studies have implicated the Ras/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway in Pavlovian fear conditioning. RasGRF1 knockout mice show significant deficits in acquisition of long-term fear memories and long-term potentaition (LTP) in the basolateral amygdala (BLA). MAPK kinase inhibition also impairs fear conditioning and amygdaloid LTP. However, there is no direct evidence to date for the involvement of Ras itself in fear conditioning. To address this issue, we examined the effects of intra-amygdala infusions of the selective Ras antagonist farnesylthiosalicylic acid (FTS) on the acquisition and expression of conditional freezing in rats. Micro-infusions of FTS into the BLA prior to contextual fear conditioning significantly impaired acquisition of long-term contextual fear memory in a dose-dependent manner. Post-training FTS infusions had no effect on acquisition of long-term fear memory. The effects of FTS on fear conditioning were specific for the BLA. Finally, intra-amygdala infusions of FTS inhibited MAPK activation in BLA. Collectively, these results provide further evidence for the involvement of amygdaloid Ras in the acquisition of long-term conditional fear memory.
Dieting as a strategy to reduce body weight often fails as it causes food cravings leading to bingeing and weight regain. Evidence from several lines of research suggests the presence of shared elements for neural regulation of food and drug craving. We quantified the expression of eight genes involved in dopamine signalling in brain regions related to the mesolimbic and nigrostriatal dopamine system in male rats subjected to chronic food restriction using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Food restriction strongly increased mRNA levels of tyrosine hydroxylase and the dopamine transporter in the ventral tegmental area. Quantitative autoradiography indicated that the dopamine transporter was also upregulated at the protein level in the shell of the nucleus accumbens. However, these effects were not observed after acute food deprivation. We suggest that the results reflect a sensitization of the mesolimbic dopamine pathway characterized by increased clearance of extracellular dopamine in the nucleus accumbens shell. Such sensitization of the mesolimbic dopamine system may be one of the underlying causes for the food cravings that interfere with dietary compliance.
It has been suggested that Group I metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonists could have potential therapeutic value in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. There is evidence that when given systemically, 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (MPEP), a metabotropic glutamate receptor type 5 (mGluR5) antagonist, produces anti-parkinsonian effects in animal models, but the site of action has not been directly established. In the present study, we examined whether the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and its output structures may mediate such an effect using a unilateral rat model of Parkinson's disease. A battery of simple behavioral tests, reliably sensitive to dopamine depletion, was applied consecutively: (i) prior to surgery; (ii) 3 weeks following a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the substantia nigra pars compacta; (iii) at 1 h, 24 h and 4 days following a microinjection of MPEP, via an indwelling cannula, into the STN, entopeduncular nucleus (EP) or substantia nigra zona reticulata. Unilaterally dopamine-depleted animals typically had severe motor and sensorimotor asymmetries 3 weeks following surgery. Microinjection of 25 nmol MPEP into the STN of these animals significantly attenuated these asymmetries relative to vehicle. Further microinjections of lower doses (5 and 10 nmol) revealed a dose-response effect. Microinjection of MPEP into either the EP or substantia nigra zona reticulata was without effect. These data suggest that MPEP may act at the level of the STN to reduce glutamatergic overactivity and thereby induce anti-parkinsonian effects.
Angiogenesis following traumatic brain injuries (TBIs) may be of importance for post-traumatic reparative processes and the development of secondary injuries. We have previously shown expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a major regulator of endothelial cell proliferation, angiogenesis and vascular permeability, and VEGF receptors (VEGFR1 and 2) after TBI in rat. In the present work we tried to further elucidate the role of VEGF after TBI by performing specific VEGFR2 activity inhibition. In rats subjected to VEGFR2 blockage we report an increased haemorrhagic area (P &lt; 0.05), early increase in serum levels of neural injury marker neuron-specific enolase (P &lt; 0.05) and glial injury marker S100beta (P &lt; 0.05), and increased numbers of terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate-biotin nick end labelling- (TUNEL-) and FluoroJade B- (P &lt; 0.05) positive cells, all increases preceding the known VEGF/VEGFR vascular response in brain trauma. An increase in lesion area, as measured by decreased microtubuli-associated protein 2 expression (P &lt; 0.05) and increased glial fibrillary acidic protein reactivity (P &lt; 0.05), could also be demonstrated. In addition, vascular density, as measured by von Willebrandt factor-positive cells, was decreased (P &lt; 0.05). No differences in post-traumatic inflammatory response, as measured by stainings for macrophages, granulocytes and intracellular adhesion molecules, were shown between the groups. Taken together, our findings point towards VEGF/VEGFR2 up-regulation after TBI as being an important endogenous cytoprotective mechanism in TBI. The possible importance of VEGF on the vascular, neuronal and glial compartments of the neurovascular unit after TBI is discussed.
Christofredo (also Christfried or Christian) Jakob is considered the father of neurology, neurobiology and forensic histopathology in Argentina, where he initially worked between 1899-1910 and then from 1913 onwards. He held professorships of neurobiology at the Faculty of Humanities and Educational Sciences of the University of La Plata and of anatomy and biology at the University of Buenos Aires, and established one of the most important neuropathological laboratories in South America. In the latter phase of his career, Jakob published important works on the pathological anatomy of neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders and formalized ideas on consciousness and neurophilosophy.
This study, and the companion paper that follows, pays homage to the life and work of Christfried (also Christian or Christofredo) Jakob, a German-born neuropathologist who adopted Argentina as his country of vocation. Rated by von Economo and Koskinas among the three most important pre-1925 cortical neuro-anatomists, alongside Ramn y Cajal, Jakob is little known in the English literature. He has left an impressive record of publications, 30 richly illustrated monographs and 200 articles that span over a vast array of neurological themes, including cortical development and evolution, and the visceral brain. The present paper reviews works from his German years and the first visit to Argentina in 1899-1910. The companion paper covers his works (all in Spanish) during his 'second Argentina period', after 1913.




We previously showed that gad mice, which are deficient for ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCH-L1), have a significantly increased number of defective spermatozoa, suggesting that UCH-L1 functions in sperm quality control during epididymal maturation. The epididymis is the site of spermatozoa maturation, transport and storage. Region-specific functions along the epididymis are essential for establishing the environment required for sperm maturation. We analyzed the region-specific expression of UCH-L1 and UCH-L3 along the epididymis, and also assessed the levels of ubiquitin, which has specificity for UCH-L1. In wild-type mice, western blot analysis demonstrated a high level of UCH-L1 expression in the caput epididymis, consistent with ubiquitin expression, whereas UCH-L3 expression was high in the cauda epididymis. We also investigated the function of UCH-L1 and UCH-L3 in epididymal apoptosis induced by efferent duct ligation. The caput epididymides of gad mice were resistant to apoptotic stress induced by efferent duct ligation, whereas Uchl3 knockout mice showed a marked increase in apoptotic cells following ligation. In conclusion, the response of gad and Uchl3 knockout mice to androgen withdrawal suggests a reciprocal function of the two UCH enzymes in the caput epididymis.
How the brain responds to sequences of sounds is a question of great relevance to a variety of auditory perceptual phenomena. We investigated how long the responses of neurons in the primary auditory cortex of awake monkeys are influenced by the previous sound. We found that responses to the second sound of a two-sound sequence were generally attenuated compared to the response that sound evoked when it was presented first. The attenuation remained evident at the population level even out to inter-stimulus intervals (ISIs) of 5 s, although it was of modest size for ISIs &gt;2 s. Behavioral context (performance versus non-performance of a visual fixation task during sound presentation) did not influence the results. The long time course of the first sound's influence suggests that, under natural conditions, neural responses in auditory cortex are rarely governed solely by the current sound.
Prior studies of the central portion of the mesencephalic reticular formation (cMRF) have shown that in head-restrained monkeys, neurons discharge prior to saccades. Here, we provide a systematic analysis of the patterns of activity in cMRF neurons during head unrestrained gaze shifts. Two types of cMRF neurons were found: presaccadic neurons began to discharge before the onset of gaze movements, while postsaccadic neurons began to discharge after gaze shift onset and typically after the end of the gaze shift. Presaccadic neuronal responses were well correlated with gaze movements, while the discharge of postsaccadic neurons was more closely associated with head movements. The activity of presaccadic neurons was organized into gaze movement fields, while the activity of postsaccadic neurons was better organized into movement fields associated with head displacement. We found that cMRF neurons displayed both open and closed movement field responses. Neurons with closed movement fields discharged before a specific set of gaze (presaccadic) or head (postsaccadic) movement amplitudes and directions and had a clear distal boundary. Neurons with open movement fields discharged for gaze or head movements of a specific direction and also for movement amplitudes up to the limit of measurement (70 degrees). A subset of open movement field neurons displayed an increased discharge with increased gaze shift amplitudes, similar to pontine burst neurons, and were called monotonically increasing open movement field neurons. In contrast, neurons with non-monotonically open movement fields demonstrated activity for all gaze shift amplitudes, but their activity reached a plateau or declined gradually for gaze shifts beyond specific amplitudes. We suggest that presaccadic neurons with open movement fields participate in a descending pathway providing gaze signals to medium-lead burst neurons in the paramedian pontine reticular formation, while presaccadic closed movement field neurons may participate in feedback to the superior colliculus. The previously unrecognized group of postsaccadic cMRF neurons may provide signals of head position or velocity to the thalamus, cerebellum, or spinal cord.
The accompanying paper demonstrated two distinct types of central mesencephalic reticular formation (cMRF) neuron that discharged before or after the gaze movement: pre-saccadic or post-saccadic. The movement fields of pre-saccadic neurons were most closely associated with gaze displacement. The movement fields of post-saccadic neurons were most closely associated with head displacement. Here we examine the relationships of the discharge patterns of these cMRF neurons with the temporal aspects of gaze or head movement. For pre-saccadic cMRF neurons with monotonically open movement fields, we demonstrate that burst duration correlated closely with gaze duration. In addition, the peak discharge of the majority of pre-saccadic neurons was closely correlated with peak gaze velocity. In contrast, discharge parameters of post-saccadic neurons were best correlated with the time of peak head velocity. However, the duration and peak discharge of post-saccadic discharge was only weakly related to the duration and peak velocity of head movement. As a result, for the majority of post-saccadic neurons the discharge waveform poorly correlated with the dynamics of head movement. We suggest that the discharge characteristics of pre-saccadic cMRF neurons with monotonically open movement fields are similar to that of direction long-lead burst neurons found previously in the paramedian portion of the pontine reticular formation (PPRF; Hepp and Henn 1983). In light of their anatomic connections with the PPRF, these pre-saccadic neurons could form a parallel pathway that participates in the transformation from the spatial coding of gaze in the superior colliculus (SC) to the temporal coding displayed by excitatory burst neurons of the PPRF. In contrast, closed and non-monotonically open movement field pre-saccadic neurons could play a critical role in feedback to the SC. The current data do not support a role for post-saccadic cMRF neurons in the direct control of head movements, but suggest that they may serve a feedback or reafference function, providing a signal of current head amplitude to upstream regions involved in head control.
Afferent auditory processing in the human brainstem is often assumed to be determined by acoustic stimulus features alone and immune to stimulation by other senses or cognitive factors. In contrast, we show that lipreading during speech perception influences early acoustic processing. Event-related brainstem potentials were recorded from ten healthy adults to concordant (acoustic-visual match), conflicting (acoustic-visual mismatch) and unimodal stimuli. Audiovisual (AV) interactions occurred as early as approximately 11 ms post-acoustic stimulation and persisted for the first 30 ms of the response. Furthermore, the magnitude of interaction depended on AV pairings. These findings indicate considerable plasticity in early auditory processing.
There is significant controversy regarding the ability of the primate visual system to construct stable percepts from a never-ending stream of brief fixations and rapid saccadic eye movements. In this study, we examined the timing and occurrence of perisaccadic modulation of LGN single-unit activity in awake-behaving macaque monkeys while they made spontaneous saccades in the dark and made visually guided saccades to discrete stimuli located outside the receptive field. Our hypothesis was that the activity of LGN cells is modulated by efference copies of motor plans to produce saccadic eye movements and that this modulation depends neither on the presence of feedforward visual information nor on a corollary discharge of signals directing saccadic eye movements. On average, 25% of LGN cells demonstrated significant perisaccadic modulation. This modulation consisted of a moderate suppression of activity that began more than 100 ms prior to the initiation of a saccadic eye movement and continued beyond the termination of the saccadic eye movement. This suppression was followed by a large enhancement of activity after the eyes arrived at the next fixation. Although members of all three LGN relay cell classes (magnocellular, parvocellular, and koniocellular) demonstrated significant saccade-related suppression and enhancement of activity, more cells demonstrated postsaccadic enhancement (25%) than perisaccadic suppression (17%). In no case did the timing of the modulation coincide directly with saccade duration. The degree of modulation observed did not vary with LGN cell class, LGN receptive field center location, center sign (ON-center or OFF-center), or saccade latency or velocity. The time course of modulation did, however, vary with saccade size such that suppression was longer for longer saccades. The fact that activity from a percentage of LGN cells from all cell classes was modulated in relationship to saccadic eye movements in the absence of direct visual stimulation suggests that this modulation is a general phenomenon not tied to specific types of visual stimuli. Similarly, because the onset of the modulation preceded eye movements by more than 100 ms, it is likely that this modulation reflects higher order motor-planning rather than a corollary of mechanisms in direct control of eye movements themselves. Finally, the fact that the largest modulation is a postsaccadic enhancement of activity may suggest that perisaccadic modulations are designed more for the facilitation of visual information processing once the eyes land at a new location than for filtering unwanted visual stimuli.
Stimulation around the superior cerebellar peduncle or within the deep cerebellar nuclei is known to inhibit the inferior olive with a very long latency. It has been suggested that this inhibition is mediated by the GABA-ergic nucleo-olivary pathway, but alternative explanations such as activation of an indirect excitatory pathway or a pathway via the red nucleus are possible. A long-latency inhibition via the nucleo-olivary pathway would have profound implications for cerebellar function and the present study was performed to test alternative explanations and to characterize the nucleo-olivary inhibition. Climbing fibre responses (CFRs), evoked by periorbital stimulation and recorded from the cerebellar cortex, could be inhibited by stimulation of two distinct mesencephalic areas. One was located within the superior cerebellar peduncle and the other about 1 mm further ventrally. Inhibition evoked from either area occurred in the inferior olive and was independent of a red nucleus relay. Single Purkinje cell recordings revealed that inhibition from the ventral area was not secondary to olivary activation. It is concluded that stimulation of the ventral area activated nucleo-olivary fibres. The inhibition elicited by stimulation within the peduncle probably resulted from indirect activation on the nucleo-olivary fibres via antidromic activation of the interpositus nucleus. The time courses of the inhibition from the two areas were indistinguishable. The duration of the strongest inhibition was short and had a sharp peak at about 30 ms. It is suggested that the time course of the inhibition is important for temporal regulation of learned responses.
Poor sustained attention or alertness is a common consequence of traumatic brain injury (TBI) and has a considerable impact on the recovery and adjustment of TBI patients. Here, we describe the development of a sensitive laboratory task in healthy subjects (Experiment 1) and its enhanced sensitivity to sustained attention errors in TBI patients (Experiment 2). The task involves withholding a key press to an infrequent no-go target embedded within a predictable sequence of numbers (primary goal) and detecting grey-coloured targets within the sequence (secondary goal). In Experiment 1, we report that neurologically healthy subjects are more likely to experience a lapse of attention and neglect the primary task goal, despite ceiling performance on the secondary task. Further, attentional lapses on the task correlated with everyday attentional failures and variability of response time. In Experiment 2, the task discriminates between TBI patients and controls with a large effect size. The dual-task yields more errors in both groups than a simple task involving only the primary goal that is commonly used to detect sustained attention deficits in neurologically impaired groups. TBI patients' errors also correlated with everyday cognitive failures and variability of response time. This was not the case in the simple version of the task. We conclude that the dual-task demand associated with this task enhances its sensitivity as a measure of sustained attention in TBI patients and neurologically healthy controls that relates to everyday slips of attention.
The neural control of a movement depends upon the motor task performed. To further understand the neural regulation of different variations of the same type of movement, we created three dissimilar bilateral rhythmic arm cycling tasks by unilaterally manipulating crank length (CL). Modulation in the amplitude and sign of cutaneous reflexes was used as an index of neural control. Neurologically intact subjects performed three bilateral cycling trials at approximately 1 Hz with the ipsilateral crank arm at one of three different lengths. Cutaneous reflexes were evoked during each trial with trains (5 x 1.0 ms pulses at 300 Hz) of electrical stimulation delivered to the superficial radial nerve at the ipsilateral wrist. EMG recordings were made bilaterally from muscles acting at the shoulder, elbow, and wrist. Analysis was conducted after phase-averaging contingent upon the timing of stimulation in the movement cycle. CL variation created an asymmetrical cycling pattern and produced significant changes in the range of motion at the ipsilateral shoulder and elbow. Background EMG amplitude in muscles of the contralateral arm generally increased significantly as CL decreased. Therefore at a given phase in the movement cycle, the background EMG was different between the three cycling trials. In contrast, cutaneous reflex amplitudes in muscles of both arms were similar at each phase of the movement cycle between the different CLs trials at both early and middle latencies. This was particularly evident in muscles ipsilateral to nerve stimulation. We suggest that variations of arm cycling that primarily yield significant changes in the amplitude of muscle activity do not require significant task-specific change in neural control.
Porcine fetal neural tissue has been considered as an alternative source to human allografts for transplantation in neurodegenerative disorders by virtue of the fact that it can overcome the ethical and practical difficulties using human fetal neural tissue. However, primary porcine neural xenografts are rejected while porcine expanded neural precursor neural cells (PNPCs) seem to be less immunogenic and thus survive better [Armstrong, R.J., Harrower, T.P., Hurelbrink, C.B., McLaughin, M., Ratcliffe, E.L., Tyers, P., Richards, A., Dunnett, S.B., Rosser, A.E., Barker, R.A., 2001a. Porcine neural xenografts in the immunocompetent rat: immune response following grafting of expanded neural precursor cells. Neuroscience 106, 201-216]. In this study, we extended these observations to investigate the long-term survival of such transplants in immunosuppressed rats. Unilateral 6 OHDA lesioned rats received grafts into the dopamine denervated striatum of either primary porcine fetal neural tissue dissected from the E26 cortex or cortically derived neural stem cells which had been derived from the same source but expanded in vitro for 21 days. All cortically derived neural stem cell grafts survived up to 5 months in contrast to the poor survival of primary porcine xenografts. Histological analysis demonstrated good graft integration with fibers extending into the surrounding host tissue including white matter with synapse formation, and in addition there was evidence of host vascularization and myelinated fibers within the graft area. This study has therefore shown for the first time the reliable long-term survival of grafts derived from porcine expanded neural precursors in a rat model of PD, with maturation and integration into the host brain. This demonstrates that such xenografted cells may be able to recreate the damaged circuitry in PD although strategies for dopaminergic differentiation of the porcine neural precursor cell remain to be refined.
The influence of diet and age on the area of lesion and on the neuronal density in the cerebral cortex was studied in rats following local injections of the amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta1-40) in PBS vehicle into the left frontal and cingulate cortices and compared with effects of injections of PBS alone into the corresponding regions of the right hemisphere The experiments were carried out in two groups of animals: one group of young adult rats and a second group of aged rats. Each group of animals, depending on the diet received, was divided into high-cholesterol, high-fat, and a control group. In order to evaluate the interaction of Abeta/PBS-cholesterol and of Abeta/PBS-fat, animals without dietary manipulation receiving Abeta and PBS injection were used as controls. The results showed that the greatest area of lesion was at Abeta injection sites in the high-cholesterol fed group of aged animals. The results also revealed a significant variance in the neuronal density by group and by injection type. Thus, high-cholesterol fed animals showed a greater reduction in neuronal density at Abeta and PBS-injected sites than that seen in the high-fat or control groups. The results also indicate that the loss of neurons at the Abeta injection site exceeds that seen in the PBS-injected area. The greatest reduction in the neuronal density was found at Abeta-injected site in the high-cholesterol fed group of aged animals. In conclusion, our findings indicate an interaction between lipids, age, and Abeta neurotoxicity, and might provide insights into the basic mechanisms involved in a short-term (acute-to-subchronic) response to Abeta peptide.
This is the first report of a mutual interference between luminance and numerical value in magnitude judgments. Instead of manipulating the physical size of compared numbers, which is the traditional approach in size congruity studies, luminance levels were manipulated. The results yielded the classical congruity effect. Participants took more time to process numerically larger numbers when they were brighter than when they were darker, and more time to process a darker number when its numerical value was smaller than when it was larger. On the basis of neurophysiological studies of magnitude comparison and interference between semantic and physical information, it is proposed that the processing of semantic and physical magnitude information is carried out by a shared brain structure. It is suggested that this brain area, the left intraparietal sulcus, subserves various comparison processes by representing various quantities on an amodal magnitude scale.
In recent years much excitement has been generated over the possibility that adult stem cells may attempt repair of the injured central nervous system (CNS), thus setting the stage for their utilisation in the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders. Recent studies have shown that some subsets of stem cells can also modulate the (auto)immune response, thus providing a rationale for their use as therapy for experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model for multiple sclerosis (MS). This article reviews the scientific evidence supporting the possible use of neural stem cells (NSCs) and mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) for the treatment of MS. In addition, possible mechanisms sustaining the beneficial mode of action of haematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) following transplantation in MS individuals are discussed. Overall, it is proposed that limited subsets of adult stem cells may have a dual function that may be effective for the treatment of MS, an autoimmune disease of the CNS where degeneration of neural cells follows inflammation.
Dopamine agonists are highly effective as adjunctive therapy to levodopa in advanced Parkinson's disease and have rapidly gained popularity as a monotherapy in the early stages of Parkinson's disease for patients less than 65-70 years old. In the latter case, dopamine agonists are about as effective as levodopa but patients demonstrate a lower tendency to develop motor complications. However, dopamine agonists lose efficacy over time and the number of patients remaining on agonist monotherapy decreases to less than 50% after 3 years of treatment. Thus, after a few years of treatment the majority of patients who started on dopamine agonists will be administered levodopa, in a combined dopaminergic therapy, in order to achieve a better control of motor symptoms.
Late-life depression refers to depressive syndromes defined in the American Psychiatric Association's Diagnostic and Statistical Manual and in the International Classification of Diseases that arise in adults older than 65 years of age. Late life depressive syndromes often arise in the context of medical and neurologic disorders. There is a high prevalence of depression in various neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, Lewy body disease, Parkinson's disease, cerebrovascular disease and frontotemporal dementias. It has been well recognized that late life depression may itself be the presenting symptom of a latent neurodegenerative disorder. Therefore, an accurate diagnosis of late-onset depression may serve to identify a high-risk group that would benefit from initiation of therapies with the goal of delaying or possibly even preventing the onset of dementia.


An interactive network comprised of neuropeptide Y (NPY) and cohorts is obligatory in the hypothalamic integration of appetite and energy expenditure on a minute-to-minute basis. High or low abundance of NPY and cognate receptors dysregulates the homeostatic milieu engendering hyperphagia, decreased energy expenditure, obesity and attendant metabolic syndrome cluster of dyslipidemia, glucose intolerance, insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia, risk factors for type II diabetes and cardiovascular diseases. Increasing the supply of the endogenous repressor hormone leptin locally in the hypothalamus with the aid of leptin gene therapy, blocked age-related and dietary obesities, and the sequential development of dyslipidemia, hyperglycemia, and insulin resistance. Thus, sustained repression of NPY signaling with increased leptin selectively in the hypothalamus can avert environmental obesity and the risks of metabolic diseases.
The gamma-secretase enzyme complex displays intramembrane catalytic activity toward many type I transmembrane proteins, including the Alzheimer-linked amyloid-beta-protein precursor (APP) and the neuregulin receptor ErbB4. Active gamma-secretase is a tetrameric protein complex consisting of presenilin-1 (or -2), nicastrin, PEN-2, and Aph-1a (or -1b). We have recently discovered that pharmacogenetically bred apomorphine-susceptible Wistar rats (APO-SUS) have only one or two copies of the Aph-1b gene (termed I/I and II/II rats, respectively), whereas their phenotypic counterparts (APO-UNSUS) have three copies (III/III). As a result, APO-SUS rats display reduced Aph-1b expression and a complex phenotype reminiscent of neurodevelopmental disorders. Here we determined in the I/I and III/III rats the gamma-secretase cleavage activity toward the three APP superfamily members, p75 neurotrophin receptor, ErbB4, and neuregulin-2, and found that the cleavage of only a subset of the substrates was changed. Furthermore, the observed differences were restricted to tissues that normally express relatively high Aph-1b compared with Aph-1a levels. Thus, we provide in vivo evidence that subtle alterations in gamma-secretase subunit composition may lead to a variety of affected (neuro)developmental signaling pathways and, consequently, a complex phenotype.
Palladin is an actin-associated protein that has been suggested to play critical roles in establishing cell morphology and maintaining cytoskeletal organization in a wide variety of cell types. Palladin has been shown previously to bind directly to three different actin-binding proteins vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein (VASP), alpha-actinin and ezrin, suggesting that it functions as an organizing unit that recruits actin-regulatory proteins to specific subcellular sites. Palladin contains sequences resembling a motif known to bind profilin. Here, we demonstrate that palladin is a binding partner for profilin, interacting with profilin via a poly proline-containing sequence in the amino-terminal half of palladin. Double-label immunofluorescence staining shows that palladin and profilin partially colocalize in actin-rich structures in cultured astrocytes. Our results suggest that palladin may play an important role in recruiting profilin to sites of actin dynamics.

Among primates, only chimpanzees and orang-utans are credited with customary tool use in nature. Among monkeys, capuchins stand out with respect to the number of accounts of tool use. However, the majority of capuchin tool use observations reported in nature is anecdotal or idiosyncratic. In this report, we documented the stone pounding of dry fruits (Hymenea courbaril and Acrocomia aculeata) in two wild free-ranging groups of Cebus libidinosus in the Brasilia National Park, a preserved area representative of the Cerradobiome of Central Brazil. In 2004, we noted 2 episodes at which 4 monkeys used stones to crack open nuts. In 2005, we recorded 5 pounding episodes involving 2 different monkeys. Observations of tool use over the course of 2 consecutive years by some individuals, as well as other indirect evidence, indicate that this behaviour could be habitual in the studied groups. We propose that the probability of the emergence of the use of pounding stones as tools may be dependent on the ecological variables that influence the degree of terrestriality and extractive foraging and the complex interaction of these factors.
Cavernous sinus surgery has always been a surgical challenge because of the high functional importance of this region and the associated high morbidity. The augmented peripheral vision of the endoscope has led to the development of surgical approaches that allow adequate exposure of the cavernous sinus, with a reduction in surgical morbidity. Since 1998, 65 patients with pituitary adenomas and intraoperative evidence of cavernous sinus invasion were treated with a purely endoscopic approach. Follow-up was of at least 6 (mean 51.2) months. There was no perioperative mortality and extremely low morbidity. Radical tumor removal was obtained in 21/35 cases with nonfunctioning adenomas. Hormonal remission was obtained in 13/30 functioning adenomas. One patient with partial hypopituitarism and 1 patient with persistent diabetes insipidus were seen. Three patients with delayed CSF leaks required endoscopic repair. In 1 patient with hemorrhagic infarction in a residual tumor, reintervention with craniotomy was necessary. We advocate the central role of surgery in the treatment of cavernous sinus tumors, since it allows definition of true cavernous sinus involvement, histopathological diagnosis and, when cure is not feasible, tumor volume reduction, which might be an important factor in the response to adjuvant therapy.
The patient affected by epilepsy related to brain tumours presents certain features linked to the summation of his cancer-related problems and his epilepsy-related problems. Furthermore, epilepsy in brain tumour patients is often refractory to pharmacological treatments and can complicate the therapeutic management of these patients due to the increased incidence of pharmacological interactions and adverse effects. Analysis of the data in the literature suggests that it is opportune, when planning antiepileptic therapy in these cases, to choose the new-generation drugs, as these show a lower incidence of pharmacological interactions with the therapies used in brain tumour patients (chemotherapies, radiotherapy and support therapies), have fewer adverse effects, and have less impact on neuropsychological functions, all factors that strongly influence the patient's quality of life. Of the new antiepileptic drugs, the following seem to be promising in the treatment of cancer-related epilepsy: oxcarbazepine, topiramate and levetiracetam (the latter as an add-on therapy). The pharmacokinetic features of these drugs, their effectiveness in controlling seizures, and the reduced incidence of adverse effects make them useful in this particular group of patients.


In order to obtain leads to molecular mechanisms of signal transduction pathways and controlled gene expression in neuronal development we have screened the adult mouse brain for expressed forkhead transcription factors using a degenerate RT-PCR approach. Here, we focus on three FoxO genes found to be expressed in the brain: FoxO1, FoxO3 and FoxO6. The FoxO subfamily of forkhead transcription family is emerging as a central keypoint in an array of cellular functions, such as metabolism, differentiation and transformation. In situ hybridization experiments on adult and embryonic mouse brain showed differential expression patterns for three FoxO members. FoxO1 was strongly expressed in the striatum and neuronal subsets of the hippocampus (dentate gyrus and the ventral/posterior part of the CA regions), whereas FoxO3 was more diffusely expressed throughout the brain including all hippocampal areas, cortex and cerebellum. FoxO6 expression was eminent in various parts of the adult mouse brain, including the entire hippocampus, the amygdalohippocampal area and the shell of the nucleus accumbens. Remarkably, all three FoxO transcription factors were expressed relatively late in the developing murine brain, starting between E12.5 and E14. In summary, the presented data show FoxO factors to be expressed in the adult and developing mouse brain, in a spatially end temporally restricted manner.
Genes and environment are both essential and interdependent determinants of behavioral responses. Behavioral genetics focuses on the role of genes on behavior. In this article, we aim to provide a succinct, but comprehensive, overview of the different means through which behavioral analysis may be performed in rodents. We give general recommendations for planning and performing behavioral experiments in rats and mice, followed by brief descriptions of experimental paradigms most commonly used for the analysis of reflexes, sensory function, motor function and exploratory, social, emotional and cognitive behavior. We end with a discussion of some of the shortcomings of current concepts of genetic determinism and argue that the genetic basis of behavior should be analyzed in the context of environmental factors.
Although talents and disabilities appear to run in families, direct links between genes and cognitive ability are difficult to establish. Investigators are currently searching for intermediate phenotypes with plausible links to both genome and cognome (the cognitive phenotype). Cortical anatomy could provide one such intermediate phenotype. Variation in cortical size, asymmetry and sulcal pattern is influenced by genetic variation in neurotrophic factors and can predict variation in verbal and mathematical talent. Anecdotal evidence suggests that individuals with a rare morphological variant of Sylvian fissure sometimes have superior visualization ability combined with verbal deficits. Documentation of such 'cognitive cortical syndromes' might prove as genetically informative as the identification of dysmorphic syndromes associated with mental retardation. A necessary prerequisite for the establishment of such syndromes is a reliable technique for the identification of cortical patterns. Recent technical advances in software for automatically labeling and measuring cortical sulci now provide the possibility of establishing standard measures for their shape, size and location. Such measures are a prerequisite for genetic studies of cortical patterns that could illuminate the neurodevelopmental pathways by which genes affect cognitive ability.
Language is a defining characteristic of our species that has emerged quite recently on an evolutionary timescale. Understanding the neurobiological substrates and genetic underpinnings of language constitutes a basic challenge for both neuroscience and genetics. The functional localization of language in the brain has been progressively refined over the last century through studies of aphasics and more recently through neuroimaging. Concurrently, structural specializations in these brain regions have been identified by virtue of their lateralization in humans and also through comparisons with homologous brain regions in non-human primate species. Comparative genomics has revealed the genome of our closest living relative, the chimpanzee, to be astonishingly similar to our own. To explore the role that changes in the regulation of gene expression have had in recent human evolution, several groups have used microarrays to compare expression levels for thousands of genes in the brain between humans and chimpanzees. By applying this approach to the increasingly refined peri-sylvian network of brain regions involved in language, it may be possible to discern functionally significant changes in gene expression that are universal among humans but unique to our species, thus casting light on the molecular basis of language in the brain.

Semaphorins are secreted, transmembrane, and GPI-linked proteins, defined by cysteine-rich semaphorin protein domains, that have important roles in a variety of tissues. Humans have 20 semaphorins, Drosophila has five, and two are known from DNA viruses; semaphorins are also found in nematodes and crustaceans but not in non-animals. They are grouped into eight classes on the basis of phylogenetic tree analyses and the presence of additional protein motifs. The expression of semaphorins has been described most fully in the nervous system, but they are also present in most, or perhaps all, other tissues. Functionally, semaphorins were initially characterized for their importance in the development of the nervous system and in axonal guidance. More recently, they have been found to be important for the formation and functioning of the cardiovascular, endocrine, gastrointestinal, hepatic, immune, musculoskeletal, renal, reproductive, and respiratory systems. A common theme in the mechanisms of semaphorin function is that they alter the cytoskeleton and the organization of actin filaments and the microtubule network. These effects occur primarily through binding of semaphorins to their receptors, although transmembrane semaphorins also serve as receptors themselves. The best characterized receptors for mediating semaphorin signaling are members of the neuropilin and plexin families of transmembrane proteins. Plexins, in particular, are thought to control many of the functional effects of semaphorins; the molecular mechanisms of semaphorin signaling are still poorly understood, however. Given the importance of semaphorins in a wide range of functions, including neural connectivity, angiogenesis, immunoregulation, and cancer, much remains to be learned about these proteins and their roles in pathology and human disease.
Adult neurogenesis in the hippocampus is under complex genetic control. A recent comparative study of two inbred mouse strains using quantitative trait locus analysis has revealed that cell survival is most highly correlated with neurogenesis and identified candidate genes for further investigation.
Zebrafish is one of several important teleost models for understanding principles of vertebrate developmental, molecular, organismal, genetic, evolutionary, and genomic biology. Efficient investigation of the molecular genetic basis of induced mutations depends on knowledge of the zebrafish genome. Principles of zebrafish genomic analysis, including gene mapping, ortholog identification, conservation of syntenies, genome duplication, and evolution of duplicate gene function are discussed here using as a case study the zebrafish msxa, msxb, msxc, msxd, and msxe genes, which together constitute zebrafish orthologs of tetrapod Msx1, Msx2, and Msx3. Genomic analysis suggests orthologs for this difficult to understand group of paralogs.
The zebra finch (Taeniopygia guttata) is an important model organism for studying behavior, neuroscience, avian biology, and evolution. To support the study of its genome, we constructed a BAC library (TG__Ba) using DNA from livers of females. The BAC library consists of 147,456 clones with 98% containing inserts of an average size of 134 kb and represents 15.5 haploid genome equivalents. By sequencing a whole BAC, a full-length androgen receptor open reading frame was identified, the first in an avian species. Comparison of BAC end sequences and the whole BAC sequence with the chicken genome draft sequence showed a high degree of conserved synteny between the zebra finch and the chicken genome.
Chemokines (chemoattractant cytokines) and their receptors are present in the brain and may play roles in both neurodevelopment and neuropathology. Increased brain levels of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), also known as CCL2, are found in patients with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1)-associated dementia and other acute and chronic neurologic diseases. Although the function of CCL2 in the brain is unclear, it is believed that upregulation of this chemokine during neuropathologic or neuroinflammatory conditions leads to recruitment of activated monocytes into the brain, where they differentiate into macrophages producing neurotoxic and inflammatory molecules. We recently showed that human fetal brain-derived progenitor cells are susceptible to HIV-1 and JC virus infection, and that differentiation toward an astrocyte phenotype increased virus production from these cells. In the current study, we found that in the absence of infection, progenitors produced moderate levels of CCL2 (5.6 ng per million cells). Astrocyte differentiation over 3 weeks increased CCL2 protein levels 30-fold in a biphasic manner, whereas neuronal differentiation decreased production 20-fold. Electromobility shift assays (EMSAs) demonstrated increased nuclear NF-kappaB levels within 2 h of initiating astrocyte differentiation, and inhibitors of NF-kappaB activation partially blocked the CCL2 increase in differentiating astrocytes. Transfection of progenitors with mutated CCL2 promoter/CAT reporter constructs showed that the distal promoter region, containing NF-kappaB and NF-I binding sites, is important for differentiation-induced CCL2 upregulation. Together these results suggest that the transcription factor NF-kappaB, and possibly NF-I, contribute to the upregulation of CCL2 chemokine production during the differentiation of human progenitor cells toward an astrocyte phenotype.
To elucidate the role and pathological dynamics of activated microglia, this study assessed the phagocytic, immunophenotypic, morphological, and migratory properties of activated microglia in the medial forebrain bundle (MFB) axotomized rat brain. Activated microglia were identified using two different monoclonal antibodies: ED1 for phagocytic activity and OX6 for major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II. Phagocytic microglia, characterized by ED1-immunoreactivity or ED1- and OX6-immunoreactivity, appeared in the MFB and substantia nigra (SN) as early as 1-3 days post-lesion (dpl), when there was no apparent loss of SN dopamine (DA) neurons. Thereafter, a great number of activated microglia selectively adhered to degenerating axons, dendrites and DA neuronal somas of the SN. This was followed by significant loss of these fibers and nigral DA neurons. Activation of microglia into phagocytic stage was most pronounced between 14 approximately 28 dpl and gradually subsided, but phagocytic microglia persisted until 70 dpl, the last time point examined. ED1 expression preceded MHC II expression in phagocytic microglia. All phagocytic microglia sticking to DA neurons showed activated but ramified form with enlarged somas and thickened processes. They were recruited to the SNc from cranial, dorsal and ventral aspects along various structures and finally stuck to DA neurons of the SNc. Characteristic rod-shaped microglia in the white matter were thought to migrate a long distance. The present study strongly suggests that neurons undergoing delayed neurodegeneration may be phagocytosed by numerous phagocytic, ramified microglia at various sites where specific surface signals are exposed or diffusible molecules are released.
Radial glial (RG) cells have been demonstrated to be a major neural progenitor cell type, but in the human fetal brain, neither their molecular nor their spatiotemporal characteristics are well known. We used glial and neuronal-specific antibodies to determine the antigen characteristics and distribution of RG cells and other neuronal progenitors in the human brain during the first half of intrauterine development. Proliferating RG (4A4+) cells in the ventricular zone (VZ) showed clear caudorostral and ventrodorsal gradients, spreading from the spinal cord to the ventral rhombencephalon, at embryonic stages (4.5-5.5 gestational weeks [gw]). However, in the same embryo, other dividing cells expressed the neuronal marker SMI-31 and were present throughout the entire CNS, including the rostral prosencephalon. At the beginning of cortical neurogenesis (6 gw), proliferating VZ cells labeled either with neuronal markers (SMI-31, MAP2, beta-III-tubulin), double-labeled 4A4(+)/SMI-31+ cells, or cells not labeled with these antibodies, were in close proximity to each other. At midgestation (17-24 gw), RG divisions were less frequent, but were spread throughout the entire cerebral cortex, including the subventricular and intermediate zones and the subpial granular layer. Several subtypes of RG were co-labeled with vimentin and other glial markers (BLBP, GFAP, or GLAST) and quantified in vitro. In conclusion, the diversity of cortical progenitors in the human brain may, in part, explain the unique complexity of the human cerebral cortex.
Neurotransmission within the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system has remained the central focus of investigation into the molecular, cellular and behavioral properties of psychostimulants for nearly three decades. The primary means by which dopamine transmission in the synapse is terminated is via the dopamine transporter (DAT), the presynaptic plasmalemmal protein that is responsible for the reuptake of released dopamine. Numerous abused as well as clinically important drugs have important pharmacological interactions with DAT. In general, these compounds fall into two categories: those that block dopamine transport (e.g., cocaine, methylphenidate) and those that serve as substrates for transport [e.g., dopamine, amphetamine and 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA or &quot;ecstasy&quot;)]. Recent data from in vitro and in vivo studies have suggested that DAT, like other biogenic amine transporters, share several characteristics with classical ligand-gated ion channels. In addition, substrates for transport promote redistribution of DAT away from the plasma membrane, while transport inhibitors such as cocaine disrupt this process. In addition, presynaptic autoreceptors for dopamine have been implicated in the modulation of DAT surface expression and function. The present chapter summarizes some of the recent discoveries pertaining to the electrogenic properties of DAT and their potential relevance to the effects of amphetamine-like stimulants on DAT function. Although there are a number of intracellular and extracellular modulatory influences on dopamine clearance that may play particular roles in psychostimulant action, we specifically focus on the differential direct modulation of DAT function by transport substrates and inhibitors, and we also discusses the role of presynaptic D2 receptors in transport regulation.


For blind individuals, audition provides critical information for interacting with the environment. Individuals blinded early in life (EB) typically show enhanced auditory abilities relative to sighted controls as measured by tasks requiring complex discrimination, attention and memory. In contrast, few deficits have been reported on tasks involving auditory sensory thresholds (e.g., Yates, J.T., Johnson, R.M., Starz, W.J., 1972. Loudness perception of the blind. Audiology 11(5), 368-376; Starlinger, I., Niemeyer, W., 1981. Do the blind hear better? Investigations on auditory processing in congenital or early acquired blindness. I. Peripheral functions. Audiology 20(6), 503-509). A study of gap detection stands at odds with this distinction [Muchnik, C., Efrati, M., Nemeth, E., Malin, M., Hildesheimer, M., 1991. Central auditory skills in blind and sighted subjects. Scand. Audiol. 20(1), 19-23]. In the current investigation we re-examined gap detection abilities in the EB using a single-interval, yes/no method. A group of younger sighted control individuals (SCy) was included in the analysis in addition to EB and sighted age matched control individuals (SCm) in order to examine the effect of age on gap detection performance. Estimates of gap detection thresholds for EB subjects were nearly identical to SCm subjects and slightly poorer relative to the SCy subjects. These results suggest some limits on the extent of auditory temporal advantages in the EB.
Neural activity often becomes rhythmic during mental processing. But there has been no direct proof that rhythmicity, per se, is important for mental function. We assessed this issue in relation to the contribution of hippocampal theta-frequency rhythmicity to learning in the Morris water maze by blocking theta (and other septal inputs to the hippocampus) and then using electrical stimulation to restore rhythmicity. We injected tetracaine into the medial septal area, and so blocked septal input to the hippocampus in rats throughout 16 consecutive trials in a Morris water maze. Rats with no hippocampal theta also showed no initial learning in the maze. Theta rhythmicity in the supramammillary area remained after septal blockade, and we used this to trigger electrical stimulation of the fornix superior. This substantially restored hippocampal theta-like rhythmicity throughout training at a normal frequency but with abnormal wave forms. This treatment applied throughout training substantially restored initial learning. Fixed frequency (7.7 Hz) stimulation produced rhythmic activity and a brief improvement in learning. Irregular stimulation with an average frequency of 7.7 Hz produced little rhythmicity and little improvement in learning. These results demonstrate that brain rhythmicity, per se, can be important for mental processing even when the detailed information originally carried by neurons is lost and when the reinstated pattern of population firing is not normal. The results suggest that the precise frequency of rhythmicity may be important for hippocampal function. Functional rhythmicity needs, therefore, to be included in neural models of cognitive processing. The success of our procedure also suggests that simple alterations of rhythmicity could be used to ameliorate deficits in learning and memory. (c) 2006 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) in vitro reveals dynamic regulation of synaptic glutamate receptors. AMPA receptors may be inserted into synapses to increase neurotransmission, whereas NMDA receptors may redistribute within the synapse to alter the probability of subsequent plasticity. To date, the only evidence for these receptor dynamics in the hippocampus is from the studies of dissociated neurons and hippocampal slices taken from young animals. Although synaptic plasticity is induced easily, the extent of AMPA and NMDA receptor mobility after LTP is unknown in the adult, intact hippocampus. To test whether AMPA or NMDAR subunits undergo activity-dependent modifications in adult hippocampal synapses, we induced LTP at perforant path-dentate gyrus (DG) synapses in anesthetized adult rats, using high frequency stimulation (HFS), verified layer-specific Arc induction, and analyzed the distribution of postsynaptic AMPA and NMDAR subunits, using immunogold electron microscopy. The number of synapses with AMPA receptor labeling increased with LTP-inducing HFS in the stimulated region of the dendrite relative to the nonstimulated regions. The opposite trend was noted with low frequency stimulation (LFS). Moreover, HFS increased and LFS decreased the ratio of synaptic to extrasynaptic AMPA receptor labeling in the postsynaptic membrane. In contrast, HFS did not significantly alter NMDAR labeling. Thus, LTP in the adult hippocampus in vivo selectively enhanced AMPA but not NMDAR labeling specifically in synapses undergoing activity-dependent plasticity relative to the remainder of the dendritic tree. The results suggest a mechanism by which rapid adjustments in synaptic strength can occur through localized AMPA receptor mobility and that this process may be competitive across the dendritic tree.
We investigated the time course of modulation of synaptic transmission by group II and group III metabotropic glutamate receptors in region CA1 of the hippocampus. In the presence of 50 microM picrotoxin, pressure pulse application of 1 mM glutamate resulted in a fast onset of suppression of synaptic transmission in stratum lacunosum moleculare and a slower onset of suppression in stratum radiatum, with both effects returning to baseline over the course of several minutes. Application of 50 microM of the group II agonist (2R,4R)-APDC in stratum lacunosum moleculare resulted in the same fast onset of suppression while having no effect in stratum radiatum. Pressure pulse application of 100 microM DL-AP4 in stratum lacunosum moleculare and stratum radiatum resulted in a much slower onset of suppression of synaptic transmission than (2R,4R)-APDC. Suppression by (2R,4R)-APDC was accompanied by a rapid enhancement of paired pulse facilitation, indicative of a presynaptic mechanism. This demonstrates that activation of group II mGluRs in the hippocampus causes a fast onset of suppression in stratum lacunosum moleculare, while activation of group III mGluRs causes a slower onset of suppression. The difference in time course for group II vs. group III mGluRs suggests a different functional role, with group II playing a potential role in making synapses act as low pass filters.
It has recently been proposed that activation of the NR2A subunit results in Long-term potentiation (LTP) induction, whereas activation of the NR2B subunit results in long-term depression (LTD) induction. The present study undertakes to replicate these findings in vivo to determine if a role for specific subunits in synaptic plasticity can be shown in the intact brain. Field recordings were made from the CA1 subfield of the hippocampus using Schaffer collateral stimulation in anesthetized male Sprague-Dawley rats. Antagonists of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors NR2A and NR2B subunits were administered by either intraperitoneal (i.p.) or intrahippocampal (i.h.) injections to assess their involvement in LTP (100 Hz stimuli) and LTD (200 Paired-burst stimuli). i.h. injection of Ro25-6981 (100 microM) significantly attenuated hippocampal LTP expression and completely blocked LTD expression. When administered i.p., Ro25-6981 (6 mg/kg) again blocked LTD, but did not significantly diminish the expression of LTP. When NVP-AAM077 was administered i.h. (80 microM) both LTP and LTD were completely abolished. The administration of this compound i.p. (1.2 mg/kg) also significantly attenuated LTP, but did not affect LTD. These data suggest that both NR2A and NR2B subunits can play roles in LTP and LTD in the hippocampus in vivo.
Licensed London taxi drivers show that humans have a remarkable capacity to acquire and use knowledge of a large complex city to navigate within it. Gray matter volume differences in the hippocampus relative to controls have been reported to accompany this expertise. While these gray matter differences could result from using and updating spatial representations, they might instead be influenced by factors such as self-motion, driving experience, and stress. We examined the contribution of these factors by comparing London taxi drivers with London bus drivers, who were matched for driving experience and levels of stress, but differed in that they follow a constrained set of routes. We found that compared with bus drivers, taxi drivers had greater gray matter volume in mid-posterior hippocampi and less volume in anterior hippocampi. Furthermore, years of navigation experience correlated with hippocampal gray matter volume only in taxi drivers, with right posterior gray matter volume increasing and anterior volume decreasing with more navigation experience. This suggests that spatial knowledge, and not stress, driving, or self-motion, is associated with the pattern of hippocampal gray matter volume in taxi drivers. We then tested for functional differences between the groups and found that the ability to acquire new visuo-spatial information was worse in taxi drivers than in bus drivers. We speculate that a complex spatial representation, which facilitates expert navigation and is associated with greater posterior hippocampal gray matter volume, might come at a cost to new spatial memories and gray matter volume in the anterior hippocampus.
The subiculum has long been considered as a simple bidirectional relay region interposed between the hippocampus and the temporal cortex. Recent evidence, however, suggests that this region has specific roles in the cognitive functions and pathological deficits of the hippocampal formation. A group of 20 researchers participated in an ESF-sponsored meeting in Oxford in September, 2005 focusing on the neurobiology of the subiculum. Each brought a distinct expertise and approach to the anatomy, physiology, psychology, and pathologies of the subiculum. Here, we review the recent findings that were presented at the meeting.
Hippocampal atrophy and neuron loss are early and reproducible findings in Alzheimer's disease, and recent magnetic resonance imaging studies indicate that hippocampal atrophy may also be present in Parkinson's disease (PD). To determine whether or not cell loss occurs in PD, we estimated the total neuron and glial cell numbers as well as the total volume unilaterally in the hippocampi of eight demented PD patients and eight control subjects. Cell numbers were estimated in the neuron-containing layers of CA1, CA2-(3), CA4, the dentate gyrus, and subiculum using the optical-fractionator technique. The Cavalieri method was used to estimate the volume of the total hippocampus and its subregions. We did not find significant differences in cell numbers or volumes in PD brains when compared with control subjects. Our results thus indicate that hippocampal atrophy and cell loss are not necessarily involved in the memory impairment and dementia observed in PD.
In humans, the hippocampus is essential for storing episodic memories. These event memories require the rapid storage of novel associations, but little is known about the cellular correlates of such rapid plasticity. We studied patterns of activity and plasticity in the CA1 region of the hippocampus and in anatomically adjacent cortical regions as rats explored a novel arm of a maze to identify the neural correlates of hippocampally dependent memory formation. We found that hippocampal place fields exhibited three phenomena that may have direct relevance to the encoding of episodic memories: (1) very rapid plasticity upon exposure to the new environment, (2) instability in representations formed after short periods of exploration, and (3) a dissociation between the stability of a hippocampal representation and the apparent familiarity of a location. In contrast, cortical regions showed less dramatic changes. Taken together, these findings suggest that hippocampal activity undergoes a period of rapid reorganization during the encoding of novel information, and that even after this reorganization is complete, areas outside the hippocampus have not yet formed stable memories.
Hippocampal place cells respond heterogeneously to elemental changes of a compound spatial context, suggesting that they form a distributed code of context, whereby context information is shared across a population of neurons. The question arises as to what this distributed code might be useful for. The present study explored two possibilities: one, that it allows contexts with common elements to be disambiguated, and the other, that it allows a given context to be associated with more than one outcome. We used two naturalistic measures of context processing in rats, rearing and thigmotaxis (boundary-hugging), to explore how rats responded to contextual novelty and to relate this to the behavior of place cells. In experiment 1, rats showed dishabituation of rearing to a novel reconfiguration of familiar context elements, suggesting that they perceived the reconfiguration as novel, a behavior that parallels that of place cells in a similar situation. In experiment 2, rats were trained in a place preference task on an open-field arena. A change in the arena context triggered renewed thigmotaxis, and yet navigation continued unimpaired, indicating simultaneous representation of both the altered contextual and constant spatial cues. Place cells similarly exhibited a dual population of responses, consistent with the hypothesis that their activity underlies spatial behavior. Together, these experiments suggest that heterogeneous context encoding (or &quot;partial remapping&quot;) by place cells may function to allow the flexible assignment of associations to contexts, a faculty that could be useful in episodic memory encoding.
Neuronal mechanisms of episodic memory, the conscious recollection of autobiographical events, are largely unknown because electrophysiological studies in humans are conducted only in exceptional circumstances. Unit recording studies in animals are thus crucial for understanding the neurophysiological substrate that enables people to remember their individual past. Two features of episodic memory--autonoetic consciousness, the self-aware ability to &quot;travel through time&quot;, and one-trial learning, the acquisition of information in one occurrence of the event--raise important questions about the validity of animal models and the ability of unit recording studies to capture essential aspects of memory for episodes. We argue that autonoetic experience is a feature of human consciousness rather than an obligatory aspect of memory for episodes, and that episodic memory is reconstructive and thus its key features can be modeled in animal behavioral tasks that do not involve either autonoetic consciousness or one-trial learning. We propose that the most powerful strategy for investigating neurophysiological mechanisms of episodic memory entails recording unit activity in brain areas homologous to those required for episodic memory in humans (e.g., hippocampus and prefrontal cortex) as animals perform tasks with explicitly defined episodic-like aspects. Within this framework, empirical data suggest that the basic structure of episodic memory is a temporally extended representation that distinguishes the beginning from the end of an event. Future research is needed to fully understand how neural encodings of context, sequences of items/events, and goals are integrated within mnemonic representations of autobiographical events.
Neuropsychologists have clearly implicated the hippocampus in the consolidation of memory, particularly episodic memory, the mental replay of past experiences. When recorded from behaving animals, by far the most obvious firing pattern of the primary neurons of the hippocampus is the place field: a cell tends to fire only when the animal's head is in a particular part of its environment. It seems reasonable to suspect that the primary firing correlate of the primary neurons of a structure should underlie the primary function of that structure as revealed by behavioral lesion experiments. However, we are currently still at a loss to explain how the firing of hippocampal neurons contributes to hippocampal function. This review seeks to examine the commonalities between place cells and episodic memory, and posits that an analogy can be made between the stabilization of place fields and the consolidation of memory.
In the current study, rats implanted with hippocampal recording electrodes were trained to avoid shock in a jump avoidance task, using three separate heights, 28, 33, and 38 cm. The objectives were to measure the progression of Type 2 (immobility-related) hippocampal theta amplitude and frequency recorded during jump avoidances at each of the levels, and determine if there was a consistent relationship between the phase of the Type 1 (movement related) theta jump wave and the moment of movement initiation at each of the jump heights. The results demonstrated that the immobility period prior to the execution of the jump could be divided into two components: a sensory processing period and a movement preparation period. Comparing these two periods, average amplitudes were higher while frequency remained relatively constant during the sensory processing period. During the movement preparation period there was a negative correlation between amplitude and frequency: amplitude declined rapidly and frequency increased rapidly. During the execution of the jump, theta amplitude (Type 1) and frequency were positively correlated, both reaching peak values. The separate analyses of the individual jump heights provided further support for the precise relationships between theta parameters and the magnitude of the required movements. A significant phase preference was demonstrated for the highest jump height, with movement initiation occurring around the trough of theta recorded from the stratum moleculare of the dentate region. The findings supported the conclusion that the generation of hippocampal theta band oscillation and synchrony was related to sensorimotor processing and integration.
In the human neocortex, progressive synaptogenesis in early postnatal life is followed by a decline in synaptic density, then stability from adolescence until middle age. No comparable data are available in the hippocampus. In this study, the integral synaptic vesicle protein synaptophysin, measured immunoautoradiographically, was used as an index of synaptic terminal abundance in the hippocampal formation of 37 subjects from 5 weeks to 86 yr old, divided into 4 age groups (10 infants, 15 adolescents/young adults, 6 adults, and 6 elderly). In all hippocampal subfields, synaptophysin was lowest in infancy, but did not differ significantly between the older age groups, except in dentate gyrus (DG) where the rise was delayed until adulthood. A similar developmental profile was found in the rat hippocampus. We also measured synaptophysin mRNA in the human subjects and found no age-related changes, except in parahippocampal gyrus wherein the mRNA declined from infancy to adolescence, and again in old age. The synaptophysin protein data demonstrate a significant presynaptic component to human postnatal hippocampal development. In so far as synaptophysin abundance reflects synaptic density, the findings support an increase in hippocampal and parahippocampal synapse formation during early childhood, but provide no evidence for adolescent synaptic pruning. The mRNA data indicate that the maturational increases in synaptophysin protein are either translational rather than transcriptional in origin, or else are secondary to mRNA increases in neurons, the cell bodies of which lie outside the hippocampal formation.
The present study describes the spatial firing properties of neurons in the lateral septum (LS). LS neuronal activity was recorded in rats as they performed a spatial navigation task in an open field. In this task, the rat acquired an intracranial self-stimulation reward when it entered a certain place, a location that varied randomly from trial to trial. Of 193 neurons recorded in the LS, 81 showed place-related activity. The majority of the tested neurons changed place-related activity when spatial relations between environmental cues were altered by rotating intrafield (proximal) cues. The comparison of place activities between LS place-related neurons recorded in the present study and hippocampal place cells recorded in our previous study, using identical behavioral and recording procedures, revealed that spatial parameters (spatial information content, coherence, and cluster size) were smaller in the LS than in the hippocampus. Of the 193 LS neurons, 86 were influenced by intracranial self-stimulation rewards; 31 of these 86 were also place-related. These results, together with previous anatomical and behavioral observations, suggest that the spatial information sent from the hippocampus to the LS is modulated by and interacts with signals related to reward in the LS.
The hippocampus receives an extensive cholinergic input from the medial septal nucleus that ramifies throughout all layers and plays a pivotal modulatory role in cognitive function. Although the pharmacological effects of exogenous application of cholinergic agonists have been extensively studied in hippocampal neurons, much less is known about the effects of synaptically released acetylcholine (ACh). In this respect, most studies have focused on the cholinergic afferent input to pyramidal neurons that produces a characteristically slow depolarizing synaptic response mediated by activation of muscarinic ACh receptors (mAChRs). Here we report that cholinergic afferent stimulation also elicits atropine-sensitive synaptic potentials in hippocampal CA1 interneurons but, in contrast to synaptic responses in pyramidal neurons, these are highly diverse in waveform, although can still be classified into five distinct subtypes. The most common response type (i) 64% of cells) consisted of a slow sustained membrane potential depolarization. The other 36% of responses could be subdivided into responses comprising of (ii) a biphasic membrane potential change in which an initial slow hyperpolarization subsequently transforms into a slow depolarization (20%), (iii) a pure, slow hyperpolarization (13%), and (iv) an oscillatory response persisting for several seconds (2%). Interestingly, there were also interneurons totally insensitive to both synaptic and pharmacological cholinergic challenge. Morphological investigation of recorded cells revealed no obvious correlation between responsiveness to cholinergic afferent stimulation and dendritic and axonal arborization. The current study suggests that synaptic release of ACh results in a complex and differential mAChR-mediated modulation of cellular excitability within the hippocampal interneuron population.
Environmental enrichment (EE) and voluntary exercise (VEx) have consistently been shown to increase adult hippocampal neurogenesis and improve spatial learning ability. Although it appears that these two manipulations are equivalent in this regard, evidence exists that EE and VEx affect different phases of the neurogenic process in distinct ways. We review the data suggesting that EE increases the likelihood of survival of new cells, whereas VEx increases the level of proliferation of progenitor cells. We then outline the factors that may mediate these relationships. Finally, we provide a model showing that VEx leads to the convergence of key somatic and cerebral factors in the dentate gyrus (DG) to induce cell proliferation. Although insufficient evidence exists to provide a similar model for EE, we suggest that EE-induced cell survival in the DG involves cortical restructuring as a means of promoting survival. We conclude that EE and VEx lead to an increase in overall hippocampal neurogenesis via dissociable pathways, and should therefore, be considered distinct interventions with regard to hippocampal plasticity and associated behaviors.
The present experiment examined the role of the hippocampal formation (HPC) in long-term memory of an association between an object and a fear-eliciting event. Rats either received sham or neurotoxic lesions of the HPC 1 or 14 days after learning that contacting a wire-wrapped probe (i.e., object) elicits a shock. After recovery from the surgery, rats were re-exposed to the wire-wrapped probe and burying and avoidance of the probe were assessed and used as memory and fear indices. Regardless of the learning-to-surgery interval, the rats with hippocampal lesions buried and avoided the probe significantly less than sham rats and no more than rats that never experienced shock from the probe. These findings suggest that the lesions caused severe retrograde amnesia and that the HPC has a long-lasting role in memory of a discrete stimulus associated with a fear-eliciting event.
Gonadal hormones modulate neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus (DG) of adult rodents in complex ways. Estradiol, the most potent estrogen, initially enhances and subsequently suppresses cell proliferation in the dentate gryus of adult female rodents. Much less is known about how estradiol modulates neurogenesis in the adult male rodent; however, recent evidence suggests that estradiol may have a moderate effect on cell proliferation but enhances cell survival in the DG of newly synthesized cells but only when estradiol is administered during a specific stage in the cell maturation cycle in the adult male rodent. Testosterone likely plays a role in adult neurogenesis, although there have been no direct studies to address this. However, pilot studies from our laboratory suggest that testosterone up-regulates cell survival but not cell proliferation in the DG of adult male rats. Progesterone appears to attenuate the estradiol-induced enhancement of cell proliferation. Neurosteroids such as allopregnalone decrease neurogenesis in adult rodents, while pregnancy and motherhood differentially regulate adult neurogenesis in the adult female rodent. Very few studies have investigated the effects of gonadal hormones on male rodents; however, studies have indicated that there is a gender difference in the response to hormone-regulated hippocampal neurogenesis in the adult. Clearly, more work needs to be done to elucidate the effects of gonadal hormones on neurogenesis in the DG of both male and female rodents.
Recent studies have shown that the integrity of the entorhinal cortex (EC) is not required for simple contextual conditioning. In background contextual conditioning, i.e., when a phasic cue is present during training, the involvement of the EC is still a matter of debate. Therefore, the present work further examines whether the EC is required for background contextual conditioning using a tone as the phasic cue. Rats sustaining either excitotoxic lesions of the EC or sham-lesions were trained with one of two procedures differing with respect to the predictive value of the tone: a paired procedure in which the tone perfectly predicts shock occurrence and overshadows context, and an unpaired procedure in which the predictive value of the tone is reduced. Conditioned fear was assessed by freezing responses during conditioning, reexposure to the training context, and reexposure to the tone in a new context. Postshock freezing was reduced in rats with entorhinal lesions. In all rats trained with the paired procedure, freezing to the context was low and freezing to the tone was high, suggesting that the tone has overshadowed the context during the conditioning session. The reverse pattern was observed with the unpaired procedure in sham-operated rats. In rats with entorhinal lesions trained with the unpaired procedure, freezing responses to the context was markedly reduced. In a new context, however, entorhinal-lesioned rats showed higher freezing scores than those of sham-lesioned rats. Freezing to the tone was unaffected by the lesion irrespective of the tone's predictive value. As a whole, these results support the notion that the EC is required for normal background contextual freezing.
Rats implanted with hippocampal recording electrodes were tested in a wheel-running apparatus under three conditions: (1) independent electrical stimulation of the medial septal nucleus (MS); (2) independent electrical stimulation of the posterior hypothalamic nucleus (PH); and (3) combined electrical stimulation of the MS and PH using pairings of two stimulation conditions, 7 or 10 Hz stimulation of the MS, and a low- or high-intensity PH stimulation. Quantitative measures of running speed were taken, and hippocampal recordings were subjected to fast-Fourier transform analysis. Electrical stimulation of the PH induced wheel-running behavior; running speed and the accompanying hippocampus (HPC) theta frequency increased with increase in stimulation intensity. Electrical stimulation of the MS failed to induce wheel-running behavior despite the fact that HPC theta was induced at the frequency of the applied stimulation (7 and 10 Hz). Electrical stimulation of the MS reset the frequency of HPC theta induced by PH stimulation in both the upward and downward directions and increased theta power, while wheel-running speed was modulated in a downward direction only.
Independent and combined electrical stimulation pairings of the medial septum (MS), posterior hypothalamus (PH), and reticular pontine oralis (RPO) of the brainstem were performed in the acute urethane anesthetized rat, while recording field activity from electrodes in either the stratum oriens or stratum moleculare of the hippocampal formation. Theta frequency and power were measured during independent stimulation of each nuclei and during combined stimulation using three pairings: (1) MS-PH (2) MS-RPO and (3) PH-RPO. Each pairing consisted of parameters known to elicit theta of a high frequency for one nucleus, and parameters known to elicit a low frequency for the second nucleus. This methodology allowed us to observe whether one nucleus preferentially modulated theta activity in the hippocampus in terms of frequency and power. The MS was observed to reset theta frequency in both the upward and downward direction when stimulated in combination with either the PH (Experiment 1) or the RPO (Experiment 2). In Experiment 3 (PH-RPO), the structure receiving the higher intensity stimulation had the predominate effect on theta frequency. With MS stimulation combinations, the power of the elicited theta activity was found to increase over the independent stimulation in some cases during Experiment 1. Likewise, in Experiment 2, the combined stimulation produced a power that in most cases was significantly greater than that measured during the independent stimulations. This effect was not observed with PH and RPO stimulation combinations. The combined stimulation of the PH and RPO yielded a power similar to the independent PH stimulations. The findings support the following conclusions: (1) the major theta generating activity of the ascending brainstem synchronizing pathways involves projections from the RPO to the PH, relayed through the MS, to the hippocampal formation; and (2) that the MS directly controls theta amplitude and secondarily translates the level of ascending brainstem activity into the appropriate frequency of hippocampal theta.
Fetal growth retardation appears to be associated with an increased risk of premature adrenarche, early puberty, polycystic ovary syndrome and associated fertility problems. In a rat model of intrauterine growth retardation, based on ligation of the uterine arteries, the onset of puberty was delayed in female pups, with anovulation during the first cycle. The ovaries showed a lower number of follicles. The onset of puberty was also delayed in male pups. Testosterone production was lower in these growth-retarded rats compared with controls. The relationship between birth weight and the onset of puberty and pubertal progression in different cohorts of healthy children has been examined. In girls, no differences were observed in timing and progression of puberty, including age of menarche, between groups of different birth weights. In boys, a relatively delayed onset of puberty was observed in those with low birth weight, with a normally timed progression. In children with low birth weight, particularly boys, higher dehydroepiandrosterone levels were found compared with children with a normal birth weight, indicating an overactive adrenal gland in children with low birth weight. These data indicate that impaired fetal growth may have long-lasting effects on pubertal development. The fact that results of human studies on the relationship between fetal growth and the onset of puberty are often controversial may be explained by the heterogeneity of children born small for gestational age with respect to the intrauterine insult that they experience. From rat studies, it is clear that a serious intrauterine insult associated with growth failure can lead to dysregulation of puberty and gonadal function.
The management of disorders of the nervous system remains a medical challenge. The key goals are to understand disease mechanisms, to validate therapeutic targets, and to develop new therapeutic strategies. Viral vector-mediated gene transfer can meet these goals and vectors based on lentiviruses have particularly useful features. Lentiviral vectors can deliver 8 kb of sequence, they mediate gene transfer into any neuronal cell type, expression and therapy are sustained, and normal cellular functions in vitro and in vivo are not compromised. After delivery into the nervous system they induce no significant immune responses, there are no unwanted side effects of the vectors per se to date, and manufacturing and safety testing for clinical applications are well advanced. There are now numerous examples of effective long-term treatment of animal models of neurological disorders, such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's disease, motor neuron diseases, lysosomal storage diseases, and spinal injury, using a range of therapeutic genes expressed in lentiviral vectors. Significant issues remain in some areas of neural gene therapy including defining the optimum therapeutic gene(s), increasing the specificity of delivery, regulating expression of potentially toxic genes, and designing clinically relevant strategies. We discuss the applications of lentiviral vectors in therapy and research and highlight the essential features that will ensure their translation to the clinic in the near future.
Respiration, a fundamental process in mammalian cells, requires two genomes, those of the nucleus and the mitochondrion (mtDNA). Mutations of mtDNA are being increasingly recognized in disease and may play an important role in the ageing process. Accepting the vital role of mtDNA gene products, our limited knowledge concerning the details of mitochondrial gene expression is surprising. This is, in part, due to our inability to transfect mitochondria and to manipulate their genome. There have been claims of successful DNA import into isolated organelles, but most reports lacked evidence of expression and no method has furthered our understanding of gene expression. Here, we report that mammalian mitochondria possess a natural competence for DNA import. Using five functional assays, we show imported DNA can act as templates for DNA synthesis or promoter-driven transcription, with the resultant polycistronic RNA being processed (5' and 3') and excised mt-tRNA matured. Exploiting this natural competence will allow us to explore mitochondrial gene expression in organello and provides the potential for mitochondrial transfection in vivo.
The loudness dependence of the auditory evoked potential (LDAEP) has been suggested as a reliable measure of central serotonin function in humans. The most convincing evidence for a direct relationship between serotonergic function and LDAEP to date has come from animal studies, while evidence in humans has been circumstantial and inconsistent. In the current study, we examine the direct effect of serotonergic modulation with the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) citalopram on the LDAEP. The study was a double-blind placebo controlled design in which healthy participants were tested under two acute treatment conditions: placebo and citalopram (20 mg). Enhancement of serotonin function with citalopram in comparison to placebo decreased the slope of the LDAEP (i.e. weaker LDAEP). The findings provide direct evidence in humans, of a relationship between central serotonin function and the LDAEP, supporting findings previously observed in animals and clinical populations. Together the results provide further support for the validity of the LDAEP as a non-invasive in vivo measure of central serotonin function in humans.
We investigate heart rate variability (HRV) in the very low-frequency (VLF) range (0.003-0.04 Hz) during deep sleep in good sleepers. Spectral analysis of HRV during deep sleep reveals consistent peaks at &lt;0.04 Hz. By using wavelet analysis, we find both stationary and nonstationary periodic patterns in the VLF range, the presence of which has been discussed but has not been fully established to date. Although the mechanism(s) behind the unique VLF oscillations remain to be fully explored, we conjecture that there is an endogenous rhythmic component in human HRV in the VLF range. Further, our results also suggest a need for caution in the interpretation of the VLF spectral power in HRV during deep sleep.
Heartbeats are a point process yet, most of the current analysis methods do not model this important characteristic of these data. We describe human heartbeat time series as a history dependent inverse Gaussian model. We present a point process adaptive filter algorithm to estimate the model's time-varying parameters, and use it to compute new measures of heart rate variability. We apply our algorithm to analyze simulated heartbeat data and actual heartbeat data from a tilt table experiment and from healthy subjects and subjects with congestive heart failure during sleep. Our results suggest a new approach for characterizing heartbeat dynamics.
The chimpanzee is the only representative of the Great Apes that is extensively involved in biomedical research in primate laboratories. These apes are used as animal models in a variety of studies, including research on infectious disease, parasitic disease, pharmacokinetic studies, neuroscience, cognition, and behavior. Chimpanzees used in biomedical research in the United States reside largely in six specialized research and holding facilities, and most of the research with them is conducted at these sites. Given the relatively small population of chimpanzees and its importance to biomedical research, it is imperative that we carefully manage the care, production, and use of these animals in biomedical research studies. Selection criteria and preparation techniques are reviewed in this article in an effort to begin a discussion on best practices for choosing and handling chimpanzees participating in biomedical research. The use of routine health assessment information is described for subject selection, as are behavioral issues to be considered. Due to the relatively small number of chimpanzees available, issues related to experimental design and multiple uses of chimpanzees are discussed. Practices related to the transportation and acclimation of chimpanzees are described. Finally, behavioral conditioning procedures are discussed, including habituation, desensitization, and positive reinforcement training that have been applied to reduce animal distress and improve the quality of the science being conducted with chimpanzee subjects.
New technologies in molecular genetics have dramatically increased the number of targeted gene mutations available to the biomedical research community. Many mutant mouse lines have been generated to provide animal models for human genetic disorders, offering insights into anatomical, neurochemical, and behavioral effects of aberrant gene expression. A variety of assays have been developed to identify and characterize phenotypic changes. In the behavioral domain, our phenotyping strategy involves a comprehensive standardized methodological approach that assesses general health, reflexes, sensory abilities, and motor functions. This assessment is followed by a series of complementary tasks in the specific behavioral domain(s) hypothesized to reveal the function(s) of the gene. Our multitiered approach minimizes intersubject variability by standardizing the experimental history for all animals, improves interlaboratory reliability by providing a clearly defined experimental protocol, and minimizes artifactual interpretations of behavioral data by careful preliminary assessments of basic behaviors, followed by multiple tests within the behavioral domain of interest. Despite meticulous attention to experimental protocol, attention to environmental factors is essential. Differences in noise, light, home cage environment, handling, and diet can dramatically alter behavior. Baseline differences in the behaviors of inbred strains used to generate targeted mutant mouse lines can directly influence the behavioral phenotype of the mutant line. Strategies aimed at minimizing environmental variability and contributions of background genes will enhance the robustness of mouse behavioral phenotyping assays.


Teens and young adults with insecure attachment may be remarkably susceptible to alcohol and substance use disorders. Particularly in the separation process of leaving-home and entering college, an underlying insecure attachment may manifest through symptoms of alcohol or drug abuse; as these young adults engage in what is perceived to be adult drinking behavior, they become too &quot;attached&quot; to the alcohol as a substitute for earlier, sporadically-available objects (usually parents). That is, they enact a similar relationship to this drug that they may have learned to have with an insecure parent: too close at times, but ultimately fostering guilt, dependence and destructive action. Fear of abandonment, rejection and negative judgment may be intensified in this age group as they struggle at the cusp of independence, but these issues are particularly relevant for insecurely attached teens. In this report, attachment theory is briefly described and applied to the assessment and treatment of a college freshman diagnosed with an alcohol use disorder. By engaging the patient in evaluating her actions and motives through the attachment model, the therapy helps her to channel help-seeking behavior appropriately, to establish expectations for consistency and reliability from significant people in her life and to feel safer without turning to alcohol as a crutch. An argument is made for the general application of attachment theory to alcohol and drug use disorders in this significant phase of young adult development.
Borderline Personality Disorder (BPD) is a severe and disabling psychiatric condition that typically emerges in late adolescence or early adulthood. Nearly 50% of individuals with BPD have a co-occurring Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD) at some point in the course of their illness. This study explores clinical characteristics of adolescents and young adults (age 30 years and younger) with BPD and AUD (N=21) compared to BPD without any history of substance use disorders (N=17). Based on theoretical considerations and previous findings, we hypothesized that adolescents and young adults with BPD and AUDs would be more impulsive and exhibit higher rates of suicidal behavior than individuals with BPD and no substance use disorders. Consistent with our first hypothesis, the BPD/AUD group was more impulsive than the BPD only group. However, the two groups did not differ on measures of suicidal behavior. Overall, impulsivity was correlated with total number of suicide attempts in the adolescent/young adult group. When older BPD participants were included in the comparison (up to age 55), the BPD/AUD group exhibited more lifetime suicide attempts that were higher in medical lethality than the BPD only group, suggesting an overall increased lifetime suicide risk in the BPD/AUD group. The relationship between impulsivity, AUD, and suicidal behavior and lifetime suicide risk in adolescent and young adults with BPD is discussed.
The key neuroendocrine component of a response to stress is the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) system. Abnormalities in the HPA system have been implicated in the pathophysiology of psychiatric disorders such as depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, alcoholism and suicide. The dexamethasone suppression test (DST) is the most frequently used test to assess HPA-system function in psychiatric disorders. This neuroendocrine test consists of the administration of a low dose of dexamethasone at 11 pm and the measurement of cortisol levels at one or more time points on the following day. After corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) became available for clinical studies, the DST was combined with CRH administration. In this test, patients are pretreated with a single dose of dexamethasone at 11 pm and receive human CRH intravenously at 3 pm the following day. The resulting DST-CRH test proved to be much more sensitive in detecting HPA system alterations than the DST. We have modified the DST-CRH test and used ovine CRH instead of human CRH in a pilot study of a group of young healthy volunteers. Results indicated that it produces results similar to the results obtained with human CRH. This suggests that ovine CRH can be used in psychiatric research. Alcoholism is associated with abnormalities in HPA function. Nonalcoholic subjects with a family history of alcoholism exhibit lower plasma ACTH and beta-endorphin as well as lower ACTH, cortisol, and beta-endorphin responses to psychological stress and CRH stimulation. This suggests that in children of alcoholics, alterations in the mechanisms that regulate HPA axis activity predate the development of alcohol dependence and may be considered inherited traits. Therefore, studies of the HPA system in persons at risk for alcoholism may help understand the neurobiological mechanisms of predisposition to alcoholism.

Eating disorders, in particular bulimia nervosa and binge eating disorder are associated with co-morbid alcohol and drug abuse. School-based studies have shown significant associations between bulimic behaviors and various measures of alcohol, cigarette and other drug use and abuse. Amongst bulimic adolescents, substance use is related to an increased likeliness of high risk behaviors such as attempted suicide, stealing and sexual intercourse. In contrast with bulimics and binge eaters, restricting anorexics have low rates of co-morbid substance abuse. It appears that restricting anorexics, binge eaters and bulimics represent distinct subgroups within the eating disordered population and binge eaters and bulimics are more prone to alcohol use. It is possible that individuals with eating disorders turn to alcohol use/abuse as a way of coping with the problems caused by their eating disorder. Researchers have proposed that an addictive personality is an underlying trait, which predisposes individuals to both eating disorders and alcohol abuse. Eating disorders are often conceptualized as an addictive disorder. Opioid antagonists, such as naltrexone, may be useful in treating both eating and alcohol use disorders. There is also evidence that serotonin reuptake inhibitors, which are traditionally used to treat major depression, may be an effective treatment. Cognitive-behavioral therapy has been effective in treating alcohol use and eating disorders individually and may be an effective combined treatment for co-morbid eating disorders and alcohol use. Teaching healthy ways to cope with the stressful situations may also help decrease alcohol use and disordered eating behaviors.
Adolescence is a unique time period in an individual's life, one in which suicide and substance abuse become substantial health risks. Currently, suicide accounts for approximately 14% of all deaths among 15-24 year olds in the U.S.A. Drug, alcohol abuse and dependence are the most prevalent causes of adolescent morbidity and mortality in the USA. Numerous studies have demonstrated the link between adolescent alcohol, substance abuse and suicide. When compared to community controls, the rate of a substance abuse disorder was 8.5 times higher in a sample of adolescent suicide completers and the rate of alcohol abuse was 7.5 times higher. Genetic and biological variables may also be responsible for either alcohol and substance abuse or suicide or both alcohol and substance abuse and suicide. There is little empirical research evaluating the effectiveness of alcohol and substance abuse treatments for adolescents. Therapies such as multisystemic therapy, functional family therapy, motivational interviewing, community reinforcement, the 12-step approach and contingency management reinforcement seem to be effective treatments. Despite the strong association between adolescent alcohol and substance use and suicidal behaviors, few studies have investigated the combined treatment of these two issues. Cognitive behavioral therapy, particularly dialectical behavior therapy, seems to be a promising psychotherapy treatment for suicidality in alcohol and substance abusing adolescents. Further research is needed to determine the efficacy of various treatments of alcohol and substance abusing adolescents with suicidal behavior.
Alcohol use disorders (defined as alcohol abuse or dependence) are prevalent and serious problems among adolescents and young adults. Adolescence is a time of trying new experiences and activities that emphasize socializing with peers, and conforming to peer-group standards. These new activities may place young people at particular risk for initiating and continuing alcohol consumption. Exposing the brain to alcohol during adolescence may interrupt key processes of brain development, leading to cognitive impairment as well as to further escalation of alcohol use. Alcohol-induced adolescent learning impairments could affect academic and occupational achievements. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is a relatively new imaging technique that allows studying neurocognitive function. fMRI aims to determine the neurobiological correlate of behavior by identifying the brain regions that become active during the performance of specific tasks in vivo. The technique is non-invasive and relatively safe. This allows repeated studies to be carried out within a given subject. Several fMRI studies have been performed to evaluate neurocognitive function in adolescents and young adults with alcohol use disorders. Adolescents and young adults with alcohol use disorders had abnormalities in brain response to a working memory task. The results of the studies of cue reactivity and craving responses in young people suggest that the elevated physiological response and altered cognitive reactions to alcohol are involved in the pathogenesis of alcohol dependence in adolescents and young adults. Future fMRI studies may help ascertain the adverse affects of alcohol on brain function during early neurodevelopmental stages. fMRI may be uniquely powerful in the delineation of the underlying pathophysiology of alcohol use disorders in adolescents and young adults.
Humans use several cues to determine the position of sound sources in space. Here we provide a review of the literature on how practice influences sound-localization performance in human adults. We divided this literature into two categories: adaptation to alterations in sound-localization cues and learning with normal, unaltered cues. For altered cues, partial adaptation has been reported with a variety of cue transformations, except in the extreme case in which the cues were reversed between the two ears. For normal cues, improvement has been observed in some but not all experiments, though the most recent data generally show learning. Thus, the reviewed data indicated that human adults can recalibrate, as well as refine the use of, sound-localization cues, and that training regimens can be developed to enhance sound-localization performance in individuals with normal and impaired localization abilities.
Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids have been suggested to play an important role in cancer prevention/progression, on the one hand, and in modulation of membrane ion channels on the other. We investigated whether docosahexaenoic acid would influence the in vitro migration of MDA-MB-231 human breast cancer cells. An important follow-up question was whether any effect would involve voltage-gated Na(+) channels, shown previously to occur in human breast cancer in vitro and in vivo and to correlate with metastatic potential. Short-term (acute) and long-term (24-72 h) application of docosahexaenoic acid suppressed the activity of the channel activity in a dose-dependent manner. At the working concentrations of docosahexaenoic acid used (0.05-0.5 microM), there was no effect on proliferation. Long-term treatment with docosahexaenoic acid down-regulated mRNA and protein (total and plasma membrane) levels of neonatal Nav1.5 voltage-gated Na(+) channel, known to be predominant in these cells. Docosahexaenoic acid suppressed migration of the MDA-MB-231 cells to the same extent as tetrodotoxin, a highly specific blocker of voltage-gated Na(+) channels, but the two effects were not additive. It was concluded that the docosahexaenoic acid-induced suppression of cellular migration occurred primarily via down-regulation of voltage-gated Na(+) channel (neonatal Nav1.5) mRNA and functional protein expression.
Prostate is a unique organ that produces and releases large amounts of citrate. This is reduced significantly in cancer and it is possible that citrate is (re)taken up and used as a metabolite to enhance cellular activity. The main purpose of this study was to determine how cytosolic citrate might affect in vitro metastatic cell behaviours (lateral motility, endocytosis and adhesion). Normal (PNT2-C2) and metastatic (PC-3M) human prostate cancer cells were used in a comparative approach. As regards intermediary metabolic enzymes, aconitase and fatty acid synthase, already implicated in prostate cancer, were evaluated. The level of intracellular citrate was significantly higher in PNT2-C2 cells under both control conditions and following preincubation in extracellular citrate. Supply of exogenous citrate enhanced endocytosis, lateral motility, decreased cell adhesion of PC-3M cells but failed to produce any effect on normal cells. Real-time PCR measurements showed that the mRNA levels of mitochondrial and cytosolic aconitases and fatty acid synthase were significantly higher in PC-3M cells. Correspondingly, aconitase activity was also higher in PC-3M cells. Using cerulenin (an inhibitor of fatty acid synthase), oxalomalate and fluorocitrate (inhibiting aconitases), we investigated the dependence of citrate-induced down-regulation of cellular adhesion on aconitase and fatty acid synthase activities. It was concluded: (1) that strongly metastatic PC-3M cells stored less/utilised more cytosolic citrate than the normal PNT2-C2 cells and (2) that cancer cells could metabolise cytoplasmic citrate via aconitase and fatty acid synthase to enhance their metastatic behaviour.
In brain mapping studies of sensory, cognitive, and motor operations, specific waveforms of dynamic neural activity are predicted based on theoretical models of human information processing. For example in event-related functional MRI (fMRI), the general linear model (GLM) is employed in mass-univariate analyses to identify the regions whose dynamic activity closely matches the expected waveforms. By comparison multivariate analyses based on PCA or ICA provide greater flexibility in detecting spatiotemporal properties of experimental data that may strongly support alternative neuroscientific explanations. We investigated conjoint multivariate and mass-univariate analyses that combine the capabilities to (1) verify activation of neural machinery we already understand and (2) discover reliable signatures of new neural machinery. We examined combinations of GLM and PCA that recover latent neural signals (waveforms and footprints) with greater accuracy than either method alone. Comparative results are illustrated with analyses of real fMRI data, adding to Monte Carlo simulation support.
Recent advances in neuroimaging techniques have provided precise spatial localization of brain activation applied in several neuroscience subareas. The development of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), based on the BOLD signal, is one of the most popular techniques related to the detection of neuronal activation. However, understanding the interactions between several neuronal modules is also an important task, providing a better comprehension about brain dynamics. Nevertheless, most connectivity studies in fMRI are based on a simple correlation analysis, which is only an association measure and does not provide the direction of information flow between brain areas. Other proposed methods like structural equation modeling (SEM) seem to be attractive alternatives. However, this approach assumes prior information about the causality direction and stationarity conditions, which may not be satisfied in fMRI experiments. Generally, the fMRI experiments are related to an activation task; hence, the stimulus conditions should also be included in the model. In this paper, we suggest an intervention analysis, which includes stimulus condition, allowing a nonstationary modeling. Furthermore, an illustrative application to real fMRI dataset from a simple motor task is presented.
Diffusion- and perfusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DWI and PWI) was applied for stroke diagnose in 120 acute (&lt; 48 h) ischemic stroke patients. At hyperacute (&lt; 6 h) stage, it is difficult to find out the infarction zone in conventional T1 or T2 image, but it is easy in DWI, apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) map; when at 3-6-hour stage it is also easy in PWI, cerebral blood flow (CBF) map, cerebral blood volume (CBV) map, and mean transit time (MTT) map; at acute (6-48 h) stage, DWI or PWI is more sensitive than conventional T1 or T2 image too. Combining DWI with ADC, acute and chronic infarction can be distinguished. Besides, penumbra which should be developed in meaning was used as an indication or to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy. There were two cases (&lt; 1.5 h) that broke the model of penumbra because abnormity was found in DWI but not that in PWI, finally they recovered without any sequela.



In this paper new knowledge generated from theoretical and empirical work in infant observation studies and attachment, trauma, and neurobiology research is integrated and applied to the development of a group for pregnant and new mothers. The purposes of this group were to (1) promote the establishment of a secure base for each baby through optimum self and dyadic affect regulation, the repair of ruptures, and the emergence of positive heightened affective moments; (2) to facilitate secure attachment between mother and infant by helping mothers mentalize the experiences of their babies; (3) to build affiliative bonds between group members and; at the very least, (4) to prevent insecure disorganized attachments. The group interactions also were thought to prevent new psychopathology from developing, as well as to minimize the intergenerational transmission of trauma. A discussion of how this group came out of gestation and birthed itself in a community setting is included.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a disease of the central nervous system with both an inflammatory and degenerative component. The disease primarily affects young adults and results in significant physical and cognitive disability. Several disease-modifying agents are currently used in the management of multiple sclerosis. Glatiramer acetate (GA, Copaxone, co-polymer 1) is a disease-modifying agent approved for the treatment of relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis. Apart from its unique mode of action, there is evidence pointing toward a possible neuroprotective role. This review will critically discuss GA's potential mechanisms of action, the results of clinical trials, safety profile, and future directions of treatment.
To study fibromyalgic pain this article contrasts positron emission tomographic measures of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) during externally induced acute pain and rest in eight fibromyalgia syndrome patients. An expected pattern of frontal and parietal cortical activation during acute pain as compared to rest was observed. However, reduced rCBF was additionally found in the retrosplenial cortex during acute pain as compared to rest. This may reflect that externally induced pain inhibits fibromyalgic pain and syndrome-related evaluative processes located in the retrosplenial cortex, and that fibromyalgic pain results from exaggerated attention to sub-noxious pain signaling, that is, secondary hyperalgesia.









Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) has been in psychiatric practice for well over half a century, but it continues to incite controversy. However, it is regarded amongst psychiatrists as a safe and effective treatment and at times even a lifesaver. It offers a fairly swift but a time-limited response, opening up opportunities for initiation of more longer lasting treatments. The use of ECT in the youth is limited, and as such good studies are few and far between. The recent Practice Parameters by the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, specifically addressing ECT in adolescents, is indeed a welcome addition. Electrocovulsive therapy is as effective in the youth as it is in the adults, and the indications and contraindication are the same. The administration of ECT follows the same general principles in all age groups. One particular indication is of the use in catatonia, a motor syndrome that could occur with affective disorders, schizophrenia or medical conditions, in which it is considered to be extremely effective. The association between catatonia and autism and spectrum disorders has been noted, and in this situation, ECT is considered by some to be effective. Ethical considerations and that of capacity and informed consent are of paramount importance as are the human rights. Working in partnership with the parents/carers all the way is a must. The lack of information leaflets on ECT especially designed for young patients and their parents has to be rectified soon. Registers based on geographical health regions for those below the age of 18 will assist tremendously in epidemiological studies as well as pave the way toward more evidence-based studies that are essential.
Motor disturbances are often observed in individuals with autistic spectrum disorders (ASDs) and recognized as diagnostic features of these disorders. The movement disorders characteristically associated with autism include stereotypies and self-injurious behavior. Yet, individuals with ASD may also be at the risk for catatonia. Although not as frequent as stereotypies, up to 17% of older adolescents and adults with autistic disorder may have severe catatonic-like symptoms. Catatonia may be a comorbid risk factor of autism that warrants further empirical and clinical evaluations. Clinicians may need to be attentive to more subtle signs of catatonic-like symptoms in individuals diagnosed with ASDs, especially as they enter adolescence and young adulthood. Stress has been implicated as a possible precursor for symptoms; however, its role has not been empirically proven as a potential risk factor. Clinicians might also need to assess for signs of significant declines in motor movements, as this appears to be a useful diagnostic indicator of catatonic-like symptoms. The literature on stereotypies and autism is more extensive than for catatonia and ASDs, probably because of the higher rate of stereotypies with autism. Explanations for the occurrence of stereotypies range from genetic to behavioral contingencies, with evidence for a multifactor explanation. Assessment measures often include items that assess for stereotypies to aid with diagnosing these symptoms in individuals with autism. Treatment for stereotypies is largely behavioral at the present time and requires consistent reinforcement of treatment gains to manage the symptoms successfully. An important area of future research in autism is the relation among different types of motor abnormalities, including stereotypies and catatonia.

We present a tinnitus-targeted therapy (TTT), a combined treatment of medication and instrumentation focusing on pharmacotherapy. It embodies ongoing clinical experience (since 1977) in an excess of 8,500 patients with subjective idiopathic tinnitus of the severe disabling type (SIT). All have visited the Tinnitus Clinic of the Downstate Medical Center at the State University of New York (DMC/SUNY) and the Martha Entenmann Tinnitus Research Center, Inc. Since 1989, as a result of our evolving experience with single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) of brain, we have defined tinnitus as a sensory disorder of auditory perception exhibiting an aberrant auditory signal produced by interference in the excitatory-inhibitory process or processes involved in neurotransmission. This definition is considered to be dynamic: It embodies the integration of clinical observations and advances reported from neuroscience and nuclear medicine. These investigations have sought to identify an underlying mechanism of tinnitus production and have assisted in the establishment of the medical significance of tinnitus. In general, the goal of tinnitus therapy in 2005-2006 is to attempt to provide tinnitus relief for all clinical types of subjective idiopathic tinnitus (SIT). Although no cure for SIT exists currently, available protocols for diagnosis and treatment increase the efficacy of therapeutic modalities for attempting tinnitus relief. The strategies of TTT are based on the clinical translation of fundamentals of sensory physiology, extrapolation of underlying neurochemistry from nuclear medicine imaging results with SPECT in SIT patients, hypotheses of mechanisms of tinnitus production, and the innovative application of drug therapies designed for indications other than tinnitus. Such strategies have contributed to the development of a new discipline, tinnitology, an integrated multidiscipline of basic science, neuroscience, and clinical medicine attempting to understand an aberrant auditory phenomenon, unrelated to an external source of sound, and how it becomes transformed into one of affect. The goal of increasing accuracy of the SIT diagnosis is the impetus for increased efficacy of therapeutic modalities recommended for tinnitus relief.
Although replicon systems for hepatitis C virus (HCV) recently developed have enabled the replication of HCV in cultured cells, limited genotypes are available for them. We have isolated HCV cDNA of genotype 2a (JFH-1 strain) from serum of a patient with fulminant hepatitis. A subgenomic replicon of JFH-1 was constructed and compared with the HCV replicon of genotype 1b (Con1 NK5.1) which possessed adaptive mutations. Huh7 cells transfected with replicon RNAs that had been transcribed in vitro were cultured in the presence of neomycin sulfate (G418), and selected colonies were isolated and expanded. Then, growth rates and replication of HCV RNA were evaluated on isolated cells hosting replicons. Saturation densities were lower for cells propagating JFH-1 than Con1 NK5.1 or untransfected Huh7 cells, and the mean doubling time was longer for JFH-1 than for Huh7 cells. Levels of HCV RNA replication in isolated clones were similar between JFH-1 and Con1 NK5.1 cells. Replication of RNA decreased reciprocally with cell densities in both JFH-1 and Con1 NK5.1 cells. The replication of HCV RNA was more resistant to interferon-alpha in JFH-1 than in Con1 NK5.1 cells based on the comparison of an inhibitory concentration of 50%. In conclusion, we found differences between HCV replicon clones of genotypes 1b and 2a. However, these differences may result from strain-specific characteristics, such as the source of HCV, rather than characteristics of distinct genotypes. Therefore, further investigation may be needed on more HCV isolates of diverse genotypes.




We investigated how morphological differences in the auditory periphery of teleost fishes may relate to hearing capabilities. Two species of western Atlantic sciaenids were examined: weakfish (Cynoscion regalis, Block and Schneider) and spot (Leiostomus xanthurus, Lacepede). These species differ in the anatomical relationship between the swim bladder and the inner ear. In weakfish, the swim bladder has a pair of anterior horns that terminate close to the ear, while there are no extensions of the swim bladder in spot. Thus, the swim bladder in spot terminates at a greater distance from the ear when compared to weakfish. With the use of the auditory brainstem response technique, Cynoscion regalis were found to detect frequencies up to 2000 Hz, while Leiostomus xanthurus detected up to 700 Hz. There were, however, no significant interspecific differences in auditory sensitivity for stimuli between 200 and 700 Hz. These data support the hypothesis that the swim bladder can potentially expand the frequency range of detection.
Cannabis dependence is co-morbid with psychiatric disorders in general population surveys, but whether co-morbidity exists in American Indian populations is unknown. The aim of this study was to assess co-morbidity between cannabis dependence and psychiatric disorders in a community sample of Southwest California (SWC) Indians. Demographic information and DSMIII- R diagnoses, including differentiation of independent and cannabis-induced psychiatric disorders, were obtained using the Semi-Structured Assessment for the Genetics of Alcoholism (SSAGA) developed for the Collaborative Study on the Genetics of Alcoholism (COGA) from 513 SWC Indian adults residing on contiguous reservations. Although SWC Indians in this sample had high rates of cannabis dependence (43% in men and 24% in women), cannabis-induced psychiatric disorders each occurred in 1% or less of the sample. No significant co-morbidity with independent psychiatric disorders was found. In SWC Indians, cannabis dependence may be less etiologically related to psychiatric disorders than in the general population.
This study computed the life expectancy of a cohort of male narcotics addicts followed for 33 years and assessed the productivity lost as a result of premature mortality. The future life expectancy was constructed for the narcotics addicts and for a comparable cohort from the general U.S. population. The average future life expectancy of the cohort was 18.84 years compared to 33.48 years for comparable U.S. males (t = 49.49, p &lt; .00001). As a result of this premature mortality, the estimated monetary value of lost productivity was greater than 174 million dollars. The lives of heroin addicts were severely truncated at productive ages resulting in a loss of potential productivity that increases social and economic burdens.
This study examined utilization of mental health services and treatment outcomes among 1,091 patients with mental health problems recruited from 39 treatment programs in 13 California counties. We compared three groups: one that received dual treatment from drug and mental health programs (N=294), one that received mental health services only within drug treatment programs (N=578), and one that received no mental health services (N=219). Individuals who received dual treatment had more severe substance use and mental health problems, followed in severity by those who received mental health services within drug treatment, and those who received no services. All groups significantly reduced their psychiatric severity at the follow-up, although there were no group differences in treatment retention and drug use outcomes. These findings suggest that individuals with mental health problems can be successfully treated within drug treatment programs and/or in conjunction with mental health providers.

This brief paper reviews the work on dementia by the Neuropathology group at the Einstein College of Medicine and later at the University of California, San Diego, from the time of our first approaches to Alzheimer Disease in 1959. The electron microscope studies concerned the tangle (got it wrong) and then the plaque (got it right). Lysosomes and active mitochondria were noted in the plaques. Axoplasmic transport was suggested to be abnormal. We studied the plaques in old dogs and old monkeys, and then went on to use image analysis to count neurons in the neocortex of Alzheimer cases and in examples of normal aging. Later in San Diego we quantified presynaptic boutons and recognized their loss as the major direct cause of dementia. Many collaborators including Henry Wisniewski participated in these early attempts to understand the disease.
Work in 1980s and early 1990s established that the microtubule-associated protein tau is the major component of the paired helical filament of Alzheimer's disease. Similar filamentous deposits are also present in a number of other diseases, including progressive supranuclear palsy, corticobasal degeneration and Pick's disease. In 1998, the relevance of tau dysfunction for the neurodegenerative process became clear, when mutations in the tau gene were found to cause the inherited &quot;frontotemporal dementia and parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17)&quot;. The paper highlighted here [Spillantini M.G., Murrell J.R., Goedert M., Farlow M., Klug A. and Ghetti B. (1998) Mutation in the tau gene in familial multiple system tauopathy with presenile dementia. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 95, 7737-7741] reported a mutation at position + 3 in the intron following alternatively spliced exon 10 of the tau gene in a family.
Studies of the tau protein and its pathological fate as a neurofibrillary tangle have been a pillar of Alzheimer's disease research. The understanding of the fundamental position that tau occupies in the disease cascade is a tribute to an international group of scientists who brought rigor, candid assessments of data, and critical thinking to the problem. The tau pathway winds its way from astute clinical observations to pathological correlations, from molecular and cellular experiments to mining informatic data, and from animal behavior to the biophysics of protein structure. For most the vindication of this tireless effort will come from tau-based therapies; but for others the remarkable biology revealed by the Alzheimer disease process has been its own reward.
Here I recap the scientific and personal background of the delineation of the amyloid cascade hypothesis for Alzheimer's disease that I wrote with Gerry Higgins and the events leading to the writing of that influential review.
