Many strong rewards, including abused drugs, also produce aversive effects that are poorly understood. For example, cocaine can produce aversive conditioning after its rewarding effects have dissipated, consistent with opponent process theory, but the neural mechanisms involved are not well known. Using electrophysiological recordings in awake rats, we found that some neurons in the lateral habenula (LHb), where activation produces aversive conditioning, exhibited biphasic responses to single doses of intravenous cocaine, with an initial inhibition followed by delayed excitation paralleling cocaine's shift from rewarding to aversive. Recordings in LHb slice preparations revealed similar cocaine-induced biphasic responses and further demonstrated that biphasic responses were mimicked by dopamine, that the inhibitory phase depended on dopamine D2-like receptors, and that the delayed excitation persisted after drug washout for prolonged durations consistent with findings in vivo. c-Fos experiments further showed that cocaine-activated LHb neurons preferentially projected to and activated neurons in the rostromedial tegmental nucleus (RMTg), a recently identified target of LHb axons that is activated by negative motivational stimuli and inhibits dopamine neurons. Finally, pharmacological excitation of the RMTg produced conditioned place aversion, whereas cocaine-induced avoidance behaviors in a runway operant paradigm were abolished by lesions of LHb efferents, lesions of the RMTg, or by optogenetic inactivation of the RMTg selectively during the period when LHb neurons are activated by cocaine. Together, these results indicate that LHb/RMTg pathways contribute critically to cocaine-induced avoidance behaviors, while also participating in reciprocally inhibitory interactions with dopamine neurons.
CREB-responsive transcription has an important role in adaptive responses in all cells and tissue. In the nervous system, it has an essential and well established role in long-term memory formation throughout a diverse set of organisms. Activation of this transcription factor correlates with long-term memory formation and disruption of its activity interferes with this process. Most convincingly, augmenting CREB activity in a number of different systems enhances memory formation. In Drosophila, a sequence rearrangement in the original transgene used to enhance memory formation has been a source of confusion. This rearrangement prematurely terminates translation of the full-length protein, leaving the identity of the &quot;enhancing molecule&quot; unclear. In this report, we show that a naturally occurring, downstream, in-frame initiation codon is used to make a dCREB2 protein off of both transgenic and chromosomal substrates. This protein is a transcriptional activator and is responsible for memory enhancement. A number of parameters can affect enhancement, including the short-lived activity of the activator protein, and the time-of-day when induction and behavioral training occur. Our results reaffirm that overexpression of a dCREB2 activator can enhance memory formation and illustrate the complexity of this behavioral enhancement.
In Huntington's disease (HD) mouse models, spontaneous inhibitory synaptic activity is enhanced in a subpopulation of medium-sized spiny neurons (MSNs), which could dampen striatal output. We examined the potential source(s) of increased inhibition using electrophysiological and optogenetic methods to assess feedback and feedforward inhibition in two transgenic mouse models of HD. Single whole-cell patch-clamp recordings demonstrated that increased GABA synaptic activity impinges principally on indirect pathway MSNs. Dual patch recordings between MSNs demonstrated reduced connectivity between MSNs in HD mice. However, while connectivity was strictly unidirectional in controls, in HD mice bidirectional connectivity occurred. Other sources of increased GABA activity in MSNs also were identified. Dual patch recordings from fast spiking (FS) interneuron-MSN pairs demonstrated greater but variable amplitude responses in MSNs. In agreement, selective optogenetic stimulation of parvalbumin-expressing, FS interneurons induced significantly larger amplitude MSN responses in HD compared with control mice. While there were no differences in responses of MSNs evoked by activating single persistent low-threshold spiking (PLTS) interneurons in recorded pairs, these interneurons fired more action potentials in both HD models, providing another source for increased frequency of spontaneous GABA synaptic activity in MSNs. Selective optogenetic stimulation of somatostatin-expressing, PLTS interneurons did not reveal any significant differences in responses of MSNs in HD mice. These findings provide strong evidence that both feedforward and to a lesser extent feedback inhibition to MSNs in HD can potentially be sources for the increased GABA synaptic activity of indirect pathway MSNs.
A general model of neural development is derived to fit 18 mammalian species, including humans, macaques, several rodent species, and six metatherian (marsupial) mammals. The goal of this work is to describe heterochronic changes in brain evolution within its basic developmental allometry, and provide an empirical basis to recognize equivalent maturational states across animals. The empirical data generating the model comprises 271 developmental events, including measures of initial neurogenesis, axon extension, establishment, and refinement of connectivity, as well as later events such as myelin formation, growth of brain volume, and early behavioral milestones, to the third year of human postnatal life. The progress of neural events across species is sufficiently predictable that a single model can be used to predict the timing of all events in all species, with a correlation of modeled values to empirical data of 0.9929. Each species' rate of progress through the event scale, described by a regression equation predicting duration of development in days, is highly correlated with adult brain size. Neural heterochrony can be seen in selective delay of retinogenesis in the cat, associated with greater numbers of rods in its retina, and delay of corticogenesis in all species but rodents and the rabbit, associated with relatively larger cortices in species with delay. Unexpectedly, precocial mammals (those unusually mature at birth) delay the onset of first neurogenesis but then progress rapidly through remaining developmental events.
Intravenous anesthetics exert a component of their actions via potentiating inhibitory neurotransmission mediated by -aminobutyric type-A receptors (GABAARs). Phasic and tonic inhibition is mediated by distinct populations of GABAARs, with the majority of phasic inhibition by subtypes composed of 1-32 subunits, whereas tonic inhibition is dependent on subtypes assembled from 4-6 subunits. To explore the contribution that these distinct forms of inhibition play in mediating intravenous anesthesia, we have used mice in which tyrosine residues 365/7 within the 2 subunit are mutated to phenyalanines (Y365/7F). Here we demonstrate that this mutation leads to increased accumulation of the 4 subunit containing GABAARs in the thalamus and dentate gyrus of female Y365/7F but not male Y365/7F mice. Y365/7F mice exhibited a gender-specific enhancement of tonic inhibition in the dentate gyrus that was more sensitive to modulation by the anesthetic etomidate, together with a deficit in long-term potentiation. Consistent with this, female Y365/7F, but not male Y365/7F, mice exhibited a dramatic increase in the duration of etomidate- and propofol-mediated hypnosis. Moreover, the amnestic actions of etomidate were selectively potentiated in female Y365/7F mice. Collectively, these observations suggest that potentiation of tonic inhibition mediated by 4 subunit containing GABAARs contributes to the hypnotic and amnestic actions of the intravenous anesthetics, etomidate and propofol.
Mitochondria not only provide cells with energy, but are central to Ca(2+) signaling. Powered by the mitochondrial membrane potential, Ca(2+) enters the mitochondria and is released into the cytosol through a mitochondrial Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger. We established that NCLX, a newly discovered mitochondrial Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger, is expressed in astrocytes isolated from mice of either sex. Immunoblot analysis of organellar fractions showed that the location of NCLX is confined to mitochondria. Using pericam-based mitochondrial Ca(2+) imaging and NCLX inhibition either by siRNA or by the pharmacological blocker CGP37157, we demonstrated that NCLX is responsible for mitochondrial Ca(2+) extrusion. Suppression of NCLX function altered cytosolic Ca(2+) dynamics in astrocytes and this was mediated by a strong effect of NCLX activity on Ca(2+) influx via store-operated entry. Furthermore, Ca(2+) influx through the store-operated Ca(2+) entry triggered strong, whereas ER Ca(2+) release triggered only modest mitochondrial Ca(2+) transients, indicating that the functional cross talk between the plasma membrane and mitochondrial domains is particularly strong in astrocytes. Finally, silencing of NCLX expression significantly reduced Ca(2+)-dependent processes in astrocytes (i.e., exocytotic glutamate release, in vitro wound closure, and proliferation), whereas Ca(2+) wave propagation was not affected. Therefore, NCLX, by meditating astrocytic mitochondrial Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchange, links between mitochondria and plasma membrane Ca(2+) signaling, thereby modulating cytoplasmic Ca(2+) transients required to control a diverse array of astrocyte functions.
Sympathetic nerves can regenerate after injury to reinnervate target tissues. Sympathetic regeneration is well documented after chronic cardiac ischemia, so we were surprised that the cardiac infarct remained denervated following ischemia-reperfusion (I-R). We used mice to ask if the lack of sympathetic regeneration into the scar was due to blockade by inhibitory extracellular matrix within the infarct. We found that chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) were present in the infarct after I-R, but not after chronic ischemia, and that CSPGs caused inhibition of sympathetic axon outgrowth in vitro. Ventricle explants after I-R and chronic ischemia stimulated sympathetic axon outgrowth that was blocked by nerve growth factor antibodies. However, growth in I-R cocultures was asymmetrical, with axons growing toward the heart tissue consistently shorter than axons growing in other directions. Growth toward I-R explants was rescued by adding chondroitinase ABC to the cocultures, suggesting that I-R infarct-derived CSPGs prevented axon extension. Sympathetic ganglia lacking protein tyrosine phosphatase sigma (PTPRS) were not inhibited by CSPGs or I-R explants in vitro, suggesting PTPRS is the major CSPG receptor in sympathetic neurons. To test directly if infarct-derived CSPGs prevented cardiac reinnervation, we performed I-R in ptprs-/- and ptprs+/- mice. Cardiac infarcts in ptprs-/- mice were hyperinnervated, while infarcts in ptprs+/- littermates were denervated, confirming that CSPGs prevent sympathetic reinnervation of the cardiac scar after I-R. This is the first example of CSPGs preventing sympathetic reinnervation of an autonomic target following injury, and may have important consequences for cardiac function and arrhythmia susceptibility after myocardial infarction.
Mutations in glycosyltransferases, such as protein O-mannose N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase 1 (POMGnT1), causes disruptions of basement membranes (BMs) that results in neuronal ectopias and muscular dystrophy. While the mutations diminish dystroglycan-mediated cell-ECM interactions, the cause and mechanism of BM disruptions remain unclear. In this study, we established an in vitro model to measure BM assembly on the surface of neural stem cells. Compared to control cells, the rate of BM assembly on POMGnT1 knockout neural stem cells was significantly reduced. Further, immunofluorescence staining and quantitative proteomic analysis of the inner limiting membrane (ILM), a BM of the retina, revealed that laminin-111 and nidogen-1 were reduced in POMGnT1 knockout mice. Finally, atomic force microscopy showed that the ILM from POMGnT1 knockout mice was thinner with an altered surface topography. The results combined demonstrate that reduced levels of key BM components cause physical changes that weaken the BM in POMGnT1 knockout mice. These changes are caused by a reduced rate of BM assembly during the developmental expansion of the neural tissue.
Inflammatory demyelinating diseases like multiple sclerosis are characterized by mononuclear cell infiltration into the central nervous system. The glycosaminoglycan hyaluronan and its receptor, CD44, are implicated in the initiation and progression of a mouse model of multiple sclerosis, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Digestion of hyaluronan tethered to brain vascular endothelial cells by a hyaluronidase blocks the slow rolling of lymphocytes along activated brain vascular endothelial cells and delays the onset of EAE. These effects could be due to the elimination of hyaluronan or the generation of hyaluronan digestion products that influence lymphocytes or endothelial cells. Here, we found that hyaluronan dodecasaccharides impaired activated lymphocyte slow rolling on brain vascular endothelial cells when applied to lymphocytes but not to the endothelial cells. The effects of hyaluronan dodecasaccharides on lymphocyte rolling were independent of CD44 and a receptor for degraded hyaluronan, Toll-like receptor-4. Subcutaneous injection of hyaluronan dodecasaccharides or tetrasaccharides delayed the onset of EAE in a manner similar to subcutaneous injection of hyaluronidase. Hyaluronan oligosaccharides can therefore act directly on lymphocytes to modulate the onset of inflammatory demyelinating disease.
In the primate visual system, area V4 is located in the ventral pathway and is traditionally thought to be involved in processing color and form information. However, little is known about its functional role in processing motion information. Using intrinsic signal optical imaging over large fields of view in V1, V2, and V4, we mapped the direction of motion responses in anesthetized macaques. We found that V4 contains direction-preferring domains that are preferentially activated by stimuli moving in one direction. Thesedirection-preferring domains normally occupy several restricted regions of V4 and tend to overlap with orientation- and color-preferring domains. Single-cell recordings targeting these direction-preferring domains also showed a clustering, as well as a columnar organization of V4 direction-selective neurons. These data suggest that, in contrast to the classical view, motion information is also processed in ventral pathway regions such as area V4.
Learning-dependent cortical encoding has been well described in single neurons. But behaviorally relevant sensory signals drive the coordinated activity of millions of cortical neurons; whether learning produces stimulus-specific changes in population codes is unknown. Because the pattern of firing rate correlations between neurons--an emergent property of neural populations--can significantly impact encoding fidelity, we hypothesize that it is a target for learning. Using an associative learning procedure, we manipulated the behavioral relevance of natural acoustic signals and examined the evoked spiking activity in auditory cortical neurons in songbirds. We show that learning produces stimulus-specific changes in the pattern of interneuronal correlations that enhance the ability of neural populations to recognize signals relevant for behavior. This learning-dependent enhancement increases with population size. The results identify the pattern of interneuronal correlation in neural populations as a target of learning that can selectively enhance the representations of specific sensory signals.
Adaptive behaviors increase the likelihood of survival and reproduction and improve the quality of life. However, it is often difficult to identify optimal behaviors in real life due to the complexity of the decision maker's environment and social dynamics. As a result, although many different brain areas and circuits are involved in decision making, evolutionary and learning solutions adopted by individual decision makers sometimes produce suboptimal outcomes. Although these problems are exacerbated in numerous neurological and psychiatric disorders, their underlying neurobiological causes remain incompletely understood. In this review, theoretical frameworks in economics and machine learning and their applications in recent behavioral and neurobiological studies are summarized. Examples of such applications in clinical domains are also discussed for substance abuse, Parkinson's disease, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, schizophrenia, mood disorders, and autism. Findings from these studies have begun to lay the foundations necessary to improve diagnostics and treatment for various neurological and psychiatric disorders.
The concept of the CNS as an immune-privileged organ has led to a common misunderstanding that it is not an active immunological organ, guarded from its surroundings by the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Recent advances in this field clearly demonstrate that the CNS is a highly immunologically active organ, with complex immune responses mostly based on innate immune processes. Such responses implicate a continuum of heterogeneous cell types both inside the CNS, in the periphery, and at their interface, the BBB. This Review aims to discuss the importance of the BBB as the first line of defense against brain infections and injuries of the CNS and the main molecular mechanisms involved in the control of the innate immune system of the CNS. We also review the central role of the neurovascular unit in diseases of the CNS and how it can be targeted for novel therapeutic strategies.
Changes in the correlated activity in the population code can increase neural discrimination by facilitating noise suppression. In this issue, Jeanne etal. (2013) observe learning-dependent changes in high-level avian auditory cortical neurons after a song discrimination task.
N-type inactivation is produced by the binding of a potassium channel's N-terminus within the open pore, blocking conductance. Previous studies have found that introduction of negative charges into N-terminal inactivation domains disrupts inactivation; however, the Aplysia AKv1 N-type inactivation domain contains two negatively charged residues, E2 and E9. Rather than being unusual, sequence analysis shows that this N-terminal motif is highly conserved among Kv1 sequences across many phyla. Conservation analysis shows some tolerance at position 9 for other charged residues, like D9 and K9, whereas position 2 is highly conserved as E2. To examine the functional importance of these residues, site directed mutagenesis was performed and effects on inactivation were recorded by two electrode voltage clamp in Xenopus oocytes. We find that inclusion of charged residues at positions 2 and 9 prevents interactions with non-polar sites along the inactivation pathway increasing the efficiency of pore block. In addition, E2 appears to have additional specific electrostatic interactions that stabilize the inactivated state likely explaining its high level of conservation. One possible explanation for E2's unique importance, consistent with our data, is that E2 interacts electrostatically with a positive charge on the N-terminal amino group to stabilize the inactivation domain at the block site deep within the pore. Simple electrostatic modeling suggests that due to the non-polar environment in the pore in the blocked state, even a 1  larger separation between these charges, produced by the E2D substitution, would be sufficient to explain the 65 reduced affinity of the E2D N-terminus for the pore. Finally, our studies support a multi-step, multi-site N-type inactivation model where the N-terminus interacts deep within the pore in an extended like structure placing the most N-terminal residues 35% of the way across the electric field in the pore blocked state.
Functional 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) do not assemble efficiently in cells transfected with 7 subunits unless the cells are also transfected with the chaperone protein RIC-3. Despite the presence of RIC-3, large amounts of these subunits remain improperly assembled. Thus, additional chaperone proteins are probably required for efficient assembly of 7 AChRs. Cholinergic ligands can act as pharmacological chaperones to promote assembly of mature AChRs and upregulate the amount of functional AChRs. In addition, we have found that the chemical chaperones 4-phenylbutyric acid (PBA) and valproic acid (VPA) greatly increase the amount of functional 7 AChRs produced in a cell line expressing both 7 and RIC-3. Increased 7 AChR expression allows assay of drug action using a membrane potential-sensitive fluorescent indicator. Both PBA and VPA also increase 7 expression in the SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cell line that endogenously expresses 7 AChRs. VPA increases expression of endogenous 7 AChRs in hippocampal neurons but PBA does not. RIC-3 is insufficient for optimal assembly of 7 AChRs, but provides assay conditions for detecting additional chaperones. Chemical chaperones are a useful pragmatic approach to express high levels of human 7 AChRs for drug selection and characterization and possibly to increase 7 expression in vivo.
Autism is a complex spectrum of disorders characterized by core behavioral deficits in social interaction, communication, repetitive stereotyped behaviors and restricted interests. Autism frequently presents with additional cognitive symptoms, including attentional deficits and intellectual disability. Preclinical models are important tools for studying the behavioral domains and biological underpinnings of autism, and potential treatment targets. The inbred BTBR T+tf/J (BTBR) mouse strain has been used as an animal model of core behavioral deficits in autism. BTBR mice exhibit repetitive behaviors and deficits in sociability and communication, but other aspects of their cognitive phenotype, including attentional performance, are not well characterized. We examined the attentional abilities of BTBR mice in the 5-choice serial reaction time task (5-CSRTT) using an automated touchscreen testing apparatus. The 5-CSRTT is an analogue of the human continuous performance task of attention, and so both the task and apparatus have translational relevance to human touchscreen cognitive testing. We also measured basal extracellular levels of a panel of neurotransmitters within the medial prefrontal cortex, a brain region critically important for performing the 5-CSRTT. We found that BTBR mice have increased impulsivity, defined as an inability to withhold responding, and decreased motivation, as compared to C57Bl/6J mice. Both of these features characterize attentional deficit disorders in humans. BTBR mice also display decreased accuracy in detecting short stimuli, lower basal levels of extracellular acetylcholine and higher levels of kynurenic acid within the prefrontal cortex. Intact cholinergic transmission in prefrontal cortex is required for accurate performance of the 5-CSRTT, consequently this cholinergic deficit may underlie less accurate performance in BTBR mice. Based on our findings that BTBR mice have attentional impairments and alterations in a key neural substrate of attention, we propose that they may be valuable for studying mechanisms for treatment of cognitive dysfunction in individuals with attention deficits and autism.
Does hedonic appreciation evolve differently for pleasant odors and unpleasant odors during normal aging? To answer this question we combined psychophysics and electro-encephalographic recordings in young and old adults. A first study showed that pleasant odorants (but not unpleasant ones) were rated as less pleasant by old adults. A second study validated this decrease in hedonic appreciation for agreeable odors and further showed that smelling these odorants decreased beta event-related synchronization in aged participants. In conclusion, the study offers new insights into the evolution of odor hedonic perception during normal aging, highlighting for the first time a change in processing pleasant odors.


Herein, we report the use of biodegradable nanoparticles (NPs) containing perfluoro-1,5-crown ether (PFCE), a fluorine-based compound (NP170-PFCE) with the capacity to track cells in vivo by magnetic ressonance imaging (MRI) and efficiently release miRNA. NP170-PFCE complexed with miRNAs accumulate whitin the cell's endolysosomal compartment and interact with higher frequency with argonaute2 (Ago2) and GW182 proteins, which are involved in the biological action of miRNAs, than commercial complexes formed by commercial reagents and miRNA, which in turn accumulate in the cell cytoplasm. The release of miRNA132 (miR132) from the NPs increased 3-fold the survival of endothelial cells (ECs) transplanted in vivo and 3.5-fold the blood perfusion in ischemic limbs relatively to control.
The eye contains numerous water channel proteins and the roles of AQPs (aquaporins) in the retina are blurred, especially under disease conditions. The purpose of this study was to investigate the expression of AQP9 gene and proteins affected by elevated IOP (intraocular pressure) in a rat model of glaucoma induced by intravitreous injection of hypertonic saline into the episcleral veins. The gene and protein expressions of AQP9 were investigated by real-time PCR and Western blotting. The immunoreactive expression of AQP9, AQP4 and GFAP (glial fibrillary acidic protein) in the optic nerve of rats exposed to experimentally elevated IOP was detected by immunofluorescence microscopy. The mRNA and protein expression levels of AQP9 were up-regulated in the retina of an animal model of glaucoma. The immunoreactivities of the AQP9, AQP4 and GFAP were also detected and increased in the optic nerve region. The expression of AQP9 was up-regulated in this glaucoma model and the immunoreactivities of the AQP4 and GFAP were also detected as co-localizing with AQP9in the optic nerve region, indicating retina ganglion cells were surrounded by activated astrocytes. This may indicate that the injured neurons may rely on the astrocytes. The alterations of AQP expression may compensate the glaucomatous damage.


In this paper, we study a simple model of a purely excitatory neural network that, by construction, operates at a critical point. This model allows us to consider various markers of criticality and illustrate how they should perform in a finite-size system. By calculating the exact distribution of avalanche sizes, we are able to show that, over a limited range of avalanche sizes which we precisely identify, the distribution has scale free properties but is not a power law. This suggests that it would be inappropriate to dismiss a system as not being critical purely based on an inability to rigorously fit a power law distribution as has been recently advocated. In assessing whether a system, especially a finite-size one, is critical it is thus important to consider other possible markers. We illustrate one of these by showing the divergence of susceptibility as the critical point of the system is approached. Finally, we provide evidence that power laws may underlie other observables of the system that may be more amenable to robust experimental assessment.
An 88-year-old woman with a medical history of diabetes, hypertension, and atrial fibrillation presented to the emergency room after being found unresponsive with a NIH Stroke Scale score of 23 and Glasgow Coma Scale score of 3. She was unresponsive to painful stimuli. Noncontrast CT demonstrated bilateral thalamic infarcts (figure 1A).
A 30-year-old man developed right facio-brachial dystonic seizures (FBDS).(1) Ictal and interictal EEGs were normal. CSF analysis was unremarkable. Brain MRI revealed a gadolinium-enhancing lesion involving the left caudate and globus pallidus (figure 1). Leucine-rich glioma inactivated protein-1 (LGI-1) antibodies were detected in the serum. Total-body CT scan revealed no malignancies. The patient underwent 5 cycles of plasmapheresis followed by long-term steroid therapy with complete benefit. A brain MRI performed after 5 months showed reduction of contrast enhancement (figure 2). LGI-1, a secreted protein complexed with voltage-gated potassium channels, is highly expressed in neocortex and hippocampus.(2) LGI-1 mutations have been described in patients with autosomal dominant partial epilepsy with auditory features (ADPEAF). Our patient had no clinical features of ADPEAF. Whether FBDS can be classified as epilepsy or dystonia is a matter of debate.(3) The involvement of basal ganglia described in our patient can be relevant to the ongoing debate.


Subclinical psychotic experiences at the level of the general population are common, forming an extended psychosis phenotype with clinical psychosis. Persistence of subclinical experiences is associated with transition to later mental disorder. Increased daily life stress reactivity is considered an endophenotype for psychotic disorders. We examined, in a longitudinal framework, whether baseline momentary assessment markers of stress reactivity would predict persistence of subclinical psychotic experiences over time. In a general population sample of female twins (N=566), the Experience Sampling Method (ESM; repetitive random sampling of momentary emotions, psychotic experiences and context) was used to assess (emotional and psychotic) daily life stress reactivity. Persistence of subclinical psychotic experiences was based on the Community Assessment of Psychic Experiences (CAPE), assessed three times over 14 months post-baseline. It was investigated whether baseline daily life emotional and psychotic stress reactivity predicted persistence of psychotic experiences over time. Higher levels of emotional stress reactivity (a decrease in positive and an increase in negative affect in response to stress), and increased psychotic reactivity to daily stress was found in individuals with persistent psychotic experiences over time compared to individuals with transient psychotic experiences. The results suggest that markers of daily life stress reactivity may predict &quot;macro-level&quot; persistence of normally transient expression of psychotic liability over time. Linking daily life markers of altered reactivity in terms of emotions and psychotic experiences to longitudinal persistence of psychotic experiences, associated with increased risk of transition to overt mental disorder, may contribute to earlier and more accurate diagnosis of risk.
Recent physiological studies have shown that neurons in various regions of the central nervous systems continuously receive noisy excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs in a balanced and covaried fashion. While this balanced synaptic input (BSI) is typically described in terms of maintaining the stability of neural circuits, a number of experimental and theoretical studies have suggested that BSI plays a proactive role in brain functions such as top-down modulation for executive control. Two issues have remained unclear in this picture. First, given the noisy nature of neuronal activities in neural circuits, how do the modulatory effects change if the top-down control implements BSI with different ratios between inhibition and excitation? Second, how is a top-down BSI realized via only excitatory long-range projections in the neocortex? To address the first issue, we systematically tested how the inhibition/excitation ratio affects the accuracy and reaction times of a spiking neural circuit model of perceptual decision. We defined an energy function to characterize the network dynamics, and found that different ratios modulate the energy function of the circuit differently and form two distinct functional modes. To address the second issue, we tested BSI with long-distance projection to inhibitory neurons that are either feedforward or feedback, depending on whether these inhibitory neurons do or do not receive inputs from local excitatory cells, respectively. We found that BSI occurs in both cases. Furthermore, when relying on feedback inhibitory neurons, through the recurrent interactions inside the circuit, BSI dynamically and automatically speeds up the decision by gradually reducing its inhibitory component in the course of a trial when a decision process takes too long.
One of the biggest tasks in neuroscience is to explain activity patterns of individual neurons during behavior by their cellular characteristics and their connectivity within the neuronal network. To greatly facilitate linking in vivo experiments with a more detailed molecular or physiological analysis in vitro, we have generated and characterized genetically modified mice expressing photoactivatable GFP (PA-GFP) that allow conditional photolabeling of individual neurons. Repeated photolabeling at the soma reveals basic morphological features due to diffusion of activated PA-GFP into the dendrites. Neurons photolabeled in vivo can be re-identified in acute brain slices and targeted for electrophysiological recordings. We demonstrate the advantages of PA-GFP expressing mice by the correlation of in vivo firing rates of individual neurons with their expression levels of the immediate early gene c-fos. Generally, the mouse models described in this study enable the combination of various analytical approaches to characterize living cells, also beyond the neurosciences.

Cellular reprogramming is a new and rapidly emerging field in which somatic cells can be turned into pluripotent stem cells or other somatic cell types simply by the expression of specific combinations of genes. By viral expression of neural fate determinants, it is possible to directly reprogram mouse and human fibroblasts into functional neurons, also known as induced neurons. The resulting cells are nonproliferating and present an alternative to induced pluripotent stem cells for obtaining patient- and disease-specific neurons to be used for disease modeling and for development of cell therapy. In addition, because the cells do not pass a stem cell intermediate, direct neural conversion has the potential to be performed in vivo. In this study, we show that transplanted human fibroblasts and human astrocytes, which are engineered to express inducible forms of neural reprogramming genes, convert into neurons when reprogramming genes are activated after transplantation. Using a transgenic mouse model to specifically direct expression of reprogramming genes to parenchymal astrocytes residing in the striatum, we also show that endogenous mouse astrocytes can be directly converted into neural nuclei (NeuN)-expressing neurons in situ. Taken together, our data provide proof of principle that direct neural conversion can take place in the adult rodent brain when using transplanted human cells or endogenous mouse cells as a starting cell for neural conversion.
Although anxiety disorders, like depression, are increasingly being associated with metabolic and cardiovascular burden, in contrast with depression, the role of inflammation in anxiety has sparsely been examined. This large cohort study examines the association between anxiety disorders and anxiety characteristics with several inflammatory markers. For this purpose, persons (18-65 years) with a current (N=1273) or remitted (N=459) anxiety disorder (generalized anxiety disorder, social phobia, panic disorder, agoraphobia) according to Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition criteria and healthy controls (N=556) were selected from the Netherlands Study of Depression and Anxiety. In addition, severity, duration, age of onset, anxiety subtype and co-morbid depression were assessed. Inflammatory markers included C-reactive protein (CRP), interleukin (IL)-6 and tumor-necrosis factor (TNF)-. Results show that after adjustment for sociodemographics, lifestyle and disease, elevated levels of CRP were found in men, but not in women, with a current anxiety disorder compared with controls (1.18 (s.e.=1.05) versus 0.98 (s.e.=1.07) mg l(-1), P=0.04, Cohen's d=0.18). No associations were found with IL-6 or TNF-. Among persons with a current anxiety disorder, those with social phobia, in particular women, had lower levels of CRP and IL-6, whereas highest CRP levels were found in those with an older age of anxiety disorder onset. Especially in persons with an age of onset after 50 years, CRP levels were increased compared with controls (1.95 (s.e.=1.18) versus 1.27 (s.e.=1.05) mg l(-1), P=0.01, Cohen's d=0.37). In conclusion, elevated inflammation is present in men with current anxiety disorders. Immune dysregulation is especially found in persons with a late-onset anxiety disorder, suggesting the existence of a specific late-onset anxiety subtype with a distinct etiology, which could possibly benefit from alternative treatments.
Molecular systems that can be remotely controlled by light are gaining increasing importance in cell biology, physiology, and neurosciences because of the spatial and temporal precision that is achievable with laser microscopy. Two-photon excitation has significant advantages deep in biological tissues, but raises problems in the design of &quot;smart&quot; probes compatible with cell physiology. This Review discusses the chemical challenges in generating suitable two-photon probes.

This report describes an unusual case of a woman who developed progressive hemiparesis, seizures and hemiparkinsonism associated with MRI and angiographic evidence of chronic venous hypertension in the contralateral cerebrum and cerebellum. In the absence of inflammatory or veno-occlusive disorders, the patient's clinical and neuroradiological findings point to a developmental disorder, such as a hemispheric venous dysgenesis, as the underlying lesion.
We report a strong compression of space around a visual anchor presented in the near visual periphery (&lt;5). While subjects kept fixation, a salient visual stimulus (from now on referred to as &quot;anchor&quot;) was presented, followed by a brief whole-field mask. At various times around mask onset a probe dot was flashed. Subjects estimated the position of the probe dot in relation to a subsequently presented comparison bar. The probe dot location was perceived nearly veridically when presented long before or after mask onset. However, when the probe dot was presented simultaneously with the mask it appeared shifted toward the anchor by as much as 50% of their separation. The anchor had to appear briefly before mask onset to attract the probe dot. No compression occurred when the anchor was presented long before or after the mask. When the probe dot and anchor were presented with similar brief duration, the more peripheral stimulus always shifted toward the more foveal stimulus independently of their temporal order. We hypothesize that the attraction might be explained by the summation of the neural activity distributions of probe and anchor.

Olfactory marker protein (OMP) is highly and selectively expressed in primary olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) across species, but its physiological function remains unclear. Previous studies in the olfactory epithelium suggest that it accelerates the neural response to odorants and may modulate the odorant-selectivity of OSNs. Here we used a line of gene-targeted mice that express the fluorescent exocytosis indicator synaptopHluorin in place of OMP to compare spatiotemporal patterns of odorant-evoked neurotransmitter release from OSNs in adult mice that were heterozygous for OMP or OMP-null. We found that these patterns, which constitute the primary neural representation of each odorant, developed more slowly during the odorant presentation in OMP knockout mice but eventually reached the same magnitude as in heterozygous mice. In the olfactory bulb, each glomerulus receives synaptic input from a subpopulation of OSNs that all express the same odor receptor and thus typically respond to a specific subset of odorants. We observed that in OMP knockout mice, OSNs innervating a given glomerulus typically responded to a broader range of odorants than in OMP heterozygous mice and thus each odorant evoked synaptic input to a larger number of glomeruli. In an olfactory habituation task, OMP knockout mice behaved differently than wild-type mice, exhibiting a delay in their onset to investigate an odor stimulus during its first presentation and less habituation to that stimulus over repeated presentations. These results suggest that the actions of OMP in olfactory transduction carry through to the primary sensory representations of olfactory stimuli in adult mice in vivo.
Previous research has shown that postnatal exposure to simple, synthetic sounds can affect the sound representation in the auditory cortex as reflected by changes in the tonotopic map or other relatively simple tuning properties, such as AM tuning. However, their functional implications for neural processing in the generation of ethologically-based perception remain unexplored. Here we examined the effects of noise-rearing and social isolation on the neural processing of communication sounds such as species-specific song, in the primary auditory cortex analog of adult zebra finches. Our electrophysiological recordings reveal that neural tuning to simple frequency-based synthetic sounds is initially established in all the laminae independent of patterned acoustic experience; however, we provide the first evidence that early exposure to patterned sound statistics, such as those found in native sounds, is required for the subsequent emergence of neural selectivity for complex vocalizations and for shaping neural spiking precision in superficial and deep cortical laminae, and for creating efficient neural representations of song and a less redundant ensemble code in all the laminae. Our study also provides the first causal evidence for 'sparse coding', such that when the statistics of the stimuli were changed during rearing, as in noise-rearing, that the sparse or optimal representation for species-specific vocalizations disappeared. Taken together, these results imply that a layer-specific differential development of the auditory cortex requires patterned acoustic input, and a specialized and robust sensory representation of complex communication sounds in the auditory cortex requires a rich acoustic and social environment.
Deficits in auditory processing are among the best documented endophenotypes in schizophrenia, possibly due to loss of excitatory synaptic connections. Dendritic spines, the principal post-synaptic target of excitatory projections, are reduced in schizophrenia. p21-activated kinase 1 (PAK1) regulates both the actin cytoskeleton and dendritic spine density, and is a downstream effector of both kalirin and CDC42, both of which have altered expression in schizophrenia. This study sought to determine if there is decreased auditory cortex PAK1 protein expression in schizophrenia through the use of quantitative western blots of 25 schizophrenia subjects and matched controls. There was no significant change in PAK1 level detected in the schizophrenia subjects in our cohort. PAK1 protein levels within subject pairs correlated positively with prior measures of total kalirin protein in the same pairs. PAK1 level also correlated with levels of a marker of dendritic spines, spinophilin. These latter two findings suggest that the lack of change in PAK1 level in schizophrenia is not due to limited sensitivity of our assay to detect meaningful differences in PAK1 protein expression. Future studies are needed to evaluate whether alterations in PAK1 phosphorylation states, or alterations in protein expression of other members of the PAK family, are present in schizophrenia.


Nuclear factor E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)/antioxidant response element (ARE) pathway is an important cellular stress response pathway involved in neuroprotection. We previously screened several natural phytochemicals and identified plumbagin as a novel activator of the Nrf2/ARE pathway that can protect neurons against ischemic injury. Here we extended our studies to natural and synthetic derivatives of plumbagin. We found that 5,8-dimethoxy-1,4-naphthoquinone (naphthazarin) is a potent activator of the Nrf2/ARE pathway, up-regulates the expression of Nrf2-driven genes in primary neuronal and glial cultures, and protects neurons against glutamate-induced excitotoxicity.
This study provides the first description of auditory cortical processing in a mouse model of Fragile X Syndrome (FXS). FXS is a genetic cause of intellectual impairment and is an autism spectrum disorder. Human studies with auditory evoked potentials indicate that FXS is associated with abnormal auditory processing. The Fmr1 knock-out (KO) mouse is a useful model for studying FXS. The KO mice show acoustic hypersensitivity and propensity for audiogenic seizures, suggesting altered auditory responses. However, the nature of changes at the neuronal level is not known. Here we conducted in vivo single unit extracellular electrophysiology in the auditory cortex of urethane/xylazine-anesthetized Fmr1 KO mice in response to tones and frequency modulated (FM) sweeps. Using tones as stimuli, we report expanded frequency tuning, enhanced response magnitude, and more variable first spike latencies in Fmr1 KO mice compared to wild-type controls. FM sweep stimuli revealed altered sensitivity to the rate of frequency change indicating abnormal spectrotemporal processing. There was no difference in FM sweep direction selectivity. Consistent with studies of the somatosensory cortex, these data point to hyper-responsiveness of auditory neurons as a key processing abnormality in FXS. Auditory neural responses can serve as outcome measures in preclinical trials of therapeutics for FXS as well as serve as physiological probes to study their mechanisms of action.
Compelling evidence indicates that oxidative stress contributes to motor neuron injury in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), but antioxidant therapies have not yet achieved therapeutic benefit in the clinic. The nuclear erythroid 2-related-factor 2 (Nrf2) transcription factor is a key regulator of an important neuroprotective response by driving the expression of multiple cytoprotective genes via its interaction with the antioxidant response element (ARE). Dysregulation of the Nrf2-ARE system has been identified in ALS models and human disease. Taking the Nrf2-ARE pathway as an attractive therapeutic target for neuroprotection in ALS, we aimed to identify CNS penetrating, small molecule activators of Nrf2-mediated transcription in a library of 2000 drugs and natural products. Compounds were screened extensively for Nrf2 activation, and antioxidant and neuroprotective properties in vitro. S[+]-Apomorphine, a receptor-inactive enantiomer of the clinically approved dopamine-receptor agonist (R[-]-apomorphine), was identified as a nontoxic Nrf2 activating molecule. In vivo S[+]-apomorphine demonstrated CNS penetrance, Nrf2 induction, and significant attenuation of motor dysfunction in the SOD1(G93A) transgenic mouse model of ALS. S[+]-apomorphine also reduced pathological oxidative stress and improved survival following an oxidative insult in fibroblasts from ALS patients. This molecule emerges as a promising candidate for evaluation as a potential neuroprotective agent in ALS patients in the clinic.
The study of specific target protein expression is often performed by western blotting, a commonly used method to measure the protein expression in neuroscience research by specific antibodies. Housekeeping proteins are used as an internal control for protein loading as well as reference in the western blotting analysis. This practice is based on the belief that such housekeeping genes are considered to be ubiquitously and constitutively expressed in every tissue and produce the minimal essential transcripts necessary for normal cellular function. The most commonly used housekeeping proteins are -actin, -tubulin, and glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH). However, recent studies have shown significant variation in some housekeeping genes both at the mRNA and protein levels in various neuropathological events, such as spinal cord injury and Alzheimer's diseases. Changes of housekeeping genes are also induced by non-neuronal diseases in various tissues. Therefore, these discoveries raise a potential concern regarding whether using a housekeeping protein as an internal standard for target protein analysis is an appropriate practice. This minireview will focus on (I) the effects of neuronal and non-neuronal diseases, experimental condition, and tissue-specific roles on alteration of housekeeping genes, and (II) alternative internal standards for gene and protein expression analysis.
Both orexin and neurotensin are expressed in the lateral hypothalamic area (LHA) and have been implicated in the regulation of feeding, motor activity and the reward system. A double label immunofluorescence and in situ hybridization studies showed that neurotensin colocalizes with orexin in neurons of the LHA. Pharmacological studies suggested that neurotensin excites orexin-producing neurons (orexin neurons) through activation of neurotensin receptor-2 (NTSR-2) and non-selective cation channels. In situ hybridization study showed that most orexin neurons express neurotensin receptor-2 mRNA but not neurotensin receptor-1 (Ntsr-1) mRNA. Immunohistochemical studies showed that neurotensin-immunoreactive fibers make appositions to orexin neurons. A neurotensin receptor antagonist decreased Fos expression in orexin neurons and wakefulness time in wild type mice when administered intraperitoneally. However, the antagonist did not evoke any effect on these parameters in orexin neuron-ablated mice. These observations suggest the importance of neurotensin in maintaining activity of orexin neurons. The evidence presented here expands our understanding of the regulatory mechanism of orexin neurons.

Social anxiety disorder (SAD), characterized by fear of being scrutinized by others, has features that that are closely linked to the concept of shame. Despite this, it remains to be investigated whether shame is elevated in persons with SAD, and if cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) for SAD could reduce shame experience. In the present study, we focused on internal shame, i.e. the type of shame that pertains to how we judge ourselves. Although guilt is distinctly different from shame, we also viewed it as important to investigate its role in SAD as the two emotions are highly correlated. The aim of this study was to investigate: (I) if persons with SAD differ from healthy controls on shame and guilt, (II) if shame, guilt, depressive symptoms, and social anxiety are associated in persons with SAD, and (III) if CBT can reduce internal shame in patients with SAD. Firstly, we conducted a case-control study comparing a sample with SAD (n=67) with two samples of healthy controls, a main sample (n=72) and a replication sample (n=22). Secondly, all participants with SAD were treated with CBT and shame, measured with the Test of Self-Conscious affect, was assessed before and after treatment. The results showed that shame was elevated in person with SAD compared to the control replication sample, but not to the main control sample. In addition, shame, social anxiety, and depressive symptoms were significantly associated among participants with SAD. After CBT, participants with SAD had significantly reduced their shame (Cohen's d=0.44). Guilt was unrelated to social anxiety. We conclude that shame and social anxiety are associated and that it is likely that persons with SAD are more prone to experience shame than persons without SAD. Also, CBT is associated with shame reduction in the treatment of SAD.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a late onset and progressive motor neuron disease. Mutations in the gene coding for fused in sarcoma/translocated in liposarcoma (FUS) are responsible for some cases of both familial and sporadic forms of ALS. The mechanism through which mutations of FUS result in motor neuron degeneration and loss is not known. FUS belongs to the family of TET proteins, which are regulated at the post-translational level by arginine methylation. Here, we investigated the impact of arginine methylation in the pathogenesis of FUS-related ALS. We found that wild type FUS (FUS-WT) specifically interacts with protein arginine methyltransferases 1 and 8 (PRMT1 and PRMT8) and undergoes asymmetric dimethylation in cultured cells. ALS-causing FUS mutants retained the ability to interact with both PRMT1 and PRMT8 and undergo asymmetric dimethylation similar to FUS-WT. Importantly, PRMT1 and PRMT8 localized to mutant FUS-positive inclusion bodies. Pharmacologic inhibition of PRMT1 and PRMT8 activity reduced both the nuclear and cytoplasmic accumulation of FUS-WT and ALS-associated FUS mutants in motor neuron-derived cells and in cells obtained from an ALS patient carrying the R518G mutation. Genetic ablation of the fly homologue of human PRMT1 (DART1) exacerbated the neurodegeneration induced by overexpression of FUS-WT and R521H FUS mutant in a Drosophila model of FUS-related ALS. These results support a role for arginine methylation in the pathogenesis of FUS-related ALS.
Both bats and rats exhibit grid cells in medial entorhinal cortex that fire as they visit a regular array of spatial locations. In rats, grid-cell firing field properties correlate with theta-frequency rhythmicity of spiking and membrane-potential resonance; however, bat grid cells do not exhibit theta rhythmic spiking, generating controversy over the role of theta rhythm. To test whether this discrepancy reflects differences in rhythmicity at a cellular level, we performed whole-cell patch recordings from entorhinal neurons in both species to record theta-frequency resonance. Bat neurons showed no theta-frequency resonance, suggesting grid-cell coding via different mechanisms in bats and rats or lack of theta rhythmic contributions to grid-cell firing in either species.
Specific learning disabilities (SLDs) are estimated to affect up to 10% of the population, and they co-occur far more often than would be expected, given their prevalences. We need to understand the complex etiology of SLDs and their co-occurrences in order to underpin the training of teachers, school psychologists, and clinicians, so that they can reliably recognize SLDs and optimize the learning contexts for individual learners.



Heyde's syndrome was first proposed in 1958. It refers to gastrointestinal haemorrhage resulting from a combination of aortic stenosis with angiodysplasia. This report explores the case of a 93-year-old lady who was admitted to hospital following a neck of femur fracture. She suffered from multiple comorbidities including renal failure and congestive heart failure secondary to critical aortic stenosis. As an inpatient she suffered an exacerbation of both her heart and renal failure postoperatively. A week later she suffered from heavy upper gastro-intestinal bleeding, which failed to respond to pharmacological and endoscopic therapies as well as angiographic embolisation. The pathophysiology of Heyde's syndrome: an acquired von Willebrand deficiency syndrome has a much wider impact than was commonly thought, both in terms of how common it is and in how the association may be extrapolated to a wide range of bleeding disorders, rather than simply angiodysplasia associated gastrointestinal haemorrhage.
Ionizing radiation persistently reduces the pool of neural stem and progenitor cells (NSPCs) in the dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus, which may explain some of the learning deficits observed in patients treated with radiotherapy, particularly pediatric patients. A single dose of 8Gy irradiation (IR) was administered to the brains of postnatal day 14 (P14) C57BL/6 mice and 1.0  10(5) bromodeoxyuridine-labeled, syngeneic NSPCs were injected into the hippocampus 1 day, 1 week or 6 weeks after IR. Cell survival and phenotype were evaluated 5 weeks after grafting. When grafted 1 day post-IR, survival and neuronal differentiation of the transplanted NSPCs were lower in irradiated brains, whereas the survival and cell fate of grafted cells were not significantly different between irradiated and control brains when transplantation was performed 1 or 6 weeks after IR. A young recipient brain favored neuronal development of grafted cells, whereas the older recipient brains displayed an increasing number of cells developing into astrocytes or unidentified cells. Injection of NSPCs, but not vehicle, induced astrogliosis and reduced thickness of the dorsal blade of the GCL after 5 months. In summary, we demonstrate that age and interval between IR and grafting can affect survival and differentiation of grafted NSPCs. The observed long-term gliosis and degeneration warrant caution in the context of NSPC grafting for therapeutical purposes.
The perception and neural representation of acoustically similar speech sounds underlie language development. Music training hones the perception of minute acoustic differences that distinguish sounds; this training may generalize to speech processing given that adult musicians have enhanced neural differentiation of similar speech syllables compared with nonmusicians. Here, we asked whether this neural advantage in musicians is present early in life by assessing musically trained and untrained children as young as age 3. We assessed auditory brainstem responses to the speech syllables /ba/ and /ga/ as well as auditory and visual cognitive abilities in musicians and nonmusicians across 3 developmental time-points: preschoolers, school-aged children, and adults. Cross-phase analyses objectively measured the degree to which subcortical responses differed to these speech syllables in musicians and nonmusicians for each age group. Results reveal that musicians exhibit enhanced neural differentiation of stop consonants early in life and with as little as a few years of training. Furthermore, the extent of subcortical stop consonant distinction correlates with auditory-specific cognitive abilities (i.e., auditory working memory and attention). Results are interpreted according to a corticofugal framework for auditory learning in which subcortical processing enhancements are engendered by strengthened cognitive control over auditory function in musicians.
INTRODUCTION: Although modern neuroimaging has facilitated early care of brain tumors in children worldwide, there are, however, few published reports on clinical profile, treatment, and outcome of brain tumors in children from our subregion. PURPOSE: We aimed to retrospectively study the clinical profile and outcome of pediatric brain tumors in a tertiary referral center from a developing country. METHODS: Forty pediatric patients with histologically verified brain tumors managed by the authors over a 13-year period (May1994-April 2006) were studied. Patients' data from clinical, radiological, and pathology records were analyzed using the statistical package for social sciences version 16. RESULTS: The mean age was 9.75years (range 1-15years). Twenty-two males, 18 females. Common presenting symptoms were headaches (23 patients, 57.5%) and seizures (15 patients, 37.5%). Hyperreflexia (72.5%) and focal motor deficits (62.5%) were the most common neurologic signs. The mean interval from onset of symptoms to neurosurgical diagnosis was 13.4months (95% CI). All patients had tumor resection, while 11 (27.5%) patients received adjuvant radiotherapy. Hydrocephalus occurred in 19 (47.5%) patients and was associated with early presentation (X(2)=10.65, p&lt;0.01). Low-grade astrocytoma (25%) and medulloblastoma (25%) were the most common tumors. Survival at 1 and 5years were 56 and 47%, respectively. CONCLUSION: Focal motor signs and elevated intracranial pressure are the salient presenting features of brain tumors in children seen in Nigeria. Those of them with hydrocephalus are likely to present early. The outcome for pediatric brain tumors remains poor.
Although the &quot;face of the giant panda&quot; sign on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is traditionally considered to be characteristic of Wilson disease, it has also been reported in other metabolic disorders. This study describes the characteristic &quot;giant panda&quot; sign on MRI in a child with Leigh disease. The diagnosis was based on the history of neurological regression; examination findings of oculomotor abnormalities, hypotonia, and dystonia; raised serum lactate levels; and characteristic brain stem and basal ganglia signal changes on MRI. The midbrain and pontine tegmental signal changes were consistent with the &quot;face of the giant panda and her cub&quot; sign. In addition to Wilson disease, metabolic disorders such as Leigh disease should also be considered in the differential diagnosis of this rare imaging finding.
Although luminance and color are thought to be processed independently at early stages of visual processing, there is evidence that they interact at later stages. For example, chromatic information has been shown to enhance or suppress depth from luminance depending on whether chromatic edges are aligned or orthogonal with luminance edges. Here we explored more generally how chromatic information interacts with luminance information that specifies shape from shading. Using a depth-matching task, we measured perceived depth in sinusoidal and square-wave gratings (specifying close-to sinusoidal and triangle-wave depth profiles, respectively) in three conditions. In the first, as we varied luminance contrast in the presence of an orthogonal chromatic grating, perceived depth increased (consistent with classical shape from shading). When we held the luminance at a fixed contrast and varied the chromatic grating in the other two conditions (orthogonal or aligned), we found large and inconsistent individual differences. Some participants exhibited the expected pattern of enhancement and suppression, but most did not, either for the sinusoidal or square-wave stimuli. Our results cast doubt on the idea that the interaction demonstrates a single high-level heuristic linked to depth perception. Instead, we speculate that interactions are more likely due to early cross-channel masking.
Suchow and Alvarez (2011) recently devised a striking illusion, where objects changing in color, luminance, size, or shape appear to stop changing when they move. They refer to the illusion as &quot;motion silencing of awareness to visual change.&quot; Here we present evidence that the illusion results from two perceptual processes: global motion and crowding. We adapted Suchow and Alvarez's stimulus to three concentric rings of dots, a central ring of &quot;target dots&quot; flanked on either side by similarly moving flanker dots. Subjects had to identify in which of two presentations the target dots were continuously changing (sinusoidally) in size, as distinct from the other interval in which size was constant. The results show: (a) Motion silencing depends on target speed, with a threshold around 0.2 rotations per second (corresponding to about 10/s linear motion). (b) Silencing depends on both target-flanker spacing and eccentricity, with critical spacing about half eccentricity, consistent with Bouma's law. (c) The critical spacing was independent of stimulus size, again consistent with Bouma's law. (d) Critical spacing depended strongly on contrast polarity. All results imply that the &quot;motion silencing&quot; illusion may result from crowding.

Bee venom has recently been suggested to possess beneficial effects in the treatment of Parkinson disease (PD). For instance, it has been observed that bilateral acupoint stimulation of lower hind limbs with bee venom was protective in the acute 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) mouse model of PD. In particular, a specific component of bee venom, apamin, has previously been shown to have protective effects on dopaminergic neurons in vitro. However, no information regarding a potential protective action of apamin in animal models of PD is available to date. The specific goals of the present study were to (i) establish that the protective effect of bee venom for dopaminergic neurons is not restricted to acupoint stimulation, but can also be observed using a more conventional mode of administration and to (ii) demonstrate that apamin can mimic the protective effects of a bee venom treatment on dopaminergic neurons. Using the chronic mouse model of MPTP/probenecid, we show that bee venom provides sustained protection in an animal model that mimics the chronic degenerative process of PD. Apamin, however, reproduced these protective effects only partially, suggesting that other components of bee venom enhance the protective action of the peptide.
Stereoselectivity of 2,3-benzodiazepine compounds provides a unique way for the design of stereoisomers as more selective and more potent inhibitors as drug candidates for treatment of the neurological diseases involving excessive activity of AMPA receptors. Here we investigate a pair of enantiomers known as Talampanel and its (+) counterpart about their mechanism of inhibition and selectivity toward four AMPA receptor subunits or GluA1-4. We show that Talampanel is the eutomer with the endismic ratio being 14 for the closed-channel and 10 for the open-channel state of GluA2. Kinetic evidence supports that Talampanel is a noncompetitive inhibitor and it binds to the same site for those 2,3-benzodiazepine compounds with the C-4 methyl group on the diazepine ring. This site, which we term as the &quot;M&quot; site, recognizes preferentially those 2,3-benzodiazepine compounds with the C-4 methyl group being in the R configuration, as in the chemical structure of Talampanel. Given that Talampanel inhibits GluA1 and GluA2, but is virtually ineffective on the GluA3 and GluA4 AMPA receptor subunits, we hypothesize that the &quot;M&quot; site(s) on GluA1 and GluA2 to which Talampanel binds is different from that on GluA3 and GluA4. If the molecular properties of the AMPA receptors and Talampanel are used for selecting an inhibitor as a single drug candidate for controlling the activity of all AMPA receptors in vivo, Talampanel is not ideal. Our results further suggest that addition of longer acyl groups to the N-3 position should produce more potent 2,3-benzodiazepine inhibitors for the &quot;M&quot; site.
Diabetes mellitus (DM) is considered to be a risk factor for dementia including Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the molecular mechanism underlying this risk is not well understood. We examined gene expression profiles in postmortem human brains donated for the Hisayama study. Three-way analysis of variance of microarray data from frontal cortex, temporal cortex, and hippocampus was performed with the presence/absence of AD and vascular dementia, and sex, as factors. Comparative analyses of expression changes in the brains of AD patients and a mouse model of AD were also performed. Relevant changes in gene expression identified by microarray analysis were validated by quantitative real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction and western blotting. The hippocampi of AD brains showed the most significant alteration in gene expression profile. Genes involved in noninsulin-dependent DM and obesity were significantly altered in both AD brains and the AD mouse model, as were genes related to psychiatric disorders and AD. The alterations in the expression profiles of DM-related genes in AD brains were independent of peripheral DM-related abnormalities. These results indicate that altered expression of genes related to DM in AD brains is a result of AD pathology, which may thereby be exacerbated by peripheral insulin resistance or DM.

The Salience Network (SN) consists of the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC) and bilateral insulae. The network responds to behaviorally salient events, and an important question is how its nodes interact. One theory is that the dACC provides the earliest cortical signal of behaviorally salient events, such as errors. Alternatively, the anterior right insula (aRI) has been proposed to provide an early cognitive control signal. As these regions frequently coactivate, it has been difficult to disentangle their roles using conventional methods. Here we use dynamic causal modeling and a Bayesian model evidence technique to investigate the causal relationships between nodes in the SN after errors. Thirty-five human subjects performed the Simon task. The task has two conditions (congruent and incongruent) producing two distinct error types. Neural activity associated with errors was investigated using fMRI. Subjects made a total of 1319 congruent and 1617 incongruent errors. Errors resulted in robust activation of the SN. Dynamic causal modeling analyses demonstrated that input into the SN was most likely via the aRI for both error types and that the aRI was the only region intrinsically connected to both other nodes. Only incongruent errors produced behavioral adaptation, and the strength of the connection between the dACC and the left insulae correlated with the extent of this behavioral change. We conclude that the aRI, not the dACC, drives the SN after errors on an attentionally demanding task, and that a change in the effective connectivity of the dACC is associated with behavioral adaptation after errors.
What constitutes normal cortical dynamics in healthy human subjects is a major question in systems neuroscience. Numerous in vitro and in vivo animal studies have shown that ongoing or resting cortical dynamics are characterized by cascades of activity across many spatial scales, termed neuronal avalanches. In experiment and theory, avalanche dynamics are identified by two measures: (1) a power law in the size distribution of activity cascades with an exponent of -3/2 and (2) a branching parameter of the critical value of 1, reflecting balanced propagation of activity at the border of premature termination and potential blowup. Here we analyzed resting-state brain activity recorded using noninvasive magnetoencephalography (MEG) from 124 healthy human subjects and two different MEG facilities using different sensor technologies. We identified large deflections at single MEG sensors and combined them into spatiotemporal cascades on the sensor array using multiple timescales. Cascade size distributions obeyed power laws. For the timescale at which the branching parameter was close to 1, the power law exponent was -3/2. This relationship was robust to scaling and coarse graining of the sensor array. It was absent in phase-shuffled controls with the same power spectrum or empty scanner data. Our results demonstrate that normal cortical activity in healthy human subjects at rest organizes as neuronal avalanches and is well described by a critical branching process. Theory and experiment have shown that such critical, scale-free dynamics optimize information processing. Therefore, our findings imply that the human brain attains an optimal dynamical regime for information processing.
Acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) are proton-gated cation channels widely expressed in the peripheral and CNSs, which critically contribute to a variety of pathophysiological conditions that involve tissue acidosis, such as ischemic stroke and epileptic seizures. However, the trafficking mechanisms of ASICs and the related proteins remain largely unknown. Here, we demonstrate that ASIC1a, the main ASIC subunit in the brain, undergoes constitutive endocytosis in a clathrin- and dynamin-dependent manner in both mouse cortical neurons and heterologous cell cultures. The endocytosis of ASIC1a was inhibited by either the small molecular inhibitor tyrphostin A23 or knockdown of the core subunit of adaptor protein 2 (AP2) 2 using RNA interference, supporting a clathrin-dependent endocytosis of ASIC1a. In addition, the internalization of ASIC1a was blocked by dominant-negative dynamin1 mutation K44A and the small molecular inhibitor dynasore, suggesting that it is also dynamin-dependent. We show that the membrane-proximal residues (465)LCRRG(469) at the cytoplasmic C terminus of ASIC1a are critical for interaction with the endogenous adaptor protein complex and inhibition of ASIC1a internalization strongly exacerbated acidosis-induced death of cortical neurons from wild-type but not ASIC1a knock-out mice. Together, these results reveal the molecular mechanism of ASIC1a internalization and suggest the importance of endocytic pathway in functional regulation of ASIC1a channels as well as neuronal damages mediated by these channels during neurodegeneration.
BACE1 is the rate-limiting enzyme that cleaves amyloid precursor protein (APP) to produce the amyloid  peptides that accumulate in Alzheimer's disease (AD). BACE1, which is elevated in AD patients and APP transgenic mice, also cleaves the 2-subunit of voltage-gated sodium channels (Nav2). Although increased BACE1 levels are associated with Nav2 cleavage in AD patients, whether Nav2 cleavage occurs in APP mice had not yet been examined. Such a finding would be of interest because of its potential impact on neuronal activity: previous studies demonstrated that BACE1-overexpressing mice exhibit excessive cleavage of Nav2 and reduced sodium current density, but the phenotype associated with loss of function mutations in either Nav-subunits or pore-forming -subunits is epilepsy. Because mounting evidence suggests that epileptiform activity may play an important role in the development of AD-related cognitive deficits, we examined whether enhanced cleavage of Nav2 occurs in APP transgenic mice, and whether it is associated with aberrant neuronal activity and cognitive deficits. We found increased levels of BACE1 expression and Nav2 cleavage fragments in cortical lysates from APP transgenic mice, as well as associated alterations in Nav1.1 expression and localization. Both pyramidal neurons and inhibitory interneurons exhibited evidence of increased Nav2 cleavage. Moreover, the magnitude of alterations in sodium channel subunits was associated with aberrant EEG activity and impairments in the Morris water maze. Together, these results suggest that altered processing of voltage-gated sodium channels may contribute to aberrant neuronal activity and cognitive deficits in AD.
Success in many decision-making scenarios depends on the ability to maximize gains and minimize losses. Even if an agent knows which cues lead to gains and which lead to losses, that agent could still make choices yielding suboptimal rewards. Here, by analyzing event-related potentials (ERPs) recorded in humans during a probabilistic gambling task, we show that individuals' behavioral tendencies to maximize gains and to minimize losses are associated with their ERP responses to the receipt of those gains and losses, respectively. We focused our analyses on ERP signals that predict behavioral adjustment: the frontocentral feedback-related negativity (FRN) and two P300 (P3) subcomponents, the frontocentral P3a and the parietal P3b. We found that, across participants, gain maximization was predicted by differences in amplitude of the P3b for suboptimal versus optimal gains (i.e., P3b amplitude difference between the least good and the best gains). Conversely, loss minimization was predicted by differences in the P3b amplitude to suboptimal versus optimal losses (i.e., difference between the worst and the least bad losses). Finally, we observed that the P3a and P3b, but not the FRN, predicted behavioral adjustment on subsequent trials, suggesting a specific adaptive mechanism by which prior experience may alter ensuing behavior. These findings indicate that individual differences in gain maximization and loss minimization are linked to individual differences in rapid neural responses to monetary outcomes.
The impact of spontaneous neurotransmission on neuronal plasticity remains poorly understood. Here, we show that acute suppression of spontaneous NMDA receptor-mediated (NMDAR-mediated) neurotransmission potentiates synaptic responses in the CA1 regions of rat and mouse hippocampus. This potentiation requires protein synthesis, brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression, eukaryotic elongation factor-2 kinase function, and increased surface expression of AMPA receptors. Our behavioral studies link this same synaptic signaling pathway to the fast-acting antidepressant responses elicited by ketamine. We also show that selective neurotransmitter depletion from spontaneously recycling vesicles triggers synaptic potentiation via the same pathway as NMDAR blockade, demonstrating that presynaptic impairment of spontaneous release, without manipulation of evoked neurotransmission, is sufficient to elicit postsynaptic plasticity. These findings uncover an unexpectedly dynamic impact of spontaneous glutamate release on synaptic efficacy and provide new insight into a key synaptic substrate for rapid antidepressant action.
Attention modifies neural tuning for low-level features, but it is unclear how attention influences tuning for complex stimuli. We investigated this question in humans using fMRI and face stimuli. Participants were shown six faces (F1-F6) along a morph continuum, and selectivity was quantified by constructing tuning curves for individual voxels. Face-selective voxels exhibited greater responses to their preferred face than to nonpreferred faces, particularly in posterior face areas. Anterior face areas instead displayed tuning for face categories: voxels in these areas preferred either the first (F1-F3) or second (F4-F6) half of the morph continuum. Next, we examined the effects of attention on voxel tuning by having subjects direct attention to one of the superimposed images of F1 and F6. We found that attention selectively enhanced responses in voxels preferring the attended face. Together, our results demonstrate that single voxels carry information about individual faces and that the nature of this information varies across cortical face areas. Additionally, we found that attention selectively enhances these representations. Our findings suggest that attention may act via a unitary principle of selective enhancement of responses to both simple and complex stimuli across multiple stages of the visual hierarchy.
Excitatory synapses are polarized structures that primarily reside on dendritic spines in the brain. The small GTPase Rac1 regulates the development and plasticity of synapses and spines by modulating actin dynamics. By restricting the Rac1-guanine nucleotide exchange factor Tiam1 to spines, the polarity protein Par3 promotes synapse development by spatially controlling Rac1 activation. However, the mechanism for recruiting Par3 to spines is unknown. Here, we identify brain-specific angiogenesis inhibitor 1 (BAI1) as a synaptic adhesion GPCR that is required for spinogenesis and synaptogenesis in mice and rats. We show that BAI1 interacts with Par3/Tiam1 and recruits these proteins to synaptic sites. BAI1 knockdown results in Par3/Tiam1 mislocalization and loss of activated Rac1 and filamentous actin from spines. Interestingly, BAI1 also mediates Rac-dependent engulfment in professional phagocytes through its interaction with a different Rac1-guanine nucleotide exchange factor module, ELMO/DOCK180. However, this interaction is dispensable for BAI1's role in synapse development because a BAI1 mutant that cannot interact with ELMO/DOCK180 rescues spine defects in BAI1-knockdown neurons, whereas a mutant that cannot interact with Par3/Tiam1 rescues neither spine defects nor Par3 localization. Further, overexpression of Tiam1 rescues BAI1 knockdown spine phenotypes. These results indicate that BAI1 plays an important role in synaptogenesis that is mechanistically distinct from its role in phagocytosis. Furthermore, our results provide the first example of a cell surface receptor that targets members of the PAR polarity complex to synapses.
Blood-brain barrier (BBB) dysfunction is a major hallmark of many neurological diseases, including multiple sclerosis (MS). Using a genomics approach, we defined a microRNA signature that is diminished at the BBB of MS patients. In particular, miR-125a-5p is a key regulator of brain endothelial tightness and immune cell efflux. Our findings suggest that repair of a disturbed BBB through microRNAs may represent a novel avenue for effective treatment of MS.
To understand life-long neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus (DG), characterizing dentate neural stem cells and the signals controlling their development are crucial. In the present study, we show that bone morphogenic protein (Bmp) signaling is a critical regulator of embryonic dentate development, required for initiating neurogenesis in embryonic DG progenitors and required for the establishment of dentate neural stem cells postnatally. We tested the hypothesis that Bmp signaling regulates dentate development in part by controlling the expression of Lef1, a Wnt responsive transcription factor expressed in dentate stem cells and absolutely required for dentate granule cell production. Bmp activation through the Acvr1 receptor induced Lef1 expression and neurogenesis in the embryonic DG. Ectopic expression of Bmp7 in the embryonic midline increased DG neurogenesis and inhibition of local Bmp signaling decreased embryonic DG neurogenesis. Mice with selective loss of Bmp expression due to defective meningeal development or with selective conditional deletion of meningeal Bmp7 also have dentate developmental defects. Conditional deletion of Activin receptor type I (Acvr1) or Smad4 (a downstream target nuclear effector of Bmp signaling) in DG neural stem cells resulted in defects in the postnatal subgranular zone and reduced neurogenesis. These results suggest that Acvr1-mediated meningeal Bmp signaling regulates Lef1 expression in the dentate, regulating embryonic DG neurogenesis, DG neural stem cell niche formation, and maintenance.
As a classic neuromodulator, dopamine has long been thought to modulate, rather than trigger, synaptic plasticity. In contrast, our present results demonstrate that within the parallel projections of dopaminergic and GABAergic terminals from the ventral tegmental area to the nucleus accumbens core (NAcCo), action-potential-activated release of dopamine heterosynaptically triggers LTD at GABAergic synapses, which is likely mediated by activating presynaptically located dopamine D1 class receptors and expressed by inhibiting presynaptic release of GABA. Moreover, this dopamine-mediated heterosynaptic LTD is abolished after withdrawal from cocaine exposure. These results suggest that action-potential-dependent dopamine release triggers very different cellular consequences from those induced by volume release or pharmacological manipulation. Activation of the ventral tegmental area to NAcCo projections is essential for emotional and motivational responses. This dopamine-mediated LTD allows a flexible output of NAcCo neurons, whereas disruption of this LTD may contribute to the rigid emotional and motivational state observed in addicts during cocaine withdrawal.
Medium spiny neurons (MSNs) within the nucleus accumbens shell (NAc) function to gate and prioritize emotional/motivational arousals for behavioral output. The neuronal output of NAc MSNs is mainly determined by the integration of membrane excitability and excitatory/inhibitory synaptic inputs. Whereas cocaine-induced alterations at excitatory synapses and membrane excitability have been extensively examined, the overall functional output of NAc MSNs following cocaine exposure is still poorly defined because little is known about whether inhibitory synaptic input to these neurons is affected by cocaine. Here, our results demonstrate multidimensional alterations at inhibitory synapses in NAc neurons following cocaine self-administration in rats. Specifically, the amplitude of miniature IPSCs (mIPSCs) was decreased after 21 d withdrawal from 5 d cocaine self-administration. Upon re-exposure to cocaine after 21 d withdrawal, whereas the amplitude of mIPSCs remained downregulated, the frequency became significantly higher. Furthermore, the reversal potential of IPSCs, which was not significantly altered during withdrawal, became more hyperpolarized upon cocaine re-exposure. Moreover, the relative weight of excitatory and inhibitory inputs to NAc MSNs was significantly decreased after 1 d cocaine withdrawal, increased after 21 d withdrawal, and returned to the basal level upon cocaine re-exposure after 21 d withdrawal. These results, together with previous results showing cocaine-induced adaptations at excitatory synapses and intrinsic membrane excitability of NAc MSNs, may provide a relatively thorough picture of the functional state of NAc MSNs following cocaine exposure.
Most animals from flies to humans count on circadian clocks to synchronize their physiology and behaviors. Daily light cycles are well known environmental cues for setting circadian rhythms. Warmer and cooler temperatures that mimic day and night are also effective in entraining circadian activity in most animals. Even vertebrate organisms can be induced to show circadian responses through exposure to temperature cycles. In poikilothermic animals such as Drosophila, temperature differences of only 2-3C are sufficient to synchronize locomotor rhythms. However, the molecular sensors that participate in temperature regulation of circadian activity in fruit flies or other animals are enigmatic. It is also unclear whether such detectors are limited to the periphery or may be in the central brain. Here, we showed that Drosophila TRPA1 (transient receptor potential cation channel A1) was necessary for normal activity patterns during temperature cycles. The trpA1 gene was expressed in a subset of pacemaker neurons in the central brain. In response to temperature entrainment, loss of trpA1 impaired activity, and altered expression of the circadian clock protein period (Per) in a subset of pacemaker neurons. These findings underscore a role for a thermoTRP in temperature regulation that extends beyond avoidance of noxious or suboptimal temperatures.

The use of three-dimensional (3D) cultures may induce cardiac progenitor cells to synthesize their own extracellular matrix (ECM) and sarcomeric proteins to initiate cardiac differentiation. 3D cultures grown on synthetic scaffolds may favour the implantation and survival of stem cells for cell therapy when pharmacological therapies are not efficient in curing cardiovascular diseases and when organ transplantation remains the only treatment able to rescue the patient's life. Silk fibroin-based scaffolds may be used to increase cell affinity to biomaterials and may be chemically modified to improve cell adhesion. In the present study, porous, partially orientated and electrospun nanometric nets were used. Cardiac progenitor cells isolated from adult rats were seeded by capillarity in the 3D structures and cultured inside inserts for 21days. Under this condition, the cells expressed a high level of sarcomeric and cardiac proteins and synthesized a great quantity of ECM. In particular, partially orientated scaffolds induced the synthesis of titin, which is a fundamental protein in sarcomere assembly. Copyright  2013 John Wiley &amp; Sons, Ltd.
Genetic deficits and loss of function for the triggering receptor expressed in myeloid cells 2 (TREM2; encoded at chr6p21.1), a transmembrane spanning stimulatory receptor of the immunoglobulin/lectin-like gene superfamily, have been associated with deficiencies in phagocytosis and the innate immune system in Alzheimer's disease. In this study, we provide evidence that TREM2 is downregulated in samples of sporadic Alzheimer hippocampal CA1 compared with age-matched controls. A nuclear factor-B (NF-B)-sensitive miRNA-34a (encoded at chr1p36.22), upregulated in Alzheimer's disease, was found to target the 299 nucleotide human TREM2 mRNA 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) and downregulate the expression of a TREM2-3'-UTR reporter vector. A stabilized anti-miRNA-34a (AM-34a) quenched this pathogenic response. The results suggest that an epigenetic mechanism involving an NF-B-mediated, miRNA-34a-regulated downregulation of TREM2 expression may shape innate immune and phagocytic responses that contribute to inflammatory neurodegeneration.

The human hypothalamus is a small deeply located region placed at the crossroad of neurovegetative, neuroendocrine, limbic, and optic systems. Although deep brain stimulation techniques have proven that it could be feasible to modulate these systems, targeting the hypothalamus and in particular specific nuclei and white bundles, is still challenging. Our goal was to make a synthesis of relevant topographical data of the human hypothalamus, under the form of magnetic resonance imaging maps useful for mastering its elaborated structure as well as its neighborhood. As from 1.5 Tesla, Inversion-Recovery sequence allows locating the hypothalamus and most of its components. Spotting hypothalamic compartments is possible according to specific landmarks: the anterior commissure, the mammillary bodies, the preoptic recess, the infundibular recess, the crest between the preoptic and the infundibular recesses, the optical tract, the fornix, and the mammillo-thalamic bundle. The identification of hypothalamus and most of its components could be useful to allow the quantification of local pathological processes and to target specific circuitry to alleviate severe symptoms, using physical or biological agents.
Headaches (cephalgias) are a common reason for patients to seek medical care. There are groups of patients with recurrent headache and craniofacial pain presenting with malignant course of their disease that becomes refractory to pharmacotherapy and other medical management options. Neuromodulation can be a viable treatment modality for at least some of these patients. We review the available evidence related to the use of neuromodulation modalities for the treatment of medically refractory craniofacial pain of different nosology based on the International Classification of Headache Disorders, 2(nd) edition (ICHD-II) classification. This article also reviews the scientific rationale of neuromodulation application in management of cephalgias.
Stress is a potent modulator of the mammalian brain. The highly conserved stress hormone response influences many brain regions, particularly the hippocampus, a region important for memory function. The effect of acute stress on the unique population of adult neural stem/progenitor cells (NPCs) that resides in the adult hippocampus is unclear. We found that acute stress increased hippocampal cell proliferation and astrocytic fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2) expression. The effect of acute stress occurred independent of basolateral amygdala neural input and was mimicked by treating isolated NPCs with conditioned media from corticosterone-treated primary astrocytes. Neutralization of FGF2 revealed that astrocyte-secreted FGF2 mediated stress-hormone-induced NPC proliferation. 2 weeks, but not 2 days, after acute stress, rats also showed enhanced fear extinction memory coincident with enhanced activation of newborn neurons. Our findings suggest a beneficial role for brief stress on the hippocampus and improve understanding of the adaptive capacity of the brain. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.00362.001.
The apolipoprotein E4 (APOE-4) allele is the strongest genetic risk factor for developing late-onset Alzheimer's disease, and may predispose individuals to Alzheimer's-related cognitive decline by affecting normal brain function early in life. To investigate the impact of human APOE alleles on cognitive performance in mice, we trained 3-mo-old APOE targeted replacement mice (E2, E3, and E4) in the Barnes maze to locate and enter a target hole along the perimeter of the maze. Long-term spatial memory was probed 24 h and 72 h after training. We found that young E4 mice exhibited significantly impaired spatial learning and memory in the Barnes maze compared to E3 mice. Deficits in spatial cognition were also present in a second independent cohort of E4 mice tested at 18 mo of age. In contrast, cognitive performance in the hidden platform water maze was not as strongly affected by APOE genotype. We also examined the dendritic morphology of neurons in the medial entorhinal cortex of 3-mo-old TR mice, neurons important to spatial learning functions. We found significantly shorter dendrites and lower spine densities in basal shaft dendrites of E4 mice compared to E3 mice, consistent with spatial learning and memory deficits in E4 animals. These findings suggest that human APOE-4 may affect cognitive function and neuronal morphology early in life.
Acetylcholine plays a crucial role in the regulation of neural functions, including dopamine release, synaptic activity, and intrinsic electrophysiological properties of the nucleus accumbens (NAc) shell. Although the effects of acetylcholine on the action potential properties of NAc medium spiny (MS) neurons have been reported, how intrinsic acetylcholine released from NAc cholinergic interneurons regulates the neural activity of MS neurons is still an open issue. To explore the cholinergic effects on the subthreshold responses and action potential properties of MS neurons in the NAc shell, we first tested the effects of carbachol, a non-selective cholinergic agonist, on MS neuronal activity. Then, we tested the effects of the activation of cholinergic interneurons on the electrophysiological properties of MS neurons via multiple whole-cell patch-clamp recordings. Bath application of carbachol induced resting membrane potential depolarization accompanied by an increase in the voltage response to negative current injection. These increases were blocked by the pre-application of pirenzepine, an M1 muscarinic receptor antagonist. In spite of the facilitative effect on voltage responses of negative current injection, carbachol diminished the characteristic slowly-depolarizing ramp potentials, which respond to positive current pulse injection. Thus, carbachol increased the rheobase and shifted the frequency-current curve toward the right. Repetitive spike firing of a cholinergic interneuron following positive current injection induced a similar increase in the rheobase, which delayed the action potential initiation in 38.9% MS neurons. In contrast to the bath application of carbachol, cholinergic interneuronal stimulation had little effect on the resting membrane potential in MS neurons. These results suggest that the acetylcholine released from a cholinergic interneuron is sufficient to suppress the repetitive spike firing of the adjacent MS neurons, although the depolarization of the resting membrane potential may require simultaneous activation of multiple cholinergic interneurons.
G protein-coupled receptors (GPCR) signal not only through heterotrimeric G proteins, but also through alternate pathways. Thus, dopamine D2 receptors in the striatum signal through Gi/o and also by promoting formation of a multi-protein complex containing -arrestin2, protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A), and Akt in order to dephosphorylate Akt. Lithium, on the other hand, disrupts this complex to increase Akt phosphorylation. Rhes is a striatally enriched GTP-binding protein that has been shown to inhibit dopamine receptor-mediated behavior and signaling through heterotrimeric G proteins. Therefore, our objective was to test whether Rhes similarly affects signaling through the Akt/GSK3 pathway in the striatum. Rhes(-/-) mice showed basally increased Akt and GSK3 phosphorylation relative to rhes(+/+) mice that was not further enhanced by lithium treatment. Furthermore, they responded to the D1/D2 agonist apomorphine with increased Akt and GSK3 phosphorylation. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments revealed that apomorphine treatment recruits PP 2A-C to Akt in both rhes(+/+) and rhes(-/-) mice. Lithium did not disrupt their interaction in rhes(-/-) mice as there was little basal interaction. Rhes co-immunoprecipitated with -arrestins, suggesting that it is integral to the multi-protein complex. Thus, Rhes is necessary for Akt dephosphorylation by the striatal multi-protein complex, and in its absence, a lithium-treated phenotype results.
Excitability, neurite outgrowth and their specification are very important features in the establishment of neuronal differentiation. We have studied a conditioned medium (CM) from sciatic nerve which is able to induce a neuronal-like differentiation of PC12 cells. Previously, we have demonstrated that supplementing this CM with a generic inhibitor (k252a), which mainly inhibits tropomyosin-related kinase receptors (Trk receptors) and protein kinase C (PKC), caused neurite elongation, sodium current induction and axon development. In the present work, we are showing that the enhancement of neurite length and induction of sodium currents induced by CM+k252a were prevented by ErbB receptor inhibition. Additionally, we demonstrated that specific inhibition of PKC produced a similar effect to that exerted by k252a in CM-treated cells, specifically by increasing the percentage of differentiated cells with long neurites and inducing sodium currents. Moreover, CM changed the mRNA levels for ErbB2 and ErbB3 increasing them 6- and 36-folds respectively compared to their control. The inclusion of k252a with CM changed the ErbB1, ErbB2 and ErbB3 mRNA proportions increasing those eight-, seven- and fivefolds respectively. From this point, it is clear that appropriate ErbB receptor levels and PKC inhibition are necessary to enhance the effect of the CM in inducing the neuronal-like differentiation of PC12 cells. In summary, we demonstrated the involvement of ErbB receptors in the regulation of neurite elongation and sodium current induction in PC12 cells and propose that these processes could be initiated by ErbB receptors followed by a fine regulation of PKC signaling. These findings might implicate a novel interplay between ErbB receptors and PKC in the regulation of these molecular mechanisms.
Humans are highly efficient in moving in a world of variable resistive forces which result, e.g., from different masses of objects or different directions of movements relative to gravity. However, the underlying mechanisms are challenged when an opposing force is suddenly removed. The resulting involuntary movements are known as accident risks in everyday life. We studied their characteristics upon abrupt cessations of opposing forces of 1, 2, and 4N which were presented in a series of variable or constant forces. The characteristics of the involuntary hand movements are largely determined by the mechanical impedance of the limb. The involuntary movements are oscillatory in nature, and their amplitude increases with stronger opposing force. Limb impedance is modulated both in a reactive and in an anticipatory manner. The reactive modulation occurs during each involuntary movement as a consequence of the neural responses elicited by the rapid limb acceleration consequent upon the cessation of the opposing force. Anticipatory modulation of limb impedance may serve to produce similar involuntary movements in spite of different opposing forces. The modulation is thus stronger with variable forces, where differences between resulting involuntary movements can be experienced more easily, than with constant forces.
Medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) has been implicated in the reward process and the development of cocaine addiction. In the current study, we used a proteomics-based approach, combining two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) with mass spectrometry (MS), to analyze protein expression profiles of rat mPFC after repeated cocaine exposure. Conditioned place preference (CPP) assay was used here to evaluate cocaine-induced reward effect in rats. We detected about 3100 protein spots in rat mPFC. After repeated cocaine exposure, 125 spots were changed by more than 1.1-fold of control levels. Among them, 71 spots with 1.5-fold or greater changes in protein expression over control levels have been identified, including 50 spots that were up-regulated and 21 spots that were down-regulated by repeated cocaine exposure. These identified proteins that showed significant changes in expression in mPFC after repeated cocaine exposure may be useful biomarkers for assessing cocaine abuse and potential new targets for investigating the mechanism of cocaine abuse.
Exposure to severe stress leads to development of neuropsychiatric disorders, including depression and Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) in at-risk individuals. Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is associated with resilience or improved recovery. Therefore exogenous administration to the brain has therapeutic potential although peripheral administration can trigger undesirable side effects. Here, we established conditions with intranasal (IN) NPY infusion to rats to obtain CSF concentrations in the proposed anxiolytic range without significant change in plasma NPY. Rats were pretreated with IN NPY or vehicle before exposure to single prolonged stress (SPS) animal model of PTSD and compared to untreated controls. The IN NPY appeared to lessen the perceived severity of stress, as these animals displayed less time immobile in forced swim part of the SPS. Thirty minutes after SPS the elevation of plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and corticosterone was not as pronounced in NPY-infused rats and the induction of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in locus coeruleus (LC) was attenuated. Seven days after SPS, they displayed lower depressive-like behavior on Forced Swim Test and reduced anxiety-like behavior on Elevated Plus Maze. The prolonged effect of SPS on Acoustic Startle Response was also lower in NPY-infused rats. Plasma ACTH, corticosterone, and hippocampal glucocorticoid receptor levels were significantly above controls only in the vehicle - but not IN NPY-treated group 1week after SPS. Baseline TH mRNA levels in LC did not differ among groups, but increased with forced swim in the vehicle - but not NPY-pretreated animals. Administration of IN NPY after exposure to SPS led to similar, but not identical, reduction in development of anxiety, depressive-like behavior and hyperarousal. The results show that single IN NPY can alter stress-triggered dysregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and activation of central noradrenergic activity. These findings provide proof of concept for potential of IN NPY for non-invasive prophylactic treatment or early intervention in response to traumatic stress.
Cholinergic system is important for respiratory control from the first days of life. Disturbances in cholinergic pathway due to early life stress like hypoxic shock can adversely affect the ventilatory response. The present study evaluates neonatal hypoxic insult mediated cholinergic disturbances and the role of glucose, oxygen and epinephrine resuscitation. The changes in total muscarinic, muscarinic M1, M2, M3 receptors and the enzymes involved in acetylcholine metabolism - cholineacetyl transferase and acetylcholine easterase in the cerebellum were analyzed. Hypoxic stress decreased cerebellar muscarinic receptor density with a decreased muscarinic M1, M2 and M3 receptor gene expression. The metabolic shift in the acetylcholine synthesis and release is indicated by the decreased cholineacetyl transferase mRNA expression and increased acetylcholine esterase gene expression. Glucose, acting as a precursor for acetyl choline synthesis and an immediate energy source, helps in reversing the cholinergic disturbances in hypoxic neonates. The limitation of immediate oxygenation and epinephrine administration in ameliorating cholinergic disturbances in hypoxic neonates was also reported. This will help in devising a better resuscitation program for the management of neonatal hypoxia.
Oligodendrocytes are important for not only nerve conduction but also central nervous system (CNS) development and neuronal survival in a variety of conditions. Kallikrein-related peptidase 6 (KLK6) is expressed in oligodendrocytes in the CNS and its expression is changed in several physiological and pathological conditions, especially following spinal cord injury (SCI) and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. In this study, we investigated the functions of KLK6 in oligodendrocyte lineage cell development and the production of myelin proteins using KLK6-deficient (KLK6(-/-)) mice. KLK6(-/-) mice were born without apparent defects and lived as long as wild-type (WT) mice. There was no significant difference in the numbers of oligodendrocyte precursor cells and mature oligodendrocytes in the adult naive spinal cord between WT and KLK6(-/-) mice. However, there were fewer mature oligodendrocytes in the KLK6(-/-) spinal cord than in the WT spinal cord at postnatal day 7 (P7). Expression of myelin basic protein (MBP) and oligodendrocyte-specific protein/claudin-11, major myelin proteins, was also decreased in the KLK6(-/-) spinal cord compared with the WT spinal cord at P7-21. Moreover, after SCI, the amount of MBP in the damaged spinal cords of KLK6(-/-) mice was significantly less than that in the damaged spinal cords of WT mice. These results indicate that KLK6 plays a functional role in oligodendrocyte development and the expression of myelin proteins.
In addition to GABA and glutamate innervations, the globus pallidus (GP) receives dopamine afferents from the pars compacta of the substantia nigra (SNc), and in turn, sends inhibitory GABAergic efferents to the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and the pars reticulata of the substantia nigra (SNr). Nevertheless, the role of dopamine in the modulation of these pallido-subthalamic and pallido-nigral projections is not known. The present study aimed to investigate the effects of intrapallidal injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) on the electrical activity of STN and SNr neurons using in vivo extracellular single unit recordings in the rat and on motor behaviors, using the &quot;open field&quot; actimeter and the stepping test. We show that intrapallidal injection of 6-OHDA significantly decreased locomotor activity and contralateral paw use. Electrophysiological recordings show that 6-OHDA injection into GP significantly increased the number of bursty cells in the STN without changing the firing rate, while in the SNr neuronal firing rate decreased and the proportion of irregular cells increased. Our data provide evidence that intrapallidal injection of 6-OHDA resulted in motor deficits paralleled by changes in the firing activity of STN and SNr neurons, which mimic in large part those obtained after major dopamine depletion in the classical rat model of Parkinson's disease. They support the assumption that in addition to its action in the striatum, dopamine mediates its regulatory function at various levels of the basal ganglia circuitry, including the GP.
Increasing evidence has shown that adipose-derived stem cells (ASCs) could transdifferentiate into Schwann cell (SC)-like cells to enhance nerve regeneration, suggesting potential new cell-based transplantation therapy for peripheral nerve injuries and neurodegenerative disorders. For the implementation of these results to the clinical setting, it is of great importance to establish the differentiation of human ASCs (hASCs) into a SC phenotype. In this study, we studied hASCs obtained from subcutaneous fat tissue of healthy donors. By a mixture of glial growth factors we differentiated them into Schwann cell-like cells (dhASCs). We then assessed their ability to act as Schwann cells in vitro and in vivo and also compared them with primary human Schwann cells (hSCs). Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay showed that dhASCs secreted brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)/nerve growth factor (NGF) at a comparable level, and glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) at a level even higher than hSCs, whereas undifferentiated hASCs (uhASCs) secreted low levels of these neurotrophic factors. In co-culture with NG108-15 neuronal cells we found that both dhASCs and hSCs significantly increased the percentage of cells with neurites, the neurite length, and the number of neurites per neuron, whereas uhASCs increased only the percentage of cells with neurites. Finally, we transplanted green fluorescent protein (GFP)-labeled hASCs into the crushed tibial nerve of athymic nude rats. The transplanted hASCs showed a close association with PGP9.5-positive axons and myelin basic protein (MBP)-positive myelin at 8weeks after transplantation. Quantitative analysis revealed that dhASCs transplantation resulted in significantly improved survival and myelin formation rates (a 7-fold and a 10-fold increase, respectively) as compared with uhASCs transplantation. These findings suggest that hASCs took part in supporting and myelinating regenerating axons, and thus have achieved full glial differentiation in vivo. In conclusion, hASCs can differentiate into SC-like cells that possess a potent capacity to secrete neurotrophic factors as well as to form myelin in vivo. These findings make hASCs an interesting prospect for cell-based transplantation therapy for various peripheral nerve disorders.
Previous studies revealed mechanisms of dendritic inputs leading to action potential initiation at the axon initial segment and backpropagation into the dendritic tree. This interest has recently expanded toward the communication between different parts of the dendritic tree which could preprocess information before reaching the soma. This study tested for effects of asymmetric voltage attenuation between different sites in the dendritic tree on summation of synaptic inputs and action potential initiation using the NEURON simulation environment. Passive responses due to the electrical equivalent circuit of the three-dimensional neuron architecture with leak channels were examined first, followed by the responses after adding voltage-gated channels and finally synaptic noise. Asymmetric attenuation of voltage, which is a function of asymmetric input resistance, was seen between all pairs of dendritic sites but the transfer voltages (voltage recorded at the opposite site from stimulation among a pair of dendritic sites) were equal and also summed linearly with local voltage responses during simultaneous stimulation of both sites. In neurons with voltage-gated channels, we reproduced the observations where a brief stimulus to the proximal ascending dendritic branch of a pyramidal cell triggers a local action potential but a long stimulus triggers a somal action potential. Combined stimulation of a pair of sites in this proximal dendrite did not alter this pattern. The attraction of the action potential onset toward the soma with a long stimulus in the absence of noise was due to the higher density of voltage-gated sodium channels at the axon initial segment. This attraction was, however, negligible at the most remote distal dendritic sites and was replaced by an effect due to high input resistance. Action potential onset occurred at the dendritic site of higher input resistance among a pair of remote dendritic sites, irrespective of which of these two sites received the synaptic input. Exploration of the parameter space showed how the gradient of voltage-gated channel densities and input resistances along a dendrite could draw the action potential onset away from the stimulation site. The attraction of action potential onset toward the higher density of voltage-gated channels in the soma during stimulation of the proximal dendrite was, however, reduced after the addition of synaptic noise.
Post-stroke dementia (PSD) is a common clinical disease and the central cholinergic circuits are important to cognitive function. Icariin (ICA), a flavonoid isolated from Herba Epimedii, was reported to improve cognitive function through modulating the cholinergic system. But there were no studies exploring the role of ICA in PSD animal models. In this study, we used transient middle cerebral artery occlusion mice with cognitive dysfunction in the PSD model. PSD mice were then randomly divided into six groups: Sham-operated+placebo group, Sham-operated+ICA group (60mg/kg), PSD model+placebo group, PSD model+ICA group (30, 60, or 120mg/kg). We observed spatial learning ability and memory by Morris water maze test. The levels of acetylcholine (ACH) and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), the degree of histone acetylation and the cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation in the central cholinergic circuits were investigated by Western blot and immunofluorescence. After the administration of various doses of ICA, the escape latency and searching distance of the PSD mice were reduced significantly compared with those without ICA treatment. While the levels of ACH and ChAT declined, the degree of histone acetylation and the CREB phosphorylation was improved in a dose-dependent manner in central cholinergic circuits. In conclusion, ICA can improve post-stroke dementia, and the mechanism is likely to enhance CREB phosphorylation in the central cholinergic circuits, thus improving the damage in cholinergic circuits histone acetylation homeostasis.
Palatability is the hedonic food component that is considered to override the homeostatic mechanisms that control food intake, and we compared how much effort non food-deprived and food-deprived rats were willing to spend in order to earn a palatable caloric (sucrose) or non-caloric (saccharin) snack. We first studied the dopaminergic response, in terms of dopamine levels and dopamine and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein Mr 32,000 (DARPP-32) phosphorylation pattern, to two consecutive palatable caloric or non-caloric snacks in the nucleus accumbens shell (NAcS) of non food-deprived and fasted rats. We report that non food-deprived rats developed rapid habituation in the NAcS dopaminergic response to the second consumption of both caloric and non-caloric palatable food, while food-deprived rats developed rapid habituation only to saccharin. Next, we show that in self-administration experiments, non food-deprived rats spent a similar effort when operating for sucrose or saccharin. However, the same rats showed an increased response specifically for sucrose after 18-h fasting. After pre-feeding devaluation, rats reduced their response to sucrose but not for saccharin. These results strengthen the hypothesis that food intake is mainly controlled by palatability in non food-deprived rats and by caloric content in food-deprived rats. Moreover, they show that rapid habituation development was associated with a similar, basal working activity aimed at ingesting both caloric and non-caloric food, as observed in non food-deprived rats consuming sucrose or saccharin and in fasted rats consuming saccharin. Conversely, lack of habituation, as present in fasted rats consuming a caloric food, was associated with extra energy expenditure.
Compensatory counter-rotations of the eyes provoked by head turns are commonly attributed to the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR). A recent study in guinea pigs demonstrates, however, that this assumption is not always valid. During voluntary head turns, guinea pigs make highly accurate compensatory eye movements that occur with zero or even negative latencies with respect to the onset of the provoking head movements. Furthermore, the anticipatory eye movements occur in animals with bilateral peripheral vestibular lesions, thus confirming that they have an extra vestibular origin. This discovery suggests the possibility that anticipatory responses might also occur in other species including humans and non-human primates, but have been overlooked and mistakenly identified as being produced by the VOR. This review will compare primate and guinea pig vestibular physiology in light of these new findings. A unified model of vestibular and cerebellar pathways will be presented that is consistent with current data in primates and guinea pigs. The model is capable of accurately simulating compensatory eye movements to active head turns (anticipatory responses) and to passive head perturbations (VOR induced eye movements) in guinea pigs and in human subjects who use coordinated eye and head movements to shift gaze direction in space. Anticipatory responses provide new evidence and opportunities to study the role of extra vestibular signals in motor control and sensory-motor transformations. Exercises that employ voluntary head turns are frequently used to improve visual stability in patients with vestibular hypofunction. Thus, a deeper understanding of the origin and physiology of anticipatory responses could suggest new translational approaches to rehabilitative training of patients with bilateral vestibular loss.

A proper maturation of stereoscopic functions requires binocular visual experience and early disruption of sensory-driven activity can result in long-term or even permanent visual function impairment. Amblyopia is one paradigmatic case of visual system disorder, with early conditions of functional imbalance between the two eyes leading to severe deficits of visual acuity and depth-perception abilities. In parallel to the reduction of neural plasticity levels, the brain potential for functional recovery declines with age. Recent evidence has challenged this traditional view and experimental paradigms enhancing experience-dependent plasticity in the adult brain have been described. Here, we show that environmental enrichment (EE), a condition of increased cognitive and sensory-motor stimulation, restores experience-dependent plasticity of stereoscopic perception in response to sensory deprivation well after the end of the critical period and reinstates depth-perception abilities of adult amblyopic animals in the range of normal values. Our results encourage efforts in the clinical application of paradigms based on EE as an intervention strategy for treating amblyopia in adulthood.
We tested quercetin, a dietary bioflavonoid with potent free radical scavenging action and antioxidant activity, for its neuroprotective effects in rotenone-induced hemi-parkinsonian rats. Rats were infused unilaterally with rotenone into the substantia nigra, and quercetin (25-75mg/kg, i.p.) was administered at 12-h intervals for 4days, and analyzed on the 5th day. Amphetamine- or apomorphine-induced unilateral rotations were significantly reduced in quercetin-treated rats, when analyzed on 14th or 16th day post-surgery, respectively. Quercetin possessed potent hydroxyl radical scavenging action in a cells-free, Fenton-like reaction in test tubes, and in isolated mitochondria when measured by salicylate hydroxylation method. We observed dose-dependent attenuation of the rotenone-induced loss in striatal dopamine, and nigral oxidized and reduced glutathione, as well as the increases in endogenous antioxidant enzymes (catalase and superoxide dismutase) activities supporting the notion that quercetin-effect is mediated via its powerful hydroxyl radicals-scavenging and antioxidant actions. Quercetin's dose-dependent ability to up-regulate mitochondrial complex-I activity, as evidenced by NADH-oxidation, and as seen in blue native-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) staining in both the contra- and ipsi-lateral nigra suggests the containment of reactive oxygen production at the mitochondrial level. Rotenone-induced induction of NADH-diaphorase activity in the nigral neurons, and its attenuation by quercetin pointed to the possible involvement of nitric oxide too. Reversal of neuronal death induced by rotenone as observed by increased tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells and decreased TdT-mediated dUTP nick end-labeling (TUNEL) staining in the substantia nigra confirmed the potential of quercetin to revamp dopaminergic cells following oxidative stress mediated programmed cell death and neuronal demise. The present study strongly implicates quercetin's potential ability to repair mitochondrial electron transport defects and to up-regulate its function as the basis of neuroprotection observed in a mitochondrial neurotoxin-induced Parkinsonism.
Disturbances in olfactory circuitry have been associated with depression in humans. The olfactory bulbectomized (OBX lesion) has been largely used as a model of depression-like behavior in the rat. However, quantitative neuronal rearrangements in key brain regions in this animal model have not been evaluated yet. Accordingly, we investigated changes in hippocampal plasticity as well as behavioral deficits in this animal model. OBX-induced behavioral deficits were studied in a battery of tests, namely the open field test (OFT), forced swim test (FST), and spatial memory disturbances in the Morris water maze (MWM). To characterize the neuronal remodeling, neuroanatomical rearrangements were investigated in the CA1 hippocampus and piriform cortex (PirC), brain regions receiving inputs from the olfactory bulbs and associated with emotional or olfactory processes. Additionally, cell proliferation and survival of newborn cells in the adult dentate gyrus (DG) of the hippocampus were also determined. OBX induced hyperlocomotion and enhanced rearing and grooming in the OFT, increased immobility in the FST as well as required a longer time to find the hidden platform in the MWM. OBX also induced dendritic atrophy in the hippocampus and PirC. In addition, cell proliferation was decreased while the survival remained unchanged in the DG of these animals. These various features are also observed in depressed subjects, adding further support to the validity and usefulness of this model to evaluate potential novel antidepressants.
Working memory (WM) training has been shown to lead to improvements in WM capacity and fluid intelligence. Given that divergent thinking loads on WM and fluid intelligence, we tested the hypothesis that WM training would improve performance and moderate neural function in the Alternate Uses Task (AUT)-a classic test of divergent thinking. We tested this hypothesis by administering the AUT in the functional magnetic resonance imaging scanner following a short regimen of WM training (experimental condition), or engagement in a choice reaction time task not expected to engage WM (active control condition). Participants in the experimental group exhibited significant improvement in performance in the WM task as a function of training, as well as a significant gain in fluid intelligence. Although the two groups did not differ in their performance on the AUT, activation was significantly lower in the experimental group in ventrolateral prefrontal and dorsolateral prefrontal cortices-two brain regions known to play dissociable and critical roles in divergent thinking. Furthermore, gain in fluid intelligence mediated the effect of training on brain activation in ventrolateral prefrontal cortex. These results indicate that a short regimen of WM training is associated with lower prefrontal activation-a marker of neural efficiency-in divergent thinking.
l-3,4-Dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-Dopa)-induced dyskinesia (LID) in Parkinson's disease (PD) is a major clinical problem. The prevailing view is that in PD patients and animal PD models dyskinesia develops after repeated l-dopa use or priming, independent of l-dopa's anti-PD therapeutic effect that occurs immediately. Here we show that in mice with severe and consistent dopamine (DA) loss in the dorsal striatum, rendered by transcription factor Pitx3 null mutation, the very first injection of l-dopa or D1-like agonist SKF81297 induced both normal ambulatory and dyskinetic movements. Furthermore, the robust stimulating effects on normal and dyskinetic movements had an identical time course and parallel dose-response curves. In contrast, D2-like agonist ropinirole stimulated normal and dyskinetic movements relatively modestly. These results demonstrate that severe DA loss in the dorsal striatum sets the stage for dyskinesia to occur on the first exposure to l-dopa or a D1 agonist without any priming. These results also indicate that l-dopa stimulated both normal and dyskinetic movements primarily via D1 receptor activation and that proper D1 agonism is potentially an efficacious therapy for PD motor deficits.
Neuroprotection by 17-estradiol and an estrogen receptor (ER) agonist against 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) lesion were shown to implicate protein kinase B (Akt) signaling in mice. In order to evaluate the associated mechanisms, this study compared estrogen receptor alpha (ER) and estrogen receptor beta (ER) intact or knockout (KO) and wild-type (WT) C57Bl/6 male mice following MPTP treatment of 7, 9, 11mg/kg and/or 17-estradiol. Striatal D1 and D2 dopamine (DA) receptors were measured by autoradiography with the specific ligands [(3)H]-SCH 23390 and [(3)H]-raclopride, respectively and signaling by Western blot for Akt, glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) and extracellular-regulated signal kinases (ERK1 and ERK2). Control ERKO mice had lower striatal [(3)H]-SCH 23390 specific binding than WT and ERKO mice; both KO mice had lower [(3)H]-raclopride specific binding. Striatal D1 receptors decreased with increasing doses of MPTP in correlation with striatal DA concentrations in ERKO mice and remained unchanged in WT and ERKO mice. Striatal D2 receptors decreased with increasing doses of MPTP in correlation with striatal DA concentrations in WT and ERKO mice and increased in ERKO mice. In MPTP-lesioned mice, 17-estradiol treatment increased D1 receptors in ERKO and ERKO mice and D2 receptors in WT and ERKO mice. MPTP did not affect striatal pAkt/Akt and pGSK3/GSK3 levels in WT and ERKO mice, while in vehicle-treated ERKO mice these levels were higher and increased with MPTP lesioning. Striatal pERK1/ERK1 and pERK2/ERK2 levels showed to a lesser extent a similar pattern. In conclusion, ERs affected the response of striatal DA receptors to a MPTP lesion and post receptor signaling.
In this study, we analysed facial expression detection and facial mimicry behaviour in response to an emotional empathic task. We posited that a &quot;simulation mechanism&quot; may be related to emotional face detection and that this mechanism could be supported by prefrontal cortical structures. To evaluate our hypothesis, we requested 16 subjects to emotionally empathise with facial stimuli and applied high frequency repeated transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) to the medial prefrontal cortex (MPFC) in order to induce an increased response to the facial expressions of emotion. To determine whether emotional content affects empathic behaviour, we also varied the stimulus valence (negative vs. positive vs. neutral faces). We found that autonomic (facial zygomatic and corrugator electromyography (EMG) subjective response) and detection (correct responses (CRs); response times (RTs)) measures were modulated by the MPFC activity. Specifically, when prefrontal structures were activated, subjects displayed an increased performance in CRs and reduced RTs for face recognition, as well as increased emotion-specific EMG responses in comparison to sham effects and control site stimulation. In fact, the zygomatic muscle was more responsive in cases of positive emotion (happiness), whereas corrugator activity was more robust during periods of negative emotion (fear, anger, disgust). However, an overall stronger effect was observed in response to negative, and potentially aversive, faces when compared with responses to positive and neutral faces. Finally, a direct correlation was found between the psychophysiological responses and detection measures. In summary, these results suggest that a &quot;simulation mechanism&quot; underlies emotion detection in an empathic situation that includes both EMG and behavioural responses. This mechanism appears to be supported and regulated by the MPFC area.
There is growing evidence that vitamin D is a neuroactive steroid capable of regulating multiple pathways important for both brain development and mature brain function. In particular, there is evidence from rodent models that prenatal vitamin D deficiency alters the development of dopaminergic pathways and this disruption is associated with altered behavior and neurochemistry in the adult brain. Although the presence of the vitamin D receptor (VDR) has been noted in the human substantia nigra, there is a lack of direct evidence showing that VDR is present in dopaminergic cells. Here we confirm that the VDR is present in the nucleus of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive neurons in both the human and rat substantia nigra, and it emerges early in development in the rat, between embryonic day 12 (E12) and E15. Consistent evidence based on immunohistochemistry, real-time PCR and western blot confirmed a pattern of increasing VDR expression in the rat midbrain until weaning. The nuclear expression of VDR in TH-positive neurons during critical periods of brain development suggests that alterations in early life vitamin D status may influence the orderly development of dopaminergic neurons.
The hippocampus plays a central role in stress-related mood disorders. The effects of acute vs. chronic stress on the integrity of hippocampal circuitry in influencing the vulnerability to, or resiliency against, neuronal injury are poorly understood. Here we investigated whether acute vs. chronic psychosocial isolation stress or a combination of the two (chronic stress followed by acute stress) influences the expression of the interneuronal marker parvalbumin (PV) and the chaperone-inducible heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70i) in different subregions of the hippocampus. Low levels of the Ca(2+)-binding protein (PV) may increase the vulnerability to neuronal injury, and Hsp70i represents an indicator of intense excitation-induced neuronal stress. Adult male Wistar rats were exposed to 2h of immobilization (IM) or cold (4C) (acute stressors), 21d of social isolation (chronic stress), or a combination of both acute and chronic stress. Both chronic isolation and the combined stressors strongly decreased the PV-immunoreactive cells in the CA1, CA3 and dentate gyrus (DG) region of the hippocampus, while acute stress did not affect PV expression. The combination of acute and chronic stress induced a dramatic increase in Hsp70i expression in the DG, but Hsp70i expression was unaffected in acute and chronic stress alone. We also monitored serum corticosterone (CORT) levels as a neuroendocrine marker of the stress response. Acute stress increased CORT levels, while chronic isolation stress compromised hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis activity such that the normal stress response was impaired following subsequent acute stress. These results indicate that in contrast to acute stress, chronic isolation compromises the HPA axis and generates a considerable reduction in PV expression, representing a decrease in the calcium-buffering capacity and a putatively higher vulnerability of specific hippocampal interneurons to excitotoxic injury. The induction of Hsp70i expression in response to acute and chronic isolation reveals that neurons in the DG are particularly vulnerable to an acute stressor following a chronic perturbation of HPA activity.
The human insula has been the focus of great attention in the last decade due to substantial progress in neuroimaging methodology and applications. Anatomical support for functional localization and interpretations, however, is still fragmented. The aim of the present study was to re-examine the microanatomical organization of the insula and relate cytoarchitectonic maps to major sulcal/gyral patterns by registration to high-resolution MR images of the same brains. The insula was divided into seven architectonic subdivisions (G, Ig, Id1-3, Ia1-2) that were charted on unfolded maps of the insula following a method used previously in monkeys. The results reveal overall similar patterns of Nissl, and to some extent also, myelin and parvalbumin (PV), as in monkeys, with a postero-dorsal to antero-ventral gradient of hypergranular to granular, dysgranular and agranular fields. Reversals occur ventrally along the inferior peri-insular sulcus (IPS), at the margin with the temporal operculum, and anteriorly at the limit with orbitofrontal cortex (OFC). A large portion of agranular cortex is characterized by a dense accumulation of the spindle-shaped von Economo neurons (VENs) in layer V. The distribution of VENs is not restricted to agranular insula but also extends into the anterior part of dysgranular fields. The patterns of intracortical myelin and of PV neuropil in the middle layers follow decreasing gradients from postero-dorsal granular to antero-ventral agranular insula, with particularly strong staining in posterior and dorsal insula. A separate PV enhanced area in the middle-dorsal insula corresponds in location to the presumed human gustatory area. Projections of the cytoarchitectonic maps onto high-resolution stereotactic MRI reveal a near concentric organization around the limen insula, with each cytoarchitectonic subdivision encompassing several major insular gyri/sulci. The dysgranular domain is the largest, taking up about half of the insula. The present study of the human insula provides a new anatomical basis for MR imaging and clinical applications.
In the spinal cord serotonin (5-HT) systems modulate the spinal network via various 5-HT receptors. Serotonin 2A receptor and serotonin 2C receptor (5-HT2A and 2C receptors) are likely the most important 5-HT receptors for enhancing the motoneuron excitability by facilitating the persistent inward current (PIC), and thus play an important role for the pathogenesis of spasticity after spinal cord injury. In conjunction with our 5-HT2A receptor study, using a same sacral spinal transection rat model we have in this study examined 5-HT2C receptor immunoreactivity (5-HT2CR-IR) changes at seven different time intervals after spinal injury. We found that 5-HT2CR-IR was widely distributed in different regions of the spinal gray matter and was predominantly located in the neuronal somata and their dendrites although it seemed also present in axonal fibers in the superficial dorsal horn. 5-HT2CR-IR in different regions of the spinal gray matter was seen to be increased at 14days after transection (with an average 1.3-fold higher than in sham-operated group) but did not reach a significant level until at 21days (1.4-fold). The increase sustained thereafter and a plateau level was reached at 45days (1.7-fold higher), a value similar as that at 60days. When 5-HT2CR-IR analysis was confined to the ventral horn motoneuron somata (including a proportion of proximal dendrites) a significant increase was not detected until 45days post-operation. 5-HT2CR upregulation in the spinal gray matter is confirmed with Western blot in the rats 60days post-operation. The time course of 5-HT2CR upregulation in the spinal gray matter and motoneurons was positively correlated with the development of tail spasticity (clinical scores). This indicates that 5-HT2CR is probably an important factor underlying this pathophysiological development by increasing the excitability of both motoneurons and interneurons.
The GABAA receptor is the main inhibitory receptor in the brain and its subunits originate from different genes or gene families (1-6, 1-3, 1-3, , , , , or 1-3). In the mouse brain the anatomical distribution of GABAA receptor subunit mRNAs so far investigated is restricted to subunits forming benzodiazepine-sensitive receptor complexes (1-3, 5, 2, 3 and 2) in the forebrain and midbrain as assessed by in situ hybridization (ISH). In the present study the anatomical distribution of the GABAA receptor subunits 1-6, 1-3, 1-2 and  was analyzed in the mouse brain (excluding brain stem) by ISH and immunohistochemistry (IHC). In several brain areas such as hippocampus, cerebellum, bulbus olfactorius and habenula we observed that mRNA levels did not reflect protein levels, indicating that the protein is located far distantly from the cell body. We also compared the distribution of these 12 subunit mRNAs and proteins with that reported in the rat brain. Although in general there is a considerable correspondence in the distribution between mouse and rat brains, several species-specific differences were observed.
In heroin-dependent individuals, the drive to avoid or ameliorate the negative affective/emotional state associated with the discontinuation of heroin contributes to the chronic relapsing nature of the disease. Here, we investigate changes in proopiomelanocortin (POMC) expression at three time points across an extended period of heroin withdrawal in a clinically relevant rodent model of addiction using conditioned place aversion (CPA) in POMC-EGFP (POMC-enhanced green fluorescent protein) bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) transgenic mice. Neurons expressing POMC-EGFP were found in the medial nucleus of the amygdala (MeA), basomedial amygdala (BMA) and dentate gyrus of hippocampus (DG), as well as the arcuate nucleus of hypothalamus (ARC). Heroin-treated mice displayed robust CPA after acute spontaneous withdrawal (12h), which persisted across the extended (14days) withdrawal period. After 12-h withdrawal, heroin-treated mice showed lower signal intensity of POMC-EGFP-positive cells in the ARC, higher levels of POMC mRNA in the amygdala but lower levels in the hippocampus than saline controls. After 7-d withdrawal, heroin-treated mice showed fewer POMC-EGFP-positive cells in the MeA and lower POMC mRNA in the amygdala than saline controls. After extended (14days) withdrawal, heroin-treated mice showed more POMC-EGFP-positive cells in BMA and DG, increased intensity of POMC-EGFP signal in DG, and higher POMC mRNA levels in the hippocampus compared to controls. Our results show dynamic changes in POMC in hypothalamic and extra-hypothalamic regions that may contribute to the negative affective/emotional state of heroin withdrawal shown by CPA from acute to extended periods of heroin withdrawal.
Alterations in serotonin (5-HT) neurochemistry have been implicated in the aetiology of all major neuropsychiatric disorders, ranging from schizophrenia to mood and anxiety-spectrum disorders. This review will focus on the multifaceted implications of 5-HT-ergic dysfunctions in the pathophysiology of aggressive and suicidal behaviours. After a brief overview of the anatomical distribution of the 5-HT-ergic system in the key brain areas that govern aggression and suicidal behaviours, the implication of 5-HT markers (5-HT receptors, transporter as well as synthetic and metabolic enzymes) in these conditions is discussed. In this regard, particular emphasis is placed on the integration of pharmacological and genetic evidence from animal studies with the findings of human experimental and genetic association studies. Traditional views postulated an inverse relationship between 5-HT and aggression and suicidal behaviours; however, ample evidence has shown that this perspective may be overly simplistic, and that such pathological manifestations may reflect alterations in 5-HT homoeostasis due to the interaction of genetic, environmental and gender-related factors, particularly during early critical developmental stages. The development of animal models that may capture the complexity of such interactions promises to afford a powerful tool to elucidate the pathophysiology of impulsive aggression and suicidability, and identify new effective therapies for these conditions.
Our previous studies have demonstrated that application of the inflammatory irritant mustard oil (MO) to the tooth pulp produces trigeminal central sensitization that includes increases in mechanoreceptive field size and responses to noxious stimuli and decrease in activation threshold in brainstem nociceptive neurons of trigeminal subnucleus caudalis (the medullary dorsal horn, MDH). The aim of the present study was to test if central noradrenergic processes are involved in the central sensitization of MDH neurons and if 1-adrenoceptors or 2-adrenoceptors or both are involved. In urethane/-chloralose-anesthetized rats, the activity of extracellularly recorded and functionally identified single nociceptive neurons in the MDH was studied. Continuous intrathecal (i.t.) superfusion of the adrenergic modulator guanethidine and -adrenoceptor blocker phentolamine or selective 1-adrenoceptor antagonist prazosin over the medulla strongly attenuated all three MO-induced parameters of central sensitization in the MDH nociceptive neurons, compared to phosphate-buffered saline (as vehicle control). In contrast, i.t. superfusion of the selective 2-adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine had little effect on the mechanoreceptive field expansion and the decreased mechanical activation threshold, and indeed facilitated responses to noxious stimuli of sensitized nociceptive neurons. Superfusion of each of the four chemicals alone did not affect baseline nociceptive neuronal properties. These findings provide the first documentation of the involvement of central noradrenergic processes in MDH in the development of the central sensitization, and that 1- and 2-adrenoceptors may be differentially involved.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic progressive neurological disorder with an increasing incidence in the aging population. Neuroprotective and/or neuroregenerative strategies remain critical in the treatment of this increasingly prevalent disease. Prosaposin is a neurotrophic factor whose neurotrophic activity is attributed to a stretch of 12 amino acids located at the N-terminal region of saposin C. The present study was performed to investigate the protective effect and mechanism of action of a prosaposin-derived 18-mer peptide (PS18: LSELIINNATEELLIKGL) in Parkinson's disease models. We used 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) or 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP(+))-induced dopaminergic neurotoxicity in C57BL/6J mice or SH-SY5Y cells and explored the protective effect and mechanisms of action of PS18 on dopaminergic neurons. Treatment with 2.0mg/kg PS18 significantly improved behavioral deficits, enhanced the survival of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons, and decreased the activity of astrocytes in the substantia nigra and striatum in MPTP-induced PD model mice. In vitro, a Cell Counting Kit-8 assay and Hoechst 33258 staining revealed that co-treatment with 300ng/mL PS18 and 5mM MPP(+) protected against MPP(+)-induced nuclear morphological changes and attenuated cell death induced by MPP(+). We also found that PS18-FAM entered the cells, and the retention time of PS18-FAM in the cytoplasm of MPP(+)-treated cells was shorter than that of untreated cells. In addition, PS18 showed protection from MPP(+)/MPTP-induced apoptosis in the SH-SY5Y cells and dopaminergic neurons in the PD model mice via suppression of the c-Jun N-terminal kinase/c-Jun pathway; upregulation of Bcl-2; downregulation of BAX, attenuating mitochondrial damage; and inhibition of caspase-3. These findings suggest that PS18 may provide a valuable therapeutic strategy for the treatment of progressive neurodegenerative diseases such as PD.
Ribbon synapses are tonically active high-throughput synapses. The performance of the ribbon synapse is accomplished by a specialization of the cytomatrix at the active zone (CAZ) referred to as the synaptic ribbon (SR). Progress in our understanding of the structure-function relationship at the ribbon synapse has come from observations that, in photoreceptors lacking a full-size scaffolding protein Bassoon (Bsn(Ex4/5)), dissociation of SRs coincides with perturbed signal transfer. The aim of the present study has been to elaborate the role of Bassoon as a structural organizer of the ribbon synapse and to differentiate it with regard to the ambient lighting conditions. The ultrastructure of retinal ribbon synapses has been compared between wild-type (Wt) and Bsn(Ex4/5) mice adapted to light (low activity) and darkness (high activity). The results obtained suggest that Bassoon and environmental illumination synergistically and complementarily act as organizers of the ribbon synapse. Thus, light-dependent and Bassoon-independent regulation involves initial SR tethering to the membrane and a basic shape transition of ribbon material from spherical to rod-like, since darkness induces these features in Bsn(Ex4/5) rod spherules. However, the tight anchorage of the SR via an arciform density and the proper assembly of SRs to the full-sized horseshoe-shaped complex depend on Bassoon, as these steps fail in Bsn(Ex4/5) rod spherules.
Severe muscle wasting is a debilitating condition in critically ill intensive care unit (ICU) patients, characterized by general muscle weakness and dysfunction, resulting in a prolonged mobilization, delayed weaning from the ventilator, and a decreased quality of life post-ICU. The mechanisms underlying limb muscle weakness in ICU patients are complex and involve the impact of primary disease, but also factors common to critically ill ICU patients such as sepsis, mechanical ventilation (MV), immobilization, and systemic administration of corticosteroids (CS). These factors may have additive negative effects on skeletal muscle structure and function, but their respective role alone remain unknown. The primary aim of this study was to examine how CS administration potentiates ventilator and immobilization-related limb muscle dysfunction at the gene level. Comparing biceps femoris gene expression in pigs exposed to MV and CS for 5 days with only MV pigs for the same duration of time showed a distinct deregulation of 186 genes according to microarray. Surprisingly, the decreased force-generation capacity at the single muscle fiber reported in response to the addition of CS administration in mechanically ventilated and immobilized pigs was not associated with an additional upregulation of proteolytic pathways. On the other hand, an altered expression of genes regulating kinase activity, cell cycle, transcription, channel regulation, oxidative stress response, cytoskeletal, sarcomeric, and heat shock protein, as well as protein synthesis at the translational level, appears to play an additive deleterious role for the limb muscle weakness in immobilized ICU patients.
High-throughput phenotyping projects in model organisms have the potential to improve our understanding of gene functions and their role in living organisms. We have developed a computational, knowledge-based approach to automatically infer gene functions from phenotypic manifestations and applied this approach to yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae), nematode worm (Caenorhabditis elegans), zebrafish (Danio rerio), fruitfly (Drosophila melanogaster) and mouse (Mus musculus) phenotypes. Our approach is based on the assumption that, if a mutation in a gene [Formula: see text] leads to a phenotypic abnormality in a process [Formula: see text], then [Formula: see text] must have been involved in [Formula: see text], either directly or indirectly. We systematically analyze recorded phenotypes in animal models using the formal definitions created for phenotype ontologies. We evaluate the validity of the inferred functions manually and by demonstrating a significant improvement in predicting genetic interactions and protein-protein interactions based on functional similarity. Our knowledge-based approach is generally applicable to phenotypes recorded in model organism databases, including phenotypes from large-scale, high throughput community projects whose primary mode of dissemination is direct publication on-line rather than in the literature.
The repressor element silencing transcription factor (REST) is a coordinate transcriptional and epigenetic regulator which functions as a tumor suppressor or an oncogene depending on cellular context, and a truncated splice variant REST4 has been linked to various types of cancer. We performed a comprehensive analysis of alternative splicing (AS) of REST by rapid amplification of cDNA ends and PCR amplification of cDNAs from various tissues and cell lines with specific primers. We identified 8 novel alternative exons including an alternate last exon which doubles the REST gene boundary, along with numerous 5'/3' splice sites and ends in the constitutive exons. With the combination of various splicing patterns (e.g. exon skipping and alternative usage of the first and last exons) that are predictive of altered REST activity, at least 45 alternatively spliced variants of coding and non-coding mRNA were expressed in a species- and cell-type/tissue-specific manner with individual differences. By examining the repertoire of REST pre-mRNA splicing in 27 patients with kidney, liver and lung cancer, we found that all patients without exception showed differential expression of various REST splice variants between paired tumor and adjacent normal tissues, with striking cell-type/tissue and individual differences. Moreover, we revealed that exon 3 skipping, which causes no frame shift but loss of a domain essential for nuclear translocation, was affected by pioglitazone, a highly selective activator of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR) which contributes to cell differentiation and tumorigenesis besides its metabolic actions. Accordingly, this study demonstrates an extensive AS of REST pre-mRNA which redefines REST gene boundary and structure, along with a general but differential link between REST pre-mRNA splicing and various types of cancer. These findings advance our understanding of the complex, context-dependent regulation of REST gene expression and function, and provide potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets for cancer.
Neuropeptide S (NPS) is a newly identified neuromodulator located in the brainstem and regulates various biological functions by selectively activating the NPS receptors (NPSR). High level expression of NPSR mRNA in the olfactory cortex suggests that NPS-NPSR system might be involved in the regulation of olfactory function. The present study was undertaken to investigate the effects of intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of NPS or co-injection of NPSR antagonist on the olfactory behaviors, food intake, and c-Fos expression in olfactory cortex in mice. In addition, dual-immunofluorescence was employed to identify NPS-induced Fos immunereactive (-ir) neurons that also bear NPSR. NPS (0.1-1 nmol) i.c.v. injection significantly reduced the latency to find the buried food, and increased olfactory differentiation of different odors and the total sniffing time spent in olfactory habituation/dishabituation tasks. NPS facilitated olfactory ability most at the dose of 0.5 nmol, which could be blocked by co-injection of 40 nmol NPSR antagonist [D-Val(5)]NPS. NPS administration dose-dependently inhibited food intake in fasted mice. Ex-vivo c-Fos and NPSR immunohistochemistry in the olfactory cortex revealed that, as compared with vehicle-treated mice, NPS markedly enhanced c-Fos expression in the anterior olfactory nucleus (AON), piriform cortex (Pir), ventral tenia tecta (VTT), the anterior cortical amygdaloid nucleus (ACo) and lateral entorhinal cortex (LEnt). The percentage of Fos-ir neurons that also express NPSR were 88.5% and 98.1% in the AON and Pir, respectively. The present findings demonstrated that NPS, via selective activation of the neurons bearing NPSR in the olfactory cortex, facilitates olfactory function in mice.
Based on pharmacological studies of chemosensory transduction in transient receptor potential channel M5 (TRPM5) knockout mice it was hypothesized that this channel is involved in transduction for a subset of putative pheromones in mouse olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs). Yet, in the same study an electroolfactogram (EOG) in the mouse olfactory epithelium showed no significant difference in the responses to pheromones (and odors) between wild type and TRPM5 knockout mice. Here we show that the number of OSNs expressing TRPM5 is increased by unilateral naris occlusion. Importantly, EOG experiments show that mice lacking TRPM5 show a decreased response in the occluded epithelia to putative pheromones as opposed to wild type mice that show no change upon unilateral naris occlusion. This evidence indicates that under decreased olfactory sensory input TRPM5 plays a role in mediating putative pheromone transduction. Furthermore, we demonstrate that cyclic nucleotide gated channel A2 knockout (CNGA2-KO) mice that show substantially decreased or absent responses to odors and pheromones also have elevated levels of TRPM5 compared to wild type mice. Taken together, our evidence suggests that TRPM5 plays a role in mediating transduction for putative pheromones under conditions of reduced chemosensory input.
Glucagon-like-peptide-1 (GLP-1) is a gut- and neuro-peptide with an important role in the regulation of food intake and glucose metabolism. Interestingly, GLP-1 receptors (GLP-1R) are expressed in key mesolimbic reward areas (including the ventral tegmental area, VTA), innervated by hindbrain GLP-1 neurons. Recently GLP-1 has emerged as a potential regulator of food reward behavior, an effect driven by the mesolimbic GLP-1Rs. Its role in other reward behaviors remains largely unexplored. Since a considerable overlap has been suggested for circuitry controlling reward behavior derived from food and alcohol we hypothesized that GLP-1 and GLP-1Rs could regulate alcohol intake and alcohol reward. We sought to determine whether GLP-1 or its clinically safe stable analogue, Exendin-4, reduce alcohol intake and reward. To determine the potential role of the endogenous GLP-1 in alcohol intake we evaluated whether GLP-1R antagonist, Exendin 9-39, can increase alcohol intake. Furthermore, we set out to evaluate whether VTA GLP-1R activation is sufficient to reduce alcohol intake. Male Wistar rats injected peripherally with GLP-1 or Exendin-4 reduced their alcohol intake in an intermittent access two bottle free choice drinking model. Importantly, a contribution of endogenously released GLP-1 is highlighted by our observation that blockade of GLP-1 receptors alone resulted in an increased alcohol intake. Furthermore, GLP-1 injection reduced alcohol reward in the alcohol conditioned place preference test in mice. To evaluate the neuroanatomical substrate linking GLP-1 with alcohol intake/reward, we selectively microinjected GLP-1 or Exendin 4 into the VTA. This direct stimulation of the VTA GLP-1 receptors potently reduced alcohol intake. Our findings implicate GLP-1R signaling as a novel modulator of alcohol intake and reward. We show for the first time that VTA GLP-1R stimulation leads to reduced alcohol intake. Considering that GLP-1 analogues are already approved for clinical use, this places the GLP system as an exciting new potential therapeutic target for alcohol use disorders.
Task switch costs often show an asymmetry, with switch costs being larger when switching from a difficult task to an easier task. This asymmetry has been explained by difficult tasks being represented more strongly and consequently requiring more inhibition prior to switching to the easier task. The present study shows that switch cost asymmetries observed in arithmetic tasks (addition vs. subtraction) do not depend on task difficulty: Switch costs of similar magnitudes were obtained when participants were presented with unsolvable pseudo-equations that did not differ in task difficulty. Further experiments showed that neither task switch costs nor switch cost asymmetries were due to perceptual factors (e.g., perceptual priming effects). These findings suggest that asymmetrical switch costs can be brought about by the association of some tasks with greater difficulty than others. Moreover, the finding that asymmetrical switch costs were observed (1) in the absence of a task switch proper and (2) without differences in task difficulty, suggests that present theories of task switch costs and switch cost asymmetries are in important ways incomplete and need to be modified.
Human short term memory has a capacity of several items maintained simultaneously. We show how the number of short term memory representations that an attractor network modeling a cortical local network can simultaneously maintain active is increased by using synaptic facilitation of the type found in the prefrontal cortex. We have been able to maintain 9 short term memories active simultaneously in integrate-and-fire simulations where the proportion of neurons in each population, the sparseness, is 0.1, and have confirmed the stability of such a system with mean field analyses. Without synaptic facilitation the system can maintain many fewer memories active in the same network. The system operates because of the effectively increased synaptic strengths formed by the synaptic facilitation just for those pools to which the cue is applied, and then maintenance of this synaptic facilitation in just those pools when the cue is removed by the continuing neuronal firing in those pools. The findings have implications for understanding how several items can be maintained simultaneously in short term memory, how this may be relevant to the implementation of language in the brain, and suggest new approaches to understanding and treating the decline in short term memory that can occur with normal aging.

Coherent network activity among assemblies of interconnected cells is essential for diverse functions in the adult brain. However, cellular networks before formations of chemical synapses are poorly understood. Here, embryonic stem cell-derived neural progenitors were found to form networks exhibiting synchronous calcium ion (Ca(2+)) activity that stimulated cell proliferation. Immature neural cells established circuits that propagated electrical signals between neighboring cells, thereby activating voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels that triggered Ca(2+) oscillations. These network circuits were dependent on gap junctions, because blocking prevented electrotonic transmission both in vitro and in vivo. Inhibiting connexin 43 gap junctions abolished network activity, suppressed proliferation, and affected embryonic cortical layer formation. Cross-correlation analysis revealed highly correlated Ca(2+) activities in small-world networks that followed a scale-free topology. Graph theory predicts that such network designs are effective for biological systems. Taken together, these results demonstrate that immature cells in the developing brain organize in small-world networks that critically regulate neural progenitor proliferation.
Based on clinical presentation, glioblastoma (GBM) is stratified into primary and secondary types. The protein 53 (p53) pathway is functionally incapacitated in most GBMs by distinctive type-specific mechanisms. To model human gliomagenesis, we used a GFAP-HRas(V12) mouse model crossed into the p53ER(TAM) background, such that either one or both copies of endogenous p53 is replaced by a conditional p53ER(TAM) allele. The p53ER(TAM) protein can be toggled reversibly in vivo between wild-type and inactive conformations by administration or withdrawal of 4-hydroxytamoxifen (4-OHT), respectively. Surprisingly, gliomas that develop in GFAP-HRas(V12);p53(+/KI) mice abrogate the p53 pathway by mutating p19(ARF)/MDM2 while retaining wild-type p53 allele. Consequently, such tumors are unaffected by restoration of their p53ER(TAM) allele. By contrast, gliomas arising in GFAP-HRas(V12);p53(KI/KI) mice develop in the absence of functional p53. Such tumors retain a functional p19(ARF)/MDM2-signaling pathway, and restoration of p53ER(TAM) allele triggers p53-tumor-suppressor activity. Congruently, growth inhibition upon normalization of mutant p53 by a small molecule, Prima-1, in human GBM cultures also requires p14(ARF)/MDM2 functionality. Notably, the antitumoral efficacy of p53 restoration in tumor-bearing GFAP-HRas(V12);p53(KI/KI) animals depends on the duration and frequency of p53 restoration. Thus, intermittent exposure to p53ER(TAM) activity mitigated the selective pressure to inactivate the p19(ARF)/MDM2/p53 pathway as a means of resistance, extending progression-free survival. Our results suggest that intermittent dosing regimes of drugs that restore wild-type tumor-suppressor function onto mutant, inactive p53 proteins will prove to be more efficacious than traditional chronic dosing by similarly reducing adaptive resistance.
Finding the first time a fluctuating quantity reaches a given boundary is a deceptively simple-looking problem of vast practical importance in physics, biology, chemistry, neuroscience, economics, and industrial engineering. Problems in which the bound to be traversed is itself a fluctuating function of time include widely studied problems in neural coding, such as neuronal integrators with irregular inputs and internal noise. We show that the probability p(t) that a Gauss-Markov process will first exceed the boundary at time t suffers a phase transition as a function of the roughness of the boundary, as measured by its Hlder exponent H. The critical value occurs when the roughness of the boundary equals the roughness of the process, so for diffusive processes the critical value is Hc = 1/2. For smoother boundaries, H &gt; 1/2, the probability density is a continuous function of time. For rougher boundaries, H &lt; 1/2, the probability is concentrated on a Cantor-like set of zero measure: the probability density becomes divergent, almost everywhere either zero or infinity. The critical point Hc = 1/2 corresponds to a widely studied case in the theory of neural coding, in which the external input integrated by a model neuron is a white-noise process, as in the case of uncorrelated but precisely balanced excitatory and inhibitory inputs. We argue that this transition corresponds to a sharp boundary between rate codes, in which the neural firing probability varies smoothly, and temporal codes, in which the neuron fires at sharply defined times regardless of the intensity of internal noise.
Spinal cord compression (SCC) caused by cervical spinal canal invasion of a pulmonary sarcomatoid carcinoma metastasis has never been reported previously. A 59-year-old man, with a history of pulmonary carcinosarcoma, developed over several weeks important neck swelling. Admitted to our division with severe tetraparesis he underwent a cervical spine computed tomography scan that showed a large cervical mass measuring 11 cm  27 cm  17 cm with SCC, extending from the occiput to C7. Emergency spinal cord decompression was performed leading to minor neurological improvement. Poor outcome was due to the unusual clinical sign that led to late diagnosis and treatment.
Decision-making is a complex cognitive process that is impaired in a number of psychiatric disorders. In the laboratory, decision-making is frequently assessed using &quot;gambling&quot; tasks that are designed to simulate real-life decisions in terms of uncertainty, reward and punishment. Here, we investigate whether lesions of the medial prefrontal cortex (PFC) cause impairments in decision-making using a rodent gambling task (rGT). In this task, rats have to decide between 1 of 4 possible options: 2 options are considered &quot;advantageous&quot; and lead to greater net rewards (food pellets) than the other 2 &quot;disadvantageous&quot; options. Once rats attained stable levels of performance on the rGT they underwent sham or excitoxic lesions of the medial PFC and were allowed to recover for 1 week. Following recovery, rats were retrained for 5 days and then the effects of a dopamine D1-like receptor antagonist (SCH23390) or a D2-like receptor antagonist (haloperidol) on performance were assessed. Lesioned rats exhibited impaired decision-making: they made fewer advantageous choices and chose the most optimal choice less frequently than did sham-operated rats. Administration of SCH23390 (0.03 mg/kg), but not haloperidol (0.015-0.03 mg/kg) attenuated the lesion-induced decision-making deficit. These results indicate that the medial PFC is important for decision-making and that excessive signaling at D1 receptors may contribute to decision-making impairments.
Although several lines of evidence have recently implicated orexins and their receptors in fear and anxiety, there is also a growing number of apparently inconsistent and/or negative findings. In the present study, we have used ethological methods to comprehensively profile the behavioural effects of the orexin-1 receptor antagonist SB-334867 (3-30 mg/kg) in mice exposed to the elevated plus-maze. Two experiments were performed, the first involving test-nave animals and the second using prior undrugged experience of the maze to induce a qualitatively different emotional response to that seen on first exposure. In Experiment 1, a reference benzodiazepine (chlordiazepoxide, CDP, 15 mg/kg) produced a robust anxioselective profile comprising substantial increases in open arm exploration and reduced risk assessment without any signiifcant change in general activity levels. In contrast, SB-334867 failed to produce any behavioural effects over the dose range tested. In Experiment 2, 5 min undrugged experience of the maze 24h prior to testing increased open arm avoidance and abolished the anxiolytic efficacy of CDP. Despite this altered baseline, SB-334867 again failed to alter plus-maze behaviour. These findings agree with several recent reports that orexin receptor antagonists, such as SB-334867 and almorexant, do not alter basal anxiety levels in rats but markedly contrast with the anxiolytic-like effects of the same agents when anxiety levels have been exacerbated by fear conditioning, drug challenge or hypercapnia. This unique pattern of activity suggests that orexin receptor antagonists may have therapeutic value in those clinical anxiety disorders characterised by intense emotional arousal.
Specific contributions of frontal and parietal regions to visuospatial encoding and attention remain controversial. This study used fMRI to examine associative encoding of sequentially-presented spatial cues and object stimuli. The cue preceded the centrally-displayed object by a jittered-delay-interval to better isolate attempt and success in episodically integrating pure location information with separately presented objects. Superior parietal response was modulated by attempted location binding, while superior/middle frontal response was predictive of successful location binding.
The APOE-4 allele is associated with increased cognitive decline during normal aging and Alzheimer's disease. However, several studies intriguingly found a beneficial effect on cognition in young adult human APOE-4 carriers. Here, we show that 3-month old bigenic hAPP-Yac/apoE4-TR mice outperformed their hAPP-Yac/apoE3-TR counterparts on learning and memory performances in the highly hippocampus-dependent, hidden-platform version of the Morris water maze task. The two mouse lines did not differ in a non-spatial visible-platform version of the task. This hAPP-Yac/apoE-TR model may thus provide a useful tool to study the mechanisms involved in the antagonistic pleiotropic effects of APOE-4 on cognitive functions.
Daily patterns of light exposure have become increasingly variable since the widespread adoption of electrical lighting during the 20th century. Seasonal fluctuations in light exposure, shift-work, and transmeridian travel are all associated with alterations in mood. These studies implicate fluctuations in environmental lighting in the development of depressive disorders. Here we argue that exposure to light at night (LAN) may be causally linked to depression. Male C3H/HeNHsd mice, which produce nocturnal melatonin, were housed in either a standard light/dark (LD) cycle or exposed to nightly dim (5 lux) LAN (dLAN). After four weeks in lighting conditions mice underwent behavioral testing and hippocampal tissue was collected at the termination of the study for qPCR. Here were report that mice exposed to dLAN increase depressive-like responses in both a sucrose anhedonia and forced swim test. In contrast to findings in diurnal grass rats, dLAN mice perform comparably to mice housed under dark nights in a hippocampus-dependent learning and memory task. TNF and IL1 gene expression do not differ between groups, demonstrating that changes in these pro-inflammatory cytokines do not mediate dLAN induced depressive-like responses in mice. BDNF expression is reduced in the hippocampus of mice exposed to dLAN. These results indicate that low levels of LAN can alter mood in mice. This study along with previous work implicates LAN as a potential factor contributing to depression. Further understanding of the mechanisms through which LAN contributes to changes in mood is important for characterizing and treating depressive disorders.
This report describes the synthesis, structure-activity relationships and activity of piperidine, homopiperidine, and azocane derivatives combining NK1 receptor (NK1R) antagonism and serotonin reuptake transporter (SERT) inhibition. Our studies culminated in the discovery of piperidine 2 and homopiperidine 8 as potent dual NK1R antagonists-SERT inhibitors. Compound 2 demonstrated significant activity in the gerbil forced swimming test, suggesting that dual NK1R antagonists-SERT inhibitors may be useful in treating depression disorders.
In order to develop the effective vectors that had high gene transfection capability and low cytotoxicity in the neuronal cells, we tested the star-shaped polymer consisting of -cyclodextrin core and poly(amidoamine) (PAMAM) dendron arms [-CD-(D3)7] as the vector to transfect the human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells. The physicochemical properties of the -CD-(D3)7/plasmid DNA (pDNA) complexes were characterized by using gel electrophoresis, dynamic light scattering, transmission electron microscopy and zeta-potential experiments. Among the human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells, -CD-(D3)7/pDNA complex demonstrated a lower toxicity compared to those of PAMAM (G=4, with an ethylenediamine core)/pDNA complex. When the N/P ratio was over 20, it was observed that PAMAM had a faster increment in toxicity compared to -CD-(D3)7. Fluorescent image, confocal microscopy image and flow cytometry showed that -CD-(D3)7/pDNA complexes had significantly higher transgene activity than that of PAMAM/pDNA complexes. For example, the transfection efficiency was 20% and 7.5% for -CD-(D3)7/pDNA and PAMAM/pDNA complexes, respectively. These results indicated that -CD-(D3)7 might be a promising candidate for neurotypic cells gene delivery with the characteristics of good biocompatibility, relatively high gene transfection capability and potential in vivo gene delivery ability.
The capacity to inhibit inappropriate responses is crucial for goal-directed behavior. Inhibiting such responses seems to come more easily to some of us than others, however. From where do these individual differences originate? Here, we measured 263 participants' neural baseline activation using resting electroencephalogram. Then, we used this stable neural marker to predict a reliable electrophysiological index of response inhibition capacity in the cued Continuous Performance Test, the NoGo-Anteriorization (NGA). Using a source-localization technique, we found that resting delta, theta, and alpha1 activity in the left middle frontal gyrus and resting alpha1 activity in the right inferior frontal gyrus were negatively correlated with the NGA. As a larger NGA is thought to represent better response inhibition capacity, our findings demonstrate that lower levels of resting slow-wave oscillations in the lateral prefrontal cortex, bilaterally, are associated with a better response inhibition capacity.
Cytoplasmic accumulation and nuclear clearance of TDP-43 characterize familial and sporadic forms of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal lobar degeneration, suggesting that either loss or gain of TDP-43 function, or both, cause disease formation. Here we have systematically compared loss- and gain-of-function of Drosophila TDP-43, TAR DNA Binding Protein Homolog (TBPH), in synaptic function and morphology, motor control, and age-related neuronal survival. Both loss and gain of TBPH severely affect development and result in premature lethality. TBPH dysfunction caused impaired synaptic transmission at the larval neuromuscular junction (NMJ) and in the adult. Tissue-specific knockdown together with electrophysiological recordings at the larval NMJ also revealed that alterations of TBPH function predominantly affect pre-synaptic efficacy, suggesting that impaired pre-synaptic transmission is one of the earliest events in TDP-43-related pathogenesis. Prolonged loss and gain of TBPH in adults resulted in synaptic defects and age-related, progressive degeneration of neurons involved in motor control. Toxic gain of TBPH did not downregulate or mislocalize its own expression, indicating that a dominant-negative effect leads to progressive neurodegeneration also seen with mutational inactivation of TBPH. Together these data suggest that dysfunction of Drosophila TDP-43 triggers a cascade of events leading to loss-of-function phenotypes whereby impaired synaptic transmission results in defective motor behavior and progressive deconstruction of neuronal connections, ultimately causing age-related neurodegeneration.
The demyelinating peripheral neuropathy Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 4B (CMT4B) is characterized by axonal degeneration and myelin outfoldings. CMT4B results from mutations in either myotubularin-related protein 2 (MTMR2; CMT4B1) or MTMR13 (CMT4B2), phosphoinositide (PI) 3-phosphatases that dephosphorylate phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate (PtdIns3P) and PtdIns(3,5)P2, lipids which regulate endo-lysosomal membrane traffic. The catalytically active MTMR2 and catalytically inactive MTMR13 physically associate, although the significance of this association is not well understood. Here we show that Mtmr13 loss leads to axonal degeneration in sciatic nerves of older mice. In addition, CMT4B2-like myelin outfoldings are present in Mtmr13(-/-) nerves at postnatal day 3. Thus, Mtmr13(-/-) mice show both the initial dysmyelination and later degenerative pathology of CMT4B2. Given the key role of PI 3-kinase-Akt signaling in myelination, we investigated the state of the pathway in nerves of CMT4B models. We found that Akt activation is unaltered in Mtmr13(-/-) and Mtmr2(-/-) mice. Mtmr2 and Mtmr13 are found within the Schwann cell cytoplasm, where the proteins are partially localized to punctate compartments, suggesting that Mtmr2-Mtmr13 may dephosphorylate their substrates on specific intracellular compartments. Mtmr2-Mtmr13 substrates play essential roles in endo-lysosomal membrane traffic. However, endosomes and lysosomes of Mtmr13(-/-) and Mtmr2(-/-) Schwann cells are morphologically indistinguishable from those of controls, indicating that loss of these proteins does not cause wholesale dysregulation of the endo-lysosomal system. Notably, Mtmr2 and Mtmr13 depend upon each other to achieve wild-type levels of protein expression. Mtmr2 stabilizes Mtmr13 on membranes, indicating that the Mtmr13 pseudophosphatase is regulated by its catalytically active binding partner.
Distal arthrogryposis (DA) is a heterogeneous subgroup of arthrogryposis multiplex congenita (AMC), a large family of disorders characterized by multiple congenital joint limitations due to reduced fetal movements. DA is mainly characterized by contractures afflicting especially the distal extremities without overt muscular or neurological signs. Although a limited number of genes mostly implicated in the contractile apparatus have been identified in DA, most patients failed to show mutations in currently known genes. Using a pangenomic approach, we demonstrated linkage of DA to chromosome 2q37 in two consanguineous families and the endothelin-converting enzyme like 1 (ECEL1) gene present in this region was associated with DA. Screening of a panel of 20 families with non-specific DA identified seven homozygous or compound heterozygous mutations of ECEL1 in a total of six families. Mutations resulted mostly in the absence of protein. ECEL1 is a neuronal endopeptidase predominantly expressed in the central nervous system and brain structures during fetal life in mice and human. ECEL1 plays a major role in intramuscular axonal branching of motor neurons in skeletal muscle during embryogenesis. A detailed review of clinical findings of DA patients with ECEL1 mutations revealed a homogeneous and recognizable phenotype characterized by limited knee flexion, flexed third to fifth fingers and severe muscle atrophy predominant on lower limbs and tongue that suggested a common pathogenic mechanism. We described a new and homogenous phenotype of DA associated with ECEL1 that resulted in symptoms involving rather the peripheral than the central nervous system and suggesting a developmental dysfunction.
The basal forebrain (BF) strongly regulates cortical activation, sleep homeostasis, and attention. Many BF neurons involved in these processes are GABAergic, including a subpopulation of projection neurons containing the calcium-binding protein, parvalbumin (PV). However, technical difficulties in identification have prevented a precise mapping of the distribution of GABAergic and GABA/PV+ neurons in the mouse or a determination of their intrinsic membrane properties. Here we used mice expressing fluorescent proteins in GABAergic (GAD67-GFP knock-in mice) or PV+ neurons (PV-Tomato mice) to study these neurons. Immunohistochemical staining for GABA in GAD67-GFP mice confirmed that GFP selectively labeled BF GABAergic neurons. GFP+ neurons and fibers were distributed throughout the BF, with the highest density in the magnocellular preoptic area (MCPO). Immunohistochemistry for PV indicated that the majority of PV+ neurons in the BF were large (&gt;20 m) or medium-sized (15-20 m) GFP+ neurons. Most medium and large-sized BF GFP+ neurons, including those retrogradely labeled from the neocortex, were fast-firing and spontaneously active in vitro. They exhibited prominent hyperpolarization-activated inward currents and subthreshold &quot;spikelets,&quot; suggestive of electrical coupling. PV+ neurons recorded in PV-Tomato mice had similar properties but had significantly narrower action potentials and a higher maximal firing frequency. Another population of smaller GFP+ neurons had properties similar to striatal projection neurons. The fast firing and electrical coupling of BF GABA/PV+ neurons, together with their projections to cortical interneurons and the thalamic reticular nucleus, suggest a strong and synchronous control of the neocortical fast rhythms typical of wakefulness and REM sleep.
Sensory hair cell losses lead to hearing and balance deficits that are permanent for mammals, but temporary for nonmammals because supporting cells in their ears give rise to replacement hair cells. In mice and humans, vestibular supporting cells grow exceptionally large circumferential F-actin belts and their junctions express E-cadherin in patterns that strongly correlate with postnatal declines in regeneration capacity. In contrast, chicken supporting cells retain thin F-actin belts throughout life and express little E-cadherin. To determine whether the junctions in chicken ears might be representative of other ears that also regenerate hair cells, we investigated inner ears from dogfish sharks, zebrafish, bullfrogs, Xenopus, turtles, and the lizard, Anolis. As in chickens, the supporting cells in adult zebrafish, Xenopus, and turtle ears retained thin circumferential F-actin belts and expressed little E-cadherin. Supporting cells in adult sharks and bullfrogs also retained thin belts, but were not tested for E-cadherin. Supporting cells in adult Anolis exhibited wide, but porous webs of F-actin and strong E-cadherin expression. Anolis supporting cells also showed some cell cycle reentry when cultured. The results reveal that the association between thin F-actin belts and low E-cadherin is shared by supporting cells in anamniotes, turtles, and birds, which all can regenerate hair cells. Divergent junctional specializations in supporting cells appear to have arisen independently in Anolis and mammals. The presence of webs of F-actin at the junctions in Anolis appears compatible with supporting cell proliferation, but the solid reinforcement of the F-actin belts in mammals is associated with its absence.
By means of the Golgi-Cox and Nissl methods we investigated the cyto- and fiberarchitecture as well as the morphology of neurons in the subcortical auditory structures of the Mongolian gerbil (Meriones unguiculatus), a frequently used animal model in auditory neuroscience. We describe the divisions and subdivisions of the auditory thalamus including the medial geniculate body, suprageniculate nucleus, and reticular thalamic nucleus, as well as of the inferior colliculi, nuclei of the lateral lemniscus, superior olivary complex, and cochlear nuclear complex. In this study, we 1) confirm previous results about the organization of the gerbil's subcortical auditory pathway using other anatomical staining methods (e.g., Budinger et al. [2000] Eur J Neurosci 12:2452-2474); 2) add substantially to the knowledge about the laminar and cellular organization of the gerbil's subcortical auditory structures, in particular about the orientation of their fibrodendritic laminae and about the morphology of their most distinctive neuron types; and 3) demonstrate that the cellular organization of these structures, as seen by the Golgi technique, corresponds generally to that of other mammalian species, in particular to that of rodents.
Chronic high caloric intake has contributed to the increased prevalence of pediatric obesity and related morbidities. Most overweight or obese children, however, do not present with frank metabolic disease but rather insulin resistance or subclinical precursors. The innate immune system plays a role in the pathophysiology of type 2 diabetes but how it contributes to early metabolic dysfunction in children on chronic high-fat diet (HFD) is unclear. We hypothesize that such inflammation is present in the pancreas of children and is associated with early insulin resistance. We used nonhuman primate (NHP) juveniles exposed to chronic HFD as a model of early pediatric metabolic disease to demonstrate increased pancreatic inflammatory markers before the onset of significant obesity or glucose dysregulation. Pancreata from 13-month-old Japanese macaques exposed to a HFD from in utero to necropsy were analyzed for expression of cytokines and islet-associated macrophages. Parameters from an intravenous glucose tolerance test were correlated with cytokine expression. Before significant glucose dysregulation, the HFD cohort had a twofold increase in interleukin 6 (IL6), associated with decreased first-phase insulin response and a sexually dimorphic (male) increase in IL1 correlating with increased fasting glucose levels. The number of islet-associated macrophages was also increased. Pancreata from juvenile NHP exposed to HFD have increased inflammatory markers and evidence of innate immune infiltration before the onset of significant obesity or glucose dysregulation. Given the parallel development of metabolic disease between humans and NHPs, these findings have strong relevance to the early metabolic disease driven by a chronic HFD in children.
Antipredator defenses are ubiquitous and diverse. Ink secretion of sea hares (Aplysia) is an antipredator defense acting through the chemical senses of predators by different mechanisms. The most common mechanism is ink acting as an unpalatable repellent. Less common is ink secretion acting as a decoy (phagomimic) that misdirects predators' attacks. In this study, we tested another possible mechanism--sensory inactivation--in which ink inactivates the predator's reception of food odors associated with would-be prey. We tested this hypothesis using spiny lobsters, Panulirus argus, as model predators. Ink secretion is composed of two glandular products, one being opaline, a viscous substance containing concentrations of hundreds of millimolar of total free amino acids. Opaline sticks to antennules, mouthparts and other chemosensory appendages of lobsters, physically blocking access of food odors to the predator's chemosensors, or over-stimulating (short term) and adapting (long term) the chemosensors. We tested the sensory inactivation hypotheses by treating the antennules with opaline and mimics of its physical and/or chemical properties. We compared the effects of these treatments on responses to a food odor for chemoreceptor neurons in isolated antennules, as a measure of effect on chemosensory input, and for antennular motor responses of intact lobsters, as a measure of effect on chemically driven motor behavior. Our results indicate that opaline reduces the output of chemosensors by physically blocking reception of and response to food odors, and this has an impact on motor responses of lobsters. This is the first experimental demonstration of inactivation of peripheral sensors as an antipredatory defense.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are known to regulate most biological processes and have been found dysregulated in a variety of diseases, including multiple sclerosis (MS). In this study, we characterized miRNAs that associate with susceptibility to develop experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) in rats, a well-established animal model of MS. Using Illumina next-generation sequencing, we detected 544 miRNAs in the lymph nodes of EAE-susceptible Dark Agouti and EAE-resistant Piebald Virol Glaxo rats during immune activation. Forty-three miRNAs were found differentially expressed between the two strains, with 81% (35 out of 43) showing higher expression in the susceptible strain. Only 33% of tested miRNAs displayed differential expression in naive lymph nodes, suggesting that a majority of regulated miRNAs are EAE dependent. Further investigation of a selected six miRNAs indicates differences in cellular source and kinetics of expression. Several of the miRNAs, including miR-146a, miR-21, miR-181a, miR-223, and let-7, have previously been implicated in immune system regulation. Moreover, 77% (33 out of 43) of the miRNAs were associated with MS and other autoimmune diseases. Target genes likely regulated by the miRNAs were identified using computational predictions combined with whole-genome expression data. Differentially expressed miRNAs and their targets involve functions important for MS and EAE, such as immune cell migration through targeting genes like Cxcr3 and cellular maintenance and signaling by regulation of Prkcd and Stat1. In addition, we demonstrated that these three genes are direct targets of miR-181a. Our study highlights the impact of multiple miRNAs, displaying diverse kinetics and cellular sources, on development of pathogenic autoimmune inflammation.
Vagal activation can reduce inflammation and disease activity in various animal models of intestinal inflammation via the cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway. In the current model of this pathway, activation of descending vagal efferents is dependent on a signal initiated by stimulation of vagal afferents. However, little is known about how vagal afferents are activated, especially in the context of subclinical or clinical pathogenic bacterial infection. To address this question, we first determined if selective lesions of capsaicin-sensitive vagal afferents altered c-Fos expression in the nucleus of the solitary tract (nTS) after mice were inoculated with either Campylobacter jejuni or Salmonella typhimurium. Our results demonstrate that the activation of nTS neurons by intraluminal pathogenic bacteria is dependent on intact, capsaicin sensitive vagal afferents. We next determined if inflammatory mediators could cause the observed increase in c-Fos expression in the nTS by a direct action on vagal afferents. This was tested by the use of single-cell calcium measurements in cultured vagal afferent neurons. We found that tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) directly activate cultured vagal afferent neurons and that almost all TNF and LPS responsive neurons were sensitive to capsaicin. We conclude that activation of the afferent arm of the parasympathetic neuroimmune reflex by pathogenic bacteria in the gut is dependent on capsaicin sensitive vagal afferent neurons and that the release of inflammatory mediators into intestinal tissue can be directly sensed by these neurons.
We reviewed the records of 391 patients who had presented with a Clinically Isolated Syndrome and selected 205 who had performed a baseline spinal tap and MRI scan. We studied cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and serum IgM oligoclonal bands (IgMOB) using agarose gel isoelectric focusing and analyzed the impact of baseline clinical, MRI and CSF variables on the risk of conversion to clinically definite multiple sclerosis, i.e. on the risk of a clinical relapse. At survival analysis, a lower age at onset, an onset with optic neuritis and the presence of CSF-restricted IgMOB increased the risk of a relapse. Only the presence of CSF-restricted IgMOB predicted a relapse within one year.
Parkinson's disease (PD) patients frequently develop obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). In order to clarify the clinical significance of OSA in PD, we compared descriptive variables between PD patients with OSA (PD+OSA) and without (PD-OSA), and between the PD+OSA group and a group of OSA patients without PD (control OSA). The apnea hypopnea index (AHI) cutoff of 15 episodes/hour on polysomnogram (PSG) was used to assign 107 PD patients to groups; OSA-related symptoms and PSG findings were then compared. Demographic and PSG variables were compared between PD+OSA patients and 31 OSA controls. Twenty-four patients with PD (22.4%) were classified as PD+OSA. There were no significant differences in descriptive variables between the PD+OSA and PD-OSA groups. The PD+OSA group had a higher arousal index on PSG than the PD-OSA group, although the two groups had similar ESS scores. The PD+OSA patients had a lower respiratory arousal index and a smaller decrease in oxygen saturation than the control OSA group, despite having a similar AHI. The prevalence of OSA in PD did not differ from that in the general elderly population, indicating that the clinical significance of OSA as a contributor to daytime sleepiness in PD is low.
This Introduction to a Special Issue on Mild Traumatic Brain Injury (mTBI) highlights the methodological challenges in outcome studies and clinical trials involving patients who sustain mTBI. Recent advances in brain imaging and portable, computerized cognitive tasks have contributed to protocols that are sensitive to the effects of mTBI and efficient in time for completion. Investigation of civilian mTBI has been extended to single and repeated injuries in athletes and blast-related mTBI in service members and veterans. Despite differences in mechanism of injury, there is evidence for similar effects of acceleration-deceleration and blast mechanisms of mTBI on cognition. Investigation of repetitive mTBI suggests that the effects may be cumulative and that repeated mTBI and repeated subconcussive head trauma may lead to neurodegenerative conditions. Although animal models of mTBI using cortical impact and fluid percussion injury in rodents have been able to reproduce some of the cognitive deficits frequently exhibited by patients after mTBI, modeling post-concussion symptoms is difficult. Recent use of closed head and blast injury animal models may more closely approximate clinical mTBI. Translation of interventions that are developed in animal models to patients with mTBI is a priority for the research agenda. This Special Issue on mTBI integrates basic neuroscience studies using animal models with studies of human mTBI, including the cognitive sequelae, persisting symptoms, brain imaging, and host factors that facilitate recovery.
A highly sensitive ultra-high performance liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (UHPLC-MS/MS) method was developed for the quantification of buprenorphine and its major metabolite norbuprenorphine in human plasma. In order to speed up the process and decrease costs, sample preparation was performed by simple protein precipitation with acetonitrile. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first application of this extraction technique for the quantification of buprenorphine in plasma. Matrix effects were strongly reduced and selectivity increased by using an efficient chromatographic separation on a sub-2 m column (Acquity UPLC BEH C18 1.7 m, 2.150 mm) in 5 min with a gradient of ammonium formate 20 mM pH 3.05 and acetonitrile as mobile phase at a flow rate of 0.4 ml/min. Detection was made using a tandem quadrupole mass spectrometer operating in positive electrospray ionization mode, using multiple reaction monitoring. The procedure was fully validated according to the latest Food and Drug Administration guidelines and the Socit Franaise des Sciences et Techniques Pharmaceutiques. Very good results were obtained by using a stable isotope-labeled internal standard for each analyte, to compensate for the variability due to the extraction and ionization steps. The method was very sensitive with lower limits of quantification of 0.1 ng/ml for buprenorphine and 0.25 ng/ml for norbuprenorphine. The upper limit of quantification was 250 ng/ml for both drugs. Trueness (98.4-113.7%), repeatability (1.9-7.7%), intermediate precision (2.6-7.9%) and internal standard-normalized matrix effects (94-101%) were in accordance with international recommendations. The procedure was successfully used to quantify plasma samples from patients included in a clinical pharmacogenetic study and can be transferred for routine therapeutic drug monitoring in clinical laboratories without further development.


We examined junctional conductance (gj) and its dependence on transjunctional voltage in gap junction (GJ) channels formed of wild-type connexin36 (Cx36) or its fusion form with green fluorescent protein (Cx36-EGFP) transfected in HeLa cells or endogenously expressed in primary culture of pancreatic -cells. Only a very small fraction (0.8%) of Cx36-EGFP channels assembled into junctional plaques of GJs were open under control conditions. We found that short carbon chain n-alkanols (SCCAs) increased gj, while long carbon chain n-alkanols resulted in full uncoupling; cutoff is between heptanol and octanol. The fraction of functional channels and gj increased several fold under an exposure to SCCAs, or during reduction of endogenous levels of arachidonic acid (AA) by exposure to fatty acid-free BSA or cytosolic phospholipase A2 inhibitors. Moreover, uncoupling caused by exogenously applied AA can be rescued by BSA, which binds AA and other polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), but not by BSA modified with 1,2-cyclohexanedione, which does not bind AA and other PUFAs. We propose that under control conditions, Cx36 GJ channels in HeLa transfectants and -cells are inhibited by endogenous AA, which stabilizes a closed conformational state of the channel that leads to extremely low fraction of functional channels. In addition, SCCAs increase gj by interfering with endogenous AA-dependent inhibition, increasing open probability and the fraction of functional channels.
MRI provides a powerful tool for studying the functional and structural connections in the brain non-invasively. The technique of functional connectivity (FC) exploits the intrinsic temporal correlations of slow spontaneous signal fluctuations to characterise brain functional networks. In addition, diffusion MRI fibre-tracking can be used to study the white matter structural connections. In recent years, there has been considerable interest in combining these two techniques to provide an overall structural-functional description of the brain. In this work we applied the recently proposed super-resolution track-weighted imaging (TWI) methodology to demonstrate how whole-brain fibre-tracking data can be combined with FC data to generate a track-weighted (TW) FC map of FC networks. The method was applied to data from 8 healthy volunteers, and illustrated with (i) FC networks obtained using a seeded connectivity-based analysis (seeding in the precuneus/posterior cingulate cortex, PCC, known to be part of the default mode network), and (ii) with FC networks generated using independent component analysis (in particular, the default mode, attention, visual, and sensory-motor networks). TW-FC maps showed high intensity in white matter structures connecting the nodes of the FC networks. For example, the cingulum bundles show the strongest TW-FC values in the PCC seeded-based analysis, due to their major role in the connection between medial frontal cortex and precuneus/posterior cingulate cortex; similarly the superior longitudinal fasciculus was well represented in the attention network, the optic radiations in the visual network, and the corticospinal tract and corpus callosum in the sensory-motor network. The TW-FC maps highlight the white matter connections associated with a given FC network, and their intensity in a given voxel reflects the functional connectivity of the part of the nodes of the network linked by the structural connections traversing that voxel. They therefore contain a different (and novel) image contrast from that of the images used to generate them. The results shown in this study illustrate the potential of the TW-FC approach for the fusion of structural and functional data into a single quantitative image. This technique could therefore have important applications in neuroscience and neurology, such as for voxel-based comparison studies.
Sounds can modulate visual perception as well as neural activity in retinotopic cortex. Most studies in this context investigated how sounds change neural amplitude and oscillatory phase reset in visual cortex. However, recent studies in macaque monkeys show that congruence of audio-visual stimuli also modulates the amount of stimulus information carried by spiking activity of primary auditory and visual neurons. Here, we used naturalistic video stimuli and recorded the spatial patterns of functional MRI signals in human retinotopic cortex to test whether the discriminability of such patterns varied with the presence and congruence of co-occurring sounds. We found that incongruent sounds significantly impaired stimulus decoding from area V2 and there was a similar trend for V3. This effect was associated with reduced inter-trial reliability of patterns (i.e. higher levels of noise), but was not accompanied by any detectable modulation of overall signal amplitude. We conclude that sounds modulate naturalistic stimulus encoding in early human retinotopic cortex without affecting overall signal amplitude. Subthreshold modulation, oscillatory phase reset and dynamic attentional modulation are candidate neural and cognitive mechanisms mediating these effects.
Even in the absence of stimulation or task, the cerebral cortex shows an incessant pattern of ultra slow fluctuations which are coherent across brain regions. In the healthy brain these coherent patterns (also termed resting state functional connectivity) often exhibit spatial similarity to the large scale organization of task-induced functional networks. However, it is not clear to what extent the resting state patterns can also reflect task-induced abnormalities in cortical activations which are often detected in various brain pathologies. Here we examined whether an abnormal visual activation pattern is recapitulated in the resting state functional connectivity. We examined LG, a sighted young adult with developmental object agnosia and no apparent cortical structural abnormality. We have previously reported that upon visual stimulation, LG's intermediate visual areas (V2, V3) are paradoxically deactivated. Here, examining LG's resting state functional connectivity revealed the same pattern of functional abnormality - including a strong atypical decorrelation between areas V2-V3 and the rest of the visual system. Thus, our results suggest that resting-state functional connectivity could provide a powerful tool which could complement task-specific paradigms in detecting task-related abnormalities in cortical activity without resorting to task performance.
Event-related analyses of functional MRI (fMRI) typically assume that the onset and offset of neuronal activity match stimuli onset and offset, and that evoked fMRI signal changes follow the canonical haemodynamic response function (HRF). Some event types, however, may be unsuited to this approach: brief stimuli might elicit an extended neuronal response; anticipatory effects might result in activity preceding the event; or altered neurovascular coupling may result in a non-canonical HRF. An example is interictal epileptiform discharges (IEDs), which may show a non-canonical HRF and fMRI signal changes preceding their onset as detected on EEG. In such cases, less constrained analyses - capable of detecting early, non-canonical responses - may be necessary. A consequence of less constrained analyses, however, is that artefactual sources of signal change - motion or physiological noise for example - may also be detected and mixed with the neuronally-generated signals. In this paper, to address this issue, we describe an event-related independent components analysis (eICA) that identifies different sources of event-related signal change that can then be separately assessed to identify likely artefacts and separate primary from propagated activity. We also describe a group analysis that identifies eICA components that are spatially and temporally consistent across subjects and provides an objective approach for selecting group-specific components likely to be of neural origin. We apply eICA to patients with rolandic epilepsy - with stereotypical IEDs arising from a focus in the rolandic fissure - and demonstrate that a single event-related component, concordant with this source location, is detected.

Decision making and reinforcement learning over movements suffer from the curse of dimensionality: the space of possible movements is too vast to search or even represent in its entirety. When actions involve only a single effector, this problem can be ameliorated by considering that effector separately; accordingly, the brain's sensorimotor systems can subdivide choice by representing values and actions separately for each effector. However, for many actions, such as playing the piano, the value of an action by an effector (e.g., a hand) depends inseparably on the actions of other effectors. By definition, the values of such coordinated multi-effector actions cannot be represented by effector-specific action values, such as those that have been most extensively investigated in parietal and premotor regions. For such actions, one possible solution is to choose according to more abstract valuations over different goods or options, which can then be mapped onto the necessary motor actions. Such an approach separates the learning and decision problem, which will often be lower-dimensional than the space of possible movements, from the multi-effector movement planning problem. The ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) is thought to contain goods-based value signals, so we hypothesized that this region might preferentially drive multi-effector action selection. To examine how the brain solves this problem, we used fMRI to compare patterns of BOLD activity in humans during reward learning tasks in which options were selected through either unimanual or bimanual actions, and in which the response requirements in the latter condition inseparably coupled valuation across both hands. We found value signals in the bilateral medial motor cortex and vmPFC, and consistent with previous studies, the medial motor value signals contained contra-lateral biases indicating effector-specificity, while the vmPFC value signals did not exhibit detectable effector specificity. Although neither region's value signaling differed significantly between bimanual and unimanual conditions, the vmPFC value region showed greater connectivity with the medial motor cortex during bimanual than during unimanual choices. The specific region implicated, the anterior mid-cingulate cortex, is thought to act as a hub that links subjective value signals to motor control centers. These results are consistent with the idea that while valuation for unilateral actions may be subserved by an effector-specific network, complex multi-effector actions preferentially implicate communication between motor regions and prefrontal regions, which may reflect increased top-down input into motor regions to guide action selection.
In the pharynx of Caenorhabditis elegans, the accessory subunit MPS-4, homolog to human KCNE1, forms a complex with K(+) channel EXP-2 that terminates the action potential. An aspartate residue critical for KCNE1 function, asp76, is conserved in MPS-4 (asp74). Here, we studied the effects of D74N-MPS-4 on the aging pharynx. Electrophysiological studies showed that D74N delays pharyngeal repolarization. Pharynxes of transgenic worms expressing D74N exhibited higher levels of intracellular calcium compared to normal pharynxes. Accordingly, loss of pharyngeal function was accelerated in aging D74N worms. The pharyngeal action potential resembles the action potential that controls the mechanical activity of human left ventricle. Hence, these findings argue that the hearts of patients affected by delayed repolarization, a condition known as long QT syndrome, may experience dysregulated calcium homeostasis.
An anterior pathway, concerned with extracting meaning from sound, has been identified in nonhuman primates. An analogous pathway has been suggested in humans, but controversy exists concerning the degree of lateralization and the precise location where responses to intelligible speech emerge. We have demonstrated that the left anterior superior temporal sulcus (STS) responds preferentially to intelligible speech (Scott SK, Blank CC, Rosen S, Wise RJS. 2000. Identification of a pathway for intelligible speech in the left temporal lobe. Brain. 123:2400-2406.). A functional magnetic resonance imaging study in Cerebral Cortex used equivalent stimuli and univariate and multivariate analyses to argue for the greater importance of bilateral posterior when compared with the left anterior STS in responding to intelligible speech (Okada K, Rong F, Venezia J, Matchin W, Hsieh IH, Saberi K, Serences JT,Hickok G. 2010. Hierarchical organization of human auditory cortex: evidence from acoustic invariance in the response to intelligible speech. 20: 2486-2495.). Here, we also replicate our original study, demonstrating that the left anterior STS exhibits the strongest univariate response and, in decoding using the bilateral temporal cortex, contains the most informative voxels showing an increased response to intelligible speech. In contrast, in classifications using local &quot;searchlights&quot; and a whole brain analysis, we find greater classification accuracy in posterior rather than anterior temporal regions. Thus, we show that the precise nature of the multivariate analysis used will emphasize different response profiles associated with complex sound to speech processing.
The Ca(2+)-permeable transient receptor potential vanilloid subtype 4 (TRPV4) channel mediates crucial physiological functions, such as calcium signaling, temperature sensing, and maintaining cell volume and energy homeostasis. Noticeably, most disease-causing genetic mutations are concentrated in the cytoplasmic domains. In the present study, we focused on the role of the TRPV4 C terminus in modulating protein folding, trafficking, and activity. By examining a series of C-terminal deletions, we identified a 20-amino acid distal region covering residues 838-857 that is critical for channel folding, maturation, and trafficking. Surface biotinylation, confocal imaging, and fluorescence-based calcium influx assay demonstrated that mutant proteins missing this region were trapped in the endoplasmic reticulum and unglycosylated, leading to accelerated degradation and loss of channel activity. Rosetta de novo structural modeling indicated that residues 838-857 assume a defined conformation, with Gly(849) and Pro(851) located at critical positions. Patch clamp recordings confirmed that lowering the temperature from 37 to 30 C rescued channel activity of folding-defective mutants. Moreover, biochemical tests demonstrated that, in addition to participating in C-C interaction, the C terminus also interacts with the N terminus. Taken together, our findings indicate that the C-terminal region of TRPV4 is critical for channel protein folding and maturation, and the short distal segment plays an essential role in this process. Therefore, selectively disrupting the folding-sensitive region may present therapeutic potential for treating overactive TRPV4-mediated diseases, such as pain and skeletal dysplasias.
Pancreatitis-associated protein (PAP)-III, also known as regenerating gene/regenerating islet-derived (Reg)-III, is a small secretory protein whose expression is substantially induced in injured nerves. Here, we found that PAP-III protein underwent proteolytic N-terminal processing by trypsin-like protease(s) in injured sciatic nerves after axotomy. In vitro studies demonstrated that the N terminus-truncated PAP-III (N-PAP-III) polymerized into a filament with a relatively uniform diameter of 10-20 nm, and the filaments formed higher order structures in a Na(+) concentration-dependent manner. When the N-PAP-III fibers were added to the culture media, the N-PAP-III fibers were tightly attached to neurites and somata of primary cortical neurons in vitro. In contrast, little association with glial cells was observed. When dense matrices of N-PAP-III fibers were sheeted on a culture dish, neurites preferentially adhered to the fibers, and neurite extension was enhanced. This neurite outgrowth activity was significantly suppressed by preincubation with antibodies against PAP-III. These results imply that the released PAP-III might be cleaved and forms N-PAP-III fibers at the nerve injury sites. Consequently, these resulting fibers would provide regenerating axons with a platform for extension.
The direct measurement of mitochondrial [Ca(2+)] with highly specific probes demonstrated that major swings in organellar [Ca(2+)] parallel the changes occurring in the cytosol and regulate processes as diverse as aerobic metabolism and cell death by necrosis and apoptosis. Despite great biological relevance, insight was limited by the complete lack of molecular understanding. The situation has changed, and new perspectives have emerged following the very recent identification of the mitochondrial Ca(2+) uniporter, the channel allowing rapid Ca(2+) accumulation across the inner mitochondrial membrane.
The seminal study on perceptual learning of TDT (a texture discrimination task) has greatly shaped the field of perceptual learning up to the present time. However, here we demonstrate that this classic learning mostly involves temporal learning, rather than texture discrimination learning. Specifically, observers first practiced a letter identification task with backward masking to saturate the potential temporal learning of target-mask separation in TDT learning before they practiced the backward-masked TDT task directly. The temporal learning accounted for most of the overall TDT improvement, indicating TDT learning being mostly temporal learning. Meanwhile, the location specificity of TDT learning may be interpreted as temporal learning being confined to the trained location with conventional training because learning became mostly location invariant with double training. These results provide a new context to interpret the existing TDT brain imaging data aimed at understanding the neural mechanisms of perceptual learning.

Both motor imagery and action observation have been shown to play a role in learning or re-learning complex motor tasks. According to a well accepted view they share a common neurophysiological basis in the mirror neuron system. Neurons within this system discharge when individuals perform a specific action and when they look at another individual performing the same or a motorically related action. In the present paper, after a short review of literature on the role of action observation and motor imagery in motor learning, we report the results of a kinematics study where we directly compared motor imagery and action observation in learning a novel complex motor task. This involved movement of the right hand and foot in the same angular direction (in-phase movement), while at the same time moving the left hand and foot in an opposite angular direction (anti-phase movement), all at a frequency of 1Hz. Motor learning was assessed through kinematics recording of wrists and ankles. The results showed that action observation is better than motor imagery as a strategy for learning a novel complex motor task, at least in the fast early phase of motor learning. We forward that these results may have important implications in educational activities, sport training and neurorehabilitation.
Mirror neurons are a class of neurons in the ventral pre-motor cortex (area F5) and inferior parietal lobule (area PFG) that respond during the execution as well as the observation of goal-directed motor acts. These intriguing response properties stirred an intense debate in the scientific community with respect to the possible cognitive role of mirror neurons. The aim of the present review is to contribute to this debate by providing, in a single paper, an extended summary of 20 years of neurophysiological research on mirror neurons in the macaque. To this end, I provide a comprehensive description of the methodology and the main results of each paper about mirror neurons published since their first report in 1992. Particular care was devoted in reporting the different response characteristics and the percentages of neurons exhibiting them in relation to the total number of studied neurons. Furthermore, I also discuss recent results indicating that mirror neurons might not be confined to areas F5 and PFG and that &quot;mirroring&quot; might not be limited to action observation. Finally, I offer a unifying framework for many of the results discussed here by speculating that a potential functional role of mirror neurons might be, during action observation, to generalize from the particular grasping movement being observed to the &quot;concept&quot; of grasping.
The role of the mirror mechanism in cognition remains an intriguing and hotly debated topic in cognitive neuroscience. Since its discovery in the monkey and human brain, many have claimed that the mirror mechanism is critically involved in understanding action. But what does understand mean here? What kind of action understanding, if any, can be ascribed to the mirror mechanism? The aim of the paper is to face these questions by providing a refined notion of both action and action understanding.
Previous studies have indicated that saccadic eye movements correlate positively with perceptual alternations in binocular rivalry, presumably because the foveal image changes resulting from saccades, rather than the eye movement themselves, cause switches in awareness. Recently, however, we found evidence that retinal image shifts elicit so-called onset rivalry and not percept switches as such. These findings raise the interesting question whether onset rivalry may account for correlations between saccades and percept switches. We therefore studied binocular rivalry when subjects made eye movements across a visual stimulus and compared it with the rivalry in a 'replay' condition in which subjects maintained fixation while the same retinal displacements were reproduced by stimulus displacements on the screen. We used dichoptic random-dot motion stimuli viewed through a stereoscope, and measured eye and eyelid movements with scleral search-coils. Positive correlations between retinal image shifts and perceptual switches were observed for both saccades and stimulus jumps, but only for switches towards the subjects' preferred eye at stimulus onset. A similar asymmetry was observed for blink-induced stimulus interruptions. Moreover, for saccades, amplitude appeared crucial as the positive correlation persisted for small stimulus jumps, but not for small saccades (amplitudes &lt; 1). These findings corroborate our tenet that saccades elicit a form of onset rivalry, and that rivalry is modulated by extra-retinal eye movement signals.
Successful integration of advanced semiconductor devices with biological systems will accelerate basic scientific discoveries and their translation into clinical technologies. In neuroscience generally, and in optogenetics in particular, the ability to insert light sources, detectors, sensors, and other components into precise locations of the deep brain yields versatile and important capabilities. Here, we introduce an injectable class of cellular-scale optoelectronics that offers such features, with examples of unmatched operational modes in optogenetics, including completely wireless and programmed complex behavioral control over freely moving animals. The ability of these ultrathin, mechanically compliant, biocompatible devices to afford minimally invasive operation in the soft tissues of the mammalian brain foreshadow applications in other organ systems, with potential for broad utility in biomedical science and engineering.
The arthropod central complex and vertebrate basal ganglia derive from embryonic basal forebrain lineages that are specified by an evolutionarily conserved genetic program leading to interconnected neuropils and nuclei that populate the midline of the forebrain-midbrain boundary region. In the substructures of both the central complex and basal ganglia, network connectivity and neuronal activity mediate control mechanisms in which inhibitory (GABAergic) and modulatory (dopaminergic) circuits facilitate the regulation and release of adaptive behaviors. Both basal ganglia and central complex dysfunction result in behavioral defects including motor abnormalities, impaired memory formation, attention deficits, affective disorders, and sleep disturbances. The observed multitude of similarities suggests deep homology of arthropod central complex and vertebrate basal ganglia circuitries underlying the selection and maintenance of behavioral actions.

Angiogenesis, defined as blood vessel formation from a preexisting vasculature, is governed by multiple signal cascades including integrin receptors, in particular integrin V3. Here we identify the endothelial cell (EC)-secreted factor epidermal growth factor-like protein 7 (EGFL7) as a novel specific ligand of integrin V3, thus providing mechanistic insight into its proangiogenic actions in vitro and in vivo. Specifically, EGFL7 attaches to the extracellular matrix and by its interaction with integrin V3 increases the motility of EC, which allows EC to move on a sticky underground during vessel remodeling. We provide evidence that the deregulation of EGFL7 in zebrafish embryos leads to a severe integrin-dependent malformation of the caudal venous plexus, pointing toward the significance of EGFL7 in vessel development. In biopsy specimens of patients with neurologic diseases, vascular EGFL7 expression rose with increasing EC proliferation. Further, EGFL7 became upregulated in vessels of the stroke penumbra using a mouse model of reversible middle cerebral artery occlusion. Our data suggest that EGFL7 expression depends on the remodeling state of the existing vasculature rather than on the phenotype of neurologic disease analyzed. In sum, our work sheds a novel light on the molecular mechanism EGFL7 engages to govern physiological and pathological angiogenesis.

Recently, we reported that two homologous yeast proteins, Rai1 and Dxo1, function in a quality control mechanism to clear cells of incompletely 5' end-capped messenger RNAs (mRNAs). Here, we report that their mammalian homolog, Dom3Z (referred to as DXO), possesses pyrophosphohydrolase, decapping, and 5'-to-3' exoribonuclease activities. Surprisingly, we found that DXO preferentially degrades defectively capped pre-mRNAs in cells. Additional studies show that incompletely capped pre-mRNAs are inefficiently spliced at all introns, a fact that contrasts with current understanding, and are also poorly cleaved for polyadenylation. Crystal structures of DXO in complex with substrate mimic and products at a resolution of up to 1.5 provide elegant insights into the catalytic mechanism and molecular basis for their three apparently distinct activities. Our data reveal a pre-mRNA 5' end capping quality control mechanism in mammalian cells, indicating DXO as the central player for this mechanism, and demonstrate an unexpected intimate link between proper 5' end capping and subsequent pre-mRNA processing.




Small double-stranded RNAs (dsRNAs) of approximately 21-nucleotides in size, referred to as small interfering RNA (siRNA) duplexes, can induce sequence-specific posttranscriptional gene silencing, or RNA interference (RNAi). Since chemically synthesized siRNA duplexes were found to induce RNAi in mammalian cells, RNAi has become a powerful reverse genetic tool for suppressing the expression of a gene of interest in mammals, including human, and its application has been expanding to various fields. Recent studies further suggest that synthetic siRNA duplexes have the potential for specifically inhibiting the expression of an allele of interest without suppressing the expression of other alleles, i.e., siRNA duplexes likely confer allele-specific silencing. Such gene silencing by RNAi is an advanced technique with very promising applications. In this review, I would like to discuss the potential utility of allele-specific silencing by RNAi as a therapeutic method for dominantly inherited diseases, and describe possible improvements in siRNA duplexes for enhancing their efficacy.
Nogo Receptor 1 (NgR1) mRNA is downregulated in hippocampal and cortical regions by increased neuronal activity such as a kainic acid challenge or by exposing rats to running wheels. Plastic changes in cerebral cortex in response to loss of specific sensory inputs caused by spinal cord injury are also associated with downregulation of NgR1 mRNA. Here we investigate the possible regulation by neuronal activity of the homologous receptors NgR2 and NgR3 as well as the endogenous NgR1 antagonist LOTUS and the ligand Nogo. The investigated genes respond to kainic acid by gene-specific, concerted alterations of transcript levels, suggesting a role in the regulation of synaptic plasticity, Downregulation of NgR1, coupled to upregulation of the NgR1 antagonist LOTUS, paired with upregulation of NgR2 and 3 in the dentate gyrus suggest a temporary decrease of Nogo/OMgp sensitivity while CSPG and MAG sensitivity could remain. It is suggested that these activity-synchronized temporary alterations may serve to allow structural alterations at the level of local synaptic circuitry in gray matter, while maintaining white matter pathways and that subsequent upregulation of Nogo-A and NgR1 transcript levels signals the end of such a temporarily opened window of plasticity.


Mathematical neuroendocrinology is a branch of mathematical neurosciences that is specifically interested in endocrine neurons, which have the uncommon ability of secreting neurohormones into the blood. One of the most striking features of neuroendocrine networks is their ability to exhibit very slow rhythms of neurosecretion, on the order of one or several hours. A prototypical instance is that of the pulsatile secretion pattern of GnRH (gonadotropin releasing hormone), the master hormone controlling the reproductive function, whose origin remains a puzzle issue since its discovery in the seventies. In this paper, we investigate the question of GnRH neuron synchronization on a mesoscopic scale, and study how synchronized events in calcium dynamics can arise from the average electric activity of individual neurons. We use as reference seminal experiments performed on embryonic GnRH neurons from rhesus monkeys, where calcium imaging series were recorded simultaneously in tens of neurons, and which have clearly shown the occurrence of synchronized calcium peaks associated with GnRH pulses, superposed on asynchronous, yet oscillatory individual background dynamics. We design a network model by coupling 3D individual dynamics of FitzHugh-Nagumo type. Using phase-plane analysis, we constrain the model behavior so that it meets qualitative and quantitative specifications derived from the experiments, including the precise control of the frequency of the synchronization episodes. In particular, we show how the time scales of the model can be tuned to fit the individual and synchronized time scales of the experiments. Finally, we illustrate the ability of the model to reproduce additional experimental observations, such as partial recruitment of cells within the synchronization process or the occurrence of doublets of synchronization.
The interface between engineering and molecular life sciences has been fertile ground for advancing our understanding of complex biological systems. Engineered microstructures offer a diverse toolbox for cellular and molecular biologists to direct the placement of cells and small organisms, and to recreate biological functions in vitro: cells can be positioned and connected in a designed fashion, and connectivity and community effects of cells studied. Because of the highly polar morphology and finely compartmentalized functions of neurons, microfabricated cell culture systems and related on-chip technologies have become an important enabling platform for studying development, function and degeneration of the nervous system at the molecular and cellular level. Here we review some of the compartmentalization techniques developed so far to highlight how high-precision control of neuronal connectivity allows new approaches for studying axonal and synaptic biology.
Neural integration converts transient events into sustained neural activity. In the smooth pursuit eye movement system, neural integration is required to convert cerebellar output into the sustained discharge of extraocular motoneurons. We recorded the expression of integration in the time-varying firing rates of cerebellar and brainstem neurons in the monkey during pursuit of step-ramp target motion. Electrical stimulation with single shocks in the cerebellum identified brainstem neurons that are monosynaptic targets of inhibition from the cerebellar floccular complex. They discharge in relation to eye acceleration, eye velocity, and eye position, with a stronger acceleration signal than found in most other brainstem neurons. The acceleration and velocity signals can be accounted for by opponent contributions from the two sides of the cerebellum, without integration; the position signal implies participation in the integrator. Other neurons in the vestibular nucleus show a wide range of blends of signals related to eye velocity and eye position, reflecting different stages of integration. Neurons in the abducens nucleus discharge homogeneously in relation mainly to eye position, and reflect almost perfect integration of the cerebellar outputs. Average responses of neural populations and the diverse individual responses of large samples of individual neurons are reproduced by a hierarchical neural circuit based on a model suggested the anatomy and physiology of the larval zebrafish brainstem. The model uses a combination of feedforward and feedback connections to support a neural circuit basis for integration in monkeys and other species.
Long-term plasticity in sensory systems is usually conceptualized as changing the interpretation of the brain of sensory information, not an alteration of how the sensor itself responds to external stimuli. However, here we demonstrate that, in the adult mouse olfactory system, a 1-week-long exposure to an artificially odorized environment narrows the range of odorants that can induce neurotransmitter release from olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) and reduces the total transmitter release from responsive neurons. In animals heterozygous for the olfactory marker protein (OMP), this adaptive plasticity was strongest in the populations of OSNs that originally responded to the exposure odorant (an ester) and also observed in the responses to a similar odorant (another ester) but had no effect on the responses to odorants dissimilar to the exposure odorant (a ketone and an aldehyde). In contrast, in OMP knock-out mice, odorant exposure reduced the number and amplitude of OSN responses evoked by all four types of odorants equally. The effect of this plasticity is to preferentially sparsen the primary neural representations of common olfactory stimuli, which has the computational benefit of increasing the number of distinct sensory patterns that could be represented in the circuit and might thus underlie the improvements in olfactory discrimination often observed after odorant exposure (Mandairon et al., 2006a). The absence of odorant specificity in this adaptive plasticity in OMP knock-out mice suggests a potential role for this protein in adaptively reshaping OSN responses to function in different environments.
The visual recognition of actions is an important visual function that is critical for motor learning and social communication. Action-selective neurons have been found in different cortical regions, including the superior temporal sulcus, parietal and premotor cortex. Among those are mirror neurons, which link visual and motor representations of body movements. While numerous theoretical models for the mirror neuron system have been proposed, the computational basis of the visual processing of goal-directed actions remains largely unclear. While most existing models focus on the possible role of motor representations in action recognition, we propose a model showing that many critical properties of action-selective visual neurons can be accounted for by well-established visual mechanisms. Our model accomplishes the recognition of hand actions from real video stimuli, exploiting exclusively mechanisms that can be implemented in a biologically plausible way by cortical neurons. We show that the model provides a unifying quantitatively consistent account of a variety of electrophysiological results from action-selective visual neurons. In addition, it makes a number of predictions, some of which could be confirmed in recent electrophysiological experiments.
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), a recessive neuromuscular disorder, is caused by diminished function of the Survival Motor Neuron (SMN) protein. To define the cellular processes pertinent to SMA, parallel genetic screens were undertaken in Drosophila and Caenorhabditis elegans SMA models to identify modifiers of the SMN loss of function phenotypes. One class of such genetic modifiers was the small conductance, Ca(2+)-activated K(+) (SK) channels. SK channels allow efflux of potassium ions when intracellular calcium increases and can be activated by the neuroprotective drug riluzole. The latter is the only drug with proven, albeit modest, efficacy in the treatment of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. It is unclear if riluzole can extend life span or ameliorate symptoms in SMA patients as previous studies were limited and of insufficient power to draw any conclusions. The critical biochemical target of riluzole in motor neuron disease is not known, but the pharmacological targets of riluzole include SK channels. We examine here the impact of riluzole in two different SMA models. In vertebrate neurons, riluzole treatment restored axon outgrowth caused by diminished SMN. Additionally, riluzole ameliorated the neuromuscular defects in a C. elegans SMA model and SK channel function was required for this beneficial effect. We propose that riluzole improves motor neuron function by acting on SK channels and suggest that SK channels may be important therapeutic targets for SMA patients.
Although the contribution of Ca(2+) buffering systems can vary between neuronal types and cellular compartments, it is unknown whether distinct Ca(2+) sources within a neuron have different buffers. As individual Ca(2+) sources can have separate functions, we propose that each is handled by unique systems. Using Aplysia californica bag cell neurons, which initiate reproduction through an afterdischarge involving multiple Ca(2+)-dependent processes, we investigated the role of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and mitochondrial sequestration, as well as extrusion via the plasma membrane Ca(2+)-ATPase (PMCA) and Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger, to the clearance of voltage-gated Ca(2+) influx, Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+)-release (CICR), and store-operated Ca(2+) influx. Cultured bag cell neurons were filled with the Ca(2+) indicator, fura-PE3, to image Ca(2+) under whole-cell voltage clamp. A 5 Hz, 1 min train of depolarizing voltage steps elicited voltage-gated Ca(2+) influx followed by EGTA-sensitive CICR from the mitochondria. A compartment model of Ca(2+) indicated the effect of EGTA on CICR was due to buffering of released mitochondrial Ca(2+) rather than uptake competition. Removal of voltage-gated Ca(2+) influx was dominated by the mitochondria and PMCA, with no contribution from the Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger or sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic Ca(2+)-ATPase (SERCA). In contrast, CICR recovery was slowed by eliminating the Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger and PMCA. Last, store-operated influx, evoked by ER depletion, was removed by the SERCA and depended on the mitochondrial membrane potential. Our results demonstrate that distinct buffering systems are dedicated to particular Ca(2+) sources. In general, this may represent a means to differentially regulate Ca(2+)-dependent processes, and for Aplysia, influence how reproductive behavior is triggered.
The sensitivity and rate of neural coding along the early visual pathways adapt to changes in contrast of the retinal image caused by external motion or self-generated eye movements. To identify the functional mechanisms of fast and slow contrast adaptation at the level of the visual cortex, we randomly varied, over both short and long timescales, the contrast of optimal sinusoidal gratings flashed in the receptive field of simple cells. We found that fast contrast-dependent suppression lagged excitation by ~11 ms and controlled the spike's temporal precision. During slow adaptation to low contrasts, the gain and latency of excitation increased whereas suppression became less visible, resulting in more sensitive but slower and more variable responses. We conclude that delayed suppression controls the response dynamics during both fast and slow contrast adaptation. More generally, we propose that sensory adaptation trades neuronal sensitivity for processing speed by changing the balance between excitation and delayed inhibition.
Neurons excited by stimulation of one ear and suppressed by the other, called excitatory/inhibitory (EI) neurons, are sensitive to interaural intensity disparities, the cues animals use to localize high frequencies. EI neurons are first formed in lateral superior olive, which then sends excitatory projections to the dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus and the inferior colliculus (IC), both of which contain large populations of EI cells. We evaluate herein the inputs that innervate EI cells in the IC of Mexican free-tailed bats (Tadarida brasilensis mexicana) with in vivo whole-cell recordings from which we derived excitatory and inhibitory conductances. We show that the basic EI property in the majority of IC cells is inherited from lateral superior olive, but that each type of EI cell is also innervated by the ipsilateral or contralateral dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus, as well as additional excitatory and inhibitory inputs from monaural nuclei. We identify three EI types, each of which receives a set of projections that is different from the other types. To evaluate the role that the various projections played in generating binaural responses, we used modeling to compute a predicted response from the conductances. We then omitted one of the conductances from the computation to evaluate the degree to which that input contributed to the binaural response. We show that the formation of the EI property in the various types is complex, and that some projections exert such subtle influences that they could not have been detected with extracellular recordings or even from intracellular recordings of postsynaptic potentials.
Analyses of intrinsic fMRI BOLD signal fluctuations reliably reveal correlated and anticorrelated functional networks in the brain. Because the BOLD signal is an indirect measure of neuronal activity and anticorrelations can be introduced by preprocessing steps, such as global signal regression, the neurophysiological significance of correlated and anticorrelated BOLD fluctuations is a source of debate. Here, we address this question by examining the correspondence between the spatial organization of correlated BOLD fluctuations and correlated fluctuations in electrophysiological high  power signals recorded directly from the cortical surface of 5 patients. We demonstrate that both positive and negative BOLD correlations have neurophysiological correlates reflected in fluctuations of spontaneous neuronal activity. Although applying global signal regression to BOLD signals results in some BOLD anticorrelations that are not apparent in the ECoG data, it enhances the neuronal-hemodynamic correspondence overall. Together, these findings provide support for the neurophysiological fidelity of BOLD correlations and anticorrelations.
Understanding the mechanisms underlying gustatory detection of dietary sodium is important for the prevention and treatment of hypertension. Here, we show that Angiotensin II (AngII), a major mediator of body fluid and sodium homeostasis, modulates salty and sweet taste sensitivities, and that this modulation critically influences ingestive behaviors in mice. Gustatory nerve recording demonstrated that AngII suppressed amiloride-sensitive taste responses to NaCl. Surprisingly, AngII also enhanced nerve responses to sweeteners, but had no effect on responses to KCl, sour, bitter, or umami tastants. These effects of AngII on nerve responses were blocked by the angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1) antagonist CV11974. In behavioral tests, CV11974 treatment reduced the stimulated high licking rate to NaCl and sweeteners in water-restricted mice with elevated plasma AngII levels. In taste cells AT1 proteins were coexpressed with ENaC (epithelial sodium channel -subunit, an amiloride-sensitive salt taste receptor) or T1r3 (a sweet taste receptor component). These results suggest that the taste organ is a peripheral target of AngII. The specific reduction of amiloride-sensitive salt taste sensitivity by AngII may contribute to increased sodium intake. Furthermore, AngII may contribute to increased energy intake by enhancing sweet responses. The linkage between salty and sweet preferences via AngII signaling may optimize sodium and calorie intakes.
Modifications of synaptic efficacies are considered essential for learning and memory. However, it is not known how the underlying functional components of synaptic transmission change over long time scales. To address this question, we studied cortical synapses from young Wistar rats before and after 12 h intervals of spontaneous or glutamate-induced spiking activity. We found that, under these conditions, synaptic efficacies can increase or decrease by up to 10-fold. Statistical analyses reveal that these changes reflect modifications in the number of presynaptic release sites, together with postsynaptic changes that maintain the quantal size per release site. The quantitative relation between the presynaptic and postsynaptic transmission components was not affected when synaptic plasticity was enhanced or reduced using a broad range of pharmacological agents. These findings suggest that ongoing synaptic plasticity results in matched presynaptic and postsynaptic modifications, in which elementary modules that span the synaptic cleft are added or removed as a function of experience.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is hallmarked by amyloid plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, and widespread cortical neuronal loss (Selkoe, 2001). The &quot;amyloid cascade hypothesis&quot; posits that cerebral amyloid sets neurotoxic events into motion that precipitate Alzheimer dementia (Hardy and Allsop, 1991). Yet, faithful recapitulation of all AD features in widely used transgenic (Tg) mice engineered to overproduce A peptides has been elusive. We have developed a Tg rat model (line TgF344-AD) expressing mutant human amyloid precursor protein (APPsw) and presenilin 1 (PS1E9) genes, each independent causes of early-onset familial AD. TgF344-AD rats manifest age-dependent cerebral amyloidosis that precedes tauopathy, gliosis, apoptotic loss of neurons in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus, and cognitive disturbance. These results demonstrate progressive neurodegeneration of the Alzheimer type in these animals. The TgF344-AD rat fills a critical need for a next-generation animal model to enable basic and translational AD research.
Certain visual stimuli, such as striped patterns and filtered noise, have been reported to be uncomfortable. Some filtered noise patterns judged as uncomfortable are those with a relative decrease in contrast amplitude at high spatial frequencies, compared with the statistics typical of natural images. Decreased amplitude at high spatial frequencies is a characteristic often associated with perceived blur. Additionally, the distribution of contrast across spatial frequencies also provides a cue for the accommodation (focusing) response. The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between excess low spatial frequency information, discomfort judgments and perceived blur. Results of these experiments show that a relative reduction in high spatial frequency contrast results in both increased discomfort and perceived blur. This is both in artificial and natural stimuli. A possible explanation for this relationship based on accommodation responses is proposed.
Accurate motor performance depends on the integration in spinal microcircuits of sensory feedback information. Hand grasp is a skilled motor behavior known to require cutaneous sensory feedback, but spinal microcircuits that process and relay this feedback to the motor system have not been defined. We sought to define classes of spinal interneurons involved in the cutaneous control of hand grasp in mice and to show that dI3 interneurons, a class of dorsal spinal interneurons marked by the expression of Isl1, convey input from low threshold cutaneous afferents to motoneurons. Mice in which the output of dI3 interneurons has been inactivated exhibit deficits in motor tasks that rely on cutaneous afferent input. Most strikingly, the ability to maintain grip strength in response to increasing load is lost following genetic silencing of dI3 interneuron output. Thus, spinal microcircuits that integrate cutaneous feedback crucial for paw grip rely on the intermediary role of dI3 interneurons.
Many brain circuits control behavior by integrating information arising from separate inputs onto a common target neuron. Neurons in the ventral striatum (VS) receive converging excitatory afferents from the prefrontal cortex (PFC), hippocampus (HP), and thalamus, among other structures, and the integration of these inputs is critical for goal-directed behaviors. Although HP inputs have been described as gating PFC throughput in the VS, recent data reveal that the VS desynchronizes from the HP during epochs of burst-like PFC activity related to decision making. It is therefore possible that PFC inputs locally attenuate responses to other glutamatergic inputs to the VS. Here, we found that delivering trains of stimuli to the PFC suppresses HP- and thalamus-evoked synaptic responses in the VS, in part through activation of inhibitory processes. This interaction may enable the PFC to exert influence on basal ganglia loops during decision-making instances with minimal disturbance from ongoing contextual inputs.
Amyloid- 1-42 (A42) oligomers are synaptotoxic for excitatory cortical and hippocampal neurons and might play a role in early stages of Alzheimer's disease (AD) progression. Recent results suggested that A42 oligomers trigger activation of AMP-activated kinase (AMPK), and its activation is increased in the brain of patients with AD. We show that increased intracellular calcium [Ca](i) induced by NMDA receptor activation or membrane depolarization activates AMPK in a CAMKK2-dependent manner. CAMKK2 or AMPK overactivation is sufficient to induce dendritic spine loss. Conversely, inhibiting their activity protects hippocampal neurons against synaptotoxic effects of A42 oligomers in vitro and against the loss of dendritic spines observed in the human APP(SWE,IND)-expressing transgenic mouse model in vivo. AMPK phosphorylates Tau on KxGS motif S262, and expression of Tau S262A inhibits the synaptotoxic effects of A42 oligomers. Our results identify a CAMKK2-AMPK-Tau pathway as a critical mediator of the synaptotoxic effects of A42 oligomers.
How does the ventral striatum (VS) prioritize and process afferent input? In this issue, Calhoon and O'Donnell (2013) demonstrate that cortical projections to the VS can attenuate hippocampal and thalamic VS input, suggesting that the cortex can uniquely control VS circuit dynamics.
In this issue of Neuron, Schobel etal. (2013) report that excess hippocampal glutamate may cause transition to psychosis in individuals at high risk for schizophrenia. Their data has implications for prevention strategies and why stress often precipitates this transition.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is a classic molecular marker of peptidergic primary somatosensory neurons. Despite years of research, it is unknown whether these neurons are required to sense pain or other sensory stimuli. Here, we found that genetic ablation of CGRP-expressing sensory neurons reduced sensitivity to noxious heat, capsaicin, and itch (histamine and chloroquine) and impaired thermoregulation but did not impair mechanosensation or -alanine itch-stimuli associated with nonpeptidergic sensory neurons. Unexpectedly, ablation enhanced behavioral responses to cold stimuli and cold mimetics without altering peripheral nerve responses to cooling. Mechanistically, ablation reduced tonic and evoked activity in postsynaptic spinal neurons associated with TRPV1/heat, while profoundly increasing tonic and evoked activity in spinal neurons associated with TRPM8/cold. Our data reveal that CGRP sensory neurons encode heat and itch and tonically cross-inhibit cold-responsive spinal neurons. Disruption of this crosstalk unmasks cold hypersensitivity, with mechanistic implications for neuropathic pain and temperature perception.
Valosin-containing protein (VCP) is a highly expressed member of the type II AAA+ ATPase family. VCP mutations are the cause of inclusion body myopathy, Paget's disease of the bone, and frontotemporal dementia (IBMPFD) and they account for 1%-2% of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Using fibroblasts from patients carrying three independent pathogenic mutations in the VCP gene, we show that VCP deficiency causes profound mitochondrial uncoupling leading to decreased mitochondrial membrane potential and increased mitochondrial oxygen consumption. This mitochondrial uncoupling results in a significant reduction of cellular ATP production. Decreased ATP levels in VCP-deficient cells lower their energy capacity, making them more vulnerable to high energy-demanding processes such as ischemia. Our findings propose a mechanism by which pathogenic VCP mutations lead to cell death.
Several studies have successfully produced a variety of neural cell types from human embryonic stem cells (hESCs), but there has been limited systematic analysis of how different regional identities are established using well-defined differentiation conditions. We have used adherent, chemically defined cultures to analyse the roles of Activin/Nodal, bone morphogenetic protein (BMP), fibroblast growth factor (FGF) and Wnt/-catenin signalling in neural induction, anteroposterior patterning and eye field specification in hESCs. We show that either BMP inhibition or activation of FGF signalling is required for effective neural induction, but these two pathways have distinct outcomes on rostrocaudal patterning. While BMP inhibition leads to specification of forebrain/midbrain positional identities, FGF-dependent neural induction is associated with strong posteriorization towards hindbrain/spinal cord fates. We also demonstrate that Wnt/-catenin signalling is activated during neural induction and promotes acquisition of neural fates posterior to forebrain. Therefore, inhibition of this pathway is needed for efficient forebrain specification. Finally, we provide evidence that the levels of Activin/Nodal and BMP signalling have a marked influence on further forebrain patterning and that constitutive inhibition of these pathways represses expression of eye field genes. These results show that the key mechanisms controlling neural patterning in model vertebrate species are preserved in adherent, chemically defined hESC cultures and reveal new insights into the signals regulating eye field specification.
BTBR T+tf/J (BTBR) is a genetically homogenous inbred strain of mice that displays abnormal social behaviors, deficits in vocalizations, and high levels of repetitive behaviors, relevant to the three diagnostic symptoms of autism spectrum disorder, leading to the use of this strain as a mouse model of autism. Comprehensive observations of BTBR social behaviors within the home cage during early stages of development have not been conducted. Here we evaluate the home cage behaviors of BTBR in two laboratory environments (NIMH, Bethesda, Maryland vs. UC Davis, Davis, California), starting from the day of weaning and continuing into adulthood. Extensive ethogram parameters were scored for BTBR in home cages that contained four BTBR conspecifics, versus home cages that contained four C57BL/6J (B6) conspecifics. BTBR were considerably less interactive than B6 in the home cage at both sites, as measured during the early dark stage of their circadian cycle. A novel home cage behavioral measure, frequency of long interactions, was found to be more frequent and of longer duration in B6 versus BTBR home cages across experimental sites. Significant strain differences in the occurrence of investigative and affiliative behaviors were also seen, however these findings were not fully consistent across the two testing sites. At the end of the 30-day home cage observation period, each seven-week old subject mouse was tested in the three-chambered social approach task. BTBR displayed lack of sociability and B6 displayed significant sociability, consistent with previous reports. Our findings reveal that BTBR engaged in lower levels of some components of spontaneous conspecific social interactions in the home cage environment throughout juvenile development, consistent with their deficits in juvenile and adult sociability as measured in specialized social tasks.
Binge eating disorders are characterized by discrete episodes of rapid and excessive food consumption. In rats, giving intermittent access to sweet fat food mimics this aspect of binge eating. These models typically employ solid food; however, the total amount consumed depends on motivation, palatability and satiety, which are difficult to dissociate with solid food. In contrast, lick microstructure analysis can be used to dissociate these parameters when the ingestant is a liquid. Therefore, we developed a binge model using a liquid emulsion composed of corn oil, heavy cream and sugar. We show that rats given intermittent access to this high-fat emulsion develop binge-like behavior comparable to that previously observed with solid high-fat food. One feature of this behavior was a gradual escalation in consumption across 2.5 weeks of intermittent access, which was not apparent in rats given lower-fat liquid on the same access schedule. Lick microstructure analysis suggests that this escalation was due at least in part to increases in both motivation to consume and palatability-driven consumption.

Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP3R) is a ubiquitous intracellular calcium (Ca(2+)) channel which has a major role in controlling Ca(2+) levels in neurons. A variety of computational models have been developed to describe the kinetic function of IP3R under different conditions. In the field of computational neuroscience, it is of great interest to apply the existing models of IP3R when modeling local Ca(2+) transients in dendrites or overall Ca(2+) dynamics in large neuronal models. The goal of this study was to evaluate existing IP3R models, based on electrophysiological data. This was done in order to be able to suggest suitable models for neuronal modeling. Altogether four models (Othmer and Tang, 1993; Dawson et al., 2003; Fraiman and Dawson, 2004; Doi et al., 2005) were selected for a more detailed comparison. The selection was based on the computational efficiency of the models and the type of experimental data that was used in developing the model. The kinetics of all four models were simulated by stochastic means, using the simulation software STEPS, which implements the Gillespie stochastic simulation algorithm. The results show major differences in the statistical properties of model functionality. Of the four compared models, the one by Fraiman and Dawson (2004) proved most satisfactory in producing the specific features of experimental findings reported in literature. To our knowledge, the present study is the first detailed evaluation of IP3R models using stochastic simulation methods, thus providing an important setting for constructing a new, realistic model of IP3R channel kinetics for compartmental modeling of neuronal functions. We conclude that the kinetics of IP3R with different concentrations of Ca(2+) and IP3 should be more carefully addressed when new models for IP3R are developed.
Facial expression of emotions is a powerful vehicle for communicating information about others' emotional states and it normally induces facial mimicry in the observers. The aim of this study was to investigate if early aversive experiences could interfere with emotion recognition, facial mimicry, and with the autonomic regulation of social behaviors. We conducted a facial emotion recognition task in a group of &quot;street-boys&quot; and in an age-matched control group. We recorded facial electromyography (EMG), a marker of facial mimicry, and respiratory sinus arrhythmia (RSA), an index of the recruitment of autonomic system promoting social behaviors and predisposition, in response to the observation of facial expressions of emotions. Results showed an over-attribution of anger, and reduced EMG responses during the observation of both positive and negative expressions only among street-boys. Street-boys also showed lower RSA after observation of facial expressions and ineffective RSA suppression during presentation of non-threatening expressions. Our findings suggest that early aversive experiences alter not only emotion recognition but also facial mimicry of emotions. These deficits affect the autonomic regulation of social behaviors inducing lower social predisposition after the visualization of facial expressions and an ineffective recruitment of defensive behavior in response to non-threatening expressions.


Appropriate function of the neocortex depends on timely generation and migration of cells produced in the germinal zones of the neocortex and ganglionic eminence (GE). Failure to accurately complete migration results in cortical dysplasia, a developmental syndrome implicated in many neurologic disorders. We developed a model of cortical dysplasia in ferrets involving administration of methylaxozymethanol acetate (MAM), an antimitotic, to pregnant ferrets on gestational day 33, leading to dramatic reduction of layer 4 in the neocortex. Here, using time-lapse video imaging, we investigate dynamic behavior of migrating cells arising from the GE and cortical ventricular zone (CVZ) in ferrets and the role of GABAA activity. Treatment with MAM significantly reduced migration speed and the relative proportion of cells arising from the GE demonstrating exploratory behavior. To a lesser extent, the behavior of cells leaving the CVZ was affected. Pharmacologic inhibition of GABAA receptors (GABAAR) improved the speed of migration and exploratory ability of migrating MAM-treated cells arising from the GE. Additionally, the expression of 2 and 3 subunits of GABAAR and the potassium chloride co-transporter (KCC2) increased in the neocortex of MAM-treated animals. After MAM treatment, increases in endogenous KCC2 and GABAAR combine to alter the dynamic properties and exploratory behavior of migrating interneurons in ferrets. We show a direct correlation between increased GABAA and KCC2 expression with impaired migration and ability to explore the environment.





Dipeptidyl Peptidase-like Protein 6 (DPP6) is widely expressed in the brain where it co-assembles with Kv4 channels and KChIP auxiliary subunits to regulate the amplitude and functional properties of the somatodendritic A-current, ISA. Here we show that in cerebellar granule (CG) cells DPP6 also regulates resting membrane potential and input resistance by increasing the amplitude of the IK(SO) resting membrane current. Pharmacological analysis shows that DPP6 acts through the control of a channel with properties matching the K2P channel TASK-3. Heterologous expression and co-immunoprecipitation shows that DPP6 co-expression with TASK-3 results in the formation of a protein complex that enhances resting membrane potassium conductance. The co-regulation of resting and voltage-gated channels by DPP6 produces coordinate shifts in resting membrane potential and A-current gating that optimize the sensitivity of ISA inactivation gating to subthreshold fluctuations in resting membrane potential.
Adeno-associated viral vectors (AAV) have been shown to be safe in the treatment of retinal degenerations in clinical trials. Thus, improving the efficiency of viral gene delivery has become increasingly important to increase the success of clinical trials. In this study, structural domains of different rAAV serotypes isolated from primate brain were combined to create novel hybrid recombinant AAV serotypes, rAAV2/rec2 and rAAV2/rec3. The efficacy of these novel serotypes were assessed in wild type mice and in two models of retinal degeneration (the Abca4(-/-) mouse which is a model for Stargardt disease and in the Pde6b(rd1/rd1) mouse) in vivo, in primate tissue ex-vivo, and in the human-derived SH-SY5Y cell line, using an identical AAV2 expression cassette. We show that these novel hybrid serotypes can transduce retinal tissue in mice and primates efficiently, although no more than AAV2/2 and rAAV2/5 serotypes. Transduction efficiency appeared lower in the Abca4(-/-) mouse compared to wild type with all vectors tested, suggesting an effect of specific retinal diseases on the efficiency of gene delivery. Shuffling of AAV capsid domains may have clinical applications for patients who develop T-cell immune responses following AAV gene therapy, as specific peptide antigen sequences could be substituted using this technique prior to vector re-treatments.
The fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster has a sophisticated visual system and exhibits complex visual behaviors. Visual responses, vision processing and higher cognitive processes in Drosophila have been studied extensively. However, little is known about whether the retinal location of visual stimuli can affect fruit fly performance in various visual tasks. We tested the response of wild-type Berlin flies to visual stimuli at several vertical locations. Three paradigms were used in our study: visual operant conditioning, visual object fixation and optomotor response. We observed an acute zone for visual feature memorization in the upper visual field when visual patterns were presented with a black background. However, when a white background was used, the acute zone was in the lower visual field. Similar to visual feature memorization, the best locations for visual object fixation and optomotor response to a single moving stripe were in the lower visual field with a white background and the upper visual field with a black background. The preferred location for the optomotor response to moving gratings was around the equator of the visual field. Our results suggest that different visual processing pathways are involved in different visual tasks and that there is a certain degree of overlap between the pathways for visual feature memorization, visual object fixation and optomotor response.

Here we define the molecular nature of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (PTP), a key effector of cell death. The PTP is regulated by matrix cyclophilin D (CyPD), which also binds the lateral stalk of the FOF1 ATP synthase. We show that CyPD binds the oligomycin sensitivity-conferring protein subunit of the enzyme at the same site as the ATP synthase inhibitor benzodiazepine 423 (Bz-423), that Bz-423 sensitizes the PTP to Ca(2+) like CyPD itself, and that decreasing oligomycin sensitivity-conferring protein expression by RNAi increases the sensitivity of the PTP to Ca(2+). Purified dimers of the ATP synthase, which did not contain voltage-dependent anion channel or adenine nucleotide translocator, were reconstituted into lipid bilayers. In the presence of Ca(2+), addition of Bz-423 triggered opening of a channel with currents that were typical of the mitochondrial megachannel, which is the PTP electrophysiological equivalent. Channel openings were inhibited by the ATP synthase inhibitor AMP-PNP (-imino ATP, a nonhydrolyzable ATP analog) and Mg(2+)/ADP. These results indicate that the PTP forms from dimers of the ATP synthase.
Unconscious neural activity has been repeatedly shown to precede and potentially even influence subsequent free decisions. However, to date, such findings have been mostly restricted to simple motor choices, and despite considerable debate, there is no evidence that the outcome of more complex free decisions can be predicted from prior brain signals. Here, we show that the outcome of a free decision to either add or subtract numbers can already be decoded from neural activity in medial prefrontal and parietal cortex 4 s before the participant reports they are consciously making their choice. These choice-predictive signals co-occurred with the so-called default mode brain activity pattern that was still dominant at the time when the choice-predictive signals occurred. Our results suggest that unconscious preparation of free choices is not restricted to motor preparation. Instead, decisions at multiple scales of abstraction evolve from the dynamics of preceding brain activity.
Physiological interactions and reciprocal signaling between axons and Schwann cells play critical roles in nerve development and survival. Axonally derived neuregulin-1 (NRG-1) type III is an essential modulator of Schwann cells during development, nerve repair, and remyelination. A recent report demonstrates an unexpected regulatory role for Schwann cell-derived NRG-1 type I in Schwann cell plasticity and remyelination after peripheral nerve injury. Specifically expressed in Schwann cells at critical time points after nerve injury, this isoform of NRG-1 emerges as a driving force for regeneration and remyelination programs.
A recent study shows that subordinate rats reduce their rate of sniffing while dominants explore their faces thus delaying dominants' subsequent aggression. Sniffing not only facilitates acquisition of olfactory information, but unexpectedly, also serves as a medium for communication.
Sniffing is a specialized respiratory behavior that is essential for the acquisition of odors [1-4]. Perhaps not independent of this, sniffing is commonly displayed during motivated [5-7] and social behaviors [8, 9]. No measures of sniffing among interacting animals are available, however, calling into question the utility of this behavior in the social context. From radiotelemetry recordings of nasal respiration, I found that investigation by one rat toward the facial region of a conspecific often elicits a decrease in sniffing frequency in the conspecific. This reciprocal display of sniffing was found to be dependent upon the rat's social status in two separate paradigms, with subordinates reliably decreasing their sniffing frequency upon being investigated in the face by dominant rats. Failure of subordinates to decrease their sniffing frequency shortened the latency for agonistic behavior by dominant rats, reflecting that decreases in sniffing serve as appeasement signals during social interactions. Rats rendered unable to smell persisted in displaying reciprocal sniffing behavior, demonstrating the independence of this behavior from olfaction. Oxytocin treatment in rats with established social hierarchies abolished agonistic behaviors and reciprocal sniffing displays. Together, these findings demonstrate that rodents utilize sniffing behaviors communicatively, not only to collect [6, 10-14] but also to convey information.
P0 glycoprotein is an abundant product of terminal differentiation in myelinating Schwann cells. The mutant P0S63del causes Charcot-Marie-Tooth 1B neuropathy in humans, and a very similar demyelinating neuropathy in transgenic mice. P0S63del is retained in the endoplasmic reticulum of Schwann cells, where it promotes unfolded protein stress and elicits an unfolded protein response (UPR) associated with translational attenuation. Ablation of Chop, a UPR mediator, from S63del mice completely rescues their motor deficit and reduces active demyelination by half. Here, we show that Gadd34 is a detrimental effector of CHOP that reactivates translation too aggressively in myelinating Schwann cells. Genetic or pharmacological limitation of Gadd34 function moderates translational reactivation, improves myelination in S63del nerves, and reduces accumulation of P0S63del in the ER. Resetting translational homeostasis may provide a therapeutic strategy in tissues impaired by misfolded proteins that are synthesized during terminal differentiation.

Cytosolic carboxypeptidase 1 (CCP1) is a metallopeptidase that removes C-terminal and side-chain glutamates from tubulin. The Purkinje cell degeneration (pcd) mouse lacks CCP1 due to a mutation. Previously, elevated levels of peptides derived from cytosolic and mitochondrial proteins were found in adult pcd mouse brain, raising the possibility that CCP1 functions in the degradation of intracellular peptides. To test this hypothesis, we used a quantitative peptidomics technique to compare peptide levels in wild-type and pcd mice, examining adult heart, spleen, and brain, and presymptomatic 3 week-old amygdala and cerebellum. Contrary to adult mouse brain, young pcd brain and adult heart and spleen did not show a large increase in levels of intracellular peptides. Unexpectedly, levels of peptides derived from secretory pathway proteins were altered in adult pcd mouse brain. The pattern of changes for the intracellular and secretory pathway peptides in pcd mice was generally similar to the pattern observed in mice lacking primary cilia. Collectively, these results suggest that intracellular peptide accumulation in adult pcd mouse brain is a secondary effect and is not due to a role of CCP1 in peptide turnover.

To date, a plethora of studies have provided evidence favoring an association between Gaucher disease (GD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). GD, the most common lysosomal storage disorder, results from the diminished activity of the lysosomal enzyme -glucocerebrosidase (GCase), caused by mutations in the -glucocerebrosidase gene (GBA). Alpha-synuclein (ASYN), a presynaptic protein, has been strongly implicated in PD pathogenesis. ASYN may in part be degraded by the lysosomes and may itself aberrantly impact lysosomal function. Therefore, a putative link between deficient GCase and ASYN, involving lysosomal dysfunction, has been proposed to be responsible for the risk for PD conferred by GBA mutations. In this current work, we aimed to investigate the effects of pharmacological inhibition of GCase on ASYN accumulation/aggregation, as well as on lysosomal function, in differentiated SH-SY5Y cells and in primary neuronal cultures. Following profound inhibition of the enzyme activity, we did not find significant alterations in ASYN levels, or any changes in the clearance or formation of its oligomeric species. We further observed no significant impairment of the lysosomal degradation machinery. These findings suggest that additional interaction pathways together with aberrant GCase and ASYN must govern this complex relation between GD and PD.
While novel influential concepts in neuroscience bring the focus to local activities generated within a few tens of cubic micrometers in the brain, we are still devoid of appropriate tools to record and manipulate pharmacologically neuronal activity at this fine scale. Here we designed, fabricated and encapsulated microprobes for simultaneous depth recording and drug delivery using exclusively the polymer SU-8 as structural material. A tetrode- and linear-like electrode patterning was combined for the first time with single and double fluidic microchannels for independent drug delivery. The device was tested experimentally using the in vivo anesthetized rat preparation. Both probe types successfully recorded detailed spatiotemporal features of local field potentials and single-cell activity at a resolution never attained before with integrated fluidic probes. Drug delivery was achieved with high spatial and temporal precision in a range from tens of nanoliters to a few microliters, as confirmed histologically. These technological advancements will foster a wide range of neural applications aimed at simultaneous monitoring of brain activity and delivery at a very precise micrometer scale.
PhenomeNet is an approach for integrating phenotypes across species and identifying candidate genes for genetic diseases based on the similarity between a disease and animal model phenotypes. In contrast to 'guilt-by-association' approaches, PhenomeNet relies exclusively on the comparison of phenotypes to suggest candidate genes, and can, therefore, be applied to study the molecular basis of rare and orphan diseases for which the molecular basis is unknown. In addition to disease phenotypes from the Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM) database, we have now integrated the clinical signs from Orphanet into PhenomeNet. We demonstrate that our approach can efficiently identify known candidate genes for genetic diseases in Orphanet and OMIM. Furthermore, we find evidence that mutations in the HIP1 gene might cause Bassoe syndrome, a rare disorder with unknown genetic aetiology. Our results demonstrate that integration and computational analysis of human disease and animal model phenotypes using PhenomeNet has the potential to reveal novel insights into the pathobiology underlying genetic diseases.
The functions of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) underlie higher-level cognition. Varying proposals suggest that the PFC is organized along a rostral-caudal gradient of abstraction with more abstract representations/processes associated with more rostral areas. However, the operational definition of abstraction is unclear. Here, we contrasted 2 prominent theories of abstraction-temporal and relational-using fMRI. We further examined whether integrating abstract rules-a function common to each theory-recruited the PFC independently of other abstraction effects. While robust effects of relational abstraction were present in the PFC, temporal abstraction effects were absent. Instead, we found activations specific to the integration of relational rules in areas previously shown to be associated with temporal abstraction. We suggest that previous effects of temporal abstraction were due to confounds with integration demands. We propose an integration framework to understand the functions of the PFC that resolves discrepancies in prior data.

Small GTPase Rab17 has recently been shown to regulate dendritic morphogenesis of mouse hippocampal neurons; however, the exact molecular mechanism of Rab17-mediated dendritogenesis remained to be determined, because no guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for Rab17 had been identified. In this study we screened for the Rab17-GEF by performing yeast two-hybrid assays with a GDP-locked Rab17 mutant as bait and found that Rabex-5 and ALS2, both of which were originally described as Rab5-GEFs, interact with Rab17. We also found that expression of Rabex-5, but not of ALS2, promotes translocation of Rab17 from the cell body to the dendrites of developing mouse hippocampal neurons. The shRNA-mediated knockdown of Rabex-5 or its known downstream target Rab5 in hippocampal neurons inhibited morphogenesis of both axons and dendrites, whereas knockdown of Rab17 affected dendrite morphogenesis alone. Based on these findings, we propose that Rabex-5 regulates neurite morphogenesis of hippocampal neurons by activating at least two downstream targets, Rab5, which is localized in both axons and dendrites, and Rab17, which is localized in dendrites alone.
Actin filament cytoskeletal and muscle functions are regulated by actin binding proteins using a variety of mechanisms. A universal actin filament regulator is the protein tropomyosin, which binds end-to-end along the length of the filament. The actin-tropomyosin filament structure is unknown, but there are atomic models in different regulatory states based on electron microscopy reconstructions, computational modeling of actin-tropomyosin, and docking of atomic resolution structures of tropomyosin to actin filament models. Here, we have tested models of the actin-tropomyosin interface in the &quot;closed state&quot; where tropomyosin binds to actin in the absence of myosin or troponin. Using mutagenesis coupled with functional analyses, we determined residues of actin and tropomyosin required for complex formation. The sites of mutations in tropomyosin were based on an evolutionary analysis and revealed a pattern of basic and acidic residues in the first halves of the periodic repeats (periods) in tropomyosin. In periods P1, P4, and P6, basic residues are most important for actin affinity, in contrast to periods P2, P3, P5, and P7, where both basic and acidic residues or predominantly acidic residues contribute to actin affinity. Hydrophobic interactions were found to be relatively less important for actin binding. We mutated actin residues in subdomains 1 and 3 (Asp(25)-Glu(334)-Lys(326)-Lys(328)) that are poised to make electrostatic interactions with the residues in the repeating motif on tropomyosin in the models. Tropomyosin failed to bind mutant actin filaments. Our mutagenesis studies provide the first experimental support for the atomic models of the actin-tropomyosin interface.
Transit of human neural stem cells, ReNcell CX, through the blood brain barrier (BBB) was evaluated in an in vitro model of BBB and in nude mice. The BBB model was based on rat brain microvascular endothelial cells (RBMECs) cultured on Millicell inserts bathed from the basolateral side with conditioned media (CM) from astrocytes or glioma C6 cells. Glioma C6 CM induced a significant transendothelial migration of ReNcells CX in comparison to astrocyte CM. The presence in glioma C6 CM of high amounts of HGF, VEGF, zonulin and PGE2, together with the low abundance of EGF, promoted ReNcells CX transmigration. In contrast cytokines IFN-, TNF-, IL-12p70, IL-1, IL-6, IL-8 and IL-10, as well as metalloproteinases -2 and -9 were present in equal amounts in glioma C6 and astrocyte CMs. ReNcells expressed the tight junction proteins occludin and claudins 1, 3 and 4, and the cell adhesion molecule CRTAM, while RBMECs expressed occludin, claudins 1 and 5 and CRTAM. Competing CRTAM mediated adhesion with soluble CRTAM, inhibited ReNcells CX transmigration, and at the sites of transmigration, the expression of occludin and claudin-5 diminished in RBMECs. In nude mice we found that ReNcells CX injected into systemic circulation passed the BBB and reached intracranial gliomas, which overexpressed HGF, VEGF and zonulin/prehaptoglobin 2.
Schizophrenia is a chronic debilitating neuropsychiatric disorder with a complex genetic contribution. Although multiple genetic, immunological and environmental factors are known to contribute to schizophrenia susceptibility, the underlying neurobiological mechanism(s) is yet to be established. The immune system dysfunction theory of schizophrenia is experiencing a period of renewal due to a growth in evidence implicating components of the immune system in brain function and human behavior. Current evidence indicates that certain immune molecules such as Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) and cytokines, the key regulators of immunity and inflammation are directly involved in the neurobiological processes related to neurodevelopment, neuronal plasticity, learning, memory and behavior. However, the strongest support in favor of the immune hypothesis has recently emerged from on-going genome wide association studies advocating MHC region variants as major determinants of one's risk for developing schizophrenia. Further identification of the interacting partners and receptors of MHC molecules in the brain and their role in down-stream signaling pathways of neurotransmission have implicated these molecules as potential schizophrenia risk factors. More recently, combined brain imaging and genetic studies have revealed a relationship between genetic variations within the MHC region and neuromorphometric changes during schizophrenia. Furthermore, MHC molecules play a significant role in the immune-infective and neurodevelopmental pathogenetic pathways, currently hypothesized to contribute to the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Herein, we review the immunological, genetic and expression studies assessing the role of the MHC in conferring risk for developing schizophrenia, we summarize and discuss the possible mechanisms involved, making note of the challenges to, and future directions of, immunogenetic research in schizophrenia.
Schizophrenia is a severe neurodevelopmental disorder with genetic and environmental etiologies. Prenatal viral/bacterial infections and inflammation play major roles in the genesis of schizophrenia. In this review, we describe a viral model of schizophrenia tested in mice whereby the offspring of mice prenatally infected with influenza at E7, E9, E16, and E18 show significant gene, protein, and brain structural abnormalities postnatally. Similarly, we describe data on rodents exposed to bacterial infection or injected with a synthetic viral mimic (PolyI:C) also demonstrating brain structural and behavioral abnormalities. Moreover, human serologic data has been indispensible in supporting the viral theory of schizophrenia. Individuals born seropositive for bacterial and viral agents are at a significantly elevated risk of developing schizophrenia. While the specific mechanisms of prenatal viral/bacterial infections and brain disorder are unclear, recent findings suggest that the maternal inflammatory response may be associated with fetal brain injury. Preventive and therapeutic treatment options are also proposed. This review presents data related to epidemiology, human serology, and experimental animal models which support the viral model of schizophrenia.
We used a combined optogenetic-electrophysiological strategy to determine the functional identity of entorhinal cells with output to the place-cell population in the hippocampus. Channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) was expressed selectively in the hippocampus-targeting subset of entorhinal projection neurons by infusing retrogradely transportable ChR2-coding recombinant adeno-associated virus in the hippocampus. Virally transduced ChR2-expressing cells were identified in medial entorhinal cortex as cells that fired at fixed minimal latencies in response to local flashes of light. A large number of responsive cells were grid cells, but short-latency firing was also induced in border cells and head-direction cells, as well as cells with irregular or nonspatial firing correlates, which suggests that place fields may be generated by convergence of signals from a broad spectrum of entorhinal functional cell types.
The gradual and noisy accumulation of evidence is a fundamental component of decision-making, with noise playing a key role as the source of variability and errors. However, the origins of this noise have never been determined. We developed decision-making tasks in which sensory evidence is delivered in randomly timed pulses, and analyzed the resulting data with models that use the richly detailed information of each trial's pulse timing to distinguish between different decision-making mechanisms. This analysis allowed measurement of the magnitude of noise in the accumulator's memory, separately from noise associated with incoming sensory evidence. In our tasks, the accumulator's memory was noiseless, for both rats and humans. In contrast, the addition of new sensory evidence was the primary source of variability. We suggest our task and modeling approach as a powerful method for revealing internal properties of decision-making processes.



Acitretin is a synthetic retinoid used for severe extensive psoriasis and it has been shown to be an effective and a safe therapeutic drug for other diseases including cancer when used in combination with other agents. However, cases of acitretin-associated liver injury have been documented, but the possible mechanisms of acitretin-associated hepatotoxicity and apoptosis are not entirely clarified. This study reports that mitochondrial dysfunctions may play an important role in liver injury and apoptosis induced by this retinoid. Acitretin (5-20 M) impaired mitochondrial phosphorylation efficiency as demonstrated by the decrease in the state 3 respiration and ATP levels, and by the increase in the lag phase of ADP phosphorylation cycle, without affecting the membrane potential. Acitretin induced Ca(2+)-mediated mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT) and decreased the adenine nucleotide translocase (ANT) content. Acitretin-induced MPT was not prevented by thiol group protecting and antioxidant agents, excluding the involvement of oxidative stress mechanisms. However, MPT was prevented by ANT ligands ATP, ADP, tamoxifen and 4-hydroxytamoxifen, implying that the MPT induction by acitretin is mediated by the ANT. ANT plays a major role in promoting apoptosis and ATP synthesis, and it is still considered as a structural component of the pore with a regulatory role in MPT formation. Therefore, our results, including the decrease in the state 3 respiration and the increase in the lag phase of phosphorylation cycle, the ATP depletion and the induction of Ca(2+)-mediated MPT, indicate that acitretin-associated liver toxicity and apoptosis is possibly related with mitochondrial dysfunctions due to interactions with the ANT. Additionally, the combination of acitretin with other drugs, such as antiestrogens, which are able to inhibit the MPT, may contribute to decrease the toxicity induced by acitretin.
The Krebs cycle is of fundamental importance for the generation of the energetic and molecular needs of both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. Both enantiomers of metabolite 2-hydroxyglutarate are directly linked to this pivotal biochemical pathway and are found elevated not only in several cancers, but also in different variants of the neurometabolic disease 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. Recently we showed that cancer-associated IDH2 germline mutations cause one variant of 2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. Complementary to these findings, we now report recessive mutations in SLC25A1, the mitochondrial citrate carrier, in 12 out of 12 individuals with combined D-2- and L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria. Impaired mitochondrial citrate efflux, demonstrated by stable isotope labeling experiments and the absence of SLC25A1 in fibroblasts harboring certain mutations, suggest that SLC25A1 deficiency is pathogenic. Our results identify defects in SLC25A1 as a cause of combined D-2- and L-2-hydroxyglutaric aciduria.

Glutamate receptors sensitive to N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) are important in early brain development, influencing cell proliferation and migration, neuritogenesis, axon guidance and synapse formation. The kynurenine pathway of tryptophan metabolism includes an agonist (quinolinic acid) and an antagonist (kynurenic acid) at these receptors. Rats were treated in late gestation with 3,4-dimethoxy-N-[4-(3-nitrophenyl)thiazol-2-yl]-benzene-sulphonamide (Ro61-8048), an inhibitor of kynurenine-3-monoxygenase which diverts kynurenine metabolism to kynurenic acid. Within 5h of drug administration, there was a significant decrease in GluN2A expression and increased GluN2B in the embryo brains, with changes in sonic hedgehog at 24h. When injected dams were allowed to litter normally, the brains of offspring were removed at postnatal day 21 (P21). Recordings of hippocampal field excitatory synaptic potentials (fEPSPs) showed that prenatal exposure to Ro61-8048 increased neuronal excitability and paired-pulse facilitation. Long-term potentiation was also increased, with no change in long-term depression. At this time, levels of GluN2A, GluN2B and postsynaptic density protein PSD-95 were all increased. Among several neurodevelopmental proteins, the expression of sonic hedgehog was increased, but DISC1 and dependence receptors were unaffected, while raised levels of doublecortin and Proliferating Cell Nuclear Antigen (PCNA) suggested increased neurogenesis. The results reveal that inhibiting the kynurenine pathway in utero leads to molecular and functional synaptic changes in the embryos and offspring, indicating that the pathway is active during gestation and plays a significant role in the normal early development of the embryonic and neonatal nervous system.
Reorganization of spared neural network connections is one of the most important processes for restoring impaired function after brain injury. However, plasticity is quite limited in the adult brain due to the presence of inhibitory molecules and a lack of intrinsic neuronal signals for axonal growth. Src homology 2-containing phosphatase (SHP)-1 has been shown to have a role in axon growth inhibition. Here, we tested the hypothesis that SHP-1 negatively affects axonal reorganization. We observed that unilateral motor cortex injury led to increased expression and activity of SHP-1 in the contralesional cortex. In this model, corticospinal axons originating from the contralesional cortex sprouted into the denervated side of the cervical spinal cord after injury. We observed that the number of sprouting fibers was increased in SHP-1-deficient heterozygous viable motheaten (+/me(v)) mice, which show reduced SHP-1 activity, and in wild-type mice treated with an SHP inhibitor. Motor function recovery of impaired forelimb was enhanced in +/me(v) mice. Collectively, our results indicate that downregulation of SHP-1 activity promotes corticospinal tract sprouting and functional recovery after brain injury.

The gut immune system shares many mediators and receptors with the autonomic nervous system. Good examples thereof are the parasympathetic (vagal) and sympathetic neurotransmitters, for which many immune cell types in a gut context express receptors or enzymes required for their synthesis. For some of these the relevance for immune regulation has been recently defined. Earlier and more recent studies in neuroscience and immunology have indicated the anatomical and cellular basis for bidirectional interactions between the nervous and immune systems. Sympathetic immune modulation is well described earlier, and in the last decade the parasympathetic vagal nerve has been put forward as an integral part of an immune regulation network via its release of Ach, a system coined &quot;the cholinergic anti-inflammatory reflex.&quot; A prototypical example is the inflammatory reflex, comprised of an afferent arm that senses inflammation and an efferent arm: the cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway, that inhibits innate immune responses. In this paper, the current understanding of how innate mucosal immunity can be influenced by the neuronal system is summarized, and cell types and receptors involved in this interaction will be highlighted. Focus will be given on the direct neuronal regulatory mechanisms, as well as current advances regarding the role of microbes in modulating communication in the gut-brain axis.


Sensory processing occurs in neocortical microcircuits in which synaptic connectivity is highly structured and excitatory neurons form subnetworks that process related sensory information. However, the developmental mechanisms underlying the formation of functionally organized connectivity in cortical microcircuits remain unknown. Here we directly relate patterns of excitatory synaptic connectivity to visual response properties of neighbouring layer2/3 pyramidal neurons in mouse visual cortex at different postnatal ages, using two-photon calcium imaging in vivo and multiple whole-cell recordings in vitro. Although neural responses were already highly selective for visual stimuli at eye opening, neurons responding to similar visual features were not yet preferentially connected, indicating that the emergence of feature selectivity does not depend on the precise arrangement of local synaptic connections. After eye opening, local connectivity reorganized extensively: more connections formed selectively between neurons with similar visual responses and connections were eliminated between visually unresponsive neurons, but the overall connectivity rate did not change. We propose a sequential model of cortical microcircuit development based on activity-dependent mechanisms of plasticity whereby neurons first acquire feature preference by selecting feedforward inputs before the onset of sensory experience--a process that may be facilitated by early electrical coupling between neuronal subsets--and then patterned input drives the formation of functional subnetworks through a redistribution of recurrent synaptic connections.

Huntington's disease (HD) is caused by the expansion of a CAG repeat in the huntingtin (HTT) gene. The R6/2 mouse model of HD expresses a mutant version of exon 1 HTT and develops motor and cognitive impairments, a widespread huntingtin (HTT) aggregate pathology and brain atrophy. Despite the vast number of studies that have been performed on this model, the association between the molecular and cellular neuropathology with brain atrophy, and with the development of behavioral phenotypes remains poorly understood. In an attempt to link these factors, we have performed longitudinal assessments of behavior (rotarod, open field, passive avoidance) and of regional brain abnormalities determined through magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (whole brain, striatum, cortex, hippocampus, corpus callosum), as well as an end-stage histological assessment. Detailed correlative analyses of these three measures were then performed. We found a gender-dependent emergence of motor impairments that was associated with an age-related loss of regional brain volumes. MRI measurements further indicated that there was no striatal atrophy, but rather a lack of striatal growth beyond 8 weeks of age. T2 relaxivity further indicated tissue-level changes within brain regions. Despite these dramatic motor and neuroanatomical abnormalities, R6/2 mice did not exhibit neuronal loss in the striatum or motor cortex, although there was a significant increase in neuronal density due to tissue atrophy. The deposition of the mutant HTT (mHTT) protein, the hallmark of HD molecular pathology, was widely distributed throughout the brain. End-stage histopathological assessments were not found to be as robustly correlated with the longitudinal measures of brain atrophy or motor impairments. In conclusion, modeling pre-manifest and early progression of the disease in more slowly progressing animal models will be key to establishing which changes are causally related.
Recent findings have demonstrated that a small set of highly connected brain regions may play a central role in enabling efficient communication between cortical regions, together forming a densely interconnected &quot;rich club.&quot; However, the density and spatial layout of the rich club also suggest that it constitutes a costly feature of brain architecture. Here, combining anatomical T1, diffusion tensor imaging, magnetic transfer imaging, and functional MRI, several aspects of structural and functional connectivity of the brain's rich club were examined. Our findings suggest that rich club regions and rich club connections exhibit high levels of wiring volume, high levels of white matter organization, high levels of metabolic energy usage, long maturational trajectories, more variable regional time series, and more inter-regional functional couplings. Taken together, these structural and functional measures extend the notion that rich club organization represents a high-cost feature of brain architecture that puts a significant strain on brain resources. The high cost of the rich club may, however, be offset by significant functional benefits that the rich club confers to the brain network as a whole.

Visual selection requires mechanisms for representing object salience and for shifting the focus of processing to novel objects. It is not clear from computational or neural models whether these operations are performed within the same or different brain regions. Here, we use repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation to briefly interfere with neural activity in individually localized regions of human posterior parietal cortex (PPC) that are putatively involved in attending to contralateral locations or shifting attention between locations. Stimulation over right ventral intraparietal sulcus impaired target discrimination at contralateral locations, whereas stimulation over right medial superior parietal lobule impaired target discrimination after a shift of attention regardless of its location. This double dissociation is consistent with neuroimaging studies and indicates that mechanisms of visual selection are partly anatomically segregated in human PPC.
The axon initial segment (AIS) and nodes of Ranvier are the sites of action potential initiation and regeneration in axons. Although the basic molecular architectures of AIS and nodes, characterized by dense clusters of Na(+) and K(+) channels, are similar, firing patterns vary among cell types. Neuronal firing patterns are established by the collective activity of voltage-gated ion channels and can be modulated through interaction with auxiliary subunits. Here, we report the neuronal expression pattern and subcellular localization of Nav4, the modulatory Na(+) channel subunit thought to underlie resurgent Na(+) current. Immunostaining of rat tissues revealed that Nav4 is strongly enriched at the AIS of a select set of neuron types, including many characterized by high-frequency firing, and at nodes of Ranvier in the PNS and some nodes in the CNS. By introducing full-length and mutant GFP-tagged Nav4 into cultured neurons, we determined that the AIS and nodal localization of Nav4 depends on its direct interaction with Na(+) channel  subunits through an extracellular disulfide bond. Based on these results, we propose that differences in the specific composition of the Na(+) channel complexes enriched at the AIS and nodes contribute to the diverse physiologies observed among cell types.
Intrathecal application of morphine is among the most powerful methods used to treat severe chronic pain. However, this approach commonly produces itch sufficiently severe that patients are forced to choose between relief of pain or itch. The neuronal populations responsible for processing and transmitting information underlying itch caused by intrathecal application of morphine have not been identified and characterized. We describe two populations of antidromically identified trigeminothalamic tract (VTT) neurons in anesthetized rats that are differentially affected by morphine and explain several aspects of opioid-induced itch and analgesia. We found that intrathecal application of morphine increased ongoing activity of itch-responsive VTT neurons. In addition, intrathecal application of morphine increased responses to pruritogens injected into the skin and greatly heightened responses to innocuous mechanical stimuli. In contrast, the ongoing activity and responses to noxious pinches in nociceptive VTT neurons were frequently inhibited by the same dose of morphine. These results reveal that i.t. application of morphine affects specific subpopulations of VTT neurons in ways that may produce itch, hyperknesis, alloknesis, and analgesia.
Somatosensation plays an important role in the motor control of vocal functions, yet its neural correlate and relation to vocal learning is not well understood. We used fMRI in 17 trained singers and 12 nonsingers to study the effects of vocal-fold anesthesia on the vocal-motor singing network as a function of singing expertise. Tasks required participants to sing musical target intervals under normal conditions and after anesthesia. At the behavioral level, anesthesia altered pitch accuracy in both groups, but singers were less affected than nonsingers, indicating an experience-dependent effect of the intervention. At the neural level, this difference was accompanied by distinct patterns of decreased activation in singers (cortical and subcortical sensory and motor areas) and nonsingers (subcortical motor areas only) respectively, suggesting that anesthesia affected the higher-level voluntary (explicit) motor and sensorimotor integration network more in experienced singers, and the lower-level (implicit) subcortical motor loops in nonsingers. The right anterior insular cortex (AIC) was identified as the principal area dissociating the effect of expertise as a function of anesthesia by three separate sources of evidence. First, it responded differently to anesthesia in singers (decreased activation) and nonsingers (increased activation). Second, functional connectivity between AIC and bilateral A1, M1, and S1 was reduced in singers but augmented in nonsingers. Third, increased BOLD activity in right AIC in singers was correlated with larger pitch deviation under anesthesia. We conclude that the right AIC and sensory-motor areas play a role in experience-dependent modulation of feedback integration for vocal motor control during singing.
There is compelling evidence that oligodendrocyte apoptosis, in response to CNS inflammation, contributes significantly to the development of the demyelinating disorder multiple sclerosis and its animal model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Therefore, approaches designed to protect oligodendrocytes would likely have therapeutic value. Activation of pancreatic endoplasmic reticulum kinase (PERK) signaling in response to endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress increases cell survival under various cytotoxic conditions. Moreover, there is evidence that PERK signaling is activated in oligodendrocytes within demyelinating lesions in multiple sclerosis and EAE. Our previous study demonstrated that CNS delivery of the inflammatory cytokine interferon- before EAE onset protected mice against EAE, and this protection was dependent on PERK signaling. In our current study, we sought to elucidate the role of PERK signaling in oligodendrocytes during EAE. We generated transgenic mice that allow for temporally controlled activation of PERK signaling, in the absence of ER stress, specifically in oligodendrocytes. We demonstrated that persistent activation of PERK signaling was not deleterious to oligodendrocyte viability or the myelin of adult animals. Importantly, we found that enhanced activation of PERK signaling specifically in oligodendrocytes significantly attenuated EAE disease severity, which was associated with reduced oligodendrocyte apoptosis, demyelination, and axonal degeneration. This effect was not the result of an altered degree of the inflammatory response in EAE mice. Our results provide direct evidence that activation of PERK signaling in oligodendrocytes is cytoprotective, protecting mice against EAE.
Cell proliferation during nervous system development is poorly understood outside the mouse neocortex. We measured cell cycle dynamics in the embryonic mouse sympathetic stellate ganglion, where neuroblasts continue to proliferate following neuronal differentiation. At embryonic day (E) 9.5, when neural crest-derived cells were migrating and coalescing into the ganglion primordium, all cells were cycling, cell cycle length was only 10.6 h, and S-phase comprised over 65% of the cell cycle; these values are similar to those previously reported for embryonic stem cells. At E10.5, Sox10(+) cells lengthened their cell cycle to 38 h and reduced the length of S-phase. As cells started to express the neuronal markers Tuj1 and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) at E10.5, they exited the cell cycle. At E11.5, when &gt;80% of cells in the ganglion were Tuj1(+)/TH(+) neuroblasts, all cells were again cycling. Neuroblast cell cycle length did not change significantly after E11.5, and 98% of Sox10(-)/TH(+) cells had exited the cell cycle by E18.5. The cell cycle length of Sox10(+)/TH(-) cells increased during late embryonic development, and 25% were still cycling at E18.5. Loss of Ret increased neuroblast cell cycle length at E16.5 and decreased the number of neuroblasts at E18.5. A mathematical model generated from our data successfully predicted the relative change in proportions of neuroblasts and non-neuroblasts in wild-type mice. Our results show that, like other neurons, sympathetic neuron differentiation is associated with exit from the cell cycle; sympathetic neurons are unusual in that they then re-enter the cell cycle before later permanently exiting.
The ability to recognize objects despite substantial variation in their appearance (e.g., because of position or size changes) represents such a formidable computational feat that it is widely assumed to be unique to primates. Such an assumption has restricted the investigation of its neuronal underpinnings to primate studies, which allow only a limited range of experimental approaches. In recent years, the increasingly powerful array of optical and molecular tools that has become available in rodents has spurred a renewed interest for rodent models of visual functions. However, evidence of primate-like visual object processing in rodents is still very limited and controversial. Here we show that rats are capable of an advanced recognition strategy, which relies on extracting the most informative object features across the variety of viewing conditions the animals may face. Rat visual strategy was uncovered by applying an image masking method that revealed the features used by the animals to discriminate two objects across a range of sizes, positions, in-depth, and in-plane rotations. Noticeably, rat recognition relied on a combination of multiple features that were mostly preserved across the transformations the objects underwent, and largely overlapped with the features that a simulated ideal observer deemed optimal to accomplish the discrimination task. These results indicate that rats are able to process and efficiently use shape information, in a way that is largely tolerant to variation in object appearance. This suggests that their visual system may serve as a powerful model to study the neuronal substrates of object recognition.
Histone deacetylase 2 (HDAC2) negatively regulates excitatory synapse number and memory performance. However, whether HDAC2 regulation of excitatory synapses occurs in a cell-autonomous manner and whether HDAC2 regulates inhibitory synaptic functions are not well understood. To examine these aspects of HDAC2 function, we used sparse transfection of rat hippocampal slice cultures and whole-cell recordings in pyramidal neurons. HDAC2 knockdown (KD) in single postsynaptic pyramidal neurons enhanced, whereas HDAC2 overexpression (OE) reduced, excitatory synaptic transmission. Postsynaptic KD of HDAC2 also facilitated expression of long-term potentiation induced by subthreshold induction stimuli, without altering long-term depression. In contrast, HDAC2 KD reduced, whereas HDAC2 OE enhanced, inhibitory synaptic transmission. Alterations of postsynaptic GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs) likely underlie the impact of HDAC2 on inhibitory transmission. Consistent with this, we observed reduced transcript and protein levels of the GABA(A)R 2 subunit and reduced surface expression of the 2 subunit after HDAC2 KD. Furthermore, we observed a reduction in synaptic but not tonic GABA(A)R currents by HDAC2 KD, suggesting that HDAC2 selectively affects synaptic abundance of functional GABA(A)Rs. Immunostaining for postsynaptic GABA(A)Rs confirmed that HDAC2 KD and OE can regulate the synaptic abundance of these receptors. Together, these results highlight a role for HDAC2 in suppressing synaptic excitation and enhancing synaptic inhibition of hippocampal neurons. Therefore, a shift in the balance of synaptic excitation versus inhibition favoring excitation could contribute to the beneficial effects of reducing HDAC2 function in wild-type mice or of inhibiting HDACs in models of cognitive impairment.
How is the cognitive performance of the human brain related to its topological and spatial organization as a complex network embedded in anatomical space? To address this question, we used nicotine replacement and duration of attentionally demanding task performance (time-on-task), as experimental factors expected, respectively, to enhance and impair cognitive function. We measured resting-state fMRI data, performance and brain activation on a go/no-go task demanding sustained attention, and subjective fatigue in n = 18 healthy, briefly abstinent, cigarette smokers scanned repeatedly in a placebo-controlled, crossover design. We tested the main effects of drug (placebo vs Nicorette gum) and time-on-task on behavioral performance and brain functional network metrics measured in binary graphs of 477 regional nodes (efficiency, measure of integrative topology; clustering, a measure of segregated topology; and the Euclidean physical distance between connected nodes, a proxy marker of wiring cost). Nicotine enhanced attentional task performance behaviorally and increased efficiency, decreased clustering, and increased connection distance of brain networks. Greater behavioral benefits of nicotine were correlated with stronger drug effects on integrative and distributed network configuration and with greater frequency of cigarette smoking. Greater time-on-task had opposite effects: it impaired attentional accuracy, decreased efficiency, increased clustering, and decreased connection distance of networks. These results are consistent with hypothetical predictions that superior cognitive performance should be supported by more efficient, integrated (high capacity) brain network topology at greater connection distance (high cost). They also demonstrate that brain network analysis can provide novel and theoretically principled pharmacodynamic biomarkers of pro-cognitive drug effects in humans.

Cortical development involves complex interactions between neurons and non-neuronal elements including precursor cells, blood vessels, meninges and associated extracellular matrix. Because they provide a suitable organotypic environment, cortical slice explants are often used to investigate those interactions that control neuronal differentiation and development. Although beneficial, the slice explant model can suffer from drawbacks including aberrant cellular lamination and migration. Here we report a whole cerebral hemisphere explant system for studies of early cortical development that is easier to prepare than cortical slices and shows consistent organotypic migration and lamination. In this model system, early lamination and migration patterns proceed normally for a period of two days in vitro, including the period of preplate splitting, during which prospective cortical layer six forms. We then developed an ex utero electroporation (EUEP) approach that achieves -80% success in targeting GFP expression to neurons developing in the dorsal medial cortex. The whole hemisphere explant model makes early cortical development accessible for electroporation, pharmacological intervention and live imaging approaches. This method avoids the survival surgery required of in utero electroporation (IUEP) approaches while improving both transfection and areal targeting consistency. This method will facilitate experimental studies of neuronal proliferation, migration and differentiation.
Voxel based morphometry (VBM) is a widely used technique for studying the structure of the brain. Direct comparisons between the results obtained using VBM and the underlying histology are limited, however. To circumvent the problems inherent in comparing VBM data in vivo with tissue samples that must generally be obtained post-mortem, we chose to consider GABAA receptors, measured using (18)F-flumazenil PET (18F-FMZ-PET), as non-invasive neural markers to be compared with VBM data. Consistent with previous cortical thickness findings, GABAA receptor binding potential (BPND) was found to correlate positively across regions with grey matter (GM) density. These findings confirm that there is a general positive relationship between MRI-based GM density measures and GABAA receptor BPND on a region-by-region basis (i.e., regions with more GM tend to also have higher BPND).
Stress activates the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis leading to the release of glucocorticoids (GC). Increased activity of the HPA axis and GC exposure has been suggested to facilitate the development of obesity and metabolic syndrome. Nonetheless, different stressors can produce distinct effects on food intake and may support different directions of food learning e.g. avoidance or acceptance. This study examined whether interoceptive (LiCl and exendin-4) and restraint stress (RS) support similar or distinct food learning. Female rats were exposed to different stressors after their consumption of a palatable food (butter icing). After four palatable food-stress pairings, distinct intakes of the butter icing were observed in rats treated with different stressors. Rats that received butter icing followed by intraperitoneal injections of LiCl (42.3mg/kg) and exendin-4 (10g/kg) completely avoided the palatable food with subsequent presentations. In contrast, rats experiencing RS paired with the palatable food increased their consumption of butter icing across trials and did so to a greater degree than rats receiving saline injections. These data indicate that interoceptive and psychosocial stressors support conditioned food avoidance and acceptance, respectively. Examination of c-Fos immunoreactivity revealed distinct neural activation by interoceptive and psychosocial stressors that could provide the neural basis underlying opposite direction of food acceptance learning.
Estrogen receptors (ERs) play important roles in estrogen-mediated neuroprotection. However, their effects on blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption with vasogenic edema after ischemic stroke have not been determined. We evaluated a role for ER in the brain without effects in the peripheral reproductive organs for the amelioration of vasogenic edema following ischemic stroke. Transient focal ischemic stroke was induced in ovariectomized female C57BL/6 mice (age 10-11weeks) that were treated with the ER-selective agonist diarylpropionitrile (DPN). BBB breakdown as determined by the extravasation of endogenous immunoglobulin G (IgG), vasogenic edema, and the infarct volume was significantly reduced by DPN compared to vehicle. Protein expressions of endothelial tight junction proteins (occludin and claudin-5) and the water channel protein aquaporin 4 in the ischemic cortex were not changed by DPN. However, protein levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF-1), a transcription factor that increases VEGF expression, were significantly decreased in the ischemic cortex by DPN. These results suggest that ER contributes to the reduction of vasogenic edema caused by BBB breakdown via the inhibition of HIF-1 and VEGF following ischemic stroke.

Though the GluK4 kainate receptor subunit shows limited homology and a restricted expression pattern relative to other kainate receptor subunits, its ablation results in distinct behavioral and molecular phenotypes. GluK4 knockout mice demonstrated impairments in memory acquisition and recall in a Morris water maze test, suggesting a previously unreported role for kainate receptors in spatial memory. GluK4 knockout mice also showed marked hyperactivity and impaired pre-pulse inhibition, thereby mirroring two of the hallmark endophenotypes of patients with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. Furthermore, we found that GluK4 is a key mediator of excitotoxic neurodegeneration: GluK4 knockout mice showed robust neuroprotection in the CA3 region of the hippocampus following intrahippocampal injection of kainate and widespread neuroprotection throughout the hippocampus following hypoxia-ischemia. Biochemical analysis of kainate- or sham-treated wild-type and GluK4 knockout hippocampal tissue suggests that GluK4 may act through the JNK pathway to regulate the molecular cascades that lead to excitotoxicity. Together, our findings suggest that GluK4 may be relevant to the understanding and treatment of human neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders.
Dramatic changes in the cytoskeleton and the morphology of oligodendrocytes (OLs) occur during various stages of the myelination process. OLs in culture produce large membrane sheets containing cytoskeletal veins of microtubules and actin filaments. We recently showed that estrogen receptors (ER) related to ER/ were expressed in the membrane sheets of mature OLs in culture. Ligation of these or other membrane ERs in OLs with both 17- and 17-estradiol mediated rapid non-genomic signaling. Here, we show that estrogens also mediate rapid non-genomic remodeling of the cytoskeleton in mature OLs in culture. 17-Estradiol caused a rapid loss of microtubules and the actin cytoskeleton in the OL membrane sheets. It also increased phosphorylation of the actin filament-severing protein cofilin, thus inactivating it. Staining for actin barbed ends with rhodamine-actin showed that it decreased the amount of actin barbed ends. 17-Estradiol, on the other hand, increased the percentage of cells with abundant staining of actin filaments and actin barbed ends, suggesting that it stabilized and/or increased the dynamics of the actin cytoskeleton. The specific ER and ER agonists, 4,4',4-(4-propyl-(1H)-pyrazole-1,3,5-triyl) trisphenol (PPT) and diarylpropionitrile 2,3-bis(4-hydroxy-phenyl)-propionitrile (DPN), respectively, also caused the rapid phosphorylation of cofilin. Estrogen-induced phosphorylation of cofilin was inhibited by Y-27632, a specific inhibitor of the Rho-associated protein serine/threonine kinase (ROCK). The Rho/ROCK/cofilin pathway is therefore implicated in actin rearrangement via estrogen ligation of membrane ERs, which may include forms of ER and ER. These results indicate a role for estrogens in modulation of the cytoskeleton in mature OLs, and thus in various processes required for myelinogenesis.
Fibroblast growth loop (FGL) is a neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM)-mimetic peptide that mimics the interaction of NCAM with fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR). FGL increases neurite outgrowth and promotes neuronal survival in vitro, and it has also been shown to have neuroprotective effects in vivo. More recent evidence has indicated that FGL has anti-inflammatory effects, decreasing age-related changes in microglial activation and production of inflammatory cytokines. These changes have been associated with an FGL-induced increase in expression of the glycoprotein, CD200, which interacts with its receptor to help maintain microglia in a quiescent state. However whether the FGL-induced anti-inflammatory effects are CD200-dependent has not been examined. The objective of this study was to address this question. Mixed glia were prepared from brain tissue of neonatal wildtype and CD200-deficient mice and preincubated with FGL prior to stimulation with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Cells were assessed for mRNA expression of markers of microglial activation, CD11b, CD40 and intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1) and also the inflammatory cytokines, interleukin (IL)-1, IL-6 and tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-, while supernatant concentrations of these cytokine were also assessed. LPS significantly increased all these parameters and the effect was greater in cells prepared from CD200-deficient mice. Whereas FGL attenuated the LPS-induced changes in cells from wildtype mice, it did not do so in cells from CD200-deficient mice. We conclude that the FGL-induced changes in microglial activation are CD200-dependent and demonstrate that the interaction of astrocytes with microglia is critically important for modulating microglial activation.
An object that suddenly appears in the visual field should be quickly detected and responded to because it could be beneficial or harmful. The superficial layer of the superior colliculus (sSC) is a brain structure capable of such functions, as sSC neurons exhibit sharp transient spike discharges with short latency in response to the appearance of a visual stimulus. However, how transient activity is generated in the sSC is poorly understood. Here, we show that inhibitory inputs actively shape transient activity in the sSC. Juxtacellular recordings from anesthetized mice demonstrate that almost all types of sSC neurons, which were identified by post hoc histochemistry, show transient spike discharges, i.e., ON activity, immediately after visual stimulus onset. ON activity was followed by a pause before the visual stimulus was turned off. To determine whether the pause reflected the absence of excitatory drive or inhibitory conductance, we injected depolarizing currents juxtasomally, which enabled us to observe inhibition as decreased discharges. The pause was observed even under this condition, suggesting that inhibitory input caused the pause. We further found that local application of a mixture of GABAA and GABAB receptor antagonists additively diminished the pause. These results indicate that GABAergic inputs produce transient ON responses by attenuating excitatory activity through the cooperative activation of GABAA and GABAB receptors, allowing sSC neurons to act as a saliency detector.
Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) have emerged as an important class of molecules that regulate gene expression at epigenetic, transcriptional, and post-transcriptional levels through a wide array of mechanisms. This regulation is of particular importance in the central nervous system (CNS), where precise modulation of gene expression is required for proper neuronal and glial production, connection and function. There are relatively few functional studies that characterize lncRNA mechanisms, but possible functions can often be inferred based on existing examples and the lncRNA's relative genomic position. In this review, we will discuss mechanisms of lncRNAs as predicted by genomic contexts and the possible impact on CNS development, function, and disease pathogenesis. There is no doubt that investigation of the mechanistic role of lncRNAs will open a new and exciting direction in studying CNS development and function.
Exposure to alcohol during adolescence exerts long-term effects on the adult brain stress circuits, causing many changes that persist into adulthood. Here we examined the consequences of adolescent intermittent ethanol (AIE, administered from postnatal day (PND) 28-42) on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis-related brain circuitry of rats challenged with intragastric (ig) administration of alcohol in adulthood (PND 70-71). Both male and female adolescent rats were exposed to alcohol vapors, while controls did not receive the drug, to assess whether AIE alters adult alcohol response in a sex-specific manner. We demonstrated that AIE increased paraventricular nucleus (PVN) Avp mRNA levels during late (PND 42) but not middle (PND 36) adolescence in males. While an alcohol challenge administered to 70-71-day-old rats increased Crf mRNA levels in males and Avp mRNA levels in females, AIE blunted both effects. These results suggest that AIE produced long-lasting changes in the responsiveness of the HPA axis to a subsequent alcohol challenge in a sex-specific manner. Furthermore, AIE altered adrenergic brain stem nuclei involved in stress responses in adulthood, resulting in increased numbers of phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT) neurons in male C2 and female C1 regions. This tended to enhance activation of the male C2 nucleus upon alcohol challenge. Collectively, these results suggest that AIE exerts long-term effects on the ability of the PVN to respond to an alcohol challenge in adulthood, possibly mediated by catecholaminergic input from the brain stem to the PVN.
The soluble form of CD146 has been reported to be present in various inflammatory diseases and displays pro-inflammatory properties. However, little is known about sCD146 in multiple sclerosis (MS). Here we show that sCD146 is significantly elevated in the cerebrospinal fluid of patients with active MS compared with that of inactive MS or patients with non-demyelinating diseases. Moreover, abnormally increased sCD146 in the CSF of active MS patients correlated with albumin quotient, MBP antibody and MOG antibody from both CSF and sera. Importantly, the level of CSF sCD146 is correlated with levels of inflammatory factors, such as TNF, IFN, IL-2, and IL-17A in the CSF. We also found that CSF sCD146 might originate from membrane-bound CD146 on inflamed blood-brain barrier (BBB) endothelial cells. In addition, sCD146 promotes leukocyte transmigration in vitro, at least in part by stimulating the expression of ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 on endothelial cells. Our findings suggest that CSF levels of sCD146 may provide a potential marker for monitoring disease activity in MS patients.
Iron abnormalities within the brain are associated with several rare but severe neurodegenerative conditions. There is growing evidence that more common systemic iron loading disorders such as hemochromatosis can also have important effects on the brain. To identify features that are common across different forms of hemochromatosis, we used microarray and real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) to assess brain transcriptome profiles of transferrin receptor 2 mutant mice (Tfr2(mut)), a model of a rare type of hereditary hemochromatosis, relative to wildtype control mice. The results were compared with our previous findings in dietary iron-supplemented wildtype mice and Hfe(-/-) mice, a model of a common type of hereditary hemochromatosis. For transcripts showing significant changes relative to controls across all three models, there was perfect (100%) directional concordance (i.e. transcripts were increased in all models or decreased in all models). Comparison of the two models of hereditary hemochromatosis, which showed more pronounced changes than the dietary iron-supplemented mice, revealed numerous common molecular effects. Pathway analyses highlighted changes for genes relating to long-term depression (6.8-fold enrichment, p=5.410(-7)) and, to a lesser extent, long-term potentiation (3.7-fold enrichment, p=0.01), with generalized reductions in transcription of key genes from these pathways, which are involved in modulating synaptic strength and efficacy and are essential for memory and learning. The agreement across the models suggests the findings are robust and strengthens previous evidence that iron loading disorders affect the brain. Perturbations of brain phenomena such as long-term depression and long-term potentiation might partly explain neurologic symptoms reported for some hemochromatosis patients.
Adolescent experiences of social deprivation result in profound and enduring perturbations in adult behavior, including impaired sensorimotor gating. The behavioral deficits induced by adolescent social isolation in rats can be ameliorated by antipsychotic drugs blocking dopamine D2 receptors in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) or by chronic administration of a cannabinoid CB1 receptor antagonist. The patterning and abundance of D2 receptors in the PFC evolves concurrently with CB1 receptors through the period of adolescence. This evidence suggests that mature expression and/or surface distribution of D2 and CB1 receptors may be influenced by the adolescent social environment. We tested this hypothesis using electron microscopic immunolabeling to compare the distribution of CB1 and D2 receptors in the PFC of adult male Sprague-Dawley rats that were isolated or socially reared throughout the adolescent transition period. Prepulse inhibition (PPI) of acoustic startle was assessed as a measure of sensorimotor gating. Social isolation reduced PPI and selectively decreased dendritic D2 immunogold labeling in the PFC. However, the decrease was only evident in dendrites that were not contacted by axon terminals containing CB1. There was no apparent change in the expression of CB1 or D2 receptors in presynaptic terminals. The D2 deficit therefore may be tempered by local CB1-mediated retrograde signaling. This suggests a biological mechanism whereby the adolescent social environment can persistently influence cortical dopaminergic activity and resultant behavior.
While various changes occur after spinal cord lesions, their influence on functional recovery is generally unclear. We have shown changes in proprioceptor and locomotor network properties below lesion sites in the lamprey spinal cord. The proprioceptive system offers a particularly tractable model for analyzing these changes. Here, we have sought evidence for changes in neuromodulatory effects below lesion sites by comparing the effects of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and somatostatin, both of which are located around the edge cells, on proprioceptive responses in lesioned and unlesioned spinal cords. Exogenously applied GABA significantly reduced or abolished bending-evoked responses in unlesioned animals. In lesioned animals bending-evoked responses were stronger and certain of the effects of exogenously applied GABA were reduced. However, blocking endogenous GABA with bicuculline significantly potentiated responses in lesioned but not unlesioned animals. This suggested that the potentiated responses in lesioned animals were nevertheless associated with stronger tonic GABAergic inhibition. There were significant differences in these effects when lesioned animals were separated on the basis of their degree of recovery: notably, bicuculline only potentiated responses in animals that recovered good locomotor function, suggesting a need for raised endogenous GABA levels. Somatostatin alone did not affect edge cell responses in lesioned or unlesioned animals, but in lesioned animals it reduced and thus further weakened the inhibitory effects of GABA. There are thus multiple changes in sensory modulation in the lesioned spinal cord, and differences in these effects may influence the degree of recovery.
Obesity has been associated with multiple chronic pain disorders, including migraine. We hypothesized that diet-induced obesity would be associated with a reduced threshold for thermal nociception in the trigeminal system. In this study, we sought to examine the effect of diet-induced obesity on facial pain behavior. Mice of two different strains were fed high-fat or regular diet (RD) and tested using a well-established operant facial pain assay. We found that the effects of diet on behavior in this assay were strain and reward dependent. Obesity-prone C57BL/6J mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD) display lower number of licks of a caloric, palatable reward (33% sweetened condensed milk or 30% sucrose) than control mice. This occurred at all temperatures, in both sexes, and was evident even before the onset of obesity. This diminished reward-seeking behavior was not observed in obesity-resistant SKH1-E (SK) mice. These findings suggest that diet and strain interact to modulate reward-seeking behavior. Furthermore, we observed a difference between diet groups in operant behavior with caloric, palatable rewards, but not with a non-caloric neutral reward (water). Importantly, we found no effect of diet-induced obesity on acute thermal nociception in the absence of inflammation or injury. This indicates that thermal sensation in the face is not affected by obesity-associated peripheral neuropathy as it occurs when studying pain behaviors in the rodent hindpaw. Future studies using this model may reveal whether obesity facilitates the development of chronic pain after injury or inflammation.
Expansion of medical marijuana use in the US and the recently successful decriminalization of recreational marijuana in two States elevates interest in the specific cognitive effects of (9)tetrahydrocannabinol ((9)THC), the major psychoactive constituent of marijuana. Controlled laboratory studies in nonhuman primates provide mixed evidence for specific effects of (9)THC in learning and memory tasks, with a suggestion that frontal-mediated tasks may be the most sensitive. In this study, adult male rhesus monkeys were trained on tasks which assess reversal learning, extradimensional attentional shift learning and spatial delayed-response. Subjects were challenged with 0.1-0.5mg/kg (9)THC, i.m., in randomized order and evaluated on the behavioral measures. Peak plasma levels of (9)THC were observed 30min after 0.2mg/kg (6929ng/ml) and 60min after 0.5mg/kg (12123ng/ml) was administered and behavioral effects on a bimanual motor task persisted for up to 2h after injection. An increase in errors-to-criterion (ETC) associated with reversal learning was further increased by (9)THC in a dose-dependent manner. The increase in ETC associated with extradimensional shifts was not affected by (9)THC. Spatial delayed-response performance was impaired by (9)THC in a retention-interval-dependent manner. Overall the pattern of results suggests a more profound effect of (9)THC on tasks mediated by orbitofrontal (reversal learning) versus dorsolateral (extradimensional shifts) prefrontal mechanisms.
The roles of the central noradrenergic and serotonergic system in the activity-dependent regulation of ocular dominance plasticity have been a contentious issue. Using c-Fos activity mapping, we have developed a new, straightforward method to measure the strength of ocular dominance plasticity: the number of c-Fos-immunopositive cells in layer IV of rat visual cortex (Oc1B), ipsilateral to the stimulated eye, is a sensitive and reliable measure of the effects of monocular deprivation. Applying this new method, here we studied the unique modification of the degree of c-Fos expression induced in the visual cortex, in that endogenous noradrenaline (NA) and serotonin (5HT) in the cortex were significantly reduced, respectively by specific pharmacological agents. Intraperitoneal injections of N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine (DSP4) and p-chlorophenylalanine (pCPA) selectively impair NA- and 5HT-containing nerve terminals and fibers, respectively. In the visual cortex with strongly reduced NA, the number of c-Fos-immunopositive cells was found remaining significantly decreased in response to stimulation of the deprived eye, while by open eye stimulation the expected increase in c-Fos-immunoreactivity was strongly suppressed, showing values not different from those obtained by monocular stimulation in the normal rats. In contrast, in the visual cortex with strongly reduced 5HT no expected decrease was found in response to stimulation of the deprived eye, while, as is usually the case for the normal animals, a significant increase was still induced in response to open eye stimulation. These findings suggest that the noradrenergic and serotonergic system regulate ocular dominance (OD) plasticity differently: in the NA-depleted cortex the expected increase in c-Fos expression by open eye stimulation was not seen due to strong suppression, whereas in 5HT-depletion, the expected decrease in c-Fos expression was not materialized due to strong suppression. The present findings with c-Fos activity mapping method indicated a novel possibility of the differential regulation of OD plasticity by two types of common monoaminergic systems.
In the ascending auditory pathway, the inferior colliculus (IC) receives and integrates excitatory and inhibitory inputs from a variety of lower auditory nuclei, intrinsic projections within the IC, contralateral IC through the commissure of the IC and the auditory cortex. All these connections make the IC a major center for subcortical temporal and spectral integration of auditory information. In this study, we examine bilateral collicular interaction in the modulation of frequency-domain signal processing of mice using electrophysiological recording and focal electrical stimulation. Focal electrical stimulation of neurons in one IC produces widespread inhibition and focused facilitation of responses of neurons in the other IC. This bilateral collicular interaction decreases the response magnitude and lengthens the response latency of inhibited IC neurons but produces an opposite effect on the response of facilitated IC neurons. In the frequency domain, the focal electrical stimulation of one IC sharpens or expands the frequency tuning curves (FTCs) of neurons in the other IC to improve frequency sensitivity and the frequency response range. The focal electrical stimulation also produces a shift in the best frequency (BF) of modulated IC (ICMdu) neurons toward that of electrically stimulated IC (ICES) neurons. The degree of bilateral collicular interaction is dependent upon the difference in the BF between the ICES neurons and ICMdu neurons. These data suggest that bilateral collicular interaction is a part of dynamic acoustic signal processing that adjusts and improves signal processing as well as reorganizes collicular representation of signal parameters according to the acoustic experience.
Our group previously demonstrated that short-term treatment with a standardized extract of Ginkgo biloba (EGb) changed fear-conditioned memory by modulating gene expression in the hippocampus, amygdaloid complex and prefrontal cortex. Although there are few controlled studies that support the long-term use of EGb for the prevention and/or treatment of memory impairment, the chronic use of Ginkgo is common. This study evaluated the effects of chronic treatment with EGb on the conditioned emotional response, assessed by the suppression of ongoing behavior and in the modulation of gene and protein expression. Male adult Wistar rats were treated over 28days and assigned to five groups (n=10) as follows: positive control (4mgkg(-1) Diazepam), negative control (12% Tween 80), EGb groups (0.5 and 1.0gkg(-1)) and the nave group. The suppression of the licking response was calculated for each rat in six trials. Our results provide further evidence for the efficacy of EGb on memory. For the first time, we show that long-term treatment with the highest dose of EGb improves the fear memory and suggests that increased cAMP-responsive element-binding protein (CREB)-1 and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) mRNA and protein (P&lt;0.001) in the dorsal hippocampus and amygdaloid complex and reduced growth and plasticity-associated protein 43 (GAP-43) (P&lt;0.01) in the hippocampus are involved in this process. The fear memory/treatment-dependent changes observed in our study suggest that EGb might be effective for memory enhancement through its effect on the dorsal hippocampus and amygdaloid complex.
Rats were subjected to 90min of focal ischemia by occluding the left middle cerebral and both common carotid arteries. The dynamic changes in the formation of brain ischemic areas were analyzed by measuring the direct current (DC) potential and reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH) fluorescence with ultraviolet irradiation. In the lidocaine group (n=10), 30min before ischemia, an intravenous bolus (1.5mg/kg) of lidocaine was administered, followed by a continuous infusion (2mg/kg/h) for 150min. In the control group (n=10), an equivalent amount of saline was administered. Following the initiation of ischemia, an area of high-intensity NADH fluorescence rapidly developed in the middle cerebral artery territory in both groups and the DC potential in this area showed ischemic depolarization. An increase in NADH fluorescence closely correlated with the DC depolarization. The blood flow in the marginal zone of both groups showed a similar decrease. Five minutes after the onset of ischemia, the area of high-intensity NADH fluorescence was significantly smaller in the lidocaine group (67% of the control; P=0.01). This was likely due to the suppression of ischemic depolarization by blockage of voltage-dependent sodium channels with lidocaine. Although lidocaine administration did not attenuate the number of peri-infarct depolarizations during ischemia, the high-intensity area and infarct volume were significantly smaller in the lidocaine group both at the end of ischemia (78% of the control; P=0.046) and 24h later (P=0.02). A logistic regression analysis demonstrated a relationship between the duration of ischemic depolarization and histologic damage and revealed that lidocaine administration did not attenuate neuronal damage when the duration of depolarization was identical. These findings indicate that the mechanism by which lidocaine decreases infarct volume is primarily through a reduction of the brain area undergoing NADH fluorescence increases which closely correlates with depolarization.
The majority of research and therapeutic actions in Parkinson's disease (PD) focus on the encephalic areas, however, the potential involvement of the spinal cord in its genesis has received little attention. Here we examined spinal locomotor circuitry activation in patients with PD using various types of central and peripheral tonic stimulation and compared results to those of age-matched controls. Subjects lay on their sides with both legs suspended, allowing low-friction horizontal rotation of the limb joints. Air-stepping can be used as a unique and important model for investigating human rhythmogenesis since its manifestation is largely facilitated by the absence of external resistance. In contrast to the frequent occurrence of non-voluntary stepping responses in healthy subjects, both peripheral (muscle vibration) and central (Jendrassik maneuver, mental task, Kohnstamm phenomenon) tonic influences had little if any effect on rhythmic leg responses in PD. On the other hand, a remarkable feature of voluntary air-stepping movements in patients was a significantly higher frequency of leg oscillations than in age-matched controls. A lack of non-voluntary stepping responses was also observed after dopaminergic treatment despite the presence of prominent shortening reactions (SRs) to passive movements. We argue that the state and the rhythmogenesis capacity of the spinal circuitry are impaired in patients with PD. In particular, the results suggest impaired central pattern generator (CPG) access by sensory and central activations.
We demonstrated previously that the lysophosphatidic acid-1 (LPA1) receptor plays a crucial role in the initiation of peripheral nerve injury-induced neuropathic pain through the alternation of pain-related genes/proteins expression and demyelination. The present study revealed that mild cerebral ischemia by left transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (tMCAO) for 15min causes the hypersensitive responses (paw withdrawal) to the nociception by electrical stimuli to the paw by the use of Neurometer Current Perception Threshold/C (CPT/C). The hypersensitivity or neuropathic pain was only observed by the stimulation with 250 and 2000, but not 5Hz, which are the characterized sine-wave frequencies of A-, A- or C-fibers, respectively. The significant neuropathic pain was observed from day 2 through week 2 on the right paw after tMCAO, while there was slight but significant pain sensitivity on the left paw at day 7. The neuropathic pain on the contralateral side at week 2 after tMCAO was completely abolished in LPA1(-/-) mice. These results suggest that LPA1 receptor signaling plays key roles in the development of central neuropathic pain following cerebral ischemia as well as the peripheral neuropathic pain following partial sciatic nerve injury.
The present study examined whether status epilepticus (SE) induced by LiCl-pilocarpine in immature rats (postnatal day [P]12) interferes with normal development; leads to progressive epileptogenesis, or cognitive decline and to pathology similar to that seen in human temporal lobe epilepsy. We correlated the extent of pathologic changes with the severity of functional alterations or epilepsy. SE-induced changes were compared with those of rats with SE induced at P25. Animals of both ages were exposed to a battery of behavioral tests for up to 3months after SE. Rats with SE at P12 showed mild retardation of psychomotor development and delayed habituation, whereas rats with SE at P25 showed no habituation. Assessment in adulthood using the Morris water maze test revealed that SE at both P12 and P25 led to cognitive impairment and that the severity of the impairment increased with age. A handling test revealed increased aggression in rats with SE at P25, but not in rats with SE at P12. Epilepsy was diagnosed with continuous video-electroencephalographic (EEG) monitoring for up to 7d. P25 rats were monitored at 5months after SE and seizures were detected in 83.3% of animals. P12 animals were divided into two groups and monitored at 5 or 7months after SE. Both the severity and incidence of spontaneous recurrent seizures tended to progress with time, and their incidence increased from 50% to 87.5% at 5 and 7months, respectively. Morphometric analysis and stereologic assessment of hilar neurons performed after video-EEG monitoring revealed atrophy of temporal brain structures, enlargement of lateral ventricles, and loss of hilar neurons in both age groups. In P12 rats, morphologic damage also tended to progress over time. Performance of animals in the Morris water maze correlated with the severity of damage, but not with seizure parameters.
Primate societies are based on face recognition. Face recognition mechanisms have been studied most extensively in humans and macaque monkeys. In both species, multiple brain areas specialized for face processing have been found, and their functional properties are characterized with increasing detail, so we can now begin to address questions about similarities and differences of face-recognition systems across species with 25 million years of separate evolution. Both systems are organized into multiple face-selective cortical areas in spatial arrangements and with functional specializations, implying both hierarchical and parallel modes of information processing. Yet open questions about homologies remain. To address these, future studies employing similar techniques and experimental designs across multiple species are needed to identify a putative core primate face processing system and to understand its differentiations into the multiple branches of the primate order.


Outer hair cells (OHCs) power the amplification of sound-induced vibrations in the mammalian inner ear through an active process that involves hair-bundle motility and somatic motility. It is unclear, though, how either mechanism can be effective at high frequencies, especially when OHCs are mechanically loaded by other structures in the cochlea. We address this issue by developing a model of an active OHC on the basis of observations from isolated cells, then we use the model to predict the response of an active OHC in the intact cochlea. We find that active hair-bundle motility amplifies the receptor potential that drives somatic motility. Inertial loading of a hair bundle by the tectorial membrane reduces the bundle's reactive load, allowing the OHC's active motility to influence the motion of the cochlear partition. The system exhibits enhanced sensitivity and tuning only when it operates near a dynamical instability, a Hopf bifurcation. This analysis clarifies the roles of cochlear structures and shows how the two mechanisms of motility function synergistically to create the cochlear amplifier. The results suggest that somatic motility evolved to enhance a preexisting amplifier based on active hair-bundle motility, thus allowing mammals to hear high-frequency sounds.
At perceptual threshold, some stimuli are available for conscious access whereas others are not. Such threshold inputs are useful tools for investigating the events that separate conscious awareness from unconscious stimulus processing. Here, viewing unmasked, threshold-duration images was combined with recording magnetoencephalography to quantify differences among perceptual states, ranging from no awareness to ambiguity to robust perception. A four-choice scale was used to assess awareness: &quot;didn't see&quot; (no awareness), &quot;couldn't identify&quot; (awareness without identification), &quot;unsure&quot; (awareness with low certainty identification), and &quot;sure&quot; (awareness with high certainty identification). Stimulus-evoked neuromagnetic signals were grouped according to behavioral response choices. Three main cortical responses were elicited. The earliest response, peaking at 100 ms after stimulus presentation, showed no significant correlation with stimulus perception. A late response (290 ms) showed moderate correlation with stimulus awareness but could not adequately differentiate conscious access from its absence. By contrast, an intermediate response peaking at 240 ms was observed only for trials in which stimuli were consciously detected. That this signal was similar for all conditions in which awareness was reported is consistent with the hypothesis that conscious visual access is relatively sharply demarcated.
Motor complications of Parkinson's disease (PD) are a consequence of pulsatile dopaminergic stimulation from standard oral levodopa therapy. Levodopa-carbidopa intestinal gel (LCIG) is infused continuously via an intrajejunal percutaneous gastrostomy tube. This was the first study designed to characterize the full pharmacokinetic profiles of levodopa, carbidopa, and levodopa metabolite, 3-O-methyldopa (3-OMD) with 16-h LCIG infusion. Nineteen advanced PD patients (mean age, 65 years) who were on LCIG therapy for 30 days were enrolled. Patients received their individualized LCIG infusion doses, and serial pharmacokinetic samples were collected. Eighteen patients completed the study; 19 were assessed for safety. Mean (SD) total levodopa and carbidopa doses were 1,580 (403) and 395 (101) mg, respectively. Mean (SD) C(avg) (g/mL) were 2.9 (0.84) for levodopa, 17.1 (4.99) for 3-OMD, and 0.22 (0.08) for carbidopa. The degree of fluctuation [defined as (C(max)-C(min))/C(avg)] in levodopa, 3-OMD, and carbidopa plasma concentrations was very low (0.52, 0.21, and 0.96, respectively) during hours 2-16 of infusion. Accordingly, the within-subject coefficients of variation in levodopa, 3-OMD, and carbidopa concentrations were low (13%, 6%, and 19%, respectively). Three patients (16%) reported 1 treatment-emergent adverse event; none were considered severe. Continuous intrajejunal LCIG infusion maintained stable plasma levodopa levels over 16 h. Consistent exposure has been shown to reduce motor and nonmotor complications associated with oral medications. LCIG was well tolerated, consistent with previous reports.

Although connexin36 (Cx36) has been studied in several tissues, it is notable that no data are available on Cx36 expression in the carotid body and the intestine. The present study was undertaken to evaluate using immunohistochemistry, PCR and Western blotting procedures, whether Cx36 was expressed in the mouse carotid body and in the intestine at ileum and colon level. In the carotid body, Cx36 was detected as diffuse punctate immunostaining and as protein by Western blotting and mRNA by RT-PCR. Cx36 punctate immunostaining was also evident in the intestine with localization restricted to the myenteric plexus of both the ileum and the colon, and this detection was also confirmed by Western blotting and RT-PCR. All the data obtained were validated using Cx36 knockout mice. Taken together the present data on localization of Cx36 gap-junctions in two tissues of neural crest-derived neuroendocrine organs may provide an anatomical basis for future functional investigations.




To reveal the underlying mechanisms responsible for the regional vulnerability to amyloid- (A) accumulation prior to the development of Alzheimer's disease, we studied distribution of A, apolipoprotein E (apoE), synaptic markers, and other molecules involved in A metabolism in multiple brain areas of non-demented individuals. Twelve brain regions including neocortical, limbic, and subcortical areas were dissected from brains of non-demented individuals and extracted according to increasing insolubility by a sequential three-step method. The levels of A40, A42, apoE, APP, APP-CTF, BACE1, presenilin-1, neprilysin, insulysin, LRP1, LDLR, synaptophysin, PSD95, GFAP, and lactate were determined by ELISAs or enzymatic assays. The regional distribution of apoE showed moderate-to-strong inverse correlation with levels of A, especially insoluble A40. On the other hand, the regional distributions of synaptic markers, particularly PSD95, showed moderate-to-strong positive correlation with levels of A, especially soluble A40. The regional correlations between A and LRP1, GFAP, or lactate were mild-to-moderate. Moderate-to-strong positive regional correlations were observed between apoE and GFAP or lactate and between PSD95 and LRP1. No significant regional correlations were detected between A and APP, APP-CTF, BACE1, or presenilin-1, those involved in A production. There were no significant negative regional correlations between A and two major A degrading enzymes, neprilysin and insulysin. These regional correlations remained consistent regardless of the degree of A accumulation. The regional vulnerability to A accumulation may be due to a net balance between two competing processes: (1) synapses involved in promoting the initial A accumulation and (2) astrocyte-derived apoE involved in preventing A accumulation.
High-grade gliomas are the most common primary brain tumors. Their malignancy is promoted by the complex crosstalk between different cell types in the central nervous system. Microglia/brain macrophages infiltrate high-grade gliomas and contribute to their progression. To identify factors that mediate the attraction of microglia/macrophages to malignant brain tumors, we established a glioma cell encapsulation model that was applied in vivo. Mouse GL261 glioma cell line and human high-grade glioma cells were seeded into hollow fibers (HF) that allow the passage of soluble molecules but not cells. The glioma cell containing HF were implanted into one brain hemisphere and simultaneously HF with non-transformed fibroblasts (controls) were introduced into the contralateral hemisphere. Implanted mouse and human glioma- but not fibroblast-containing HF attracted microglia and up-regulated immunoreactivity for GFAP, which is a marker of astrogliosis. In this study, we identified GDNF as an important factor for microglial attraction: (1) GL261 and human glioma cells secret GDNF, (2) reduced GDNF production by siRNA in GL261 in mouse glioma cells diminished attraction of microglia, (3) over-expression of GDNF in fibroblasts promoted microglia attraction in our HF assay. In vitro migration assays also showed that GDNF is a strong chemoattractant for microglia. While GDNF release from human or mouse glioma had a profound effect on microglial attraction, the glioma-induced astrogliosis was not affected. Finally, we could show that injection of GL261 mouse glioma cells with GDNF knockdown by shRNA into mouse brains resulted in reduced tumor expansion and improved survival as compared to injection of control cells.
Numerous families exhibiting both frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) have been described, and although many of these have been shown to harbour a repeat expansion in C9ORF72, several C9ORF72-negative FTD-ALS families remain. We performed neuropathological and genetic analysis of a large European Australian kindred (Aus-12) with autosomal dominant inheritance of dementia and/or ALS. Affected Aus-12 members developed either ALS or dementia; some of those with dementia also had ALS and/or extrapyramidal features. Neuropathology was most consistent with frontotemporal lobar degeneration with type B TDP pathology, but with additional phosphorylated tau pathology consistent with corticobasal degeneration. Aus-12 DNA samples were negative for mutations in all known dementia and ALS genes, including C9ORF72 and FUS. Genome-wide linkage analysis provided highly suggestive evidence (maximum multipoint LOD score of 2.9) of a locus on chromosome 16p12.1-16q12.2. Affected individuals shared a chromosome 16 haplotype flanked by D16S3103 and D16S489, spanning 37.9 Mb, with a smaller suggestive disease haplotype spanning 24.4 Mb defined by recombination in an elderly unaffected individual. Importantly, this smaller region does not overlap with FUS. Whole-exome sequencing identified four variants present in the maximal critical region that segregate with disease. Linkage analysis incorporating these variants generated a maximum multipoint LOD score of 3.0. These results support the identification of a locus on chromosome 16p12.1-16q12.2 responsible for an unusual cluster of neurodegenerative phenotypes. This region overlaps with a separate locus on 16q12.1-q12.2 reported in an independent ALS family, indicating that this region may harbour a second major locus for FTD-ALS.
Human papillomavirus (HPV)-associated head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is an entity with peculiar clinical and molecular characteristics, which mainly arises from the reticulated epithelium lining the crypts of the palatine tonsils and the base of the tongue. The only head and neck site with a definite etiological association between persistent high-risk (HR) HPV infection and development of SCC is the oropharynx. HPV-positive malignancies represent 5-20% of all HNSCCs and 40-90% of those arising from the oropharynx, with widely variable rates depending on the geographic area, population, relative prevalence of environment-related SCC and detection assay. HPV-16 is by far the most common HR HPV genotype detected in oropharyngeal SCC (OPSCC), and the only definitely carcinogenic genotype for the head and neck region. Patients with HPV-induced OPSCC are more likely to be middle-aged white men, non-smokers, non-drinkers or mild to moderate drinkers, with higher socioeconomic status and better performance status than subjects with HPV-unrelated SCC. HPV-induced HNSCCs are often described as non-keratinizing, poorly differentiated or basaloid carcinomas, and are diagnosed in earlier T-category with a trend for a more advanced N-category, with cystic degeneration, than the HPV-unrelated carcinomas. HPV positivity is associated with better response to treatment and modality-independent survival benefit. Treatment selection in HPV-related oropharyngeal carcinoma is becoming a critical issue, and although there is no evidence from randomized, controlled trials to support a treatment de-escalation in HPV-positive SCC, some investigators argue that intensive combined modality strategies may represent an overtreatment.



This article reviews the history of blood alcohol concentration (BAC) estimation training, which trains drinkers to discriminate distinct BAC levels and thus avoid excessive alcohol consumption. BAC estimation training typically combines education concerning alcohol metabolism with attention to subjective internal cues associated with specific concentrations. Estimation training was originally conceived as a component of controlled drinking programs. However, dependent drinkers were unsuccessful in BAC estimation, likely due to extreme tolerance. In contrast, moderate drinkers successfully acquired this ability. A subsequent line of research translated laboratory estimation studies to naturalistic settings by studying large samples of drinkers in their preferred drinking environments. Thus far, naturalistic studies have provided mixed results regarding the most effective form of BAC feedback. BAC estimation training is important because it imparts an ability to perceive individualized impairment that may be present below the legal limit for driving. Consequently, the training can be a useful component for moderate drinkers in drunk driving prevention programs.


Neurotoxic effects of amyloid  peptides are mediated through deregulation of intracellular Ca(2+) homeostasis and signaling, but relatively little is known about amyloid  modulation of Ca(2+) homeostasis and its pathological influence on glia. Here, we found that amyloid  oligomers caused a cytoplasmic Ca(2+) increase in cultured astrocytes, which was reduced by inhibitors of PLC and ER Ca(2+) release. Furthermore, amyloid  peptides triggered increased expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), as well as oxidative and ER stress, as indicated by eIF2 phosphorylation and overexpression of chaperone GRP78. These effects were decreased by ryanodine and 2APB, inhibitors of ryanodine receptors and InsP3 receptors, respectively, in both primary cultured astrocytes and organotypic cultures of hippocampus and entorhinal cortex. Importantly, intracerebroventricular injection of amyloid  oligomers triggered overexpression of GFAP and GRP78 in astrocytes of the hippocampal dentate gyrus. These data were validated in a triple-transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Overexpression of GFAP and GRP78 in the hippocampal astrocytes correlated with the amyloid  oligomer load in 12-month-old mice, suggesting that this parameter drives astrocytic ER stress and astrogliosis in vivo. Together, these results provide evidence that amyloid  oligomers disrupt ER Ca(2+) homeostasis, which induces ER stress that leads to astrogliosis; this mechanism may be relevant to AD pathophysiology.
Senescence is thought to be triggered by DNA damage, usually indirectly assessed as activation of the DNA damage response (DDR), but direct surveys of genetic damage are lacking. Here, we mitotically reactivate senescent human fibroblasts to evaluate their cytogenetic damage. We show that replicative senescence is generally characterized by telomeric fusions. However, both telomeric and extratelomeric aberrations are prevented by hTERT, indicating that even non-telomeric damage descends from the lack of telomerase. Compared with replicative senescent cells, oncogene-induced senescent fibroblasts display significantly higher levels of DNA damage, depicting how oncogene activation can catalyze the generation of further, potentially tumorigenic, genetic damage.


Discovery of effective treatment for Alzheimer disease (AD) depends upon the availability of outcome measures that exhibit good sensitivity to rates of longitudinal decline on global functional performance. The Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study-Activities of Daily Living inventory (ADCS-ADL) is a frequently used functional endpoint in clinical trials for AD that assesses patient functional ability on the basis of informant ratings of patient performance on a variety of everyday tasks. Previous research has shown that the items comprising the ADCS-ADL are sensitive to characteristic longitudinal trajectories in AD. However, standard procedures for combining information from individual items into an overall test score may not make full use of the information provided by informant responses. The current study explored an application of item-response theory (IRT) techniques to the calculation of test scores on the ADCS-ADL. Using data from 2 ADCS clinical trials on mild-to-moderate AD patients we found that IRT based scoring increased sensitivity to change in functional ability and improved prospective statistical power of the ADCS-ADL as an outcome measure in clinical trials.
Failure of inhibitory control is an early and consistent feature in patients suffering from frontotemporal dementia (FTD). This appears because of their pervasive ventromedial prefrontal atrophy-particularly in the orbitofrontal cortex-which has been linked to inhibitory dysfunction in studies on human and monkey lesions. However, the range of measures currently available to assess inhibitory processes in FTD is limited, and, as such, inhibitory dysfunction in FTD remains relatively underexplored. Subjective caregiver questionnaires are useful for defining disinhibition as it manifests behaviorally; however, endorsement of symptoms can vary largely across patients as it is contingent on the perceptiveness of the caregiver. The few objective neuropsychological tasks that tap directly into inhibitory functioning have potential, although they mostly rely on intact language and semantics, which can confound performance in FTD patients. An emergent possibility is to explore inhibitory functioning in FTD through nonverbal experimental tasks. Adaptation of such experimental tasks into clinical tools is a promising avenue for exploring one of the earliest behavioral features in FTD patients and concomitantly tap into their prevalent orbitofrontal cortex dysfunction. We suggest that improved characterization of early inhibitory dysfunction may facilitate more accurate diagnosis of FTD.
Several studies have shown that the levels of sex hormones in men with Alzheimer disease (AD) differ from men without AD. Therefore, male sex hormones have been postulated as risk modifiers in AD, possibly through immunomodulatory effects on known inflammatory AD risk factors, such as tumor necrosis factor  (TNF-). We conducted a cross-sectional study of sex hormones and TNF- levels in 94 community-dwelling men with AD. Comparisons were made with normal values derived from the literature. Men with AD had lower free testosterone levels than non-AD men (1-sample t test: age &lt;80, P=0.0002; age 80, P&lt;0.0001), and higher luteinizing hormone (LH) levels (Wilcoxon signed rank test: age &lt;80, P=0.001; age 80, P&lt;0.0001). Within the cohort of men with AD, there was a positive correlation between LH and TNF- (Spearman r=0.25, P=0.019), and this remained significant after correcting for age (partial r=0.21, P=0.05). These data support the hypothesis that sex hormones and the immune system influence each other in AD. Furthermore, modulatory effects between LH and TNF- may provide a mechanism for an effect of male sex hormones on AD risk.
Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is a multisystem disease associated with a lifelong risk of debilitating and potentially life-limiting complications, however many adults with NF1 have no regular health surveillance. We interviewed and examined 17 young adults with NF1 between the ages of 25 and 33. Most had not been assessed for NF1-related complications within the previous 8 years, including patients with known serious vascular complications, for example, renal artery stenosis. Acute and/or chronic pain, particularly back and plexiform-related pain were common symptoms, and despite a significant impact on quality of life, was untreated in most instances. Symptom and examination-directed imaging revealed serious complications in 41% of the cohort. These included severe spinal cord compression (two cases), a highly SUV avid lesion suggestive of malignancy (one case), and a Juvenile Pilocytic Astrocytoma in a patient without any previous NF1-related complications. Few study participants had a good understanding of NF1, its associated risks and complications, and many had not sought appropriate medical advice as questions or problems arose. NF1-related cognitive deficits in some participants, and the lack of a clear source of expert medical advice for adults with NF1 likely contributed to poor health surveillance and management in this population. Overall, these findings suggest that many Australian adults with NF1 are at risk of serious and life-threatening medical complications, but are not accessing and receiving adequate health care. Access to multidisciplinary adult clinics that specialize in NF1 may address many of the unmet health needs of young adults with NF1.
Increased vascular impedance in the fetoplacental circulation is associated with fetal hypoxia and growth restriction. We sought to investigate the role of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) in regulating vasomotor tone in the fetoplacental vasculature. H2S is produced endogenously by catalytic activity of cystathionine -synthase and cystathionine -lyase (CSE). Immunohistochemical analysis localized CSE to smooth muscle cells encircling arteries in stem villi. Immunoreactivity was reduced in placentas from pregnancies with severe early-onset growth-restriction and preeclampsia displaying abnormal umbilical artery Doppler waveforms compared with preeclamptic placentas with normal waveforms and controls. These findings were confirmed at the protein and mRNA levels. MicroRNA-21, which negatively regulates CSE expression, was increased in placentas with abnormal Doppler waveforms. Exposure of villus explants to hypoxia-reoxygenation significantly reduced CSE protein and mRNA and increased microRNA-21 expression. No changes were observed in cystathionine -synthase expression, immunolocalized principally to the trophoblast, in pathologic placentas or invitro. Finally, perfusion of normal placentas with an H2S donor, after preconstriction with a thromboxane mimetic, resulted in dose-dependent vasorelaxation. Glibenclamide and N(G)-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester partially blocked the effect, indicating that H2S acts through ATP-sensitive K(+) channels and nitric oxide synthesis. These results demonstrate that H2S is a powerful vasodilator of the placental vasculature and that expression of CSE is reduced in placentas associated withincreased vascular resistance.

Repeat expansions in C9orf72 are a major cause of frontotemporal dementia with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FTD-ALS). Not all FTD-ALS patients show expansions. The study examined whether there are clinical differences between FTD-ALS patients with and without expansions in C9orf72. We examined case notes from consecutive FTD-ALS patients, screened for C9orf72 expansions, and documented demographic, neurological, behavioural and cognitive characteristics. Sixty patients met the selection criteria, of whom 11 showed expanded repeats (C9-positive) and 49 did not (C9-negative). A strong male bias was present in the C9-negative group only. A family history of FTD or ALS was recorded in both groups, but was significantly more common in C9-positive cases. Psychotic and irrational behaviours, apathy, disinhibition and loss of empathy were significantly more common in C9-positive cases, with a trend towards more frequent bulbar signs. No differences were found in onset age, presentation (ALS or FTD first), or cognitive changes (language and executive impairments). In conclusion, FTD-ALS is not clinically uniform. Phenotypic differences exist between patients with and without C9orf72 expansions, suggesting that FTD-ALS may be underpinned by distinct neurobiological substrates. The presence of psychiatric symptoms in the context of FTD-ALS should alert clinicians to the possibility of C9orf72 expansions.
ALS and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) utilize different functional rating scales: the ALSFRS-R assesses physical disability whereas the Frontotemporal Dementia Rating Scale assesses behavioural and functional impairment to produce an index of dementia staging. To better consider the applicability of the FRS in an ALS population, 130 patient-carer dyads were investigated. Scores on the ALSFRS-R and FRS were not significantly correlated (r(s) = 0.12, p &gt; 0.10). Furthermore, patients with mild physical disability may rate as severe on the FRS; conversely, individuals who are severely physically disabled may exhibit very few behavioural symptoms. Measures typically used in ALS studies do not fully encapsulate the range of clinical symptoms, particularly from a behavioural perspective.

The exact pathway leading to neuron death and muscle atrophy in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) has not yet been elucidated. Gene expression profile of spinal cord, blood and muscle could provide signalling pathways and systemic alterations useful for future biomarker development. In our study we compared whole genome expression profiles of lumbar spinal cord with peripheral blood and tibialis anterior muscle in 16 mutant SOD1-G93A mice and 15 wild-type littermates. In SOD1-G93A mice, 11 genes were significantly differentially expressed in spinal cord, and 16 genes in blood, while much larger transcriptional changes were noted in muscle (1745 genes significant; six overlapping with spinal cord (0.3%)) probably due to muscle atrophy. Overlap with spinal cord was enriched for significant genes in blood (six of 16 overlapping with spinal cord (37.5%)). Three genes were significantly down-regulated in all three tissues, and were closely related to mitochondrial function. Furthermore, clustering the significant genes in spinal cord and in blood, but not in muscle, could identify the SOD1-G93A mice. We conclude that blood gene expression profile overlapped with profile of spinal cord, allowing differentiation of SOD1-G93A mice from wild-type littermates. Blood gene expression profiling may be a promising biomarker for ALS patients.
The exact pathogenic cascade leading to motor neuron degeneration in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is unknown. Gene expression profiles of ALS-affected spinal cord and motor neurons have been well established in mice and man. We provide a meta-analysis of the reported significant gene lists of gene expression studies in ALS, and compare results between mouse models and human post mortem tissue. In total, 12 articles met inclusion criteria. Twenty-nine genes were found to be differentially expressed at least twice in studies using human post mortem tissue, enriched for the functions 'immune response', 'apoptosis' and 'protein metabolism'. In mouse studies, 86 genes were reported at least two times and were enriched for 'immune response', 'lysosome', 'metal ion binding' and 'mitochondrion'. Next, all differentially expressed genes from the mouse studies were translated to human homologous genes. Seventy-four differentially expressed genes in mouse tissue were also found to be differentially expressed in human tissue. In conclusion, evidence was found for shared dysfunction in protein turnover in the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Differential expression of Cathepsin B and D, GFAP and SERPINA3 was repeatedly found to be significant in both the mouse model and ALS patients.
Sporadic ALS is a multifactorial disease for which there are probably multiple genetic risk factors. An association with increased parental age might suggest there is a role for specific (epi)genetic changes. Previous studies have shown conflicting results on the association between parental age and the risk of ALS. A large, population based study might help in the search for specific (epi)genetic risk factors. We performed a population based, case-control study in the Netherlands. Date of birth of both mother and father was retrieved from the National Register. Multivariate logistic regression analysis was performed in 769 patients with sporadic ALS, 49 patients with a hexanucleotide repeat expansion in C9orf72, and 1929 age-, gender- and geographically-matched controls. Multivariate analyses showed no difference in either paternal or maternal age at delivery (adjusted for age of subject, age of other parent at delivery, and level of education) in patients with sporadic ALS, nor in patients with a hexanucleotide repeat expansion in C9orf72 compared to controls. In conclusion, parental age was not associated with an increased risk of ALS in our study. (Epi)genetic alterations that are associated with increased parental age are not, therefore, likely to contribute to the aetiology of sporadic ALS.
Ion-pair, reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) is a standard analytical platform for separating, purifying, and analyzing RNAs. However, a single-nucleotide resolution by using HPLC is currently limited to RNAs shorter than 25 nucleotides (nt). Here we describe a method of separating three RNA aptamers with 57, 58, and 59nt on an XBridge ion-pair, reverse-phase HPLC column by a single-nucleotide resolution. Under a similar condition, we also show the capability of our method to resolve two structurally different, yet sequence or mass identical, 59-nt aptamers. We establish that the optimal condition to achieve a single-nucleotide resolution correlates to 50C and zero magnesium concentration in mobile phases. The ion-pairing agent, the buffer, and the solvent we use are also compatible for post-HPLC analysis such as mass spectrometry. Therefore, our method provides a new way of detecting, analyzing, and separating RNAs by conformation or structure and extends the ability to separate RNAs that are longer than 25nt by single-nucleotide resolution.

Identical and fraternal twins (N=540, age 8 to 18 years) were tested on three different measures of writing (Woodcock-Johnson III Tests of Achievement-Writing Samples and Writing Fluency; Handwriting Copy from the Group Diagnostic Reading and Aptitude Achievement Tests), three different language skills (phonological awareness, rapid naming, and vocabulary), and three different reading skills (word recognition, spelling, and reading comprehension). Substantial genetic influence was found on two of the writing measures, writing samples and handwriting copy, and all of the language and reading measures. Shared environment influences were generally not significant, except for Vocabulary. Non-shared environment estimates, including measurement error, were significant for all variables. Genetic influences among the writing measures were significantly correlated (highest between the speeded measures writing fluency and handwriting copy), but there were also significant independent genetic influences between copy and samples and between fluency and samples. Genetic influences on writing were significantly correlated with genetic influences on all of the language and reading skills, but significant independent genetic influences were also found for copy and samples, whose genetic correlations were significantly less than 1.0 with the reading and language skills. The genetic correlations varied significantly in strength depending on the overlap between the writing, language, and reading task demands. We discuss implications of our results for education, limitations of the study, and new directions for research on writing and its relations to language and reading.
Niemann-Pick Type C disease (NPC) is a rare inherited metabolic disorder characterized by lipid accumulation and systemic manifestations due to multiple organ involvement. Only a few cases of NPC have been reported so far from India. Varying presentations and often lack of access to complex diagnostic tests have leaded to initial misdiagnosis on few occasions. We here report a provisionally diagnosed case of NPC with prominent horizontal gaze palsy along with characteristic vertical gaze palsy and normal findings on microscopic examination of skin biopsy specimen.
Recurrent bacterial meningitis (RBM) in many instances is associated with identifiable anatomical defects. Presence of congenital deafness with recurrent meningitis should alert clinician for presence of middle and inner ear malformation. These defects can be demonstrated by various neuro imaging techniques and can be surgically corrected. In this case report we describe a child seen at our institute with congenital deafness and recurrent meningitis, discuss the approach to RBM and briefly describe inner ear malformation associated with the same and how to differentiate them.


The etiology of substance use disorders is related to changes in neuronal systems involved in reward anticipation, negative affect, and withdrawal, as well as to alterations in inhibition and executive control. Genetic and epigenetic variation associated with individual differences in these mechanisms may be important for predicting the effectiveness of current treatments and informing future pharmacogenomic investigations. Genetic research efforts have increasingly involved the use of approaches that leverage neurobiological phenotypes to link changes at the molecular level (e.g., genetic and epigenetic variation) to changes in intermediate neuroimaging phenotypes, and ultimately to clinical outcomes. The current review summarizes recent efforts that utilize neuroimaging and genetic approaches in the context of a three-stage model of addiction. In addition, this review explores how these approaches have been used to study the progression from impulsive, recreational substance use to the compulsive, addicted state. Finally, this review describes future ways that research may incorporate these approaches to examine important stage-specific mechanisms of addiction.


Dystonia type 4 (DYT4) was first described in a large family from Heacham in Norfolk with an autosomal dominantly inherited whispering dysphonia, generalized dystonia, and a characteristic hobby horse ataxic gait. We carried out a genetic linkage analysis in the extended DYT4 family that spanned 7 generations from England and Australia, revealing a single LOD score peak of 6.33 on chromosome 19p13.12-13. Exome sequencing in 2 cousins identified a single cosegregating mutation (p.R2G) in the -tubulin 4a (TUBB4a) gene that was absent in a large number of controls. The mutation is highly conserved in the -tubulin autoregulatory MREI (methionine-arginine-glutamic acid-isoleucine) domain, highly expressed in the central nervous system, and extensive in vitro work has previously demonstrated that substitutions at residue 2, specifically R2G, disrupt the autoregulatory capability of the wild-type -tubulin peptide, affirming the role of the cytoskeleton in dystonia pathogenesis.
Ceruloplasmin is an iron-export ferroxidase that is abundant in plasma and also expressed in glia. We found a 80% loss of ceruloplasmin ferroxidase activity in the substantia nigra of idiopathic Parkinson disease (PD) cases, which could contribute to the pro-oxidant iron accumulation that characterizes the pathology. Consistent with a role for ceruloplasmin in PD etiopathogenesis, ceruloplasmin knockout mice developed parkinsonism that was rescued by iron chelation. Additionally, peripheral infusion of ceruloplasmin attenuated neurodegeneration and nigral iron elevation in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine mouse model for PD. These findings show, in principle, that intravenous ceruloplasmin may have therapeutic potential in PD.
Emend, an NK1 antagonist, and dexamethasone are used to treat complications associated with metastatic brain tumours and their treatment. It has been suggested that these agents exert anticancer effects apart from their current use. The effects of the NK1 antagonists, Emend and N-acetyl-L-tryptophan, and dexamethasone on tumour growth were investigated in vitro and in vivo at clinically relevant doses. For animal experiments, a stereotaxic injection model of Walker 256 rat breast carcinoma cells into the striatum of Wistar rats was used. Emend treatment led to a decrease in tumour cell viability in vitro, although this effect was not replicated by N-acetyl-L-tryptophan. Dexamethasone did not decrease tumour cell viability in vitro but decreased tumour volume in vivo, likely to be through a reduction in tumour oedema, as indicated by the increase in tumour cell density. None of the agents investigated altered tumour cell replication or apoptosis in vivo. Inoculated animals showed increased glial fibrillary acidic protein and ionized calcium-binding adapter molecule 1 immunoreactivity indicative of astrocytes and microglia in the peritumoral area, whereas treatment with Emend and dexamethasone reduced the labelling for both glial cells. These results do not support the hypothesis that NK1 antagonists or dexamethasone exert a cytotoxic action on tumour cells, although these conclusions may be specific to this model and cell line.
The objective of this study was to examine the factor structure and longitudinal measurement invariance of the Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale (CES-D). The population-based sample included 347 adult women who had children participating in the Health-related Quality of Life in Children with Epilepsy Study. Longitudinal confirmatory factor analysis was used to confirm the factor structure and test for measurement invariance. The original CES-D four-factor model (depressed affect, positive affect, somatic activity, and interpersonal relations) provided the best fit to the data compared to alternate models: [(2) = 362.95 (df = 164); Comparative Fit Index (CFI) = 965; Tucker-Lewis Index (TLI) = 0.960; Weighted Root Mean Square Residual (WRMR) = 0.966; Root Mean Square Error of Approximation (RMSEA) = 0.059, 90% confidence interval (CI), 0.051, 0.068] and was used for invariance testing. Results suggested full measurement invariance over time with the final model demonstrating adequate fit [(2) = 2303.92 (df = 1,776); CFI = 0.957; TLI = 0.952; WRMR = 1.149; RMSEA = 0.033, 90% CI, 0.030, 0.038]. We conclude that the four-factor structure of the CES-D is supported for adult women and that the measurement of the scale is longitudinally invariant. Clinicians and researchers can be confident that longitudinal changes in CES-D scores reflect true changes in depressive symptomatology and are not an artifact of changes in the interpretation of items in the scale over time.




The Digit Span subtest from the Wechsler Scales is used to measure Freedom from Distractibility or Working Memory. Some published research suggests that Digit Span forward should be interpreted differently from Digit Span backward. The present study explored the dimensionality of the Wechsler Memory Scale-III Digit Span (forward and backward) items in a sample of heterogeneous neuroscience patients (n = 267) using confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) for dichotomous items. Results suggested that four correlated factors underlie Digit Span, reflecting easy and hard items in both forward and backward presentation orders. The model for Digit Span was then cross-validated in a seizure disorders sample (n = 223) by replication of the CFA and by examination of measurement invariance. Measurement invariance tests of the precise numerical generalization of trait estimation across groups. Results supported measurement invariance and it was concluded that forward and backward digit span scores should be interpreted as measures of the same cognitive ability.
Adaptation to male voices causes a subsequent voice to be perceived as more female, and vice versa. Similar contrastive aftereffects have been reported for phonetic perception, and in vision for face perception. However, while aftereffects in the perception of phonetic features of speech have been reported to persist even when adaptors were processed inattentively, face aftereffects were previously reported to be abolished by inattention to adaptors. Here we demonstrate that auditory aftereffects of adaptation to voice gender are eliminated when the male and female adaptor voices are spatially unattended. Participants simultaneously heard gender-specific male or female adaptor voices in one ear and gender-neutral (androgynous) adaptor voices in the contralateral ear. They selectively attended to the adaptor voices in a designated ear, by either classifying voice gender (Exp. 1) or spoken syllable (Exp. 2). Voice aftereffects were found only if the gender-specific voices were spatially attended, suggesting capacity limits in the processing of voice gender for the unattended ear. Remarkably, gender-specific adaptors in the attended ear elicited comparable aftereffects in test voices, regardless of prior attention to voice gender or phonetic content. Thus, within the attended ear, voice gender was processed even when it was irrelevant for the task at hand, suggesting automatic processing of gender along with linguistic information. Overall, voice gender adaptation requires spatial, but not dimensional, selective attention.

Although the etiology of bipolar disorder remains uncertain, multiple studies examining neuroimaging, peripheral markers and genetics have provided important insights into the pathophysiologic processes underlying bipolar disorder. Neuroimaging studies have consistently demonstrated loss of gray matter, as well as altered activation of subcortical, anterior temporal and ventral prefrontal regions in response to emotional stimuli in bipolar disorder. Genetics studies have identified several potential candidate genes associated with increased risk for developing bipolar disorder that involve circadian rhythm, neuronal development and calcium metabolism. Notably, several groups have found decreased levels of neurotrophic factors and increased pro-inflammatory cytokines and oxidative stress markers. Together these findings provide the background for the identification of potential biomarkers for vulnerability, disease expression and to help understand the course of illness and treatment response. In other areas of medicine, validated biomarkers now inform clinical decision-making. Although the findings reviewed herein hold promise, further research involving large collaborative studies is needed to validate these potential biomarkers prior to employing them for clinical purposes. Therefore, in this positional paper from the ISBD-BIONET (biomarkers network from the International Society for Bipolar Disorders), we will discuss our view of biomarkers for these three areas: neuroimaging, peripheral measurements and genetics; and conclude the paper with our position for the next steps in the search for biomarkers for bipolar disorder.
Autism is a disabling neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by social deficits, language impairment, and repetitive behaviors with few effective treatments. New evidence suggests that autism has reliable electrophysiological endophenotypes and that these measures may be caused by n-methyl-d-aspartic acid receptor (NMDAR) disruption on parvalbumin (PV)-containing interneurons. These findings could be used to create new translational biomarkers. Recent developments have allowed for cell-type selective knockout of NMDARs in order to examine the perturbations caused by disrupting specific circuits. This study examines several electrophysiological and behavioral measures disrupted in autism using a PV-selective reduction in NMDA R1 subunit. Mouse electroencephalograph (EEG) was recorded in response to auditory stimuli. Event-related potential (ERP) component amplitude and latency analysis, social testing, and premating ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs) recordings were performed. Correlations were examined between the ERP latency and behavioral measures. The N1 ERP latency was delayed, sociability was reduced, and mating USVs were impaired in PV-selective NMDA Receptor 1 Knockout (NR1 KO) as compared with wild-type mice. There was a significant correlation between N1 latency and sociability but not between N1 latency and premating USV power or T-maze performance. The increases in N1 latency, impaired sociability, and reduced vocalizations in PV-selective NR1 KO mice mimic similar changes found in autism. Electrophysiological changes correlate to reduced sociability, indicating that the local circuit mechanisms controlling N1 latency may be utilized in social function. Therefore, we propose that behavioral and electrophysiological alterations in PV-selective NR1 KO mice may serve as a useful model for therapeutic development in autism. Autism Res 2013, 6: 69-77.  2013 International Society for Autism Research, Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
Autoimmune forms of encephalopathy have become a hot topic in neurology. These conditions are now known to be associated with antibodies to neuronal or glial cell surface proteins, such as ion channels, receptors or associated proteins. The most common conditions are a form of limbic encephalitis associated with antibodies to voltage-gated potassium channel complex proteins, and a more complex encephalopathy with antibodies to the NR1 subunit of the N-methyl-D aspartate receptor, a class of glutamate receptor. In addition, a very inflammatory disease of the nervous system, neuromyelitis optica, associated with blindness as well as spinal cord damage, can be distinguished by the presence of antibodies to aquaporin-4, a water channel. Many other antibodies are now being identified, but their frequencies are less clear. Most importantly, these new antibody-mediated diseases are being identified in patients of all ages, and in the majority of cases, the patients improve substantially with immunotherapies.
Heart failure (HF) is a serious debilitating condition with poor survival rates and an increasing level of prevalence. The excessive sympatho-excitation that is a hallmark of heart failure has long-term effects that contribute to disease progression. The mechanisms causing the increase in renal sympathetic nerve activity (RSNA) have been extensively investigated in experimental models of heart failure, but there is less information on the factors causing the increase in cardiac SNA (CSNA). This review focuses on our recent investigations of the mechanisms driving the increased CSNA in an ovine rapid ventricular pacing model of HF. In conscious sheep with mild heart failure (ejection fraction 35-40%) the arterial baroreflex control of CSNA was normal. In contrast, the normal inhibition of CSNA with volume expansion was abolished in HF, indicating desensitisation of the cardiopulmonary mechano-reflex. Antagonism of central angiotensin AT1 receptors with losartan substantially reduced CSNA, demonstrating a critical role for the central renin-angiotensin system. Investigation of the role of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), which plays a critical role in setting the increased RSNA in HF, demonstrated that the PVN did not maintain the increased CSNA in HF or the resting level of CSNA in normal animals. Furthermore, inhibition of the PVN in normal animals reversed the reduction in RSNA, but not CSNA, induced by volume expansion. These studies emphasise that the mechanisms controlling CSNA in the normal state, and causing the increase in HF, are different to those controlling sympathetic activity to the kidney.
Glucoprivation is a strong signal for the initiation of gastrointestinal contractions. While this relationship between utilizable nutrient levels and gastric motility has been recognized for more than 100 years, the explanation of this phenomenon has remained incomplete. Using widely differing approaches, recent work has suggested that the hindbrain is responsible for this chemoreflex effect. Surprisingly, astrocytes may be the main glucodetector elements under hypoglycemic conditions. Our own work using in vitro live cell calcium imaging shows that astrocytes in the NST increase cytoplasmic calcium in a concentration dependent manner in reaction to reductions in glucose. This effect is reversed on restoration of normal glucose concentrations. In vivo single unit neurophysiological recordings show that brainstem neurons driving gastric motility are activated by glucoprivic stimuli. Studies in intact animals verify that both dorsal medullary and systemic glucoprivation significantly increases gastric motility. Astrocyte inactivation with fluorocitrate blocks the pro-motility effects of glucoprivation. Thus, it appears that intact astrocyte signaling may be essential to glucoregulatory control over gastric motility.
Alzheimer disease (AD) is a form of neurodegeneration that develops over the course of multiple decades and as a result of the accumulation of the pathogenic amyloid- (A) peptide, also known as A4. In late-stage AD, failure of autophagic clearance results in neuronal cell bodies that are almost entirely consumed by autophagic vacuoles (AVs). Previously, we have shown that the potential AD drug latrepirdine (aka Dimebon()), a Russian antihistamine that has shown mixed results in phase II clinical trials in AD, regulates metabolism of the amyloid-/A4 precursor protein (APP). In two Molecular Psychiatry papers in 2012, we sought to determine the mechanism through which latrepirdine regulates APP metabolism and to determine, using an Alzheimer mouse model, whether latrepirdine provides protection from the toxicity associated with the accumulation of A. In cultured cells, we provided evidence that latrepirdine stimulates MTOR- and ATG5-dependent autophagy, leading to the reduction of intracellular levels of APP metabolites, including A. Consistent with this finding, we found that chronic latrepirdine administration resulted in increased levels of the biomarkers thought to correlate with autophagy activation in the brains of TgCRND8 (APP K670M, N671L, V717F) or wild-type mice, and that treatment was associated with abrogation of behavioral deficit, reduction in A neuropathology, and prevention of autophagic failure among TgCRND8 mice.
Aggressive behavior in males has been intensively investigated regarding the influence of the brain serotonergic system. Despite some inconsistencies, a general conclusion is that low levels of serotonin (5-HT) are associated with high levels of male aggression. The role of the serotonergic system for female aggression is less well researched. Female mice rarely show intraspecific aggressive behavior, except during lactation, when they may exhibit intense aggression towards intruders to protect their pups. The aim of the present study was to investigate the impact of 5-HT transporter (5-HTT) inactivation on maternal aggression in mice. Therefore, lactating homozygous and heterozygous 5-HTT knockout as well as wildtype mice were confronted with male intruders in their home cages. Homozygous 5-HTT knockout dams, which exhibit highest levels of extracellular 5-HT in the brain, were significantly less prone to initiate offensive aggression than wildtype controls. Moreover, they showed longer latencies to attack the intruder, attacked less often and displayed an overall lower frequency of offensive aggressive behavior patterns than wildtype dams. Heterozygous 5-HTT knockout mothers generally showed intermediate levels of aggressive behavior. Thus, our data indicate that higher extracellular including synaptic levels of 5-HT are associated with lower intensity of aggressive behavior in lactating mice, adding support to the inhibitory role of 5-HT in aggression also in females.
In the present work we analyzed the effect of the chronic administration of risperidone (2mg/kg over 65 days) on behavioural, morphological and molecular aspects in an experimental model of schizophrenia obtained by bilateral injection of ibotenic acid into the ventral hippocampus of new-born rats. Our results show that during their adult lives the animals with hippocampal lesions exhibit different alterations, mainly at behavioural level and in the gene expression of dopamine D(2) and 5-HT(2A) receptors. However, at morphological level the study performed on the prefrontal cortex did not reveal any alterations in either the thickness or the number of cells immunoreactive for c-Fos, GFAP, CBP or PV. Overall, risperidone administration elicited a trend towards the recovery of the values previously altered by the hippocampal lesion, approaching the values seen in the animals without lesions. It may be concluded that the administration of risperidone in the schizophrenia model employed helps to improve the altered functions, with no significant negative effects.
Remembering object locations across different views is a fundamental competence for keeping oriented in large-scale space. Here we investigated such ability by comparing encoding and retrieval of locations across viewpoint changes relative to different spatial frames of reference. We acquired functional magnetic resonance images while subjects detected target displacements across consecutive views of a familiar virtual room, reporting changes in the target absolute position in the room (stable environmental frame), changes in its position relative to a set of movable objects (unstable object-based frame), and changes relative to their point of view (control viewer-centered frame). Behavioral costs were higher for the stable environmental frame, and a cortical network including the lingual/parahippocampal gyrus (LPHG) and the retrosplenial complex (RSC) selectively encoded spatial locations relative to this frame. Several regions, including the dorsal fronto-parietal cortex and the LPHG, were modulated by the amount of experienced viewpoint change, but only the RSC was selectively modulated by the amount of viewpoint change relative to the environmental frame, thus showing a special role in coding one's own position and heading in familiar environments.
The psycho-historical account implies two ways of construing the relation of basic exposure to the artistic design stance and artistic understanding. One is empirically dubious and the other does not fit well with the account. The assumption that combining psychology with history requires identifying actual intentions is undermined by the artistic design stance.
The target article presents a thought-provoking approach to the relation of neuroscience and art. However, at least two issues pose potential difficulties. The first concerns whether &quot;art appreciation&quot; is a coherent topic for scientific study. The second concerns the degree to which processing fluency can explain aesthetic feeling or may simply be one component of a more complex account.
The contextualist claim that universalism is irrelevant to the proper study of art can be evaluated by examining an analogous question in neuroscience. Taking the reductionist-holist debate in visual neuroscience as a model, we see that the analog of orthodox contextualism is untenable, whereas integrated approaches have proven highly effective. Given the connection between art and vision, unified approaches are likewise more germane to the scientific study of art.
Nicotine is a widely used addictive drug, with an estimated 73 million Americans 12 years of age or older having used a tobacco product in the last month, despite documented risks to personal health. Nicotine alters cognitive processes, which include effects on attention and impulsivity, a mechanism that may contribute to the addictive properties of the drug. Individuals with a variety of psychological disorders ranging from attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) to schizophrenia smoke at a higher rate than the rest of the population and show deficits in impulse control. The present studies evaluated the effects of acute, chronic, and withdrawal from chronic nicotine on an operant task that measured premature and signaled nose pokes, as well as performance efficiency in C57BL/6J mice. Results indicate that acute nicotine (0.09 mg/kg intraperitoneally) does not alter the acquisition of the task, but does significantly increase performance efficiency once the behavior has been learned. In contrast, chronic nicotine (0, 6.3, 12.6, and 36 mg/kg/day subcutaneously) and withdrawal from chronic nicotine had no effect on performance efficiency. These results suggest that initial nicotine use may have beneficial effects on inhibitory control, but these effects are not maintained with chronic nicotine consumption as tolerance develops. The findings may provide an explanation for higher rates of smoking in patients with impulse control issues, as the smoking may represent an initial attempt at self-medication.
Previous studies have demonstrated that bilateral lesions of the gustatory (medial) zone of the parabrachial nucleus (PBN) in the pons eliminate the salt (sodium chloride; NaCl) appetite induced in rats by treatment with the diuretic drug, furosemide. The present studies reexamined NaCl intake of rats with PBN lesions induced by ibotenic acid, using multiple models of salt appetite. The impairment of a conditioned taste aversion, an established consequence of PBN damage, was used as an initial screen with which to assess the effectiveness of the lesions. Rats with PBN lesions did not drink either 0.3 of a molar (M) solution of NaCl or 0.5 M NaCl in response to daily treatment with desoxycorticosterone acetate. These findings suggest that the excitatory stimulus of salt appetite mediated by mineralocorticoids is abolished by PBN lesions. In contrast, rats with PBN lesions drank some 0.5 M NaCl and more 0.3 M NaCl, in addition to water, in response to hypovolemia induced by subcutaneous injection of 30% polyethylene glycol solution. Those findings suggest that an excitatory stimulus of salt appetite, presumably mediated by Angiotensin II, is not abolished by PBN lesions. These and other observations indicate that lesions of the gustatory PBN in rats may or may not eliminate salt appetite, depending on which model is used and which concentration of NaCl solution is available.
Many behavioral studies have suggested that learning induces neocortical synaptic modifications. However, neocortical synaptic modifications following forebrain-dependent trace associative learning has not been closely examined. Acquisition of whisker-trace-eyeblink (WTEB) conditioning, a forebrain-dependent trace associative task, has been reported to modulate the expression of cytochrome oxidase, a marker for metabolic activity, in the conditioned barrels, suggesting that trace associative conditioning induces neocortical synaptic plasticity. However, neocortical synaptic plasticity has never been directly examined following this trace associative task. To assess neocortical synaptic modifications, the present study examined synapsin I expression following WTEB conditioning. Synapsin I is part of a phosphoprotein family involved in neuronal regulation of neurotransmitter release that also exhibits an expression pattern closely correlating to synapse number. Findings from this study demonstrated that synapsin I expression is elevated in primary somatosensory neocortex in trace-paired-conditioned mice compared with unpaired-conditioned (stimulation-control) mice and nave mice, suggesting that WTEB conditioning induces synaptic proliferation. Additional findings from the present study examining cytochrome oxidase expression replicated previous findings demonstrating that WTEB conditioning induces a learning-specific expansion of the cytochrome oxidase staining expression for conditioned barrels. Together, these results suggest that synaptic proliferation is contributing to the learning-induced metabolic augmentation previously observed in conditioned barrels following WTEB conditioning. Furthermore, these results suggest that trace associative learning facilitates neocortical synaptic modification.
Despite the prominent loss of motor skills, artistic capacities remain preserved in Parkinson's disease (PD). Furthermore, artistic creativity may emerge in art-nave PD patients treated with levodopa and dopamine agonists. The present review discusses reported PD patients who developed enhanced artistic skills under anti-Parkinsonian therapy and the course of this phenomenon in the clinical context. It is unclear whether creative drive is related to dopamine dysregulation, and the mechanisms remain speculative. The delineation of the particular constellation that enables this emergence in PD patients may shed light on the comprehension of the concept of creativity in general.
There is increasing evidence suggesting a role of the neurotransmitter glutamate in depression. The metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors are G-protein coupled receptors, which mediate a slow modulatory response to glutamate signalling. mGlu receptor is a presynaptic inhibitory autoreceptor showing great promise as a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of depression. Selective pharmacological modulators of mGlu receptor have been developed; the positive allosteric modulator AMN082 and the negative modulator 6-(4-methoxyphenyl)-5-methyl-3-(4-pyridinyl)-isoxazolo[4,5-c]pyridin-4(5H)-one hydrochloride (MMPIP). They remain to be extensively characterized in behavioural models sensitive to antidepressant action. Therefore, we assessed the effects of these compounds on behaviour in two different mouse strains using several preclinical tests sensitive to antidepressant pharmacological action. AMN082 (6 mg/kg) reduced immobility in the forced swim test and tail suspension test (TST) in both C57BL/6j and CD1 mice. In CD1 mice, MMPIP (10 and 30 mg/kg) significantly increased the time spent immobile in the TST, whereas this effect was restricted to a dose of 30 mg/kg in C57BL/6j mice. Administration of MMPIP with AMN082 partially attenuated the antidepressant-like effect of AMN082 in C57BL/6j mice in the forced swim test and the TST. However, this effect was absent from the CD1 strain. This further adds to the growing corpus of data promoting the targeting of mGlu receptor with the aim of achieving an antidepressant effect.
Past studies have suggested that progesterone-derived ovarian hormones contribute to the discriminative stimulus effects of ethanol, particularly via progesterone metabolites that act at -aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)) receptors. It is unknown whether loss of ovarian hormones in women, for example, after menopause, may be associated with altered receptor mediation of the effects of ethanol. The current study measured the substitution of allopregnanolone, pregnanolone, pentobarbital, midazolam, dizocilpine, TFMPP, and RU 24969 in female sham and ovariectomized rats trained to discriminate 1.0 g/kg ethanol from water. The groups did not differ in the substitution of GABA(A)-positive modulators (barbiturates, benzodiazepines, neuroactive steroids) or the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist dizocilpine. Similarly, blood-ethanol concentration did not differ between the groups, and plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone, progesterone, pregnenolone, and deoxycorticosterone were unchanged 30 min after administration of 1.0 g/kg ethanol or water. However, substitution of neuroactive steroids and RU 24969, a 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)(1A/1B) receptor agonist, was lower than observed in previous studies of male rats, and TFMPP substitution was decreased in ovariectomized rats. Ovarian hormones appear to contribute to 5-HT receptor mediation of the discriminative stimulus effects of ethanol in rats.
The present study investigated the effect of agmatine on acquisition and expression of ethanol conditioned place preference (CPP) and its modulation by imidazoline agents. Swiss albino mice were treated intraperitoneally with saline or agmatine (20-40 mg/kg) before injection of ethanol (1.25 mg/kg) during conditioning days or on a test day (20-120 mg/kg), to observe the effect on acquisition or expression of CPP, respectively. Agmatine inhibited the acquisition but not the expression of ethanol CPP. Furthermore, both the I receptor antagonist, efaroxan (9 mg/kg) and the I receptor antagonist, BU224 (5 mg/kg) attenuated the agmatine-induced inhibition of the ethanol CPP acquisition. In contrast, the I receptor agonist, 2-BFI (5 mg/kg) and I receptor agonist, moxonidine (0.4 mg/kg) alone, or a combination of their subeffective doses, significantly attenuated the effect of agmatine (20 mg/kg) on acquisition of ethanol CPP. Agmatine or imidazoline agents alone produced neither place preference nor aversion, and at the doses used in the present study did not affect locomotor activity. Thus, agmatine attenuates the acquisition of ethanol CPP at least in part by imidazoline (I or I) receptors. In future studies, agmatine or agents acting at the imidazoline receptors could be explored for their therapeutic potential in ethanol dependence.


The concept of a stem cell subpopulation as understood from normal epithelial tissue or bone marrow function has been extended to our understanding of cancer tissue and is now the target of treatment efforts specifically directed to this subpopulation. In glioblastoma, as well as in other cancers, increased expression of aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) has been found localized within a minority sub-population of tumor cells which demonstrate stem cell properties. A separate body of research associated increased expression of heat-shock protein-90 (HSP90) with stem cell attributes. We present here results from our initial immunohistochemistry study of human glioblastoma biopsy tissue where both ALDH and HSP90 tended to be co-expressed in high amounts in the same minority of cells. Since 12% of all cells in the six biopsies studied were ALDH positive and 17% were HSP90 positive, by chance alone 2% would have been expected to be positive for both. In fact 7% of all cells simultaneously expressed both markers-a significant difference (p = 0.037). That two previously identified proteins associated with stem cell attributes tend to be co-expressed in the same individual glioblastoma cells might have clinical utility. Disulfiram, used to treat alcoholism for half-a century now, is a potent ALDH inhibitor and the old anti-viral drug ritonavir inhibits HSP90. These should be explored for the potential to retard aspects of glioblastoma stem cells' function subserved by ALDH and HSP90.
This work proposes a model of visual bottom-up attention for dynamic scene analysis. Our work adds motion saliency calculations to a neural network model with realistic temporal dynamics [(e.g., building motion salience on top of De Brecht and Saiki Neural Networks 19:1467-1474, (2006)]. The resulting network elicits strong transient responses to moving objects and reaches stability within a biologically plausible time interval. The responses are statistically different comparing between earlier and later motion neural activity; and between moving and non-moving objects. We demonstrate the network on a number of synthetic and real dynamical movie examples. We show that the model captures the motion saliency asymmetry phenomenon. In addition, the motion salience computation enables sudden-onset moving objects that are less salient in the static scene to rise above others. Finally, we include strong consideration for the neural latencies, the Lyapunov stability, and the neural properties being reproduced by the model.
Neural field models have been successfully applied to model diverse brain mechanisms like visual attention, motor control, and memory. Most theoretical and modeling works have focused on the study of the dynamics of such systems under variations in neural connectivity, mainly symmetric connectivity among neurons. However, less attention has been given to the emerging properties of neuron populations when neural connectivity is asymmetric, although asymmetric activity propagation has been observed in cortical tissue. Here we explore the dynamics of neural fields with asymmetric connectivity and show, in the case of front propagation, that it can bias the population to follow a certain trajectory with higher activation. We find that asymmetry relates linearly to the input speed when the input is spatially localized, and this relation holds for different kernels and input shapes. To illustrate the behavior of asymmetric connectivity, we present an application: standard video sequences of human motion were encoded using the asymmetric neural field and compared to computer vision techniques. Overall, our results indicate that asymmetric neural fields are a competitive approach for spatiotemporal encoding with two main advantages: online classification and distributed operation.


Little is known about the effects of the commonly-used oral contraceptive pill (OC) on cognition. This study compared matched healthy women across the menstrual cycle (early-follicular 'Low E/P', mid-luteal 'High E/P'), women using the combined OC, and men. The Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status (RBANS) was used to assess immediate and delayed memory, visuospatial ability, language and attention. Assessment of prepulse inhibition (PPI) included 21 pulse-alone trials (115dB) and 42 prepulse-pulse trials (74, 78, 86dB). The OC and High E/P groups outperformed men on the total RBANS score, an overall measure of cognition. For the immediate memory/learning and attention domains, the OC group outperformed men; for the delayed memory domain, the OC and High E/P groups outperformed men. In conclusion, high levels of natural or synthetic sex hormones had a positive effect on higher-order cognition but had little effect on baseline PPI.
We tested whether incoming sounds are processed differently depending on how the preceding sound sequence has been interpreted by the brain. Sequences of a regularly repeating three-tone pattern, the perceived organization of which spontaneously switched back and forth between two alternative interpretations, were delivered to listeners. Occasionally, a regular tone was exchanged for a slightly or moderately lower one (deviants). The electroencephalogram (EEG) was recorded while listeners continuously marked their perception of the sound sequence. We found that for both the regular and the deviant tones, the early exogenous P1 and N1 amplitudes varied together with the perceived sound organization. Percept-dependent effects on the late endogenous N2 and P3a amplitudes were only found for deviant tones. These results suggest that the perceived sound organization affects sound processing both by modulating what information is extracted from incoming sounds as well as by influencing how deviant sound events are evaluated for further processing.
This study investigated how trusting behavior varies in naturally cycling women, as a function of sex and attractiveness of players in a trust game, at three distinct phases of the menstrual cycle. Women acted more cautiously in an investment game at the preovulatory phase, compared to the menstrual and the mid-luteal phase. Reduced willingness to trust in strangers was particularly expressed toward male players at this time. The increase of estradiol levels from menses to the preovulatory phase was negatively correlated with trust in attractive male other players, whereas the increase of progesterone levels from menses to the mid-luteal phase was positively associated with trust in unattractive female other players. No particular contribution of a single hormone level could be identified for the generally reduced willingness to trust in strangers in the preovulatory phase. Thus, the results emphasize the impact of the menstrual cycle on interpersonal trust, although the exact mode of hormonal action needs to be further investigated.
A couple of studies showed that auditory processing of sounds presented concurrently with one's own actions is attenuated. Because in these studies actions were key-presses, it was hypothesized that attenuation might be caused by robust key-press-effect associations formed by long-term interactions with everyday devices. Key-pressing may be special because most everyday devices are designed to comply with the perceived affordance that a key/button should be pressed to trigger an effect. Therefore, key-presses would attenuate auditory processing, but key-releases would not. In the present experiment, participants marked time intervals by pressing or releasing a key. Independently, a random sequence of tones was presented. Tones coinciding with a key-press or -release elicited similarly attenuated Tb, vertex N1, and P2 ERPs, suggesting that coincidence-related auditory attenuation is not brought about by special key-press-effect associations. Whereas Tb and P2 attenuations were pure amplitude modulations, vertex N1 was attenuated (partly) by an overlapping coincidence-related ERP.
The structure-based design, synthesis, and biological evaluation of a new pyrazole series of irreversible KAT II inhibitors are described herein. The modification of the inhibitor scaffold of 1 and 2 from a dihydroquinolinone core to a tetrahydropyrazolopyridinone core led to discovery of a new series of potent KAT II inhibitors with excellent physicochemical properties. Compound 20 is the most potent and lipophilically efficient of these new pyrazole analogs, with a k(inact)/K(i) value of 112,000 M(-1)s(-1) and lipophilic efficiency (LipE) of 8.53. The X-ray crystal structure of 20 with KAT II demonstrates key features that contribute to this remarkable potency and binding efficiency.


Glia, including astrocytes, are increasingly at the forefront of neurodegenerative research for their role in the modulation of neuronal function and survival. Improved understanding of underlying disease mechanisms, including the role of the cellular environment in neurodegeneration, is central to therapeutic development for these currently untreatable diseases. In these endeavours, experimental models that more closely reproduce the human condition have the potential to facilitate the transition between experimental studies in model organisms and patient trials. In this review we discuss the growing role of astrocytes in neurodegenerative diseases, and how astrocytes generated from human pluripotent stem cells represent a useful tool for analyzing astrocytic signalling and influence on neuronal function.



Data for 100 vagal nerve stimulation (VNS) patients were collected and analysed retrospectively. The mean seizure reduction was 17.86% (n = 67) at 6 months, 26.21% (n = 63) at 1 year, 30.43% (n = 53) at 2 years, 48.10% (n = 40) at 3 years, 49.44% (n = 32) at 4 years, 50.52% (n = 35) at 5 years, 45.85% (n = 31) at 6 years, 62.68% (n = 25) at 8 years, 76.41% (n = 9) at 10 years, 82.90% (n = 4) at 12 years. Evidence of statistical significance for mean seizure reduction over time was strong with all p values less than 0.05 except at 12 years (p = 0.125) where the sample size was small (n = 4). Mean seizure reduction was 49.04% and 51 (51%) patients were considered responders, defined as a 50% or more reduction in seizure frequency. Twenty-one (21%) patients suffered surgical complications. Of these 15 patients were self-limiting and 6 patients were irreversible or required a device revision. Fifty patients (50%) suffered from side-effects, while vagal stimulation cycled on (VNS on) post-operatively. However, of these, only one patient suffered from intolerable side effects requiring the device to be switched off temporarily. This study demonstrates the long-term efficacy in seizure reduction with the use of VNS. Complication rates and tolerability did not deviate greatly from that previously reported, indicating that VNS is a safe and effective treatment for seizure reduction in intractable epilepsy.










Laquinimod is an orally administered compound that is under investigation in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis. To understand the mechanism by which laquinimod exerts its clinical effects, we have performed human and murine studies assessing its immunomodulatory properties. In experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, the therapeutic administration of laquinimod beginning during the recovery of SJL mice, prevented further relapses as expected and strongly reduced infiltration of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in the central nervous system. We hypothesized that this beneficial effect was mediated by dendritic cells, since we and others found a modulation of different dendritic cell subsets under treatment. According to the findings on antigen-presenting cells in the murine system, we found a reduced capacity of human monocyte-derived dendritic cells treated with therapeutic concentrations of laquinimod, upon maturation with lipopolysaccharide, to induce CD4+ T cell proliferation and secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Furthermore, laquinimod treatment of mature dendritic cells resulted in a decreased chemokine production by both murine and human dendritic cells, associated with a decreased monocyte chemo-attraction. In laquinimod-treated patients with multiple sclerosis we consistently found reduced chemokine and cytokine secretion by conventional CD1c+ dendritic cells upon lipopolysaccharide stimulation. Similarly to the animal model of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis, dendritic cell subsets were altered in patients upon laquinimod treatment, as the number of conventional CD1c+ and plasmacytoid CD303+ dendritic cells were decreased within peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Moreover, laquinimod treatment in patients with multiple sclerosis and mice modified the maturation of dendritic cells demonstrated by an upregulation of CD86 expression in vivo. Our data suggest that inhibition of the NF-B pathway is responsible for the changes observed in dendritic cell maturation and functions. These findings indicate that laquinimod exhibits its disease-modulating activity in multiple sclerosis by downregulating immunogenicity of dendritic cell responses. We suggest that monitoring dendritic cell properties in multiple sclerosis should be implemented in future therapeutic trials.
Clinical heterogeneity in multiple sclerosis is the rule. Evidence suggests that HLA-DRB1*15 may play a role in clinical outcome. Spinal cord pathology is common and contributes significantly to disability in the disease. The influence of HLA-DRB1*15 on multiple sclerosis spinal cord pathology is unknown. A post-mortem cohort of pathologically confirmed cases with multiple sclerosis (n = 108, 34 males) with fresh frozen material available for genetic analyses and fixed material for pathology was used. HLA-DRB1 alleles were genotyped to select a subset of age- and sex-matched HLA-DRB1*15-positive (n = 21) and negative (n = 26) cases for detailed pathological analyses. For each case, transverse sections from three spinal cord levels (cervical, thoracic and lumbar) were stained for myelin, axons and inflammation. The influence of HLA-DRB1*15 on pathological outcome measures was evaluated. Carriage of HLA-DRB1*15 significantly increased the extent of demyelination (global measure 15+: 23.7% versus 15-: 12.16%, P = 0.004), parenchymal (cervical, P &lt; 0.01; thoracic, P &lt; 0.05; lumbar, P &lt; 0.01) and lesional inflammation (border, P = 0.001; periplaque white matter, P &lt; 0.05) in the multiple sclerosis spinal cord. HLA-DRB1*15 influenced demyelination through controlling the extent of parenchymal inflammation. Meningeal inflammation correlated significantly with small fibre axonal loss in the lumbar spinal cord (r = -0.832, P = 0.003) only in HLA-DRB1*15-positive cases. HLA-DRB1*15 significantly influences pathology in the multiple sclerosis spinal cord. This study casts light on the role of HLA-DRB1*15 in disease outcome and highlights the powerful approach of using microscopic pathology to clarify the way in which genes and clinical phenotypes of neurological diseases are linked.
We used transcranial magnetic stimulation to investigate whether the cortical excitability changes observed amongst the different generalized and focal epilepsy syndromes are reflected in their asymptomatic siblings and if these changes depended on the clinical phenotype. We studied 157 patients with epilepsy (95 generalized and 62 focal) and their asymptomatic siblings (138 and 82, respectively). Motor threshold and paired pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation at short (2, 5, 10 and 15 ms) and long (100-300 ms) interstimulus intervals were measured. Results were compared to those of 12 control subjects and 20 of their siblings. There were no differences in cortical excitability between healthy control subjects and their siblings. Compared with control subjects, cortical excitability was higher in siblings of patients whether generalized (P &lt; 0.05; short and long interstimulus intervals) or focal (P &lt; 0.05; long interstimulus intervals). Compared with epilepsy, motor threshold was lower (P &lt; 0.05) in patients with juvenile myoclonic epilepsy compared with their siblings only early at onset in the drug nave state. In all groups (generalized and focal) cortical excitability was lower in siblings only at the long interstimulus intervals (250 and 300; P &lt; 0.05). Cortical excitability is higher in asymptomatic siblings of patients with generalized and focal epilepsy in a similar manner. The disturbance seems to involve intracortical inhibitory circuits even in the siblings of patients with a structural abnormality (acquired epilepsy). This implies there are certain genetic factors that predispose to both generalized and focal epilepsies and a complex genetic/environmental interaction then determines the clinical phenotype.
Upon his death in 1955, Albert Einstein's brain was removed, fixed and photographed from multiple angles. It was then sectioned into 240 blocks, and histological slides were prepared. At the time, a roadmap was drawn that illustrates the location within the brain of each block and its associated slides. Here we describe the external gross neuroanatomy of Einstein's entire cerebral cortex from 14 recently discovered photographs, most of which were taken from unconventional angles. Two of the photographs reveal sulcal patterns of the medial surfaces of the hemispheres, and another shows the neuroanatomy of the right (exposed) insula. Most of Einstein's sulci are identified, and sulcal patterns in various parts of the brain are compared with those of 85 human brains that have been described in the literature. To the extent currently possible, unusual features of Einstein's brain are tentatively interpreted in light of what is known about the evolution of higher cognitive processes in humans. As an aid to future investigators, these (and other) features are correlated with blocks on the roadmap (and therefore histological slides). Einstein's brain has an extraordinary prefrontal cortex, which may have contributed to the neurological substrates for some of his remarkable cognitive abilities. The primary somatosensory and motor cortices near the regions that typically represent face and tongue are greatly expanded in the left hemisphere. Einstein's parietal lobes are also unusual and may have provided some of the neurological underpinnings for his visuospatial and mathematical skills, as others have hypothesized. Einstein's brain has typical frontal and occipital shape asymmetries (petalias) and grossly asymmetrical inferior and superior parietal lobules. Contrary to the literature, Einstein's brain is not spherical, does not lack parietal opercula and has non-confluent Sylvian and inferior postcentral sulci.
Myasthenia gravis (MG) is caused by the failure of neuromuscular transmission mediated by pathogenic autoantibodies (Abs). Generally, patients with MG are divided into 3 groups: (1) nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antibody-positive MG (AChR-MG: 80%), (2) muscle-specific receptor tyrosine kinase antibody-positive MG (MuSK-MG: 5-10%), which are AChR-associated transmembrane post-synaptic proteins involved in AChR aggregation, and (3) double-seronegative MG. In 2011, autoantibodies against low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 4 (Lrp4) were identified in Japanese MG patients, and thereafter, have been reported in Germany and USA. We developed a simple technique termed Gaussia luciferase immunoprecipitation (GLIP) for detecting the antibodies to Lrp4. Our results showed that 9 generalized MG patients out of 300 without AChR Ab were positive for Lrp4 antibodies. These antibodies inhibit the binding of Lrp4 to its ligand and predominantly belong to the IgG1 subclass. In other studies, Lrp4 Ab-positive sera inhibited agrin-induced aggregation of AChRs in cultured myotubes, suggesting a pathogenic role in the dysfunction of the neuromuscular endplate. Further understanding of the structure and function of neuromuscular junction (NMJ) through newly discovered autoantibodies may provide specific clinical information and treatment for MG.
Acute pandysautonomia is an idiopathic, acute or subacute autonomic neuropathy, which diffusely affects pre- and post-synaptic, and sympathetic and parasympathetic nerves. The recent discovery of serum autoantibodies against the nicotinic acethylcholine receptor (nAChR) on autonomic ganglia has led to a better understanding of its pathogenesis as well as the emergence of a new disease entity named autoimmune autonomic ganglionopathy (AAG). Based on the detection of these antibodies in various dysautonomic conditions, AAG is considered a broad-spectrum disease entity that includes acute pandysautonomia as well as secondary autonomic neuropathy, restricted forms of dysautonomia (postural tachycardia syndrome and chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction), and chronic dysautonomia, mimicking pure autonomic failure. Reproduction of experimental AAG animals by active immunization with peptides derived from ganglionic nAChR or passive transfer of ganglionic nAChR antibodies strongly indicates that ganglionic nAChR antibodies are pathogenic in AAG development. There are no controlled treatment trials for AAG, and its optimal therapy remains uncertain. Recent reports suggest that combined immunotherapies using immunosuppressive agents with plasma exchange or intravenous immunoglobulin are effective for some intractable cases. An optimal protocol of combined immunotherapies should be established in controlled clinical trials in the future.
Aggression research was for long dominated by the assumption that aggression-related psychopathologies result from the excessive activation of aggression-promoting brain mechanisms. This assumption was recently challenged by findings with models of aggression that mimic etiological factors of aggression-related psychopathologies. Subjects submitted to such procedures show abnormal attack features (mismatch between provocation and response, disregard of species-specific rules, and insensitivity toward the social signals of opponents). We review here 12 such laboratory models and the available human findings on the neural background of abnormal aggression. We focus on the hypothalamus, a region tightly involved in the execution of attacks. Data show that the hypothalamic mechanisms controlling attacks (general activation levels, local serotonin, vasopressin, substance P, glutamate, GABA, and dopamine neurotransmission) undergo etiological factor-dependent changes. Findings suggest that the emotional component of attacks differentiates two basic types of hypothalamic mechanisms. Aggression associated with increased arousal (emotional/reactive aggression) is paralleled by increased mediobasal hypothalamic activation, increased hypothalamic vasopressinergic, but diminished hypothalamic serotonergic neurotransmission. In aggression models associated with low arousal (unemotional/proactive aggression), the lateral but not the mediobasal hypothalamus is over-activated. In addition, the anti-aggressive effect of serotonergic neurotransmission is lost and paradoxical changes were noticed in vasopressinergic neurotransmission. We conclude that there is no single 'neurobiological road' to abnormal aggression: the neural background shows qualitative, etiological factor-dependent differences. Findings obtained with different models should be viewed as alternative mechanisms rather than conflicting data. The relevance of these findings for understanding and treating of aggression-related psychopathologies is discussed. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Extrasynaptic ionotropic receptors'.
Glioblastoma Multiforme (GBM) is the most aggressive brain tumor characterized by intratumoral heterogeneity at cytopathological, genomic and transcriptional levels. Despite the efforts to develop new therapeutic strategies the median survival of GBM patients is 12-14 months. Results from large-scale gene expression profile studies confirmed that the genetic alterations in GBM affect pathways controlling cell cycle progression, cellular proliferation and survival and invasion ability, which may explain the difficulty to treat GBM patients. One of the signaling pathways that contribute to the aggressive behavior of glioma cells is the protein kinase C (PKC) pathway. PKC is a family of serine/threonine-specific protein kinases organized into three groups according the activating domains. Due to the variability of actions controlled by PKC isoforms, its contribution to the development of GBM is poorly understood. This review intends to highlight the contribution of PKC isoforms to proliferation, survival and invasive ability of glioma cells.

Acute ischaemic stroke can be treated by clot busting and clot removal. Thrombolysis using intravenous recombinanttissue plasminogen activator (IV r-TPA) is the current gold standard for the treatment of acute ischaemic stroke (AIS). The main failure of this type of treatment is the short time interval from stroke onset within which it has to be used for any benefit. The evidence is that IV r-TPA has to be used within 4.5 hours. Other modalities of treatment are not as effective and need more scrutiny and examination. The available modalities are intra-arterial thrombolysis and clot-retrieval devices. Not unexpectedly, recanalisation treatments have flourished at a rapid rate. Although vessel recanalisation is vital to increasing the possibility of significant tissue reperfusion, clinical trials need to emphasise functional outcomes rather than reperfusion/recanalisation rates to adequately assess success of these devices/techniques. Our view is that until these treatments become proven in large-scale studies, a greater endeavour should be made in resource-limited settings to expand facilities to enable intravenous r-tPA treatment within the 4.5-hour period following onset of stroke. The resources required are small with the main costs being a CT scan of the brain and the cost of r-tPA. This can easily be done in any emergency facility in any part of the world. What is needed is public awareness, and campaigns of 'stroke attack' should be revisited, especially in the resource-limited context. This approach at present will halt to some extent the stroke pandemic that we are facing.
The ability to interpret experimental data is essential to understanding and participating in the process of scientific discovery. Reading primary research articles can be a frustrating experience for undergraduate biology students because they have very little experience interpreting data. To enhance their data interpretation skills, students used a template called &quot;Figure Facts&quot; to assist them with primary literature-based reading assignments in an advanced cellular neuroscience course. The Figure Facts template encourages students to adopt a data-centric approach, rather than a text-based approach, to understand research articles. Specifically, Figure Facts requires students to focus on the experimental data presented in each figure and identify specific conclusions that may be drawn from those results. Students who used Figure Facts for one semester increased the amount of time they spent examining figures in a primary research article, and regular exposure to primary literature was associated with improved student performance on a data interpretation skills test. Students reported decreased frustration associated with interpreting data figures, and their opinions of the Figure Facts template were overwhelmingly positive. In this paper, we present Figure Facts for others to adopt and adapt, with reflection on its implementation and effectiveness in improving undergraduate science education.
Glucocorticoids are steroid hormones which act through the glucocorticoid receptor. They regulate a wide variety of biological processes. Two glucocorticoids, the naturally occurring corticosterone and chemically produced dexamethasone, have been used to investigate the effect of glucocorticoids on Ca(2+)-signalling in cortical co-cultures of neurons and astrocytes. Dexamethasone and to a lesser degree corticosterone both induced a decrease in cytosolic Ca(2+) concentration in neurons and astrocytes. The effect of both compounds can be blocked by inhibition of the plasmamembrane ATPase, calmodulin and by application of a glucocorticoid receptor antagonist, while inhibition of NMDA receptors or the endoplasmic reticulum calcium pump had no effect. Glucocorticoid treatment further protects against detrimental calcium signalling and cell death by modulating the delayed calcium deregulation in response to glutamate toxicity. At the concentrations used dexamethasone and corticosterone did not show cell toxicity of their own. Thus, these results indicate that dexamethasone and corticosterone might be used for protection of the cells from calcium overload.

The integration of newborn neurons into functional neuronal networks requires migration of cells to their final position in the developing brain, the growth and arborization of neuronal processes and the formation of synaptic contacts with other neurons. A central player among the signals that coordinate this complex sequence of differentiation events is the secreted glycoprotein Reelin, which also modulates synaptic plasticity, learning and memory formation in the adult brain. Binding of Reelin to ApoER2 and VLDL receptor, two members of the LDL receptor family, initiates a signaling cascade involving tyrosine phosphorylation of the intracellular cytoplasmic adaptor protein Disabled-1, which targets the neuronal cytoskeleton and ultimately controls the positioning of neurons throughout the developing brain. However, it is possible that Reelin signals interact with other receptor-mediated signaling cascades to regulate different aspects of brain development and plasticity. EphB tyrosine kinases regulate cell adhesion and repulsion-dependent processes via bidirectional signaling through ephrin B transmembrane proteins. Here, we demonstrate that Reelin binds to the extracellular domains of EphB transmembrane proteins, inducing receptor clustering and activation of EphB forward signaling in neurons, independently of the 'classical' Reelin receptors, ApoER2 and VLDLR. Accordingly, mice lacking EphB1 and EphB2 display a positioning defect of CA3 hippocampal pyramidal neurons, similar to that in Reelin-deficient mice, and this cell migration defect depends on the kinase activity of EphB proteins. Together, our data provide biochemical and functional evidence for signal integration between Reelin and EphB forward signaling.

Auditory stimulus representations are dynamically maintained by ascending and descending projections linking the auditory cortex (Actx), medial geniculate body (MGB), and inferior colliculus. Although the extent and topographic specificity of descending auditory corticofugal projections can equal or surpass that of ascending corticopetal projections, little is known about the molecular mechanisms that guide their development. Here, we used in utero gene electroporation to examine the role of EphA receptor signaling in the development of corticothalamic (CT) and corticocollicular connections. Early in postnatal development, CT axons were restricted to a deep dorsal zone (DDZ) within the MGB that expressed low levels of the ephrin-A ligand. By hearing onset, CT axons had innervated surrounding regions of MGB in control-electroporated mice but remained fixed within the DDZ in mice overexpressing EphA7. In vivo neurophysiological recordings demonstrated a corresponding reduction in spontaneous firing rate, but no changes in sound-evoked responsiveness within MGB regions deprived of CT innervation. Structural and functional CT disruption occurred without gross alterations in thalamocortical connectivity. These data demonstrate a potential role for EphA/ephrin-A signaling in the initial guidance of corticofugal axons and suggest that &quot;genetic rewiring&quot; may represent a useful functional tool to alter cortical feedback without silencing Actx.
The lateral ventricle (LV) of the adult rodent brain harbors neural stem cells (NSCs) that continue to generate new neurons throughout life. NSCs located in defined areas of the LV walls generate progenitors with distinct transcriptional profiles that are committed to specific neuronal fates. Here, we assessed if such diversity of NSCs also exist in the adult common marmoset, a widely used primate species in basic and clinical neuroscience research. We first investigated the 3D distributions of proliferative progenitors and committed neuroblasts in the marmoset forebrain. In addition to these maps, we assessed the spatial presence of divergent progenitor populations based on their expression of defined transcription factors, that is, Dlx2, Pax6, Tbr2, and Ngn2 which are differentially expressed by -aminobutyric acidergic versus glutamatergic progenitors in the adult rodent forebrain. In striking contrast to rodents, glutamatergic progenitors were only sparse in neonates and absent from the adult LV, whilst present in the hippocampus. Our analyses highlight major differences in the diversity of NSCs of the marmoset LV compared with rodents and emphasize the need to address NSCs diversity in evolutionary higher order mammals concomitantly to rodents.
Repeated administration of phencyclidine (PCP), a noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor blocker, produces schizophrenia-like behaviors in humans and rodents. Although impairment of synaptic function has been implicated in the effect of PCP, the molecular mechanisms have not yet been elucidated. Considering that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) plays an important role in synaptic plasticity, we examined whether exposure to PCP leads to impaired BDNF function in cultured cortical neurons. We found that PCP caused a transient increase in the level of intracellular BDNF within 3 h. Despite the increased intracellular amount of BDNF, activation of Trk receptors and downstream signaling cascades, including MAPK/ERK1/2 and PI3K/Akt pathways, were decreased. The number of synaptic sites and expression of synaptic proteins were decreased 48 h after PCP application without any impact on cell viability. Both electrophysiological and biochemical analyses revealed that PCP diminished glutamatergic neurotransmission. Furthermore, we found that the secretion of BDNF from cortical neurons was suppressed by PCP. We also confirmed that PCP-caused downregulation of Trk signalings and synaptic proteins were restored by exogenous BDNF application. It is possible that impaired secretion of BDNF and subsequent decreases in Trk signaling are responsible for the loss of synaptic connections caused by PCP.
Using functional MRI, we assessed activity in the human cerebellum related to the properties of post-saccadic visual errors that drive the plasticity of saccadic eye movements. In the scanner subjects executed blocks of saccadic eye movements toward a target that could be randomly displaced during the saccade. Such an intra-saccadic shift was randomly forward or backward, and could be either small or large. Post-saccadic visual errors induced activation in several cerebellar areas. These areas included, but were not limited to, the oculomotor vermis which is known for its role in saccadic control. Large errors yielded more activation in the cerebellar hemispheres, whereas small errors induced more activation in the vermis. Forward shifts induced more activation than backward shifts. Our results suggest that the differences in cerebellar activation patterns for different sizes and directions of post-saccadic errors could underlie the behavioral differences observed between various saccadic adaptation paradigms. In addition, the outcome argues for an extended range of cerebellar target areas in electrophysiological studies on saccadic eye movement control.
Ambient Intelligence (AmI) provides extended but unobtrusive sensing and computing devices and ubiquitous networking for human/environment interaction. It is a new paradigm in information technology compliant with the international Integrating Healthcare Enterprise board (IHE) and eHealth HL7 technological standards in the functional integration of biomedical domotics and informatics in hospital and home care. AmI allows real-time automatic recording of biological/medical information and environmental data. It is extensively applicable to patient monitoring, medicine and neuroscience research, which require large biomedical data sets; for example, in the study of spontaneous or condition-dependent variability or chronobiology. In this respect, AML is equivalent to a traditional laboratory for data collection and processing, with minimal dedicated equipment, staff, and costs; it benefits from the integration of artificial intelligence technology with traditional/innovative sensors to monitor clinical or functional parameters. A prototype AmI platform (MIMERICA*) has been implemented and is operated in a semi-intensive unit for the vegetative and minimally conscious states, to investigate the spontaneous or environment-related fluctuations of physiological parameters in these conditions.









With the aging population and its rapidly increasing prevalence, dementia has become an important public health concern in developed and developing countries. To date, the pharmacological treatment is symptomatic and based on the observed neurotransmitter disturbances. The four most commonly used drugs are donepezil, galantamine, rivastigmine and memantine. Donepezil, galantamine and rivastigmine are acetylcholinesterase inhibitors with different pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic profiles. Donepezil inhibits selectively the acetylcholinesterase and has a long elimination half-life (t(1/2)) of 70 h. Galantamine is also a selective acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, but also modulates presynaptic nicotinic receptors. It has a t(1/2) of 6-8 h. Donepezil and galantamine are mainly metabolised by cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2D6 and CYP3A4 in the liver. Rivastigmine is a so-called 'pseudo-irreversible' inhibitor of acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase. The t(1/2) of the drug is very short (1-2 h), but the duration of action is longer as the enzymes are blocked for around 8.5 and 3.5 h, respectively. Rivastigmine is metabolised by esterases in liver and intestine. Memantine is a non-competitive low-affinity antagonist of the NMDA receptor with a t(1/2) of 70 h. Its major route of elimination is unchanged via the kidneys. Addressing the issue of inter-patient variability in treatment response might be of special importance for the vulnerable population taking anti-dementia drugs. Pharmacogenetic considerations might help to avoid multiple medication changes due to non-response and/or adverse events. Some pharmacogenetic studies conducted on donepezil and galantamine reported an influence of the CYP2D6 genotype on the pharmacokinetics of the drugs and/or on the response to treatment. Moreover, polymorphisms in genes of the cholinergic markers acetylcholinesterase, butyrylcholinesterase, choline acetyltransferase and paraoxonase were found to be associated with better clinical response to acetylcholinesterase inhibitors. However, confirmation studies in larger populations are necessary to establish evidence of which subgroups of patients will most likely benefit from anti-dementia drugs. The aim of this review is to summarize the pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of the four commonly used anti-dementia drugs and to give an overview on the current knowledge of pharmacogenetics in this field.


Interest in musicians' health and well-being is growing, reflected by increasing numbers of investigations into the physicality and psychology of musical performance. Within sport and dance, screening and profiling programmes, especially of the musculoskeletal system, have furthered understanding on not only physical and psychological capabilities and demands but also musculoskeletal injury mechanisms and susceptibility. This article engages with questions relating to the development and delivery of musician-specific health screening programmes. Effective screening can offer a variety of benefits for musicians, providing informed recommendations for sustaining performance-related fitness across educational and professional contexts. Employing an interdisciplinary approach when developing screening programmes is essential, as is the ecological appropriateness of the measures used. The implications inherent in delivering and sustaining successful screening programmes in schools and conservatoires are discussed.
In a recent issue of Cognitive Neurodynamics Farwell (Cogn Neurodyn 6:115-154, 2012) published a comprehensive tutorial review of the use of Event Related Brain Potentials (ERP) in the detection of concealed information. Farwell's review covered much of his own work employing his &quot;brain fingerprinting&quot; technology. All his work showed a 100% accuracy rate in detecting concealed information. We argue in this comment that Farwell (Cogn Neurodyn 6:115-154, 2012) is misleading and misrepresents the scientific status of brain fingerprinting technology.
We begin by distinguishing computationalism from a number of other theses that are sometimes conflated with it. We also distinguish between several important kinds of computation: computation in a generic sense, digital computation, and analog computation. Then, we defend a weak version of computationalism-neural processes are computations in the generic sense. After that, we reject on empirical grounds the common assimilation of neural computation to either analog or digital computation, concluding that neural computation is sui generis. Analog computation requires continuous signals; digital computation requires strings of digits. But current neuroscientific evidence indicates that typical neural signals, such as spike trains, are graded like continuous signals but are constituted by discrete functional elements (spikes); thus, typical neural signals are neither continuous signals nor strings of digits. It follows that neural computation is sui generis. Finally, we highlight three important consequences of a proper understanding of neural computation for the theory of cognition. First, understanding neural computation requires a specially designed mathematical theory (or theories) rather than the mathematical theories of analog or digital computation. Second, several popular views about neural computation turn out to be incorrect. Third, computational theories of cognition that rely on non-neural notions of computation ought to be replaced or reinterpreted in terms of neural computation.
The development of fMRI techniques has generated a boom of neuroscience research across the psychological sciences, and revealed neural correlates for many psychological phenomena seen as central to the human experience (e.g., morality, agency). Meanwhile, the rise of neuroscience has reignited old debates over mind-body dualism and the soul. While some scientists use neuroscience to bolster a material account of consciousness, others point to unexplained neural phenomena to defend dualism and a spiritual perspective on the mind. In two experiments we examine how exposure to neuroscience research impacts belief in the soul. We find that belief in soul decreases when neuroscience provides strong mechanistic explanations for mind. But when explanatory gaps in neuroscience research are emphasized, belief in soul is enhanced, suggesting that physical and metaphysical explanations may be used reflexively as alternative theories for mind. Implications for the future of belief in soul and neuroscience research are discussed.
Preparation over time is a ubiquitous capacity which implies decreasing uncertainty about when critical events will occur. This capacity is usually studied with the variable foreperiod paradigm, which consists in the random variation of the time interval (foreperiod) between a warning stimulus and a target. With this paradigm, response time (RT) effects of the current and preceding foreperiods are usually observed (respectively called &quot;foreperiod effect&quot; and &quot;sequential effects&quot;). Both single-process trace conditioning mechanisms and dual-process accounts have been proposed to explain these behavioral effects. This study aimed at understanding how manipulations of the inter-trial interval (ITI: 1s vs. 20s) and the task context (simple vs. choice RT task) affects the two behavioral effects. Results show that, regardless of the type of RT task, attenuated sequential effects were observed with the longer ITI, contrary to predictions derived from the trace conditioning literature. However, the influence that the ITI duration exerted on the FP effect critically depended on the task context, since the FP effect increased as a function of ITI with a choice RT task but decreased with a simple RT task. These findings support a dissociation between foreperiod and sequential effects, consistent with a dual-process account.
It is increasingly recognized that studying drug taking in laboratory animals does not equate to studying genuine addiction, characterized by loss of control over drug use. This has inspired recent work aimed at capturing genuine addiction-like behavior in animals. In this work, we summarize empirical evidence for the occurrence of several DSM-IV-like symptoms of addiction in animals after extended drug use. These symptoms include escalation of drug use, neurocognitive deficits, resistance to extinction, increased motivation for drugs, preference for drugs over nondrug rewards, and resistance to punishment. The fact that addiction-like behavior can occur and be studied in animals gives us the exciting opportunity to investigate the neural and genetic background of drug addiction, which we hope will ultimately lead to the development of more effective treatments for this devastating disorder.
Ca(2+)-sensitive microelectrodes (CaSMs) directly measure the pCa at their tip, which can be in a small extracellular space or inside a large and robust cell. They do not add to buffering and do not require expensive equipment. But they are time-consuming to make, require a reference electrode in the same location, and tend to create a leak around the point of insertion. In addition, CaSMs only work well with a tip diameter of &gt;1 m. In this protocol, we describe how to make and use the electrodes and briefly consider possible problems.
In this protocol we describe how to make and use minielectrodes for measuring [Ca(2+)] in small volumes of solution. The minielectrodes are ~2 mm in diameter and have sufficiently low resistances to be used with a standard pH meter. They are made by dipping polyethylene or borosilicate glass tubes (~5 cm long) in a membrane solution. Although the chemicals used to make these Ca(2+)-sensitive minielectrodes are expensive, they can be used to make hundreds of electrodes, each with a useful life of several months.
It is widely agreed that the best method for measuring the ionized free calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)]) in large volumes of biological solutions is to use Ca(2+)-sensitive macroelectrodes. These are commercially available. To measure [Ca(2+)] in small volumes of solution, minielectrodes with 1-2-mm tips can easily be made and used, and may also be commercially available. Ca(2+)-sensitive microelectrodes (CaSMs, with 0.5-2-m tips) can also be made and used extracellularly or intracellularly in robust cells, but interest in their use has recently been largely eclipsed. This is because of practical difficulties and the introduction of a large number of fluorescent and other optical calcium probes with calcium sensitivities varying from the nanomolar to the millimolar range, such as Fura-2, Indo-1, Fluo-4, and many others. In this article, we emphasize the utility of Ca(2+)-selective electrodes and show that their use is complementary to use of fluorescent and other optical methods. Each method has advantages and disadvantages. Because numerous reviews and books have been dedicated to the theoretical aspects of ion-selective electrode principles and technology, this article is mainly intended for investigators who have some degree of electrophysiological experience with ion-selective electrodes or microelectrodes.


This report describes one in a series of National Institute of Health (NIH) supported conferences aimed at enhancing the ability of leaders of psychiatry residency training to teach research literacy and produce both clinician-scholars and physician-scientists in their home programs. Most psychiatry training directors would not consider themselves research scholars or even well-schooled in evidence based practice. Yet they are the front line educators to prepare tomorrow's psychiatrists to keep up with, critically evaluate, and in some cases actually participate in the discovery of new and emerging psychiatric knowledge. This annual conference is meant to help psychiatry training directors become more enthusiastic, knowledgeable and pedagogically prepared to create research-friendly environments at their home institutions, so that more trainees will, in turn, become research literate, practice evidence-based psychiatry, and enter research fellowships and careers. The overall design of each year's meeting is a series of plenary sessions introducing participants to new information pertaining to the core theme of that year's meeting, integrated with highly interactive small group teaching sessions designed to consolidate knowledge and provide pragmatic teaching tools appropriate for residents at various levels of training. The theme of each meeting, selected to be a compelling and contemporary clinical problem, serves as a vehicle to capture training directors' attention while teaching relevant brain science, research literacy and effective pedagogy. This report describes the content and assessment of the 2011 annual pre-meeting, &quot;Evidence-based Approaches to Suicide Risk Assessment and Prevention: Insights from the Neurosciences and Behavioral Sciences for use in Psychiatry Residency Training.&quot;
In a national US sample of pregnant women (n=311), we investigated the question of who becomes highly anxious about pregnancy by examining putative sociodemographic, pregnancy- and mental health-related predictors of pregnancy anxiety. We also assessed the contribution of pregnancy anxiety to the risk of significant alcohol consumption during pregnancy. English-speaking pregnant women aged 18+years were recruited online. Results indicated that sociodemographic factors (younger age, white, unmarried, lower education, lower household income, no previous children), feelings about current pregnancy (unwanted), and general anxiety (higher general and state anxiety) predicted higher pregnancy-related anxiety, whereas age, religiosity, number of weeks pregnant, unplanned pregnancy, and maternal depressive symptoms did not. Pregnancy anxiety was the single strongest predictor of alcohol drinking risk during pregnancy (p&lt;.001, R(2)=.10) a relationship that held after controlling for other significant predictors. Pregnancy anxiety also represented the strongest predictor of screening positively for drinking risk during pregnancy at the total T-ACE (an alcohol risk screener for pregnancy) level of 3+ (odds ratio 95% CI=1.61-4.14, p&lt;.001), though not at the level of 2+ (odds ratio 95% CI=0.98-1.68, p=.07). We discuss implications for the link between maternal mental health and birth/ child outcomes.
A diagnostic platform for the early functional assessment of post-stroke patients was designed in order to perform isometric measurements during activities of daily living (ADL) tasks. The outcome of these measurements can contribute to verify the integrity of a post-stroke existing or altered &quot;internal model&quot; for a particular functional task. A complete and reliable software application for the diagnostic platform was designed, developed and tested in three European hospitals. The software application was divided into two main modules: a graphical user interface (GUI) and the data pre-processing techniques for the interpretation of recorded biomedical and clinical data. This paper presents the software application associated to the platform, aimed at analysing and interpreting the huge amount of data recorded and collected during the experimental trials. Its main objective is related to validating the onset detection and data reduction. The software application presented in this paper has been working and validated with success in three different clinical centres in Europe and it can be effectively used both as assessment tool in rehabilitation and as research tool in neuroscience.

Sensory/functional accounts of semantic memory organization emphasize that object representations in the brain reflect the modalities involved in object knowledge acquisition. The present study aimed to elucidate the impact of different types of object-related sensorimotor experience on the neural representations of novel objects. Sixteen subjects engaged in an object matching task while their brain activity was assessed with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), before and after they acquired knowledge about previously unfamiliar objects. In three training sessions subjects learned about object function, actively manipulating only one set of objects (manipulation training objects, MTO), and visually exploring a second set (visual training objects, VTO). A third object set served as control condition and was not part of the training (no training objects, NTO). While training-related activation increases were observed in the fronto-parietal cortex for both VTO and MTO, post training activity in the left inferior/middle frontal gyrus and the left posterior inferior parietal lobule was higher for MTO than VTO and NTO. As revealed by Dynamic Causal Modeling of effective connectivity between the regions with enhanced post training activity, these effects were likely caused, respectively, by a down-regulation of a fronto-parietal tool use network in response to VTO, and by an increased connectivity for MTO. This pattern of findings indicates that the modalities involved in sensorimotor experience influence the formation of neural representations of objects in semantic memory, with manipulation experience specifically yielding higher activity in regions of the fronto-parietal cortex.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) has long been associated with an inability to experience wholes without full attention to the constituent parts. A zoom-out attentional dysfunction might be partially responsible for this perceptual integration deficit in ASD. In the present study, the efficiency of attentional focusing mechanisms was investigated in children affected by ASD. We measured response latencies to a visual target onset displayed at three eccentricities from the fixation. Attentional resources were focused (zoom-in) or distributed (zoom-out) in the visual field presenting a small (containing only the nearest target eccentricity) or large (containing also the farthest target eccentricity) cue, 100 or 800 msec, before the target onset. Typically developing children, at the short cue-target interval, showed a gradient effect (i.e., latencies are slower at the farthest eccentricity) in the small focusing cue, but not in the large focusing cue condition. These results indicate an efficient zoom-in and zoom-out attentional mechanism. In contrast, children with ASD showed a gradient effect also in the large focusing cue condition, suggesting a specific zoom-out attentional impairment. In addition, the ASD group showed an atypical gradient effect at the long cue-target interval only in the small cue condition, suggesting a prolonged zoom-in and sluggish zoom-out attentional mechanism. This abnormal attentional focusing - probably linked to a dysfunctional top-down feedback from fronto-parietal network to the early visual areas - could contribute to the atypical visual perception associated to individuals with ASD which, in turn, could have consequences in their social-communicative development.
Language and action systems are functionally coupled in the brain as demonstrated by converging evidence using Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), electroencephalography (EEG), transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), and lesion studies. In particular, this coupling has been demonstrated using the action-sentence compatibility effect (ACE) in which motor activity and language interact. The ACE task requires participants to listen to sentences that described actions typically performed with an open hand (e.g., clapping), a closed hand (e.g., hammering), or without any hand action (neutral); and to press a large button with either an open hand position or closed hand position immediately upon comprehending each sentence. The ACE is defined as a longer reaction time (RT) in the action-sentence incompatible conditions than in the compatible conditions. Here we investigated direct motor-language coupling in two novel and uniquely informative ways. First, we measured the behavioural ACE in patients with motor impairment (early Parkinson's disease - EPD), and second, in epileptic patients with direct electrocorticography (ECoG) recordings. In experiment 1, EPD participants with preserved general cognitive repertoire, showed a much diminished ACE relative to non-EPD volunteers. Moreover, a correlation between ACE performance and action-verb processing (kissing and dancing test - KDT) was observed. Direct cortical recordings (ECoG) in motor and language areas (experiment 2) demonstrated simultaneous bidirectional effects: motor preparation affected language processing (N400 at left inferior frontal gyrus and middle/superior temporal gyrus), and language processing affected activity in movement-related areas (motor potential at premotor and M1). Our findings show that the ACE paradigm requires ongoing integration of preserved motor and language coupling (abolished in EPD) and engages motor-temporal cortices in a bidirectional way. In addition, both experiments suggest the presence of a motor-language network which is not restricted to somatotopically defined brain areas. These results open new pathways in the fields of motor diseases, theoretical approaches to language understanding, and models of action-perception coupling.



Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSc) are a scientific and medical frontier. Application of reprogrammed somatic cells for clinical trials is in its dawn period; advances in research with animal and human iPSc are paving the way for retinal therapies with the ongoing development of safe animal cell transplantation studies and characterization of patient- specific and disease-specific human iPSc. The retina is an optimal model for investigation of neural regeneration; amongst other advantageous attributes, it is the most accessible part of the CNS for surgery and outcome monitoring. A recent clinical trial showing a degree of visual restoration via a subretinal electronic prosthesis implies that even a severely degenerate retina may have the capacity for repair after cell replacement through potential plasticity of the visual system. Successful differentiation of neural retina from iPSc and the recent generation of an optic cup from human ESc invitro increase the feasibility of generating an expandable and clinically suitable source of cells for human clinical trials. In this review we shall present recent studies that have propelled the field forward and discuss challenges in utilizing iPS cell derived retinal cells as reliable models for clinical therapies and as a source for clinical cell transplantation treatment for patients suffering from genetic retinal disease.
The physiology and pathology of mobile zinc signaling has become an important topic in metalloneurochemistry. To study the action of mobile zinc effectively, specialized tools are required that probe the temporal and positional changes of zinc ions within live tissue and cells. In the present article we describe the design and implementation of selective zinc chelators as antagonists to interrogate the function of mobile zinc, with an emphasis on the pools of vesicular zinc in the terminals of hippocampal mossy fiber buttons.


The visual cortical network consists of a number of specialized areas that are connected in a highly structured way. Understanding the function of this network is a milestone goal of visual neuroscience. This goal is pursued at different levels of description, including large-scale neuroanatomical as well as molecular and cellular perspectives. As a consequence, visual cortical networks are studied with a diverse set of methods across the order of mammalian species, ranging from the human all the way down to the mouse. Remarkable progress has been made at both ends of the spectrum. On the basis of work in humans, the last decade has seen ongoing refinements of the intricate functional organization of the cortical visual network. Neuroimaging studies have opened up the possibility to map individual visual areas, characterize their function and, search for an overarching organizational principle. Meanwhile, the mouse has become a valuable model system for early visual processing. A number of studies have demonstrated that basic response properties observed in higher-order mammals are also present in the mouse, making it possible to apply genetic tools to study visual network function. Here, we discuss the progress in these two fields side-by-side. We summarize new findings that have shaped our current understanding of the human cortical network. In addition, we review recent work that has laid the foundation for a mouse model of visual cortical processing. Although their brains are different, the visual cortical networks of mice and men share structural and functional principles.
The strongest connections to V1 are fed back from neighbouring area V2 and from a network of higher cortical areas (e.g. V3, V5, LOC, IPS and A1), transmitting the results of cognitive operations such as prediction, attention and imagination. V1 is therefore at the receiving end of a complex cortical processing cascade and not only at the entrance stage of cortical processing of retinal input. One elegant strategy to investigate this information-rich feedback to V1 is to eliminate feedforward input, that is, exploit V1's retinotopic organisation to isolate subregions receiving no direct bottom-up stimulation. We highlight the diverse mechanisms of cortical feedback, ranging from gain control to predictive coding, and conclude that V1 is involved in rich internal communication processes.
A fundamental question in cognitive neuroscience is how the human brain self-organizes to perform tasks. Multiple accounts of this self-organization are currently influential and in this article we survey one of these accounts. We begin by introducing a psychological model of task control and several neuroimaging signals it predicts. We then discuss where such signals are found across tasks with emphasis on brain regions where multiple control signals are present. We then present results derived from spontaneous task-free functional connectivity between control-related regions that dovetail with distinctions made by control signals present in these regions, leading to a proposal that there are at least two task control systems in the brain. This prompts consideration of whether and how such control systems distinguish themselves from other brain regions in a whole-brain context. We present evidence from whole-brain networks that such distinctions do occur and that control systems comprise some of the basic system-level organizational elements of the human brain. We close with observations from the whole-brain networks that may suggest parsimony between multiple accounts of cognitive control.
Central to macro-connectomics and much of systems neuroscience is the idea that we can summarise macroscopic brain connectivity using a network of 'nodes' and 'edges'--functionally distinct brain regions and the connections between them. This is an approach that allows a deep understanding of brain dynamics and how they relate to brain circuitry. This approach, however, ignores key features of anatomical connections, such as spatial arrangement and topographic mappings. In this article, we suggest an alternative to this paradigm. We propose that connection topographies can inform us about brain networks in ways that are complementary to the concepts of 'nodes' and 'edges'. We also show that current neuroimaging technology is capable of revealing details of connection topographies in vivo. These advances, we hope, will allow us to explore brain connectivity in novel ways in the immediate future.
A major challenge in systems neuroscience is to unravel the complex matrix of connections that characterize functional circuits within the central nervous system. Retrograde transneuronal transport of rabies virus has proven to be especially useful for this purpose. Here we provide specific examples in which transneuronal transport of rabies virus has been used to unravel multi-synaptic pathways within motor, cognitive and autonomic circuits. Tracing with rabies virus defined: first, the closed-loop organization of cerebellar and basal ganglia circuits with the cerebral cortex; second, the presence of bidirectional communication between the cerebellum and basal ganglia; third, the specific cortical areas that have monosynaptic and/or disynaptic connections to spinal motoneurons in non-human primates; and fourth, the areas in the cerebral cortex with the most direct influence on the sympathetic innervation of the kidney. These examples demonstrate the power of transneuronal tracing with rabies virus to identify the macroarchitecture of complex neural circuits.
Recent work has advanced our knowledge of phasic dopamine reward prediction error signals. The error signal is bidirectional, reflects well the higher order prediction error described by temporal difference learning models, is compatible with model-free and model-based reinforcement learning, reports the subjective rather than physical reward value during temporal discounting and reflects subjective stimulus perception rather than physical stimulus aspects. Dopamine activations are primarily driven by reward, and to some extent risk, whereas punishment and salience have only limited activating effects when appropriate controls are respected. The signal is homogeneous in terms of time course but heterogeneous in many other aspects. It is essential for synaptic plasticity and a range of behavioural learning situations.
Decision-making requires stimulus categorization and localization to guide accurate responses that can be produced through multiple effectors. The success of actions is monitored so that performance can be adjusted to achieve goals. This review will survey recent empirical and theoretical developments very selectively with an emphasis on neurophysiological data from nonhuman primates that provide the clearest information about neural mechanisms.
Schizophrenia remains a daunting challenge for efforts aimed at identifying fundamental pathophysiological processes and to develop evidence-based effective treatments and interventions. One reason for the lack of progress lies in the fact that the pathophysiology of schizophrenia has been predominantly conceived in terms of circumscribed alterations in cellular and anatomical variables. In the current review, it is proposed that this approach needs to be complemented by a focus on the neuronal dynamics in large-scale networks which is compatible with the notion of dysconnectivity, highlighting the involvement of both reduced and increased interactions in extended cortical circuits in schizophrenia. Neural synchrony is one candidate mechanisms for achieving functional connectivity in large-scale networks and has been found to be impaired in schizophrenia. Importantly, alterations in the synchronization of neural oscillations can be related to dysfunctions in the excitation-inhibition (E/I)-balance and developmental modifications with important implications for translational research.
The social neuroscientific investigation of empathy has revealed that the same neural networks engaged during first-hand experience of affect subserve empathic responses. Recent meta-analyses focusing on empathy for pain for example reliably identified a network comprising anterior insula and anterior midcingulate cortex. Moreover, recent studies suggest that the generation of empathy is flexibly supported by networks involved in action simulation and mentalizing depending on the information available in the environment. Further, empathic responses are modulated by many factors including the context they occur in. Recent work shows how this modulation can be afforded by the engagement of antagonistic motivational systems or by cognitive control circuits, and these modulatory systems can also be employed in efforts to regulate one's empathic responses.





The recent boom of G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) crystallography is currently revolutionizing the way modulators of these highly druggable targets are discovered. Not only are these structures directly applicable to computer-aided drug discovery, but they also provide templates for the construction of homology models of other receptors. The study of the binding mode of GPCR modulators through docking experiments remains challenging. In addition to an expert use of advanced modeling tools, the application of experimental knowledge derived from site-directed mutagenesis data is fundamental for the generation of accurate receptor-ligand complexes applicable to drug discovery. We expect that the growing number of experimental and computational GPCR structures will boost the rational discovery of novel modulators in coming years.




Although many laboratories currently use small molecule inhibitors of the BMP (Dorsomorphin/DM) and TGF- (SB431542/SB) signaling pathways in protocols to generate midbrain dopamine (mDA) neurons from hES and hiPS cells, until now, these substances have not been thought to play a role in the mDA differentiation process. We report here that the transient inhibition of constitutive BMP (pSMADs 1, 5, 8) signaling, either alone or in combination with TGF- inhibition (pSMADs 2, 3), is critically important in the upstream regulation of Wnt1-Lmx1a signaling in mDA progenitors. We postulate that the mechanism via which DM or DM/SB mediates these effects involves the up-regulation in SMAD-interacting protein 1 (SIP1), which results in greater repression of the Wnt antagonist, secreted frizzled related protein 1 (Sfrp1) in stem cells. Accordingly, knockdown of SIP1 reverses the inductive effects of DM/SB on mDA differentiation while Sfrp1 knockdown/inhibition mimics DM/SB. The rise in Wnt1-Lmx1a levels in SMAD-inhibited cultures is, however, accompanied by a reciprocal down-regulation in SHH-Foxa2 levels leading to the generation of few TH+ neurons that co-express Foxa2. If however, exogenous SHH/FGF8 is added along with SMAD inhibitors, equilibrium in these two important pathways is achieved such that authentic (Lmx1a+Foxa2+TH+) mDA neuron differentiation is promoted while alternate cell fates are suppressed in stem cell cultures. These data indicate that activators/inhibitors of BMP and TGF- signaling play a critical upstream regulatory role in the mDA differentiation process in human pluripotent stem cells.

Attention Bias Modification Treatment (ABMT), an emerging treatment for anxiety disorders, is thought to modify underlying, stable patterns of attention. Therefore, ABMT research should take into account the impact of attention bias stability on attention training response, especially in pediatric populations. ABMT research typically relies on the dot-probe task, where individuals detect a probe following an emotional-neutral stimulus pair. The current research presents two dot-probe experiments relevant to ABMT and attention-bias stability. In Experiment 1, anxious youth receiving 8-weeks of cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) were randomly assigned to ABMT that trains attention towards happy faces (n=18) or placebo (n=18). Two additional comparison groups, anxious youth receiving only CBT (n=17) and healthy comparison youth (n=16), were studied. Active attention training towards happy faces did not augment clinician-rated response to CBT; however, individuals receiving training exhibited reductions on self-report measures of anxiety earlier than individuals receiving CBT only. In Experiment 2, healthy youth (n=12) completed a dot-probe task twice while undergoing functional magnetic resonance imaging. Intra-class correlation demonstrated stability of neural activation in response to attention bias in the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex and amygdala. Together, these two studies investigate the ways in which attention-bias stability may impact future work on ABMT.


Reversible cerebral vasoconstriction syndrome (RCVS) is a clinicoradiological diagnosis comprising 'thunderclap' headaches and reversible segmental vasoconstriction of cerebral arteries, occasionally complicated by ischaemic or haemorrhagic stroke. We report a case of RCVS in a 13-year-old male with severe thunderclap headaches and no focal neurological signs. Brain imaging showed multiple posterior circulation infarcts; cerebral computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, and catheter angiography showed multifocal irregularity and narrowing, but in different arterial segments. Laboratory studies did not support a diagnosis of vasculitis. Symptoms resolved over 3 weeks; magnetic resonance angiography 3 months later was normal and remained so after 2 years. We highlight the typical clinical features of RCVS in this case and suggest that the diagnosis should be considered in children with thunderclap headaches or stroke syndromes where headache is a prominent feature, especially if cerebrovascular imaging studies appear to be evolving or discrepant.
Retinotopic maps can undergo compression and expansion in response to changes in target size, but the mechanism underlying this compensatory process has remained a mystery. The discovery of ephrins as molecular mediators of Sperry's chemoaffinity process allows a mechanistic approach to this important issue. In Syrian hamsters, neonatal, partial (PT) ablation of posterior superior colliculus (SC) leads to compression of the retinotopic map, independent of neural activity. Graded, repulsive EphA receptor/ephrin-A ligand interactions direct the formation of the retinocollicular map, but whether ephrins might also be involved in map compression is unknown. To examine whether map compression might be directed by changes in the ephrin expression pattern, we compared ephrin-A2 and ephrin-A5 mRNA expression between normal SC and PT SC using in situ hybridization and quantitative real-time PCR. We found that ephrin-A ligand expression in the compressed maps was low anteriorly and high posteriorly, as in normal animals. Consistent with our hypothesis, the steepness of the ephrin gradient increased in the lesioned colliculi. Interestingly, overall levels of ephrin-A2 and -A5 expression declined immediately after neonatal target damage, perhaps promoting axon outgrowth. These data establish a correlation between changes in ephrin-A gradients and map compression, and suggest that ephrin-A expression gradients may be regulated by target size. This in turn could lead to compression of the retinocollicular map onto the reduced target. These findings have important implications for mechanisms of recovery from traumatic brain injury.
This study examined the relations among socioeconomic status (SES), early phonological processing, vocabulary, and reading in 262 children from diverse SES backgrounds followed from ages 4 to 9 in Beijing, China. SES contributed to variations in phonological skills and vocabulary in children's early development. Nonetheless, early phonological and vocabulary abilities exerted equally strong and independent mediation of the SES effects on children's reading achievement by the end of 3rd grade for this Chinese sample. These findings not only replicate studies in alphabetic languages but, because of their longitudinal nature, also demonstrate the potential for interventions focused on improving children's early language skills, and at which ages these factors may have the greatest impact.
Cell fate specification in the CNS is controlled by the secreted morphogen sonic hedgehog (Shh). At spinal cord levels, Shh produced by both the notochord and floor plate (FP) diffuses dorsally to organize patterned gene expression in dividing neural and glial progenitors. Despite the fact that two discrete sources of Shh are involved in this process, the individual contribution of the FP, the only intrinsic source of Shh throughout both neurogenesis and gliogenesis, has not been clearly defined. Here, we have used conditional mutagenesis approaches in mice to selectively inactivate Shh in the FP (Shh(FP)) while allowing expression to persist in the notochord, which underlies the neural tube during neurogenesis but not gliogenesis. We also inactivated Smo, the common Hh receptor, in neural tube progenitors. Our findings confirm and extend prior studies suggesting an important requirement for Shh(FP) in specifying oligodendrocyte cell fates via repression of Gli3 in progenitors. Our studies also uncover a connection between embryonic Shh signaling and astrocyte-mediated reactive gliosis in adults, raising the possibility that this pathway is involved in the development of the most common cell type in the CNS. Finally, we find that intrinsic spinal cord Shh signaling is required for the proper formation of the ependymal zone, the epithelial cell lining of the central canal that is also an adult stem cell niche. Together, our studies identify a crucial late embryonic role for Shh(FP) in regulating the specification and differentiation of glial and epithelial cells in the mouse spinal cord.
Within discrete regions of the developing mammalian central nervous system, small subsets of glia become specialized to function as neural stem cells. As a result of their self-renewal and neurogenic capacity, these cells later serve to replenish neurons and glia during persistent or injury-induced adult neurogenesis. SOX2, an HMG box transcription factor, plays an essential role in the maintenance of both embryonic and adult neural progenitors. It is unclear, however, which biological mechanisms regulated by SOX2 are required for neural stem cell maintenance. In this study, we address this question through genetic analysis of SOX2 function in differentiating postnatal Mller glia, a cell type that maintains neurogenic capacity in the adult retina. By utilizing molecular analysis and real-time imaging, we show that two progenitor characteristics of nascent Mller glia - their radial morphology and cell cycle quiescence - are disrupted following conditional genetic ablation of Sox2 in the mouse postnatal retina, leading to Mller cell depletion and retinal degeneration. Moreover, we demonstrate that genetic induction of the Notch signaling pathway restores Mller glial cell identity to Sox2 mutant cells, but does not secure their quiescent state. Collectively, these results uncouple the roles of SOX2 and the Notch signaling pathway in the postnatal retina, and uncover a novel role for SOX2 in preventing the depletion of postnatal Mller glia through terminal cell division.



Stroke is a frequent cause of oropharyngeal dysphagia but may also cause alterations in esophageal motility. The aim of this investigation was to evaluate the effect of bolus taste on the esophageal transit of patients with stroke and controls. Esophageal transit and clearance were evaluated by scintigraphy in 36 patients in the chronic phase of stroke (44-82 years, mean: 63 years) and in 30 controls (33-85 years, mean: 59 years). The patients had a stroke 1-84 months (median: 5.5 months) before the evaluation of esophageal transit. Eight had dysphagia. Each subject swallowed in random order and in the sitting position 5 mL of liquid boluses with bitter (pH=6.0), sour (pH=3.0), sweet (pH=6.9), and neutral (pH=6.8) taste. Transit and clearance duration and the amount of residues were measured in the proximal, middle, and distal esophageal body. There was no difference between patients and controls in esophageal transit or clearance duration. In the distal esophagus, the transit and clearance durations were longer with the sour bolus than with the other boluses in both patients and controls. The amount of residues in the esophageal body was greater in patients than in controls after swallows of the neutral bolus. In control subjects, after swallows of a sour bolus, there was an increase in the amount of residues in the middle and distal esophagus compared with the other boluses. In conclusion, a sour bolus with low pH causes a longer transit and clearance duration in the distal esophageal body. There was no effect of bolus taste or pH on the esophageal transit of patients in the chronic phase of stroke compared with normal volunteers. The longer transit and clearance duration in the distal esophageal body with the sour bolus appears to be a consequence of the low pH of the bolus.



Elacridar (ELC) and tariquidar (TQD) are generally thought to be nontransported inhibitors of P-glycoprotein (Pgp) and breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP), but recent data indicate that they may also be substrates of these multidrug transporters (MDTs). The present study was designed to investigate potential transport of ELC and TQD by MDTs at the blood-brain barrier at tracer doses as used in positron emission tomography (PET) studies. We performed PET scans with carbon-11-labeled ELC and TQD before and after MDT inhibition in wild-type and transporter-knockout mice as well as in in vitro transport assays in MDT-overexpressing cells. Brain entrance of [(11)C]ELC and [(11)C]TQD administered in nanomolar tracer doses was found to be limited by Pgp- and Bcrp1-mediated efflux at the mouse blood-brain barrier. At higher, MDT-inhibitory doses, i.e., 15 mg/kg for TQD and 5 mg/kg for ELC, brain activity uptake of [(11)C]ELC at 25 minutes after tracer injection was 5.8  0.3, 2.1  0.2, and 7.5  1.0-fold higher in wild-type, Mdr1a/b((-/-),()) and Bcrp1((-/-)) mice, respectively, but remained unchanged in Mdr1a/b((-/-))Bcrp1((-/-)) mice. Activity uptake of [(11)C]TQD was 2.8  0.2 and 6.8  0.4-fold higher in wild-type and Bcrp1((-/-)) mice, but remained unchanged in Mdr1a/b((-/-)) and Mdr1a/b((-/-))Bcrp1((-/-)) mice. Consistent with the in vivo findings, in vitro uptake assays in Pgp- and Bcrp1-overexpressing cell lines confirmed low intracellular accumulation of ELC and TQD at nanomolar concentrations and increased uptake at micromolar concentrations. As this study shows that microdoses can behave pharmacokinetically differently from MDT-inhibitory doses if a compound interacts with MDTs, conclusions from microdose studies should be drawn carefully.
Workplace drug testing (WDT) was established in Italy on 30 October 2007. Two tiers of survey are required: the first tier concerns drug testing on urine samples, the second involves both urine and hair analysis. Between July 2008 and December 2011, 10 598 workers' urine samples and 72 hair samples for opiates, cocaine, cannabinoids, amphetamines, methylenedioxyamphetamines, methadone, and buprenorphine were tested in our laboratory. Urine analyses were performed by immunological screening (EMIT); hair analysis and confirmation tests in urine were performed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). Employees tested positive in urine for drugs of abuse numbered 2.8% in 2008, 2.03% in 2009, 1.62% in 2010, and 1.43% in 2011. As regards the second level of analysis, we observed that only one-third of the workers who had been tested positive for drugs of abuse were referred to an Addiction Treatment Unit in order to verify drug addiction. Our experience shows that, four years after approval of the law on WDT, the percentage of workers positive for drugs of abuse in urine has reduced in comparison to the first year. Moreover, our data show that most of the times employees who tested positive are tardily referred or not referred at all to a Public Addiction Treatment Unit to verify drug addiction. This makes us believe that the legal provisions are widely disregarded not paying the right tribute to the fact that Italy is one of few European countries with legislation on WDT.
Perturbation of lipid metabolism favours progression of Alzheimer disease, in which processing of Amyloid Precursor Protein (APP) has important implications. APP cleavage is tightly regulated by cholesterol and APP fragments regulate lipid homeostasis. Here, we investigated whether up or down regulation of full-length APP expression affected neuronal lipid metabolism. Expression of APP decreased HMG-CoA reductase (HMGCR)-mediated cholesterol biosynthesis and SREBP mRNA levels, while its down regulation had opposite effects. APP and SREBP1 co-immunoprecipitated and co-localized in the Golgi. This interaction prevented Site-2 protease-mediated processing of SREBP1, leading to inhibition of transcription of its target genes. A GXXXG motif in APP sequence was critical for regulation of HMGCR expression. In astrocytes, APP and SREBP1 did not interact nor did APP affect cholesterol biosynthesis. Neuronal expression of APP decreased both HMGCR and cholesterol 24-hydroxylase mRNA levels and consequently cholesterol turnover, leading to inhibition of neuronal activity, which was rescued by geranylgeraniol, generated in the mevalonate pathway, in both APP expressing and mevastatin treated neurons. We conclude that APP controls cholesterol turnover needed for neuronal activity.
Propagation of tau pathology is linked with progressive neurodegeneration, but the mechanism underlying trans-synaptic spread of tau is unknown. We show that stimulation of neuronal activity, or AMPA receptor activation, induces tau release from healthy, mature cortical neurons. Notably, phosphorylation of extracellular tau appears reduced in comparison with intracellular tau. We also find that AMPA-induced release of tau is calcium-dependent. Blocking pre-synaptic vesicle release by tetanus toxin and inhibiting neuronal activity with tetrodotoxin both significantly impair AMPA-mediated tau release. Tau secretion is therefore a regulatable process, dysregulation of which could lead to the spread of tau pathology in disease.
The endocrine disrupting compound bisphenol-A (BPA) has been reported to act as an obesogen in rodents exposed perinatally. In this study, we investigated the effects of early-life BPA exposure on adult metabolic phenotype and hypothalamic energy balance circuitry. Pregnant and lactating CD-1 dams were exposed, via specially prepared diets, to 2 environmentally relevant doses of BPA. Dams consumed an average of 0.19 and 3.49 g/kg per day of BPA in the low and high BPA treatments prenatally and an average of 0.36 and 7.2 g/kg per day of BPA postnatally. Offspring were weaned initially onto a normal (AIN93G) diet, then as adults exposed to either a normal or high-fat diet (HFD). Males exposed to the high dose of BPA showed impaired glucose tolerance on both diets. They also showed reduced proopiomelanocortin fiber innervation into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, and when exposed to HFD, they demonstrated increased neuropeptide Y and Agouti-related peptide expression in the arcuate nucleus (ARC). Females exposed to the high BPA dose were heavier, ate more, and had increased adiposity and leptin concentrations with reduced proopiomelanocortin mRNA expression in the ARC when consuming a HFD. BPA-exposed females showed ARC estrogen receptor  expression patterns similar to those seen in males, suggesting a masculinizing effect of BPA. These results demonstrate that early-life exposure to the obesogen BPA leads to sexually dimorphic alterations in the structure of hypothalamic energy balance circuitry, leading to increased vulnerability for developing diet-induced obesity and metabolic impairments, such as glucose intolerance.



The similarity of the proportions of different types of experiences reported during surgical electrical stimulation of epileptic temporal lobes published in the scientific literature and those reported following exposures to weak, applied magnetic fields was supported by direct comparisons in a retrospective analysis. Of the 20 types of specific experiences, the surgical stimulation groups reported proportionally more fear experiences, while the groups exposed to temporally patterned magnetic fields applied across the temporoparietal regions reported more somesthetic and vestibular experiences. There were no group differences for the other 17 types of experiences. Calculations indicated that the spread of charge displacement from neuronal membranes by the currents employed in the surgical studies and the magnetic field energy associated with the applied fields could affect similar numbers of cortical neurons. The similar subjective experiences of the two techniques indicate that the less invasive procedures might be employed to systematically study complex partial seizures.

Experimental social neuroscience has shown that being socially excluded is processed in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC). We hypothesize that a chronic form of social exclusion resembling one aspect of social stigmatization is associated with altered neural plasticity reflected by neurometabolic alterations in the ACC. To test this hypothesis, a highly stigmatized patient group of heroin addicts (N = 15) during opiate maintenance therapy rated a questionnaire about being stigmatized, and neurometabolic markers in the ACC were determined using (1)H MR spectroscopy. We found a negative correlation between discrimination experience and N-acetylaspartate (NAA), indicating attenuated neuron functioning in the anterior cingulate cortex in those patients reporting high discrimination experience. Furthermore, perceived stigmatization showed an association with anxiety that was mediated by NAA. Although the correlative analysis cannot give evidence for a causal relationship, the relation of NAA in the ACC and discrimination experience indicates a malfunction of the neural system involved in cognitive control over emotionally relevant social stimuli in discrimination reporting heroin addicts. Further research is needed to elucidate factors associated with chronic stigmatization.
When leaping an obstacle, the runner increases the vertical velocity of his/her centre of mass (COM) at takeoff to augment the amplitude and duration of the aerial phase over it. This study analyses the modification of the bouncing mechanism of running when approaching a barrier. The forces exerted by the feet on the ground are measured by a 13-m-long force platform during the four to nine running steps preceding the jump over a 0.45- to 0.85-m-high barrier, at an approaching speed between 9 and 21 km h(-1). The movements of the COM are evaluated by time-integration of the forces and the stiffness of the bouncing system by computer simulation. The running mechanism is modified during the two steps preceding the barrier. During the contact period, two steps before the barrier, the leg-spring stiffness decreases; consequently, the COM is lowered and accelerated forward. Then during the contact period preceding the obstacle, the leg-spring stiffness increases and the COM is raised and accelerated upwards, whereas its forward velocity is reduced. During this phase, the leg-spring acts like a pole, which stores elastic energy and changes the direction of the velocity vector to release this energy in a vertical direction. At high speeds, this storage-release mechanism of elastic energy is sufficient to provide the energy necessary to leap the obstacle. On the contrary, at low speeds, the amount of elastic energy stored and released in the leg-spring is not sufficient to jump over the obstacle and additional positive muscular work must be done.

Higher visual areas in the occipitotemporal cortex contain discrete regions for face processing, but it remains unclear if V1 is modulated by top-down influences during face discrimination, and if this is widespread throughout V1 or localized to retinotopic regions processing task-relevant facial features. Employing functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we mapped the cortical representation of two feature locations that modulate higher visual areas during categorical judgements - the eyes and mouth. Subjects were presented with happy and fearful faces, and we measured the fMRI signal of V1 regions processing the eyes and mouth whilst subjects engaged in gender and expression categorization tasks. In a univariate analysis, we used a region-of-interest-based general linear model approach to reveal changes in activation within these regions as a function of task. We then trained a linear pattern classifier to classify facial expression or gender on the basis of V1 data from 'eye' and 'mouth' regions, and from the remaining non-diagnostic V1 region. Using multivariate techniques, we show that V1 activity discriminates face categories both in local 'diagnostic' and widespread 'non-diagnostic' cortical subregions. This indicates that V1 might receive the processed outcome of complex facial feature analysis from other cortical (i.e. fusiform face area, occipital face area) or subcortical areas (amygdala).
The endogenous opioid enkephalins (ENK) are highly expressed in the central nucleus of the amygdaloid complex (CeA) where several lines of evidence point to a potential role in the modulation of fear and anxiety. In this study, we aimed to assess the role of CeA ENK using local injections of a lentiviral vector expressing a short hairpin RNA (shRNA) targeting ENK in Sprague-Dawley rats. We injected this vector in the CeA and a 56% downregulation of ENK mRNA was observed in animals when compared with scrambled shRNA animals. Anxiety-like behaviors were also assessed using the elevated plus maze and social interaction test. There was an increase in exploration of open arms of the elevated plus maze in ENK knockdown animals compared with controls, but no change in social interaction. In addition, we used the contextual fear conditioning procedure to assess fear expression and learning in these animals. There was a reduction in freezing induced by acute shocks during the training procedure. Interestingly, associative learning was not affected, and ENK knockdown animals displayed an equivalent freezing when re-exposed to the conditioning chamber 48 h later. These results contrast with knockout mice studies, which ascribed anxiolytic properties to ENK, and they demonstrate the need for a thorough understanding and characterization of neuroanatomically distinct ENK pathways.
The 2 adrenergic receptor antagonist yohimbine (YO) increases transmitter release from noradrenergic (NA) terminals in cortical and subcortical brain regions, including the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST). YO activates the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) stress axis and is potently anxiogenic in rats and humans. We previously reported that hindbrain NA neurons within the caudal nucleus of the solitary tract (NST-A2/C2) and ventrolateral medulla (VLM-A1/C1) that innervate the anterior ventrolateral (vl)BST contribute to the ability of YO to activate the HPA stress axis in rats. To determine whether the same NA pathway also contributes to YO-induced anxiogenesis in the elevated plus maze (EPMZ), a selective saporin ribotoxin conjugate (dopamine beta hydroxylase conjugated to saporin toxin, DSAP) was microinjected bilaterally into the anterior vlBST to destroy its NA inputs. Sham-lesioned controls were microinjected with vehicle. Two experiments were conducted to determine DSAP lesion effects on EPMZ behavior. DSAP lesions did not alter maze behavior in rats after intraperitoneal saline, and did not alter the significant effect of prior maze experience to reduce exploratory and open arm maze activities. However, in maze-nave rats, DSAP lesions abolished YO anxiogenesis in the EPMZ. Post-mortem immunocytochemical analyses confirmed that DSAP consistently ablated caudal NST-A2/C2 and VLM-A1/C1 neurons that innervate the anterior vlBST. DSAP lesions did not destroy non-NA inputs to the anterior vlBST, and produced inconsistent cell loss within the pontine locus coeruleus (A6 cell group) that was unrelated to YO anxiogenesis. Thus, the ability of YO to increase anxiety-like behavior in the EPMZ depends on hindbrain NA neurons that target the anterior vlBST.
We previously showed that electrical stimulation of motor cortex (M1) after unilateral pyramidotomy in the rat increased corticospinal tract (CST) axon length, strengthened spinal connections, and restored forelimb function. Here, we tested: (i) if M1 stimulation only increases spinal axon length or if it also promotes connections to brain stem forelimb control centers, especially magnocellular red nucleus; and (ii) if stimulation-induced increase in axon length depends on whether pyramidotomy denervated the structure. After unilateral pyramidotomy, we electrically stimulated the forelimb area of intact M1, to activate the intact CST and other corticofugal pathways, for 10 days. We anterogradely labeled stimulated M1 and measured axon length using stereology. Stimulation increased axon length in both the spinal cord and magnocellular red nucleus, even though the spinal cord is denervated by pyramidotomy and the red nucleus is not. Stimulation also promoted outgrowth in the cuneate and parvocellular red nuclei. In the spinal cord, electrical stimulation caused increased axon length ipsilateral, but not contralateral, to stimulation. Thus, stimulation promoted outgrowth preferentially to the sparsely corticospinal-innervated and impaired side. Outgrowth resulted in greater axon density in the ipsilateral dorsal horn and intermediate zone, resembling the contralateral termination pattern. Importantly, as in spinal cord, increase in axon length in brain stem also was preferentially directed towards areas less densely innervated by the stimulated system. Thus, M1 electrical stimulation promotes increases in corticofugal axon length to multiple M1 targets. We propose the axon length change was driven by competition into an adaptive pattern resembling lost connections.
Many aspects of retinal physiology are modulated by circadian clocks, but it is unclear whether clock malfunction impinges directly on photoreceptor survival, differentiation or function. Eyes from wild-type (WT) and Period1 (Per1) and Period2 (Per2) mutant mice (Per1(Brdm1) Per2(Brdm1) ) were examined for structural (histology, in vivo imaging), phenotypical (RNA expression, immunohistochemistry) and functional characteristics. Transcriptional levels of selected cone genes [red/green opsin (Opn1mw), blue cone opsin (Opn1sw) and cone arrestin (Arr3)] and one circadian clock gene (RORb) were quantified by real-time polymerase chain reaction. Although there were no changes in general retinal histology or visual responses (electroretinograms) between WT and Per1(Brdm1) Per2(Brdm1) mice, compared with age-matched controls, Per1(Brdm1) Per2(Brdm1) mice showed scattered retinal deformations by fundus inspection. Also, mRNA expression levels and immunostaining of blue cone opsin were significantly reduced in mutant mice. Especially, there was an alteration in the dorsal-ventral patterning of blue cones. Decreased blue cone opsin immunoreactivity was present by early postnatal stages, and remained throughout maturation. General photoreceptor differentiation was retarded in young mutant mice. In conclusion, deletion of both Per1 and Per2 clock genes leads to multiple discrete changes in retina, notably patchy tissue disorganization, reductions in cone opsin mRNA and protein levels, and altered distribution. These data represent the first direct link between Per1 and Per2 clock genes, and cone photoreceptor differentiation and function.
The neonatal intraventricular injection of adeno-associated virus has been shown to transduce neurons widely throughout the brain, but its full potential for experimental neuroscience has not been adequately explored. We report a detailed analysis of the method's versatility with an emphasis on experimental applications where tools for genetic manipulation are currently lacking. Viral injection into the neonatal mouse brain is fast, easy, and accesses regions of the brain including the cerebellum and brainstem that have been difficult to target with other techniques such as electroporation. We show that viral transduction produces an inherently mosaic expression pattern that can be exploited by varying the titer to transduce isolated neurons or densely-packed populations. We demonstrate that the expression of virally-encoded proteins is active much sooner than previously believed, allowing genetic perturbation during critical periods of neuronal plasticity, but is also long-lasting and stable, allowing chronic studies of aging. We harness these features to visualise and manipulate neurons in the hindbrain that have been recalcitrant to approaches commonly applied in the cortex. We show that viral labeling aids the analysis of postnatal dendritic maturation in cerebellar Purkinje neurons by allowing individual cells to be readily distinguished, and then demonstrate that the same sparse labeling allows live in vivo imaging of mature Purkinje neurons at a resolution sufficient for complete analytical reconstruction. Given the rising availability of viral constructs, packaging services, and genetically modified animals, these techniques should facilitate a wide range of experiments into brain development, function, and degeneration.
Microsaccades are tiny saccades that occur during gaze fixation. Whereas these movements have traditionally been viewed as random, it was recently discovered that microsaccade directions can be significantly biased by covertly attended visual stimuli. The detailed mechanisms mediating such a bias are neither known nor immediately obvious, especially because the amplitudes of the movements influenced by attentional cueing could be up to two orders of magnitude smaller than the eccentricity of the attended location. Here, we tested whether activity in the peripheral superior colliculus (SC) is necessary for this correlation between attentional cueing and microsaccades. We reversibly and focally inactivated SC neurons representing peripheral regions of visual space while rhesus monkeys performed a demanding covert visual attention task. The normal bias of microsaccade directions observed in each monkey before SC inactivation was eliminated when a cue was placed in the visual region affected by the inactivation; microsaccades were, instead, biased away from the affected visual space. When the cue was placed at another location unaffected by SC inactivation, the baseline cue-induced bias of microsaccade directions remained mostly intact, because the cue was in unaffected visual space, and any remaining changes were again explained by a repulsion of microsaccades away from the inactivated region. Our results indicate that peripheral SC activity is required for the link between microsaccades and the cueing of covert visual attention, and that it could do so by altering the probability of triggering microsaccades without necessarily affecting the motor generation of these movements.






Structural brain abnormalities have consistently been found in patients with schizophrenia. Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) has been shown to be a useful method to measure white matter (WM) integrity in this illness, but findings in the earlier disease stages are inconclusive. Moreover, the relationship between WM microstructure and the familial risk for developing schizophrenia remains unresolved. From 126 patients with schizophrenia, 123 of their non-psychotic siblings and 109 healthy control subjects, DTI images were acquired on a 1.5 T MRI scanner. Mean fractional anisotropy (FA) was compared along averaged WM tracts, computed for the genu, splenium, left and right uncinate fasciculus, cingulum, inferior fronto-occipital fasciculus, fornix, arcuate fasciculus, and inferior longitudinal fasciculus. Fractional anisotropy (FA) was assessed for its unique environmental and familial (possibly heritable) aspects associated with schizophrenia, using structural equation modeling for these white matter tracts. The results of this study show that young adult (mean age 26.7 years) patients with schizophrenia did not differ in mean FA from healthy controls along WM fibers; siblings of patients showed higher mean FA in the left and right arcuate fasciculus as compared to patients and controls. With increasing age, an excessive decline in mean FA was found in patients as compared to siblings and healthy controls in the genu, left uncinate fasciculus, left inferior fronto-occipital fasciculus, and left inferior longitudinal fasciculus. Moreover, symptom severity was negatively correlated to mean FA in the arcuate fasciculus bilaterally in patients with schizophrenia. In young adult patients with schizophrenia integrity of individual tract-based (corticocortical) fibers can (still) be within normal limits. However, changes in the arcuate fasciculus may be relevant to (the risk to develop) psychosis, while a general and widespread loss of fiber integrity may be related to illness progression.


Several protocols based on repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) have been proposed for treatment of a variety of neurological disorders. Despite the widespread use, little is known about the effects of rTMS on the autonomic nervous control of the cardiovascular system. Twelve volunteers underwent rTMS sessions consisted in 8-min baseline recording, 8-min 0.7-Hz rTMS stimulation at 100 % of the motor cortex excitability threshold on the prefrontal cortex of one randomly assigned hemisphere. After 8-min recovery, the same procedure was performed on the contra-lateral hemisphere. Non-invasive (Portapres device) beat-by-beat blood pressure and heart period time series were recorded and analyzed by spectral and cross-spectral analysis in the low-frequency (LF  0.1 Hz) and in the high-frequency (HF = respiratory frequency) range. Repetitive TMS, particularly after stimulation of the right hemisphere, induced a slight increase in the parasympathetic drive and no effects on the sympathetic activity. There was a significant bradycardia after stimulation on the right hemisphere, not significant bradycardia after left stimulation. LF/HF ratio was 3.8  2.1 during baseline and changed to 1.9  0.6 during rTMS on the left and to 1.6  0.6 during rTMS on the right. No significant changes were observed in blood pressure. Low-frequency rTMS of the prefrontal cortex induces a slight parasympathetic activation and no changes in the sympathetic function.
In addition to its peripheral metabolic functions, insulin acts as a central neuromodulator and affects synaptic plasticity of the hippocampal neurons. In this study, hyperinsulinemic obese zucker rats (OZR) with autosomal recessive mutation of the fa-gene were tested in water maze for learning and memory. The animals were then decapitated and hippocampal slices were prepared for electrophysiological examination. In the water maze test, the OZR performed less efficient than their counter lean control rats (LCR). The OZR showed prolonged latency and increased distance swam to reach a hidden platform. In the electrophysiological experiments, the hippocampal slices were examined for paired-pulse facilitation (PPF), long-term potentiation (LTP), and depression expression. The results showed that while the PPF (thus mainly the presynaptic mechanisms) was not affected, the LTP expression (169.916.6 vs. 310.72.4%) and the synaptic plasticity range (69.2 vs. 211.2%) were both reduced in the OZR animals compared to the LCR. It is concluded that hyperinsulinemia in the OZR resulted in defects in hippocampal synaptic plasticity associated with deterioration in spatial learning and memory functions.
This study investigated the behavioral and electrophysiological effects elicited by adults' simple addition verification when false answers agree or disagree with the odd-even status of the correct sum (parity congruency vs. parity incongruency), while they are near or far from correct (small vs. large splits). Event-related brain potentials were recorded from 18 students using a first-answer-then-problem paradigm. The results showed that odd-even congruency had a significant effect on the N3 latency with a small, but not a large split. Specifically, odd-even congruent answers with a small split elicited an N3 with a longer latency. Analyses of RT similarly indicated a bigger parity-congruency effect with small-split answers compared with large-split answers. This pattern parallels the corresponding effects on N3 and confirms that the N3 is sensitive to odd-even information in arithmetic fact retrieval and that there are clear links between the event-related brain potential pattern and behavioral effects.
Numbers induce shifts of spatial attention on the left or the right sides of external space as a function of their magnitude. However, whether this number-space association is restricted to the linear horizontal extensions, or extends to the whole visual scene, is still an open question. This study investigates, by means of a cancellation paradigm, the influence of numerical magnitude during scanning tasks in which participants freely explore complex visual scenes unconstrained towards either the horizontal or the vertical unidimensional axes. Five cancellation tasks were adapted in which Arabic digits were used as targets or distracters, in structured (lines and columns) or unstructured visual displays, with a smaller (2 or 3 types of distracters) or larger (10 or more types of distracters) sets of stimuli. Results show that the participants' hits distribution was a function of number magnitude: shifted on the left for small and on the right for large numbers. This effect was maximised when numerical cues were sparse, randomly arranged and, critically, irrelevant to the task. Overall, this study provides novel evidence from visuo-spatial exploratory cancellation tasks for an attentional shift induced by number magnitude.
The Dual Visuomotor Channel theory proposes that skilled reaching is composed of a Reach that directs the hand in relation to the extrinsic properties of an object (e.g., location) and a Grasp that opens and closes the hand in relation to the intrinsic properties of an object (e.g., size). While Reach and Grasp movements are often guided by vision, they can also be performed without vision when reaching for a body part or an object on one's own body. Memory of a recently touched but unseen object can also be used to guide Reach and Grasp movements although the touch-response memory durations described are extremely brief (Karl et al. in Exp Brain Res 219:59-74, 2012a). The purpose of the present study was to determine whether repeated nonvisual reaching for a consistent object could calibrate Reach and Grasp movements in a way similar to those guided by vision. The nonvision group wore vision-occluding goggles and reached for fifty consecutive trials for a round donut ball placed on a pedestal. The control group performed the same task with vision. Frame-by-frame video analysis and linear kinematics revealed that nonvision participants consistently used an elevated Reach trajectory, in which the hand, rather than being directed toward the target in the horizontal plane, was first elevated above the target before being lowered to touch and locate it. First contact was established with the dorsal surface of the target, and thus, adjustments in contact locations were often required for purchase. Although nonvision participants initially used an open and extended hand during transport, with practice they began to scale digit aperture to object size with an accuracy and temporal relation similar to vision participants. The different ways in which the Reach and Grasp movements respond to nonvisual learning are discussed in relation to support for the dual channel theory of reaching and to the idea that the Reach and Grasp channels may be differentially dependent on online visual guidance.
One goal in neuroscience is to dissect neuronal connections within the nervous system in health and disease. To accomplish this, neurons and their extensions need to be imaged and followed in the entire brain and spinal cord. While non-invasive imaging methods such as MRI do not have sufficient resolution to trace individual cells, standard histology - serial tissue sectioning and tracing in consecutive sections - is time consuming and prone to mistakes. Here, we review an alternative method called &quot;3D imaging of solvent cleared organs&quot; or &quot;3DISCO&quot; that can achieve high-resolution imaging of neuronal connections in several millimeters of depth without tissue sectioning. 3DISCO is fast: imaging of an entire organ at a cellular resolution can be completed within a few hours. 3DISCO is versatile: it is applicable to various tissues including the spinal cord, brain, lung, mammary glands, immune organs and tumors; it can be executed using various microscopy techniques, including light-sheet, widefield epifluorescence, confocal, 2-photon, light microscopy and optical coherent tomography. Here, we review the application of 3DISCO along with other popular clearing and imaging methods, their limitations and the obstacles that remain.
The advent of superresolution fluorescence microscopy beyond the classic diffraction barrier of optical microscopy is poised to transform cell-biological research. A series of proof-of-principle studies have demonstrated its vast potential for a wide range of applications in neuroscience, including nanoscale imaging of neuronal morphology, cellular organelles, protein distributions and protein trafficking. This review introduces the main incarnations of these new methodologies, including STED, PALM/STORM and SIM, covering basic theoretical and practical aspects concerning their optical principles, technical implementation, scope and limitations. In addition, it highlights several discoveries relating to synapse biology that have been made using these novel approaches to illustrate their appeal for neuroscience research.
The analysis of neuronal networks, their interactions in resting condition as well as during brain activation have become of great interest for a better understanding of the signal processing of the brain during sensory stimulus or cognitive tasks. Parallel to the study of the functional networks and their dynamics, the underlying network structure is highly important as it provides the basis of the functional interaction. Moreover, under pathological conditions, some nodes in such a net may be impaired and the function of the whole network affected. Mechanisms such as functional deficit and improvement, and plastic reorganization are increasingly discussed in the context of existing structural and functional networks. While many of these aspects have been followed in human and clinical studies, the experimental range is limited for obvious reasons. Here, animal experimental studies are needed as they permit longer scan times and, moreover, comparison with invasive histology. Experimental non-invasive imaging modalities are now able to perform impressive contributions. In this review we try to highlight most recent new cutting-edge developments and applications in experimental neuroscience of functional and structural networks of the brain, relying on non-invasive imaging. We focus primarily on the potential of experimental Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), but also touch upon micro positron emission tomography (PET) and optical imaging developments where they are applicable to the topic of the present review.
Calcium imaging has become a widely used technique to probe neuronal activity on the cellular and subcellular levels. In contrast to standard electrophysiological methods, calcium imaging resolves sub- and suprathreshold activation patterns in structures as small as fine dendritic branches and spines. This review highlights recent findings gained on the subcellular level using calcium imaging, with special emphasis on synaptic transmission and plasticity in individual spines. Since imaging allows monitoring activity across populations of synapses, it has recently been adopted to investigate how dendrites integrate information from many synapses. Future experiments, ideally carried out in vivo, will reveal how the dendritic tree integrates and computes afferent signals. For example, it is now possible to directly test the concept that dendritic inputs are clustered and that single dendrites or dendritic stretches act as independent computational units.
Carotid stenosis is known to be an independent risk factor in the transformation process of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to dementia and is treated by carotid artery stenting (CAS); however, the effects of CAS on cognitive function are unclear. In this study, 240 patients were prospectively assigned to a CAS or control group according to patient preference and underwent detailed neuropsychological examinations (NPEs) before and 6 months after treatment. Cerebral perfusion was assessed with computed tomography perfusion (CTP). Among the 240 patients included in the study, 208 patients completed NPEs at baseline and 6 months after therapy. The patients in the two groups did not differ with regard to baseline characteristics, educational level, vascular risk factors (VRFs) and NPEs prior to therapy. Significant improvements in the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE; before, 24.61.7 vs. after, 24.81.9; P=0.016), Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MOCA; before, 23.71.7 vs. after, 24.12.0; P=0.006), Fuld Object Memory Evaluation (FOME; before, 13.82.2 vs. after, 14.02.3; P=0.031) and Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-digital span (WAIS-DS; before, 6.72.1 vs. after, 6.92.3; P=0.040) were observed in the CAS group; however, improvements were not observed in the control group. Of the 84 patients in the CAS group who received CTP follow-up, 72 (86%) presented improvements in ipsilateral brain perfusion 6 months after the procedure; however, no improvement was observed in the control group. Close correlations were identified between the change in perfusion and the change in MMSE (r=0.575) and MOCA (r=0.574). CAS improves global cognitive function in patients with carotid stenosis and MCI and the improvement of cognition is closely related to the improvement of cerebral perfusion.


American Society for Mass Spectrometry Sanibel meeting on top-down mass spectrometry St Pete Beach, FL, USA, 24-27 January 2013 Top-down mass spectrometry involves analysis of intact proteins, typically using electrospray ionization, as multiple charging enhances dissociation and thus identification by comparison of precursor and product ion masses with protein sequence databases. Traditionally a low-throughput, precision technology performed on high-resolution Fourier-transform ion cyclotron resonance mass analyzers, top-down proteomics aims to increase throughput for whole proteome analysis while preserving the inherent value of an intact protein mass measurement. This years' American Society for Mass Spectrometry Sanibel meeting brought together established scientists who have demonstrated the viability of the top-down approach and its applicability to virtually all segments of the proteome, mixing them with researchers from diverse areas and with the common interest of advancing top-down into the high-throughput proteomics mainstream. Advances in instrumentation including the orbitrap analyzer, ionization mechanisms, dissociation strategies and informatics, as well as a wide variety of applications, were discussed in depth, leading to the inescapable conclusion that the future for top-down is bright.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a leading cause of blindness in Western countries and is diagnosed by the clinical appearance of yellow subretinal deposits called drusen. Genetic changes in immune components are clearly implicated in the pathology of this disease. We have previously shown that the purinergic receptor P2X7 can act as a scavenger receptor, mediating phagocytosis of apoptotic cells and insoluble debris. We performed a genetic association study of functional polymorphisms in the P2RX7 and P2RX4 genes in a cohort of 744 patients with AMD and 557 age-matched Caucasian control subjects. The P2X4 Tyr315Cys variant was 2-fold more frequent in patients with AMD compared to control subjects, with the minor allele predicting susceptibility to disease. Pairwise linkage disequilibrium was observed between Tyr315Cys in the P2RX4 gene and Gly150Arg in the P2RX7 gene, and these two minor alleles formed a rare haplotype that was overrepresented in patients with AMD (n=17) compared with control subjects (n=3) (odds ratio 4.05, P=0.026). Expression of P2X7 (wild type or variant 150Arg) in HEK293 cells conferred robust phagocytosis toward latex beads, whereas coexpression of the P2X7 150Arg with P2X4 315Cys variants almost completely inhibited phagocytic capacity. Fresh human monocytes harboring this heterozygous 150Arg-315Cys haplotype showed 40% reduction in bead phagocytosis. In the primate eye, immunohistochemistry indicated that P2X7 and P2X4 receptors were coexpressed on microglia and macrophages, but neither receptor was seen on retinal pigment epithelial cells. These results demonstrate that a haplotype including two rare variants in P2RX7 and P2RX4 confers a functional interaction between these two variant receptors that impairs the normal scavenger function of macrophages and microglia. Failure of this P2X7-mediated phagocytic pathway may impair removal of subretinal deposits and predispose individuals toward AMD.
One of the hallmark features of HIV-associated neurological disease is increased activation and migration of microglia. HIV transactivator of transcription (Tat) is released from infected cells and has the ability to recruit microglia. The purpose of this study was to investigate molecular mechanisms by which recombinant Tat, but not heated-inactive Tat,induces migration of rat primary microglia. Using primary microglia in Boyden chambers, we demonstrated the role of nonmuscle myosin light-chain kinase (nmMYLK) in Tat (14.4 nM)-mediated increased microglial migration (up to 171.85%). These findings were validated using microglia isolated from wild-type (WT) or nmMYLK(-/-) mice in Dunn chamber assays. Tat-mediated activation of nmMYLK resulted in &quot;inside-out&quot; activation of 1 integrin, followed by &quot;outside-in&quot; activation of c-Src, Pyk2, and Cdc42-GTP (using G-LISA in primary and nmMYLK(-/-) microglia) and, subsequently, actin polymerization (flow cytometry and Western blot assays). In vivo corroboration of these findings demonstrated decreased migration of nmMYLK(-/-) microglia (2  10(5) cells transplanted into corpus callosum) compared with WT microglia toward microinjected Tat (2 g/mouse) in hippocampus. Up-regulation of nmMYLK in microglia was also detected in sections of basal ganglia from humans with HIV-encephalitis compared with uninfected controls. nmMYLK is thus critical for eliciting microglial migration during the innate immune response.
Voltage-gated K(+) channels of the Shaw family (also known as the KCNC or Kv3 family) play pivotal roles in mammalian brains, and genetic or pharmacological disruption of their activities in mice results in a spectrum of behavioral defects. We have used the model system of Caenorhabditis elegans to elucidate conserved molecular mechanisms that regulate these channels. We have now found that the C. elegans Shaw channel KHT-1, and its mammalian homologue, murine Kv3.1b, are both modulated by acid phosphatases. Thus, the C. elegans phosphatase ACP-2 is stably associated with KHT-1, while its mammalian homolog, prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP; also known as ACPP-201) stably associates with murine Kv3.1b K(+) channels in vitro and in vivo. In biochemical experiments both phosphatases were able to reverse phosphorylation of their associated channel. The effect of phosphorylation on both channels is to produce a decrease in current amplitude and electrophysiological analyses demonstrated that dephosphorylation reversed the effects of phosphorylation on the magnitude of the macroscopic currents. ACP-2 and KHT-1 were colocalized in the nervous system of C. elegans and, in the mouse nervous system, PAP and Kv3.1b were colocalized in subsets of neurons, including in the brain stem and the ventricular zone. Taken together, this body of evidence suggests that acid phosphatases are general regulatory partners of Shaw-like K(+) channels.
Prader-Willi Syndrome (PWS) is a neurodevelopmental genetic disorder caused by loss of expression of imprinted, paternally inherited genes on chromosome 15q11q13. This imprinted gene cluster has its homologous region on mouse chromosome 7C. The extremely well conserved synteny between the human and the murine regions gave origin to the generation of mouse models for PWS, which facilitated investigations of the role and function of single genes or gene clusters in the pathogenesis of this disease. In this review we will describe which mouse models have been generated so far and how they were developed; we will focus on the consequences of single genes' (or gene clusters') loss of expression on the phenotype, highlighting the similarities to the human PWS features. PWS mouse models have brought major improvements in our knowledge about this complex condition, although the mechanisms implicated in its pathogenesis still remain not fully understood.
Dietary restriction (DR) can extend lifespan and reduce disease burden across a wide range of animals and yeast but the mechanisms mediating these remarkably protective effects remain to be elucidated despite extensive efforts. Although it has generally been assumed that protective effects of DR are cell-autonomous, there is considerable evidence that many whole-body responses to nutritional state, including DR, are regulated by nutrient-sensing neurons. In this review, we explore the hypothesis that nutrient sensing neurons in the ventromedial hypothalamus hierarchically regulate the protective responses of dietary restriction. We describe multiple peripheral responses that are hierarchically regulated by the hypothalamus and we present evidence for non-cell autonomous signaling of dietary restriction gathered from a diverse range of models including invertebrates, mammalian cell culture, and rodent studies.
Stepwise multiple regression analyses were applied to 44 atazanavir pharmacokinetic profiles from 44 HIV-1 infected patients concomitantly treated with raltegravir with the goal of identifying limited sampling strategies for the prediction of drug AUC(0-12) . Atazanavir trough-based equations failed to reliably predict daily drug exposure in patients with low drug bioavailability. Conversely, different algorithms based on few samples and associated with good correlation, acceptable bias and imprecision with the measured atazanavir AUC(0-12) were identified. These models could be used to predict atazanavir exposure for clinic or research purposes.
JNK is involved in a broad range of physiological processes. Several inflammatory and neurodegenerative diseases, such as multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease have been linked with the dysregulated JNK pathway. Research on disease models using the relevant knockout mice has highlighted the importance of specific JNK isoformsin-particular disorders and has stimulated further efforts in the drug-discovery area. However, most of the experimental evidence for the efficacy of JNK inhibition in animal models is from studies using JNK inhibitors, which are not isoform selective. Some of the more recent compounds exhibit good oral bioavailability, CNS penetration and selectivity against the rest of the kinome. Efforts to design isoform-selective inhibitors have produced a number of examples with various selectivity profiles. This article presents recent progress in this area and comment on the role of isoform selectivity for efficacy.
The reproductive status of adult Pekin drakes is very sensitive to nutritional status. Thus, the purpose of this study was to increase our understanding of the neurobiology underlying the depressive effect of fasting on the secretion of reproductive hormones. It was hypothesized that this effect was mediated by gonadotropin-inhibitory hormone (GnIH). Networks of GnIH fibers were present throughout the diencephalon, and cell bodies were present primarily, in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN). The duck GnIH gene was cloned and sequenced and found to encode GnIH and two GnIH-related peptides (GnIH-RP1, GnIH-RP2) which have a similar identity to those found in other avian species. Intracerebroventricular injection of GnIH, but not of GnIH-RP1, depressed plasma LH and stimulated feeding. Fasting for 48h depressed plasma LH and induced fos expression in about half the population of GnIH-ir neurons. These data suggest that GnIH neurons are mediators between feeding and reproductive systems in Pekin drakes.
Catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) Val158Met (rs4680) polymorphism plays a crucial role in regulating brain dopamine level. Converging evidence from Caucasian samples showed that, compared with rs4680 Val allele, the Met allele was linked to lower COMT activity, which in turn was linked to better cognitive performance such as working memory (WM) and to a larger hippocampus (a brain region important for WM). However, some behavioral studies have shown that the function of rs4680 appears to vary across different ethnic groups, with Chinese subjects showing an opposite pattern as that for Caucasians (i.e. the Val allele is linked to better cognitive functions related to WM in Chinese). Using a sample of healthy Han Chinese college students (ages from 19 to 21years), this study investigated the association of COMT Val158Met genotype with behavioral data on a two-back WM task (n = 443, 189M/254F) and T1 MRI data (n=320, 134M/186F). Results showed that, compared to the Met allele, the Val allele was associated with larger hippocampal volume (the right hippocampus:  = -0.118, t = -2.367, P = 0.019, and the left hippocampus:  = -0.099, t = -1.949, P = 0.052) and better WM performance ( = -0.110, t = -2.315, P = 0.021). These results add to the growing literature on differentiated effects of COMT rs4680 polymorphism on WM across populations and offer a brain structural mechanism for such population-specific genetic effects.
The adenosine A2A receptor (ADORA2A) is linked to the dopamine neurotransmitter system and is also implicated in the regulation of alertness, suggesting a potential association with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) traits. Furthermore, animal studies suggest that the ADORA2A may influence ADHD-like behavior. For that reason, the ADORA2A gene emerges as a promising candidate for studying the etiology of ADHD traits. The aim of this study was to examine the relationship between ADORA2A gene polymorphisms and ADHD traits in a large population-based sample. This study was based on the Child and Adolescent Twin Study in Sweden (CATSS), and included 1747 twins. Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder traits were assessed through parental reports, and samples of DNA were collected. Associations between six single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and ADHD traits were examined, and results suggested a nominal association between ADHD traits and three of these SNPs: rs3761422, rs5751876 and rs35320474. For one of the SNPs, rs35320474, results remained significant after correction for multiple comparisons. These results indicate the possibility that the ADORA2A gene may be involved in ADHD traits. However, more studies replicating the present results are warranted before this association can be confirmed.
ADAR2 transgenic mice misexpressing the RNA editing enzyme ADAR2 (Adenosine Deaminase that act on RNA) show characteristics of overeating and experience adult onset obesity. Behavioral patterns and brain changes related to a possible addictive overeating in these transgenic mice were explored as transgenic mice display chronic hyperphagia. ADAR2 transgenic mice were assessed in their food preference and motivation to overeat in a competing reward environment with ad lib access to a running wheel and food. Metabolic activity of brain and peripheral tissue were assessed with [(18) F] fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) and RNA expression of feeding related genes, ADAR2, dopamine and opiate receptors from the hypothalamus and striatum were examined. The results indicate that ADAR2 transgenic mice exhibit, (1) a food preference for diets with higher fat content, (2) significantly increased food intake that is non-distractible in a competing reward environment, (3) significantly increased messenger RNA (mRNA) expressions of ADAR2, serotonin 2C receptor (5HT2C R), D1, D2 and mu opioid receptors and no change in corticotropin-releasing hormone mRNAs and significantly reduced ADAR2 protein expression in the hypothalamus, (4) significantly increased D1 receptor and altered bioamines with no change in ADAR2, mu opioid and D2 receptor mRNA expression in the striatum and (5) significantly greater glucose metabolism in the hypothalamus, brain stem, right hippocampus, left and right mid brain regions and suprascapular peripheral tissue than controls. These results suggest that highly motivated and goal-oriented overeating behaviors of ADAR2 transgenic mice are associated with altered feeding, reward-related mRNAs and hyperactive brain mesolimbic region.
Postmortem studies have revealed a downregulation of the transcription factor Pax5 in GABAergic neurons in bipolar disorder, a neurodevelopmental disorder, raising the question whether Pax5 in GABAergic neurons has a role in normal brain development. In a genetic approach to study functions of Pax5 in GABAergic neurons, Pax5 was specifically deleted in GABAergic neurons from Pax5 floxed mice using a novel Gad1-Cre transgenic mouse line expressing Cre recombinase in Gad1-positive, that is, GABAergic neurons. Surprisingly, these mice developed a marked enlargement of the lateral ventricles at approximately 7 weeks of age, which was lethal within 1-2 weeks of its appearance. This hydrocephalus phenotype was observed in mice homozygous or heterozygous for the Pax5 conditional knockout, with a gene dosage-dependent penetrance. By QTL (quantitative trait loci) mapping, a 3.5 Mb segment on mouse chromosome 4 flanked by markers D4Mit237 and D4Mit214 containing approximately 92 genes including Pax5 has previously been linked to differences in lateral ventricular size. Our findings are consistent with Pax5 being a relevant gene underlying this QTL phenotype and demonstrate that Pax5 in GABAergic neurons is essential for normal ventricular development.
Prolonged hyposmotic challenge (HOC) has a dual effect on vasopressin (VP) secretion [Yagil and Sladek (1990) Am J Physiol 258(2 Pt 2):R492-R500]. We describe an electrophysiological correlate of this phenomenon, whereby in vitro HOC transiently reduced the firing activity of VP neurons within the supraoptic nucleus of brain slices, which was followed by a rebound increase of their activity; this was paralleled by changes in the level of proteins relevant to astroglia-neuronal interactions. Hence, in vitro HOC transiently (at 5 min) increased the level of astrocyte-specific glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), which then declined to control or base level (at 20 min); this was blocked by the gliotoxin L-aminoadipic acid, but not by tetanus toxin, which was used to inhibit neurotransmission. Similarly, in vivo HOC led to changes in GFAP level, which after an early increase (10 min) returned to normal (30 min). Immunoassays revealed that neuronal, but not astrocytic, expression of serine racemase (SR) was increased at the late stage of HOC in vivo, whereas at an early stage there was a transient increase in level of the astrocyte-specific glutamine synthetase (GS). Furthermore, there was an increased molecular association between GFAP and GS at 10 min, whereas SR increased its association with the neuronal nuclear antigen NeuN at 30 min. These results suggest that the dual effect of HOC on VP neuronal secretion/activity could be related to metabolic/signaling changes in astrocytes (glutamate-glutamine conversion) and neurons (D-serine synthesis/ammonia production), which may account for the rebound in VP neuronal activity, presumably by promoting the activation of neuronal glutamate receptors.
The olfactory system is an unusual tissue in which olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) are continuously replaced throughout the life of mammals. Clearance of the apoptotic ORNs corpses is a fundamental process serving important functions in the regulation of olfactory nerve turnover and regeneration. However, little is known about the underlying mechanisms. Olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) are a unique type of glial cells that wrap olfactory axons and support their continual regeneration from the olfactory epithelium to the bulb. In the present study, OECs were identified to exist in two different states, resting and reactive, in which resting OECs could be activated by LPS stimulation and functioned as phagocytes for cleaning apoptotic ORNs corpses. Confocal analysis revealed that dead ORNs debris were engulfed by OECs and co-localized with lysosome associated membrane protein 1. Moreover, phosphatidylserine (PS) receptor was identified to express on OECs, which allowed OECs to recognize apoptotic ORNs by binding to PS. Importantly, engulfment of olfactory nerve debris by OECs was found in olfactory mucosa under normal turnover and was significantly increased in the animal model of olfactory bulbectomy, while little phagocytosis by Iba-1-positive microglia/macrophages was observed. Together, these results implicate OEC as a primary innate immunocyte in the olfactory pathway, and suggest a cellular and molecular mechanism by which ORNs corpses are removed during olfactory nerve turnover and regeneration.
Interleukin (IL)-6 is crucial for the induction of many murine models of autoimmunity including experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of multiple sclerosis. While IL-6-deficient mice (IL-6 KO) are resistant to EAE, we showed previously that in transgenic mice with astrocyte-targeted production of IL-6-restricted to the cerebellum (GFAP-IL6), EAE induced with MOG(35-55) was redirected away from the spinal cord to the cerebellum. To further establish the importance of IL-6 produced in the central nervous system, we have generated mice producing IL-6 essentially only in the brain by crossing the GFAP-IL6 mice with IL-6 KO mice. Interestingly, GFAP-IL6-IL-6 KO mice showed a milder but almost identical phenotype as the GFAP-IL6 mice, which correlated with a lower load of inflammatory cells and decreased microglial reactivity. These results indicate that not only is cerebellar IL-6 production and eventual leakage into the peripheral compartment the dominating factor controlling this type of EAE but that it can also facilitate induction of autoimmunity in the absence of normal systemic IL-6 production.
Cell transplantation is one strategy for encouraging regeneration after spinal cord injury and a range of cell types have been investigated for their repair potential. However, variations in study design complicate determination of which cells are most effective. In this study we have carried out a direct comparison of the regenerative and integrative properties of several cell preparations following transplantation into the lesioned rat spinal cord. Transplants included: (i) purified olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) and (ii) fibroblast-like cells, from olfactory bulb (OBFB-L), (iii) a 50:50 mixture of (i) and (ii) (OEC/OBFB-L), (iv) dissociated nasal mucosa (OM), (v) purified peripheral nerve Schwann cells (SCs), (vi) peripheral nerve fibroblasts, and (vii) skin fibroblasts (SF). All transplants supported axonal regeneration: OECs and SCs promoted the greatest regeneration while OBFB-like cells were least efficient and mixed cell populations were less effective than purified populations. Tract-tracing experiments demonstrated that none of the cell types promoted regeneration beyond the lesion. Although all cell types prevented cavity formation, the extent of astrocytic hypertrophy [GFAP immunoreactivity (IR) at the transplant/lesion site] differed markedly. OECs and SCs were associated with the least GFAP-IR, fibroblasts and fibroblast-like cells resulted in greater GFAP-IR while hypertrophy surrounding transplants of OM was most extensive. These differences in host-transplant reactivity were confirmed by transplanting cells into normal spinal cord where the cellular interaction is not complicated by injury. Thus, purified glial cells have advantages for transplant-mediated repair, combining maximal support for axonal regeneration with a minimal astrocytic reaction around the transplant site.
In a chord of pure tones with a flat spectral profile, one tone can be perceptually enhanced relative to the other tones by the previous presentation of a slightly different chord. &quot;Intensity enhancement&quot; (IE) is obtained when the component tones of the two chords have the same frequencies, but in the first chord the target of enhancement is attenuated relative to the other tones. &quot;Frequency enhancement&quot; (FE) is obtained when both chords have a flat spectral profile, but the target of enhancement shifts in frequency from the first to the second chord. We report here an experiment in which IE and FE were measured using a task requiring the listener to indicate whether or not the second chord included a tone identical to a subsequent probe tone. The results showed that a global attenuation of the first chord relative to the second chord disrupted IE more than FE. This suggests that the mechanisms of IE and FE are not the same. In accordance with this suggestion, computations of the auditory excitation patterns produced by the chords indicate that the mechanism of IE is not sufficient to explain FE for small frequency shifts.
It is well known that spiral ganglion cells (SGCs) degenerate in hair-cell-depleted cochleas and that treatment with exogenous neurotrophins can prevent this degeneration. Several studies reported that, in addition, SGC size decreases after deafening and increases after neurotrophic treatment. The dynamics of these cell size changes are not well known. In a first experiment we measured size, shape (circularity) and intracellular density of SGCs in guinea pigs at various moments after deafening (1, 2, 4, 6, and 8 weeks) and at various cochlear locations. In a second experiment, the effect of treatment with brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) on SGC morphology was investigated at various cochlear locations in deafened guinea pigs. We found that SGC size gradually decreased after deafening in the basal and middle cochlear turns. Already after one week a decrease in size was observed, which was well before the number of SGCs started to decrease. After BDNF treatment SGCs became noticeably larger than normal throughout the cochlea, including the middle and apical turns, whereas an effect on survival of SGCs was primarily observed in the basal turn. Thus, both after deafening and after neurotrophic treatment a change in size occurs before survival is affected. Morphological changes were not restricted to a subpopulation of SGCs. We argue that although changes in cell size and changes in survival might be manifestations of two separate mechanisms, morphological measures such as size, circularity and intracellular density are indicative for survival and degeneration.
This study focused on the response properties underlying selectivity for the rate of frequency modulated (FM) sweeps in the auditory cortex of anesthetized C57bl/6 (C57) mice. Linear downward FM sweeps with rates between 0.08 and 20kHz/ms were tested. We show that at least two different response properties predict FM rate selectivity: sideband inhibition and duration tuning. Sideband inhibition was determined using the two-tone inhibition paradigm in which excitatory and inhibitory tones were presented with different delays. Sideband inhibition was present in the majority (88%, n=53) of neurons. The spectrotemporal properties of sideband inhibition predicted rate selectivity and exclusion of the sideband from the sweep reduced/eliminated rate tuning. The second property predictive of sweep rate selectivity was duration tuning for tones. Theoretically, if a neuron is selective for the duration that a sweep spends in the excitatory frequency tuning curve, then rate selectivity will ensue. Duration tuning for excitatory tones was present and predicted rate selectivity in 34% of neurons (n=97). Both sideband inhibition and duration tuning predicted rate selectivity equally well, but sideband inhibition was present in a larger percentage of neurons suggesting that it is the dominant mechanism in the C57 mouse auditory cortex. Similar mechanisms shape sweep rate selectivity in the auditory system of bats and mice and movement-velocity selectivity in the visual system, suggesting similar solutions to analogous problems across sensory systems. This study provides baseline data on basic spectrotemporal processing in the C57 strain for elucidation of changes that occur in presbycusis.
Synaptic transmission of the granule cells (GCs) via their axons, the mossy fibers (MFs), is traditionally studied on acutely prepared or cultured slices. Usually, extracellular, bulk or minimal stimulation is used to evoke transmitter release from MF terminals, while recording from their postsynaptic target cells, the pyramidal cells and interneurons of CA3. However, the ideal method to assess MF neurotransmission, the simultaneous recording of a presynaptic GC and one of its target cells, is extremely difficult to achieve using slices. Alternatively, cultures of GCs establishing autapses have been developed, but in these, GCs do not contact their natural targets. We developed cocultures of GCs, dissociated from transgenic GFP(+) rats, with pyramidal cells and interneurons of CA3, dissociated from wild-type rats, and confirmed the expression of cell-specific markers by immunofluorescence. We conducted recordings of GFP(+) -GCs synaptically connected with their GFP(-) -target cells, and demonstrate that synaptic transmission and its plasticity have the signature of transmission of MF. Besides being strongly depressed by activation of mGluRs, high frequency activation of GC-to-pyramidal cells synapses undergo LTP, while GC-to-interneuron synapses undergo LTD. This coculture method allows a high reproducibility of recording connected pairs of identified cells, constituting a valuable tool to study MF transmission, as well as different combinations of identifiable pre- and postsynaptic cells.
Experimental evidence suggests that endocrine-disrupting chemicals (EDCs) can permanently disrupt the development of sexually dimorphic behaviors and the structure of sexually dimorphic areas of the brain. EDC exposure has different effects depending on diverse factors, such as the timing and dose of the exposure, the maternal environment and the individual's age and sex. Among EDCs, bisphenol A (BPA) is one of the most studied because of its extensive use, which ranges from dentistry to food/drink packaging. In the present study, we aimed to investigate the behavioral effects of developmental exposure to a low dose of BPA with respect to the timing of the exposure, maternal environment, sex and age at testing. Starting from the last week of pregnancy to the first postpartum week, dams spontaneously drank either corn oil (control group) or a solution containing BPA (10 g/kg bw/day). At birth, the litters were cross-fostered to different dams to differentiate among the effects of pre- and postnatal exposure. Pre- and postnatally exposed offspring underwent three diverse experimental paradigms for anxiety-related behaviors: as juveniles, a novelty test and at adulthood, both the free exploratory open field and elevated plus maze tests. At both testing ages, pre- and postnatally exposed females showed evidence of increased anxiety and were less prone to explore a novel environment relative to the control females, showing a behavioral profile more similar to control males than females. In this study, the direction of the behavioral changes was affected similarly by the pre- and postnatal exposures, resulting in a disruption of these sexually dimorphic behaviors, although with a greater effect associated with postnatal exposure primarily in females. Our findings indicate that non-reproductive, sexually dimorphic behaviors are sensitive to endocrine disruption during critical developmental periods-particularly the highly critical early neonatal stage. Combined with previous research, our study provides further evidence of the potential risks that even low doses of EDCs may pose to humans, with fetuses and infants being highly vulnerable.
Sleep disturbances are commonly associated with menopause. Hormone replacement therapy is often used to treat various menopausal symptoms, but its efficacy for improving sleep is a matter of debate. We addressed this question by using a rodent model of ovarian hormone loss and replacement in midlife. Middle-aged female rats were ovariectomized and implanted with capsules containing estradiol with or without progesterone, or oil. After two weeks, sleep/wake states were recorded polygraphically during a 24-h baseline period, followed by 6h of sleep deprivation in the second half of the light phase, and a 24-h recovery period. During the baseline dark phase, hormone treatments increased wakefulness, and decreased non-rapid eye movement sleep (NREMS) by shortening NREMS episodes; however, NREMS EEG delta power or energy (cumulative power) was unaffected by combined hormones. Following sleep deprivation, all the groups showed NREMS and rapid eye movement sleep (REMS) rebounds, with similar relative increases from respective baseline levels. The increases in NREMS EEG delta power/energy during recovery were enhanced by combined hormones. These results from middle-aged ovariectomized rats indicate that replacement with estrogen with or without progesterone reduces baseline NREMS without affecting sleep intensity, particularly during the dark (active) phase, whereas following sleep deprivation the same hormone treatments do not affect the ability to increase NREMS or REMS, but treatment with both hormones, in particular, enhances the intensity of recovery sleep. These results support the usefulness of ovariectomized middle-aged rats as a model system to study the biological effects of hormone replacement on sleep regulation.
Precopulatory behaviors that are preferentially directed towards opposite-sex conspecifics are critical for successful reproduction, particularly in species wherein the sexes live in isolation, such as Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus). In females, these behaviors include sexual odor preference and vaginal scent marking. The neural regulation of precopulatory behaviors is thought to involve a network of forebrain areas that includes the medial amygdala (MA), the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), and the medial preoptic area (MPOA). Although MA and BNST are necessary for sexual odor preference and preferential vaginal marking to male odors, respectively, the role of MPOA in odor-guided female precopulatory behaviors is not well understood. To address this issue, female Syrian hamsters with bilateral, excitotoxic lesions of MPOA (MPOA-X) or sham lesions (SHAM) were tested for sexual odor investigation, scent marking, and lordosis. MPOA-X females did not investigate male odors more than female odors in an odor preference test, indicating that MPOA may be necessary for normal sexual odor preference in female hamsters. This loss of preference cannot be attributed to a sensory deficit, since MPOA-X females successfully discriminated male odors from female odors during an odor discrimination test. Surprisingly, no deficits in vaginal scent marking were observed in MPOA-X females, although these females did exhibit decreased overall levels of flank marking compared to SHAM females. Finally, all MPOA-X females exhibited lordosis appropriately. These results suggest that MPOA plays a critical role in the neural regulation of certain aspects of odor-guided precopulatory behaviors in female Syrian hamsters.
The interaction between goal-directed and stimulus-driven attentional control allows humans to rapidly reorient to relevant objects outside the focus of attention--a phenomenon termed contingent reorienting. Neuroimaging studies have observed activation of the ventral and dorsal attentional networks, but specific involvement of each network remains unclear. The present study aimed to determine whether both networks are critical to the processes of top-down contingent reorienting. To this end, we combined the contingent attentional capture paradigm with the use of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to interfere with temporoparietal junction (TPJ; ventral network) and frontal eye field (dorsal network) activity. The results showed that only right TPJ (rTPJ) TMS modulated contingent orienting. Furthermore, this modulation was highly dependent on visual fields: rTPJ TMS increased contingent capture in the left visual field and decreased the effect in the right visual field. These results demonstrate a critical involvement of the ventral network in attentional reorienting and reveal the spatial selectivity within such network.
An emerging issue in neuroscience is how to identify baseline state(s) and accompanying networks termed &quot;resting state networks&quot; (RSNs). Although independent component analysis (ICA) in fMRI studies has elucidated synchronous spatiotemporal patterns during cognitive tasks, less is known about the changes in EEG functional connectivity between eyes closed (EC) and eyes open (EO) states, two traditionally used baseline indices. Here we investigated healthy subjects (n = 27) in EC and EO employing a four-step analytic approach to the EEG: (1) group ICA to extract independent components (ICs), (2) standardized low-resolution tomography analysis (sLORETA) for cortical source localization of IC network nodes, followed by (3) graph theory for functional connectivity estimation of epochwise IC band-power, and (4) circumscribing IC similarity measures via hierarchical cluster analysis and multidimensional scaling (MDS). Our proof-of-concept results on alpha-band power demonstrate five statistically clustered groups with frontal, central, parietal, occipitotemporal, and occipital sources. Importantly, during EO compared with EC, graph analyses revealed two salient functional networks with frontoparietal connectivity: a more medial network with nodes in the mPFC/precuneus which overlaps with the &quot;default-mode network&quot; (DMN), and a more lateralized network comprising the middle frontal gyrus and inferior parietal lobule, coinciding with the &quot;dorsal attention network&quot; (DAN). Furthermore, a separate MDS analysis of ICs supported the emergence of a pattern of increased proximity (shared information) between frontal and parietal clusters specifically for the EO state. We propose that the disclosed component groups and their source-derived EEG functional connectivity maps may be a valuable method for elucidating direct neuronal (electrophysiological) RSNs in healthy people and those suffering from brain disorders.
The c-Jun N-terminal kinases (JNKs) are stress-activated serine-threonine kinases that have recently been linked to various neurological disorders. We previously described a patient with intellectual disability (ID) and seizures (Patient 1), carrying a de novo chromosome translocation affecting the CNS-expressed MAPK10/JNK3 gene. Here, we describe a second ID patient (Patient 2) with a similar translocation that likewise truncates MAPK10/JNK3, highlighting a role for JNK3 in human brain development. We have pinpointed the breakpoint in Patient 2, which is just distal to that in Patient 1. In both patients, the rearrangement resulted in a predicted protein interrupted towards the C-terminal end of the kinase domain. We demonstrate that these truncated proteins, although capable of weak interaction with various known JNK scaffolds, are not capable of phosphorylating the classical JNK target c-Jun in vitro, which suggests that the patient phenotype potentially arises from partial loss of JNK3 function. We next investigated JNK3-binding partners to further explore potential disease mechanisms. We identified PSD-95, SAP102 and SHANK3 as novel interaction partners for JNK3, and we demonstrate that JNK3 and PSD-95 exhibit partially overlapping expression at synaptic sites in cultured hippocampal neurons. Moreover, JNK3, like JNK1, is capable of phosphorylating PSD-95 in vitro, whereas disease-associated mutant JNK3 proteins do not. We conclude that reduced JNK3 activity has potentially deleterious effects on neuronal function via altered regulation of a set of post-synaptic proteins.
Genomic copy number variations (CNVs) and increased parental age are both associated with the risk to develop a variety of clinical neuropsychiatric disorders such as autism, schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. At the same time, it has been shown that the rate of transmitted de novo single nucleotide mutations is increased with paternal age. To address whether paternal age also affects the burden of structural genomic deletions and duplications, we examined various types of CNV burden in a large population sample from the Netherlands. Healthy participants with parental age information (n=6,773) were collected at different University Medical Centers. CNVs were called with the PennCNV algorithm using Illumina genome-wide SNP array data. We observed no evidence in support of a paternal age effect on CNV load in the offspring. Our results were negative for global measures as well as several proxies for de novo CNV events in this unique sample. While recent studies suggest de novo single nucleotide mutation rate to be dominated by the age of the father at conception, our results strongly suggest that at the level of global CNV burden there is no influence of increased paternal age. While it remains possible that local genomic effects may exist for specific phenotypes, this study indicates that global CNV burden and increased father's age may be independent disease risk factors.
Hereditary motor and sensory disorders of the peripheral nerve form one of the most common groups of human genetic diseases collectively called Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT) neuropathy. Using linkage analysis in a three generation kindred, we have mapped a new locus for X-linked dominant CMT to chromosome Xp22.11. A microsatellite scan of the X chromosome established significant linkage to several markers including DXS993 (Zmax = 3.16;  = 0.05). Extended haplotype analysis refined the linkage region to a 1.43-Mb interval flanked by markers DXS7110 and DXS8027. Whole exome sequencing identified a missense mutation c.G473A (p.R158H) in the pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase isoenzyme 3 (PDK3) gene. The change localized within the 1.43-Mb linkage interval, segregated with the affected phenotype and was excluded in ethnically matched control chromosomes. PDK3 is one of the four isoenzymes regulating the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC), by reversible phosphorylation, and is a nuclear-coded protein located in the mitochondrial matrix. PDC catalyzes the oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate to acetyl CoA and is a key enzyme linking glycolysis to the energy-producing Krebs cycle and lipogenic pathways. We found that the R158H mutation confers enzyme hyperactivity and binds with stronger affinity than the wild-type to the inner-lipoyl (L2) domain of the E2p chain of PDC. Our findings suggest a reduced pyruvate flux due to R158H mutant PDK3-mediated hyper-phosphorylation of the PDC as the underlying pathogenic cause of peripheral neuropathy. The results highlight an important causative link between peripheral nerve degeneration and an essential bioenergetic or biosynthetic pathway required for the maintenance of peripheral nerves.
The ciliopathies are a group of heterogeneous diseases with considerable variations in phenotype for allelic conditions such as Meckel-Gruber syndrome (MKS) and Joubert syndrome (JBTS) even at the inter-individual level within families. In humans, mutations in TMEM67 (also known as MKS3) cause both MKS and JBTS, with TMEM67 encoding the orphan receptor meckelin (TMEM67) that localizes to the ciliary transition zone. We now describe the Tmem67(tm1(Dgen/H)) knockout mouse model that recapitulates the brain phenotypic variability of these human ciliopathies, with categorization of Tmem67 mutant animals into two phenotypic groups. An MKS-like incipient congenic group (F6 to F10) manifested very variable neurological features (including exencephaly, and frontal/occipital encephalocele) that were associated with the loss of primary cilia, diminished Shh signalling and dorsalization of the caudal neural tube. The 'MKS-like' group also had high de-regulated canonical Wnt/-catenin signalling associated with hyper-activated Dishevelled-1 (Dvl-1) localized to the basal body. Conversely, a second fully congenic group (F &gt; 10) had less variable features pathognomonic for JBTS (including cerebellar hypoplasia), and retention of abnormal bulbous cilia associated with mild neural tube ventralization. The 'JBTS-like' group had de-regulated low levels of canonical Wnt signalling associated with the loss of Dvl-1 localization to the basal body. Our results suggest that modifier alleles partially determine the variation between MKS and JBTS, implicating the interaction between Dvl-1 and meckelin, or other components of the ciliary transition zone. The Tmem67(tm1(Dgen/H)) line is unique in modelling the variable expressivity of phenotypes in these two ciliopathies.

Myasthenia gravis (MG) is an autoimmune disease that results from antibody mediated damage of Acetylcholine receptor (AChR) at the neuromuscular junction. The autoimmune character of MG and pathogenic role of AChR antibodies have been established by several workers i.e., the demonstration of anti-AChR antibodies in about 90% of MG patients. It has been demonstrated that patients with MG also have antibodies against a second protein named presynaptic membrane receptor (PsmR), which is identified by utilizing -Bgtx, a ligand which binds to PsmR. Using -Bgtx Sepharose 4B affinity matrix, the PsmR was purified from different regions of human cadaver brain by affinity chromatography. Purified receptor was characterized both by biochemical and immunological procedures. PsmR purified from different regions of the brain shows a specific activity of 0.370.01, 0.390.02 and 0.430.005nM/g of protein in Parietal lobe, Occipital lobe and Frontal lobe respectively. The affinity purified PsmR from the brain of 87 and 68kd (parietal lobe, occipital lobe and frontal lobe) shows immunoreactivity with myasthenic sera. These findings suggest that PsmR from brain is another antigen against which autoantibodies are developed in Myasthenia gravis patients. Upon treatment with various enzymes we concluded that PsmR from brain is a glycoprotein in which the immunoreactivity resides in the carbohydrate as well as the peptide epitopes. In conclusion the PsmR is another antigen against which autoantibodies are formed in different regions of brain. These can be used as a diagnostic tool for detecting antibodies in the sera or cerebrospinal fluid of MG patients.





Context: In 2010, nearly 37 lakh Indians have been estimated to be suffering from dementia. Estimated costs of care in published literature do not reflect the actual expenses of individual households. Hence, a household budget approach was undertaken to arrive at the costs of dementia care in India. Materials and Methods: We identified and listed the different components of care, classified the applicability of care for the different components with respect to mild, moderate, and severe cases. This framework was utilized to assign costs of care and arrive at the household costs of care for a Person with Dementia (PwD) in both urban and rural areas. Results: The total expense was similar to that reported by individual households. The annual household cost of caring for a person with dementia in India, depending on the severity of the disease, ranged between INR 45,600 to INR 2,02,450 in urban areas and INR 20,300 to INR 66,025 in rural areas. Costs increased with increasing severity of the disease process. The costs of informal care contributed to nearly half of the total costs either in rural or urban area. With increasing severity, proportion of medical costs decreased while social cost increased. Medical costs in rural areas were nearly one-third of the total costs as against less than one-fifth in urban areas. Conclusion: The household budget model realistically estimated the household costs of care. It is hoped that the comprehensive and generic framework would prompt health professionals, researchers, and policy makers in India to catalyze geriatric health services, particularly for care for PwD.
Socioeconomic status affects a variety of mental and physical health outcomes, such as language development. Indeed, with poverty, disparities in the development of language processing are arguably among the most consistently found- with decreases in vocabulary, phonological awareness, and syntax at many different developmental stages. In this review, after considering basic brain systems affected by low socioeconomic status that are important for language development and related peripartum issues, we focus on two theoretical models that link poverty with the brain systems affected in language problems. The family stress model connects poverty with parental emotional distress that affects parenting, whereas the parental investment model involves a focus on basic needs that affects children's language. Understanding the mechanisms through which poverty affects the brain, parenting behaviors and language development may have implications for identification and treatment of individuals as well as social policy.

Developmental dyslexia is a disorder characterized by a specific deficit in reading despite adequate overall intelligence and educational resources. The neurological substrate underlying these significant behavioral impairments is not known. Studies of post mortem brain tissue from male and female dyslexic individuals revealed focal disruptions of neuronal migration concentrated in the left hemisphere, along with aberrant symmetry of the right and left the planum temporale, and changes in cell size distribution within the medial geniculate nucleus of the thalamus (Galaburda et al., 1985; Humphreys et al., 1990). More recent neuroimaging studies have identified several changes in the brains of dyslexic individuals, including regional changes in gray matter, changes in white matter, and changes in patterns of functional activation. In a further effort to elucidate the etiology of dyslexia, epidemiological and genetic studies have identified several candidate dyslexia susceptibility genes. Some recent work has investigated associations between some of these genetic variants and structural changes in the brain. Variants of one candidate dyslexia susceptibility gene, KIAA0319, have been linked to morphological changes in the cerebellum and functional activational changes in the superior temporal sulcus (Jamadar et al., 2011; Pinel et al., 2012). Animal models have been used to create a knockdown of Kiaa0319 (the rodent homolog of the human gene) via in utero RNA interference in order to study the gene's effects on brain development and behavior. Studies using this animal model have demonstrated that knocking down the gene leads to focal disruptions of neuronal migration in the form of ectopias and heterotopias, similar to those observed in the brains of human dyslexics. However, further changes to the structure of the brain have not been studied following this genetic disruption. The current study sought to determine the effects of embryonic Kiaa0319 knockdown on volume of the cortex and hippocampus, as well as midsagittal area of the corpus callosum in male rats. Results demonstrate that Kiaa0319 knockdown did not change the volume of the cortex or hippocampus, but did result in a significant reduction in the midsagittal area of the corpus callosum. Taken in the context of previous reports of behavioral deficits following Kiaa0319 knockdown (Szalkowski et al., 2012), and reports that reductions of corpus callosum size are related to processing deficits in humans (Paul, 2011), these results suggest that Kiaa0319 has a specific involvement in neural systems important for temporal processing.
Floctafenine, a hydroxyquinoline derivative with analgesic properties, is widely used in Thailand and many other countries. The objectives of this study were to evaluate in Thai healthy volunteers: i) the inhibition of whole blood cyclooxygenase(COX)-2 and COX-1 activity by floctafenine and its metabolite floctafenic acid in vitro and ex vivo after dosing with floctafenine; ii) the possible interference of floctafenine administration with aspirin antiplatelet effects. We performed an open-label, cross-over, 3-period study, on 11 healthy Thai volunteers, who received consecutively floctafenine(200mg/TID), low-dose aspirin(81mg/daily) or their combination for 4 days, separated by washout periods. Floctafenine and floctafenic acid resulted potent inhibitors of COX-1 and COX-2 in vitro (floctafenic acid was more potent than floctafenine) showing a slight preference for COX-1. After dosing with floctafenine alone, whole blood COX-1 and COX-2 activities were inhibited ex vivo in a time-dependent fashion which paralleled floctafenic acid plasma concentrations. Aspirin alone inhibited profoundly and persistently platelet COX-1 activity and AA-induced platelet aggregation throughout 24-h dosing interval which was affected by the co-administration of floctafenine. At 24 h after dosing with aspirin and floctafenine, the inhibition of platelet thromboxane(TX)B2 generation and aggregation were significantly(P less than 0.05) lower than that caused by aspirin alone. Therapeutic dosing with floctafenine profoundly inhibited prostanoid biosynthesis through the rapid conversion to floctafenic acid. Floctafenine interfered with the antiplatelet effect of aspirin. Our results suggest that floctafenine should be avoided in patients with cardiovascular disease under treatment with low-dose aspirin.
Parkinson's disease is a degenerative disorder of the central nervous system. The motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease result from the death of dopamine-generating cells in the substantia nigra, a region of the midbrain; the cause of this cell death is unknown. Homocysteine (Hcy) is a non-protein amino acid. It is a homologue of the amino acid cysteine. The elevated levels of homocysteine in plasma have been associated with a number of disease states. Hcy (2 mol / l) was injected intracerebroventricular (i.c.v) in rats, five days later, the locomotor activity was measured with open field apparatus, Also apoptosis was investigated in substantia nigra cells by immunohistochemical analysis. Hcy could decrease locomotor activities significantly in rats as well as it could induce apoptosis in substantia nigra cells. These results suggest that Hcy is a neurotoxic metabolite and may induce cell death in some nuclei in the brain.
The nucleus accumbens (NAc) receives converging inputs from the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and the hippocampus which have competitive interactions in the NAc to influence motivational drive. We have previously shown altered synaptic plasticity in the hippocampal-NAc pathway in the methylazoxymethanol acetate (MAM) developmental model of schizophrenia in rodents that is dependent on cortical inputs. Thus, because mPFC-hippocampal balance is known to be partially altered in this model, we investigated potential pathological changes in the hippocampal influence over cortex-driven NAc spike activity. Here we show that the reciprocal interaction between the hippocampus and mPFC is absent in MAM animals but is able to be reinstated with administration of the antipsychotic drug, sulpiride. The lack of interaction between these structures in this model could explain the attentional deficits in schizophrenia patients and shed light onto their inability to focus on a single task.
Euthanasia provokes controversies in various domains, such as the moral, ethical, legal, religious, scientific, and economic. India legalised passive euthanasia (withdrawal of life support) for patients with brain death or who are in a permanent vegetative state in 2011, but research on perceptions of euthanasia among people in India is limited. This study aimed to examine nurses' perceptions of the practice of euthanasia as well as factors influencing those perceptions. A non-probability quantitative, cross-sectional design was adopted for a sample of 214 nurses working at a tertiary care centre. Data was collected through self-reported questionnaires at the nurses workplace.The findings revealed mixed opinions on euthanasia among the nurses. However, the majority of the participants did not agree with the practice of euthanasia. Nonetheless, further research is needed on this issue across the country among various health professionals in the context of current legislation.
The Concealed Information Test (CIT) is a method of forensic psychophysiology that allows for revealing concealed crime related knowledge. Such detection is usually based on autonomic responses but there is a huge interest in other measures that can be acquired unobtrusively. Eye movements and blinks might be such measures but their validity is unclear. Using a mock crime procedure with a manipulation of the arousal during the crime as well as the delay between crime and CIT, we tested whether eye tracking measures allow for detecting concealed knowledge. Guilty participants showed fewer but longer fixations on central crime details and this effect was even present after stimulus offset and accompanied by a reduced blink rate. These ocular measures were partly sensitive for induction of emotional arousal and time of testing. Validity estimates were moderate but indicate that a significant differentiation between guilty and innocent subjects is possible. Future research should further investigate validity differences between gaze measures during a CIT and explore the underlying mechanisms.
Two auditory event-related potential (ERP) waveforms, mismatch negativity (MMN) and repetition positivity (RP), are sensitive to repetition of auditory stimuli. Increasing repetition of standards produces larger MMN amplitudes to deviant stimuli in an oddball paradigm, known as the memory trace effect, and attributed to increasing strength of the memory trace for standards. RP to standards also increases as a function of repetition in a 'roving' oddball paradigm where the standard changes in pitch following presentation of a deviant tone. As the sensory memory trace representing standard stimuli must be continually updated in the roving paradigm, RP has been proposed to reflect memory trace formation. Given that RP to date has only been observed in roving oddball paradigms, we examined whether RP and the MMN memory trace effect are present in both roving and standard oddball paradigms in 24 young adults (mean age: 22.45years). Four, 8, or 16 standards preceded a deviant. We observed RP at Fz in standard ERPs in the roving but not constant paradigm. At mastoid sites, RP was observed in both paradigms. A memory trace effect was not observed at Fz in either paradigm. Our findings suggest that different generator sites in the brain model local and global auditory information with generators of mastoid activity primarily sensitive to local or short term stimulus history of auditory regularities while generators of frontal site activity retain more global information regarding stimulus history over a longer time period.





Two red-pigmented isolates, designated RQ-33(T) and TU-13, were recovered from hot spring runoffs on the Island of So Miguel in the Azores, Portugal. These organisms have an optimum growth temperature of approximately 45 C and an optimum pH for growth between 7.5 and 8.5. Based on 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis, the novel isolates were most closely related to the type strain of Cecembia lonarensis at 96.4% pairwise similarity. Cells of the two isolates were non-motile, rod-shaped, Gram-stain-negative, strictly aerobic, and oxidase- and catalase-positive. The major fatty acids were iso-C15:0 and C15:0, phosphatidylethanolamine was the major polar lipid, and menaquinone 7 was the major respiratory quinone. Based on phylogenetic analyses, and physiological and biochemical characteristics, these isolates from the Azores represent a novel species of the genus Cecembia for which the name Cecembia calidifontis is proposed with strain RQ-33(T) (=DSM 21411(T)=LMG 24596(T)) as the type strain. The description of the genus Cecembia is also emended.
Transient ischaemic attack (TIA) if untreated carries a high risk of early stroke and is associated with poorer long-term survival. There have been recent advances in the understanding of TIA, its investigations, management and organisation of services for patient care. Clinically, patients are diagnosed TIA if they have transient sudden-onset focal neurological symptoms which usually completely and rapidly resolve by presentation. Patients with residual symptoms should be evaluated as potentially having stroke, if they present within 4.5h of onset, should be urgently evaluated for their potential eligibility for thrombolysis. TIA patients should receive rapid attention with essential investigations, including brain imaging, electrocardiograph and carotid ultrasound. Immediate administration of an antiplatelet agent is recommended after brain imaging, with subsequent attention to preventing or treating other mechanistic factors. There is emerging evidence that TIA patients can be managed safely in the outpatient setting after initial rapid management in emergency departments as part of a structured clinical pathway supervised by stroke specialists. Clinical systems of management may require approaches individualised to the healthcare setting, while adopting the central aspects of rapid management.




The objective of the present investigation was to assess the possible involvement of GABAergic mechanism in analgesic effect of aqueous extract of Origanum Vulgare (ORG) in a rat model of acute pain test. Sixty-three anaesthetized male Wistar rats (200-250 g) were cannulated into the left ventricle. Five to seven days after the recovery from surgery, ORG extract was intraventricularly injected at dose of 3 g/rat i.c.v. Then, baclofen (10 mg/Kg, IP), CGP35348 (100 nmol/Kg, i.c.v), muscimol (1 mg/Kg IP) and bicuculline (5 mg/Kg IP) were separately injected 20 min before the injection of ORG. The experimental groups were compared with intact (control) group (n = 7). The response latency of rats to thermal stimulation was recorded using Tail-Flick test. Injection of ORG extract resulted in a significant and dose-dependent increase in the response latency. There was also a significant increase in the response latency after co-administration of ORG extract with baclofen when compared with control group. However, following co-administration of ORG extract/bicuculline, a significant decrease in the response latency was observed compared to control group. In conclusion, the results of the present study suggest that aqueous extract of Origanum vulgare L. ssp. viridis possesses antinociceptive activity in a dose-dependent manner and ORG-induced antinociception might be mediated, at least in part, by both GABA receptors.
Within the brain, the reduced pteridine cofactor 6R-L-erythro-5,6,7,8-tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) is absolutely required for the synthesis of the monoamine (MA) neurotransmitters dopamine (DA), norepinephrine, epinephrine (E), and serotonin (5-HT), the novel gaseous neurotransmitter nitric oxide and the production of yet to be identified 1-O-alkylglycerol-derived lipids. GTP cyclohydrolase I (GTPCH) catalyzes the first and limiting step in the BH4 biosynthetic pathway, which is now thought to involve up to eight different proteins supporting six alternate de novo and two alternate salvage pathways. Gene expression analysis across different regions of the human brain shows the abundance of transcripts coding for all eight of these proteins to be highly correlated with each other and to be enriched within human MA neurons. The potential for multiple routes for BH4 synthesis therefore exists within the human brain. GTPCH expression is particularly heterogeneous across different populations of human and rodent MA-containing neurons, with low expression levels and therefore BH4 being a characteristic of nigrostriatal DA (NSDA) neurons. Basic knowledge of how GCH1 gene transcription is controlled within NSDA neurons may explain the distinctive susceptibility of these neurons to human genetic mutations that result in BH4 deficiency. A model for cyclic adenosine monophosphate-dependent GCH1 transcription is described that involves a unique combination of DNA regulatory sequences and transcription factors. This model proposes that low levels of GCH1 transcription within NSDA neurons are driven by their distinctive physiology, suggesting that pharmacological manipulation of GCH1 gene transcription can be used to modify BH4 levels and therefore DA synthesis in the basal ganglia.
Endophenotypes or intermediate phenotypes are of great interest in neuropsychiatric genetics because of their potential for facilitating gene discovery. We evaluated response inhibition, latency and variability measures derived from the stop task as endophenotypes of ADHD by testing whether they were related to ADHD traits in the general population, heritable and shared genetic risk with ADHD traits. Participants were 16,099 children and adolescents, ages 6 to 18years who visited a local science center. We measured ADHD traits using the Strengths and Weaknesses of ADHD-symptoms and Normal-Behavior (SWAN) rating scale and performance on the stop signal task (SST)-response inhibition (SSRT), response latency (GoRT), and response variability (GoRTSD). Regression analysis was used to assess the relationship of cognitive measures and ADHD traits while controlling for family, age, sex, ethnicity, socioeconomic status and treatment status. Heritability of ADHD and cognitive traits was estimated using SOLAR in 7,483 siblings from 3,507 families that included multiple siblings. Bivariate relationships between pairs of variables were examined. Individuals with greater ADHD trait scores had worse response inhibition, slower response latency, and greater variability. Younger participants and girls had inferior performance although the gender effects were minimal and evident in youngest participants. Inhibition, latency, variability, total ADHD traits, inattention and hyperactivity-impulsivity scores were significantly heritable. ADHD traits and inhibition, but not latency or variability were coheritable. In the largest study in the general population, we found support for the validity of response inhibition as an endophenotype of ADHD.


The present study aimed to examine the prevalence of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in survivors with low levels of risk factors for PTSD. The sample included 142 adults (58% women, 54% university education, 93% employed/students/retired) on vacation in Southeast Asia during the 2004 Indian Ocean disaster. Semi-structured clinical interviews (SCID-I) were performed after 6 years including PTSD, depression, specific phobia, and alcohol abuse. The 6-year prevalence of PTSD was 11.3% and the current prevalence was 4.2%, with onset mainly within 1 month and remission within 3 years post-disaster. Suicidal ideation and comorbidity were common in PTSD cases. Lifetime prevalence of depression was 19%, specific phobia 7%, and alcohol abuse 4%. The findings suggest elevated levels of PTSD but not other disorders as compared with general population samples, but still lower levels than other disaster samples. Despite benign circumstances, however, the course and burden of PTSD were comparable to similar studies.
Inhibition is critical in the pathways controlling the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) and plays a central role in the precision, accuracy and speed of this important vestibular-mediated compensatory eye movement. While -aminobutyric acid is the common fast inhibitory neurotransmitter in most of the VOR microcircuits, glycine is also found in key elements. For example, the omnidirectional pause neurons (OPNs) and inhibitory burst neurons in the horizontal VOR both use glycine as their preferred inhibitory neurotransmitter. Determining the precise contribution of glycine to the VOR pathway has been difficult due to the lack of selective tools; however, we used spasmodic mice that have a naturally occurring defect in the glycine receptor (GlyR) that reduces glycinergic transmission. Using this animal model, we compared the horizontal VOR in affected animals with unaffected controls. Our data showed that initial latency and initial peak velocity as well as slow-phase eye movements were unaffected by reduced glycinergic transmission. Importantly however, there were significant effects on quick-phase activity, substantially reducing their number (30-70 %), amplitude (~55 %) and peak velocity (~38 %). We suggest that the OPNs were primarily responsible for the reduced quick-phase properties, since they are part of an unmodifiable, or more 'hard-wired', microcircuit. In contrast, the effects of reduced glycinergic transmission on slow-phases were likely ameliorated by the intrinsically modifiable nature of this pathway. Our results also suggested there is a 'threshold' in GlyR-affected animals, below which the effects of reduced glycinergic transmission were undetected.
Nowadays it is widely recognized that D-amino acids are present in bacteria as well as in eukaryotes, including mammals. In particular, free D-serine and D-aspartate are found in the brain of mammals. Notably, D-aspartate occurs at substantial levels in the embryo brain to then consistently decrease at post-natal phases. Temporal regulation of D-aspartate content depends on the post-natal onset of D-aspartate oxidase expression, the only known enzyme able to catabolize this D-amino acid. Pharmacological evidence indicates that D-aspartate binds and activates NMDA receptors (NMDARs). To decipher the physiological function of D-aspartate in mammals, in the last years, genetic and pharmacological mouse models with abnormally higher levels of this D-amino acid have been generated. Overall, these animal models have pointed out a significant neuromodulatory role for D-aspartate in the regulation of NMDAR-dependent functions. Indeed, increased content of D-aspartate are able to increase hippocampal NMDAR-dependent long-term potentiation (LTP) and spatial memory of adult mice. However, if exposure to elevated levels of D-Asp lasts for the entire lifetime of mice, enhancement of synaptic plasticity turns into a dramatic worsening, thus triggering an acceleration of the NMDAR-dependent aging processes in the hippocampus. Nonetheless, administration of D-Asp to old mice can restore the physiological age-related decay of hippocampal NMDA-related LTP. Besides its effect on hippocampus-dependent processes in mouse models, different points of evidence are indicating, today, a potential role for D-Asp in neurologic and psychiatric disorders associated with aberrant signalling of NMDARs.
Alzheimers disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia and, with an aging population, poses a huge public health problem. Although a small per cent is caused by single gene changes, most AD is sporadic and unexplained. Of many modifying factors, changes in brain cholesterol homeostasis are the best studied. We present a review of the role of altered cholesterol metabolism and hypercholesterolemia in APP processing and Abeta generation. We also provide an overview of the potential pharmacological modulation of cholesterol homeostasis in the brain by cholesterol-lowering agents and beta-cyclodextrins.
Aberrant regulation of signalling pathways promoting and regulating apoptosis and autophagy contributes to the development of most human neurodegenerative diseases characterised by progressive dysfunction and death of neuronal and glial cells. Both in central and peripheral nervous systems cell death is either apoptotic or autophagic, depending on the cellular setting and the initial pathogenic cue. While some mixed phenotypes have been reported, apoptosis and autophagy tend to develop into mutually exclusive ways to such an extent that they inhibit each other. The sphingolipid ceramide is a key intracellular signalling molecule involved in many cellular processes leading to either survival or death; in most of these processes also the short-lived gaseous messenger nitric oxide (NO) plays a crucial role. The crosstalk between these two messengers and their downstream mediators has been thus extensively investigated and we now have a deep understanding of it and of its multiple feedback controls. What we provide here are details on how NO- and sphingolipid-dependent signalling and their crosstalk impact on degenerative brain diseases, in particular Alzheimers disease; we also describe how the ability of these molecules to regulate autophagy and apoptosis plays a significant role in determining the pathogenic evolution of these diseases. The evidence reported in this review suggests that targeting the NO and sphingolipid-dependent signalling pathways is worth exploiting in therapeutic perspective. In order to pursue these strategies, however, we still need to understand conclusively how the crosstalk between the NO and ceramide/sphingolipid pathways balances towards beneficial vs. toxic effects. In view of the nature of the signalling pathways involved and their multiple roles, the type of crosstalk involved is complex and intermingled with other signalling pathways.
Mitochondria play a pivotal role in a number of biochemical processes in the neuron including energy metabolism and ATP production, intracellular Ca2+ homeostasis and cell signalling which are all implicated in the regulation of neuronal excitability. For this reason, it is not surprising that alterations in mitochondrial function have emerged as a hallmark of aging and various age-related neurodegenerative diseases in which a progressive functional decline of mitochondria has been described. The evidence that mitochondria are concentrated in synapses, together with the observation that synaptic dysfunction identifies an early forerunner of a later neurodegeneration, strongly suggests that significant alterations to synaptic mitochondrial localization, number, morphology, or function can be detrimental to synaptic transmission and might characterize the early stages of many neurological diseases. Thus, the characterization of both molecular players and pathway involved in mitochondria dysfunction will provide new chances to identify pharmacological target for new mitochondria-based drugs aimed at interrupting or slowing down pathological processes and/or ameliorating symptoms of neurological disorders. In this review we provide a current view on the role of mitochondria for neuronal function and how mitochondrial functions impinge on neurological diseases.
Knee osteoarthritis is a major cause of disability in the elderly. Many therapies are nowadays available, ranging from non-pharmacologic to pharmacological approaches like visco-supplementation, oral supplements or topical treatments, but a flawless treatment is still to be found. Visco-supplementation represents a valid treatment option for reducing pain associated with knee osteoarthritis and improving function in the affected joint. Many literature data report on the efficacy and safety profiles of hyaluronic acid in knee osteoarthritis, however the efficacy of intra-articular hyaluronic acid remains controversial, in fact while several clinical trials claimed a disease-modifying effect for hyaluronic acid, subsequent meta-analyses have cast doubts on this fact. The ideal intra-articular treatment for osteoarthritis should not only provide a mechanical protection of the cartilage surface, but also restore condrocytes homeostasis by restoring the physiological articular micro-environment and supplying nutrients. In this perspective an innovative medical product made up of polynucleotides (Condrotide) has been developed. The aim of this study is to test the 2-months efficacy in pain relief and improving function of intra-articular injections of Condrotide in patients with knee osteoarthritis or with grade III or IV chondropathy. Ninety-five subjects (33 men, 62 women), aged between 53 and 80, were included between May 2011 to July 2012. All subjects received intra-articular injections of Condrotide and were evaluated with the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS), the NRS scale for pain assessment, the measurement of the range of motion (R.O.M.). In all subjects a significant improvement was found in KOOS score after 60 days. The mean global NRS pain decreased in both groups and there was also a R.O.M. improvement. These results show that the intra-articular administration of nucleotides in subjects with both severe knee arthritis and chondropathy can be recommended since is able to reverse in the short and medium term symptoms and function with a significant improvement in quality of life.
Leptin signaling is required for normal bone homeostasis; however, loss of leptin results in differing effects on cortical and cancellous bone, as well as altered responses between the axial and appendicular regions. Local -adrenergic actions are responsible for the greater cancellous bone volume in leptin-deficient (ob/ob) mice; however, the mechanism responsible for the opposing reduction in cortical bone in ob/ob mice is not known. Here we show that blocking the leptin-deficient increase in neuropeptide Y (NPY) expression reverses the cortical bone loss in ob/ob mice. Mice null for both NPY and leptin (NPY(-/-) ob/ob), display greater cortical bone mass in both long-bones and vertebra, with NPY(-/-) ob/ob mice exhibiting thicker and denser cortical bone, associated with greater endocortical and periosteal mineral apposition rate (MAR), compared to ob/ob animals. Importantly, these cortical changes occurred without significant increases in body weight, with NPY(-/-) ob/ob mice showing significantly reduced adiposity compared to ob/ob controls, most likely due to the reduced respiratory exchange ratio seen in these animals. Interestingly, cancellous bone volume was not different between NPY(-/-) ob/ob and ob/ob, suggesting that NPY is not influencing the adrenergic axis. Taken together, this work demonstrates the critical role of NPY signaling in the regulation of bone and energy homeostasis, and more importantly, suggests that reduced leptin levels or leptin resistance, which occurs in obesity, could potentially inhibit cortical bone formation via increased central NPY signaling.
Numerous studies have reported that Vpr alters NF-B signaling in various cell types, however, the findings have been largely conflicting with reports of both stimulatory and inhibitory effects of Vpr. Our aim was to investigate the role of Vpr signaling in myeloid cells using an adenovirus based expression and indicator system. Our results show that Vpr is inhibitory to NF-B, however, this effect is dependent on the particular manner of NF-B stimulation. Consistent with this notion, we report that Vpr has inhibitory effects that are specific to the TNF- pathway, but not affecting the LPS pathway, suggesting that differential targets of Vpr may exist for NF-B regulation. Further, we identify VprBP as one possible cellular component of Vpr's regulation of IB in response to TNF- stimulation. We did not identify such a role for HSP27, which instead seems to inhibit Vpr functions. Chronically HIV-1 infected U1 cells with knockdown constructs for Vpr were unexpectedly less responsive to TNF- mediated viral replication, perhaps suggesting that other HIV-1 components may antagonize these anti-NF-B effects in infected cells. We hypothesize that Vpr may serve an important role in the context of viral infection and immune function in vivo, through its selective inhibition of NF-B pathways.

This study investigated relationships between attachment insecurity, maladaptive cognitive schemas, and various types of psychopathological symptoms in a sample of clinically referred adolescents (N=82). A mediation model was tested in which maladaptive schemas operated as mediators in the relations between indices of attachment quality and conduct, peer, and emotional problems. Results revealed partial support for the hypothesized mediation effect: the schema domain of disconnection/rejection acted as a mediator in the links between insecure attachment and peer problems and emotional problems. Further analysis of these effects revealed that different types of maladaptive schemas were involved in both types of psychopathology. Altogether, findings suggest that treatment of adolescent psychological problems may need to target the improvement of attachment relationships with peers and parents and the correction of underlying cognitive schemas.


Maple syrup urine disease (MSUD) is an inherited disorder of branched chain amino acid metabolism presenting with neonatal encephalopathy, episodic metabolic decompensation, and chronic amino acid imbalances. Dietary management enables survival and reduces risk of acute crises. Liver transplantation has emerged as an effective way to eliminate acute decompensation risk. Psychiatric illness is a reported MSUD complication, but has not been well characterized and remains poorly understood. We report the prevalence and characteristics of neuropsychiatric problems among 37 classical MSUD patients (ages 5-35 years, 26 on dietary therapy, 11 after liver transplantation) and explore their underlying mechanisms. Compared with 26 age-matched controls, MSUD patients were at higher risk for disorders of cognition, attention, and mood. Using quantitative proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy, we found lower brain glutamate, N-acetylaspartate (NAA), and creatine concentrations in MSUD patients, which correlated with specific neuropsychiatric outcomes. Asymptomatic neonatal course and stringent longitudinal biochemical control proved fundamental to optimizing long-term mental health. Neuropsychiatric morbidity and neurochemistry were similar among transplanted and nontransplanted MSUD patients. In conclusion, amino acid dysregulation results in aberrant neural networks with neurochemical deficiencies that persist after transplant and correlate with neuropsychiatric morbidities. These findings may provide insight into general mechanisms of psychiatric illness.
The development of hyperexcitability in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a well-known phenomenon. Despite controversy as to the underlying mechanisms, cortical hyperexcitability appears to be closely related to the interplay between excitatory corticomotoneurons and inhibitory interneurons. Hyperexcitability is not a static phenomenon but rather shows a pattern of progression in a spatiotemporal aspect. Cortical hyperexcitability may serve as a trigger to the development of anterior horn cell degeneration through a 'dying forward' process. Hyperexcitability appears to develop during the early disease stages and gradually disappears in the advanced stages of the disease, linked to the destruction of corticomotorneuronal pathways. As such, a more precise interpretation of these unique processes may provide new insight regarding the pathophysiology of ALS and its clinical features. Recently developed technologies such as threshold tracking transcranial magnetic stimulation and automated nerve excitability tests have provided some clues about underlying pathophysiological processes linked to hyperexcitability. Additionally, these novel techniques have enabled clinicians to use the specific finding of hyperexcitability as a useful diagnostic biomarker, enabling clarification of various ALS-mimic syndromes, and the prediction of disease development in pre-symptomatic carriers of familial ALS. In terms of nerve excitability tests for peripheral nerves, an increase in persistent Na(+) conductances has been identified as a major determinant of peripheral hyperexcitability in ALS, inversely correlated with the survival in ALS. As such, the present Review will focus primarily on the puzzling theory of hyperexcitability in ALS and summarize clinical and pathophysiological implications for current and future ALS research.



Limb amputation and related changes in body feelings are associated with cortical functional reorganization that is reflected by increased interhemispheric asymmetry of body maps in the postcentral somatosensory cortex (PCS). As a pilot test to determine if limb amputation affects interhemispheric symmetry in PCS structure, we used MRI and computational morphometry to examine interhemispheric relationships of PCS thicknesses in a case series of eight lower limb amputees compared with 11 control subjects. As a further control, the same relationships were compared in the lateral occipital visual cortex (LOV) which, by nature of its visual connectivity, would be expected to be less related to amputation. The PCS thicknesses in the left and right hemispheres were positively related in control subjects, but not in amputees. The range of the PCS interhemispheric thickness differences (ID) in amputees was larger than the range in control subjects, and four of eight amputees had PCS ID that were at or above the maximal control subject ID. In contrast, LOV thicknesses in the two hemispheres were positively related and LOV ID ranges were similar in both amputees and control subjects. The results from this case series suggest the hypothesis that amputation alters PCS interhemispheric thickness relationships in some amputees. Further tests of this hypothesis would be useful to determine whether changes in structural symmetry contribute to known post-amputation alterations in PCS functional map symmetry and body feeling.

What is known and Objective: Cannabis withdrawal in heavy users is commonly followed by increased anxiety, insomnia, loss of appetite, migraine, irritability, restlessness and other physical and psychological signs. Tolerance to cannabis and cannabis withdrawal symptoms are believed to be the result of the desensitization of CB1 receptors by THC. Case summary: This report describes the case of a 19-year-old woman with cannabis withdrawal syndrome treated with cannabidiol (CBD) for 10days. Daily symptom assessments demonstrated the absence of significant withdrawal, anxiety and dissociative symptoms during the treatment. What is new and Conclusion: CBD can be effective for the treatment of cannabis withdrawal syndrome.

Neuroimaging work on multisensory conflict suggests that the relevant modality receives enhanced processing in the face of incongruency. However, the degree of stimulus processing in the irrelevant modality and the temporal cascade of the attentional modulations in either the relevant or irrelevant modalities are unknown. Here, we employed an audiovisual conflict paradigm with a sensory probe in the task-irrelevant modality (vision) to gauge the attentional allocation to that modality. ERPs were recorded as participants attended to and discriminated spoken auditory letters while ignoring simultaneous bilateral visual letter stimuli that were either fully congruent, fully incongruent, or partially incongruent (one side incongruent, one congruent) with the auditory stimulation. Half of the audiovisual letter stimuli were followed 500-700 msec later by a bilateral visual probe stimulus. As expected, ERPs to the audiovisual stimuli showed an incongruency ERP effect (fully incongruent versus fully congruent) of an enhanced, centrally distributed, negative-polarity wave starting 250 msec. More critically here, the sensory ERP components to the visual probes were larger when they followed fully incongruent versus fully congruent multisensory stimuli, with these enhancements greatest on fully incongruent trials with the slowest RTs. In addition, on the slowest-response partially incongruent trials, the P2 sensory component to the visual probes was larger contralateral to the preceding incongruent visual stimulus. These data suggest that, in response to conflicting multisensory stimulus input, the initial cognitive effect is a capture of attention by the incongruent irrelevant-modality input, pulling neural processing resources toward that modality, resulting in rapid enhancement, rather than rapid suppression, of that input.
Aerobic fitness is associated with better memory performance as well as larger volumes in memory-related brain regions in children, adolescents, and elderly. It is unclear if aerobic exercise also influences learning and memory functional neural circuitry. Here, we examine brain activity in 17 high-fit (HF) and 17 low-fit (LF) adolescents during a subsequent memory encoding paradigm using fMRI. Despite similar memory performance, HF and LF youth displayed a number of differences in memory-related and default mode (DMN) brain regions during encoding later remembered versus forgotten word pairs. Specifically, HF youth displayed robust deactivation in DMN areas, including the ventral medial PFC and posterior cingulate cortex, whereas LF youth did not show this pattern. Furthermore, LF youth showed greater bilateral hippocampal and right superior frontal gyrus activation during encoding of later remembered versus forgotten word pairs. Follow-up task-dependent functional correlational analyses showed differences in hippocampus and DMN activity coupling during successful encoding between the groups, suggesting aerobic fitness during adolescents may impact functional connectivity of the hippocampus and DMN during memory encoding. To our knowledge, this study is the first to examine the influence of aerobic fitness on hippocampal function and memory-related neural circuitry using fMRI. Taken together with previous research, these findings suggest aerobic fitness can influence not only memory-related brain structure, but also brain function.
Neural adaptation, a reduction in the response to a maintained stimulus, is an important mechanism for detecting stimulus change. Contributing to change detection is the fact that adaptation is often stimulus specific: adaptation to a particular stimulus reduces excitability to a specific subset of stimuli, while the ability to respond to other stimuli is unaffected. Phasic cells (e.g., cells responding to stimulus onset) are good candidates for detecting the most rapid changes in natural auditory scenes, as they exhibit fast and complete adaptation to an initial stimulus presentation. We made recordings of single phasic auditory units in the frog midbrain to determine if adaptation was specific to stimulus frequency and ear of input. In response to an instantaneous frequency step in a tone, 28% of phasic cells exhibited frequency specific adaptation based on a relative frequency change (delta-f=16%). Frequency specific adaptation was not limited to frequency steps, however, as adaptation was also overcome during continuous frequency modulated stimuli and in response to spectral transients interrupting tones. The results suggest that adaptation is separated for peripheral (e.g., frequency) channels. This was tested directly using dichotic stimuli. In 45% of binaural phasic units, adaptation was ear specific: adaptation to stimulation of one ear did not affect responses to stimulation of the other ear. Thus, adaptation exhibited specificity for stimulus frequency and lateralization at the level of the midbrain. This mechanism could be employed to detect rapid stimulus change within and between sound sources in complex acoustic environments.
Inference of functional networks-representing the statistical associations between time series recorded from multiple sensors-has found important applications in neuroscience. However, networksexhibiting time-locked activity between physically independent elements can bias functional connectivity estimates employing passive measurements. Here, a perturbative and adaptive method of inferring network connectivity based on measurement and stimulation-so called &quot;evoked network connectivity&quot; is introduced. This procedure, employing a recursive Bayesian update scheme, allows principled network stimulation given a current network estimate inferred from all previous stimulations and recordings. The method decouples stimulus and detector design from network inference and can be suitably applied to a wide range of clinical and basic neuroscience related problems. The proposed method demonstrates improved accuracy compared to network inference based on passive observation of node dynamics and an increased rate of convergence relative to network estimation employing a nave stimulation strategy.


Diverging results have been reported regarding the modulation and amplitude of the soleus H-reflex measured during human walking and running. A possible explanation to this could be the use of too high stimulus strength in some studies while not in others. During activities like walking and running it is necessary to use a small M-wave to control the effective stimulus strength during all phases of the movement. This implies that the descending part of the H-reflex recruitment curve is being used, which may lead to an unwanted suppression of the H-reflex due to limitations imbedded within the H-reflex methodology itself. Accordingly, the purpose of the present study was to study the effect on the soleus H-reflex during walking and running using stimulus intensities normally considered too high (up to 45% Mmax). Using M-waves of 25-45% Mmax as opposed to 5-25% Mmax showed a significant suppression of the peak H-reflex during the stance phase of walking, while no changes were observed during running. No differences were observed regarding modulation pattern. So a possible use of too high stimulus intensity cannot explain the differences mentioned. The surprising result in running may be explained by the much higher voluntary muscle activity, which implies the existence of a V-wave influencing the H-reflex amplitude in positive direction.
Community-Based Participatory research (CBPR) introduces new ethical challenges for HIV prevention studies in low-resource international settings. We describe a CBPR study in rural Kenya to develop and pilot a family-based HIV prevention and mental health promotion intervention. Academic partners (APs) worked with a community advisory committee (CAC) during formative research, intervention development, and a pilot trial. Ethical challenges emerged related to: negotiating power imbalances between APs and the CAC; CAC members' shifting roles as part of the CAC and wider community; and anticipated challenges in decision making about sustainability. Factors contributing to ethical dilemmas included low access to education, scarcity of financial resources, and the shortage of HIV-related services despite high prevalence.

Many joint decisions in everyday life (e.g., Which bar is less crowded?) depend on approximate enumeration, but very little is known about the psychological characteristics of counting together. Here we systematically investigated collective approximate enumeration. Pairs of participants made individual and collective enumeration judgments in a 2-alternative forced-choice task and when in disagreement, they negotiated joint decisions via verbal communication and received feedback about accuracy at the end of each trial. The results showed that two people could collectively count better than either one alone, but not as well as expected by previous models of collective sensory decision making in more basic perceptual domains (e.g., luminance contrast). Moreover, such collective enumeration benefited from prior, noninteractive practice showing that social learning of how to combine shared information about enumeration required substantial individual experience. Finally, the collective context had a positive but transient impact on an individual's enumeration sensitivity. This transient social influence may be explained as a motivational factor arising from the fact that members of a collective must take responsibility for their individual decisions and face the consequences of their judgments.
Although parent management training (PMT) is generally considered the treatment of choice for children with conduct problems, some specific adaptations might be essential for various subgroups of parents or children to benefit well from PMT. The aim of this study was to examine the influence of child callous-unemotional (CU) traits on the outcome of an Internet-based PMT program for parents of children with conduct problems (n = 57; mean age 6.65). Within a randomized controlled trial of PMT, children assigned to the intervention group were categorized and compared as either &quot;high-CU&quot; (n = 8) or &quot;low-CU&quot; (n = 49) based on a cut-off score on the CU subscale of the Antisocial Process Screening Device (APSD; Frick &amp; Hare, 2001). CU traits in children were associated with more severe conduct problems at baseline, as well as more hyperactivity and peer-related problems. Treatment outcome, in terms of conduct-problem reduction, was poor in the high-CU group compared with the low-CU group, despite the fact that parents in both groups improved equally in parenting skills. The same pattern of results emerged after controlling for initial difficulties of conduct problems and other pretreatment differences between the groups. Elevated levels of CU traits in children seem to contribute to an inferior treatment response in PMT. These findings call for more attention on empathy and emotional patterns in the assessment of children with conduct problems.
Cyclic nucleotide-gated (CNG) channels in retinal photoreceptors play a crucial role in vertebrate phototransduction. The ligand sensitivity of photoreceptor CNG channels is adjusted during adaptation and in response to paracrine signals, but the mechanisms involved in channel regulation are only partly understood. Heteromeric cone CNGA3 (A3) + CNGB3 (B3) channels are inhibited by membrane phosphoinositides (PIP(n)), including phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-triphosphate (PIP(3)) and phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP(2)), demonstrating a decrease in apparent affinity for cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP). Unlike homomeric A1 or A2 channels, A3-only channels paradoxically did not show a decrease in apparent affinity for cGMP after PIP(n) application. However, PIP(n) induced an 2.5-fold increase in cAMP efficacy for A3 channels. The PIP(n)-dependent change in cAMP efficacy was abolished by mutations in the C-terminal region (R643Q/R646Q) or by truncation distal to the cyclic nucleotide-binding domain (613X). In addition, A3-613X unmasked a threefold decrease in apparent cGMP affinity with PIP(n) application to homomeric channels, and this effect was dependent on conserved arginines within the N-terminal region of A3. Together, these results indicate that regulation of A3 subunits by phosphoinositides exhibits two separable components, which depend on structural elements within the N- and C-terminal regions, respectively. Furthermore, both N and C regulatory modules in A3 supported PIP(n) regulation of heteromeric A3+B3 channels. B3 subunits were not sufficient to confer PIP(n) sensitivity to heteromeric channels formed with PIP(n)-insensitive A subunits. Finally, channels formed by mixtures of PIP(n)-insensitive A3 subunits, having complementary mutations in N- and/or C-terminal regions, restored PIP(n) regulation, implying that intersubunit N-C interactions help control the phosphoinositide sensitivity of cone CNG channels.
Actoprotectors are preparations that increase the mental performance and enhance body stability against physical loads without increasing oxygen consumption. Actoprotectors are regarded as a subclass of adaptogens that hold a significant capacity to increase physical performance. The focus of this article is studying adaptogen herbs of genus Panax (P. ginseng in particular) and their capabilities as actoprotectors. Some animal experiments and human studies about actoprotective properties of genus Panax attest that P. ginseng (administered as an extract) significantly increased the physical and intellectual work capacities, and the data provided suggests that ginseng is a natural source of actoprotectors. Preparations of ginseng can be regarded as potential actoprotectors which give way to further research of its influence on physical and mental work capacity, endurance and restoration after exhaustive physical loads while compared with reference actoprotectors.

Risk-taking behavior and impulsivity are core features of bipolar disorder. Whether they are part of the inherited aspect of the illness is not clear. We aimed to evaluate risk-taking behavior as a potential endophenotype for bipolar disorders, and its relationship with impulsivity and illness features. The Balloon Analogue Risk Task (BART) and Barratt Impulsiveness Scale-11 (BIS-11) were used to assess risk-taking behavior and impulsivity respectively in 30 euthymic bipolar I patients (BD), their 25 asymptomatic first-degree relatives (BD-R), and 30 healthy controls (HC). The primary BART outcome measure was the behavioral adjustment score (number of pumps after trials where the balloon did not pop minus the number of pumps after trials where the balloon popped). BD (p &lt; .001) and BD-R (p = .001) had similar and significantly lower adjustment scores than HC. Only BD scored significantly higher on BIS-11 total (p = .01) and motor (p = .04) subscales than HC. Neither the BART, nor impulsivity scores associated with illness features. A limitation of this study is medicated patients and a heterogeneous BD-R were included. Riskiness may be a candidate endophenotype for bipolar disorder as it appears independently from illness features, presents similarly in BD and BD-R groups and differs from impulsivity.
Recognition of negative emotions is impaired in behavioral-variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD). Less is known about the identification of positive emotions. One limitation likely arises from the stimulus sets used in previous studies. The widely used Ekman 60 Faces Test, for example, consists of four negative emotions (anger, fear, disgust and sadness) but only one positive emotion (happiness). Here, patients with bvFTD (n = 9), AD (n = 9), and controls (n = 15) recognized a range of experimentally-validated positive and negative non-verbal vocalizations (e.g., cheers for triumph; retching for disgust) that have recently become available. The bvFTD group was impaired in the recognition of both positive and negative vocalizations. In contrast, performance in the AD cohort was comparable to that of controls. Findings in the bvFTD group point to a global emotion recognition deficit in this syndrome. These results are consistent with a growing body of research showing that deficits also extend to positive emotions.
Memory deficits and hippocampal abnormalities have been described in individuals with thyroid hormone (TH) insufficiencies; however, no study has yet examined their autobiographical memory (AM) abilities, which are known to be compromised by hippocampal damage. Investigations in adults have shown that AM consists of both episodic and semantic components and that the hippocampus is preferentially involved in episodic AM. The present study used the Children's Autobiographical Interview (CAI) to study episodic and semantic AM in 79 children aged 9 to 14 years, including 26 with early-treated congenital hypothyroidism (CH), 23 born to women with inadequately treated hypothyroidism during pregnancy (HYPO), and 30 typically developing controls. Results showed that relative to controls, CH and HYPO groups both exhibited weaknesses in episodic AM, but not semantic AM. In particular, CH and HYPO groups showed difficulty in recalling event details (i.e., the main happenings) and visual details from past experiences. Overall, this study highlights the importance of TH for early neurodevelopment and provides critical new insight into the effects of early treated TH deficiency on long-term memory performance. Furthermore, the present study indicates that the CAI is an effective tool for investigating episodic AM impairment in clinical pediatric populations.
The recent advancement of simultaneous multi-slice imaging using multiband excitation has dramatically reduced the scan time of the brain. The evolution of this parallel imaging technique began over a decade ago and through recent sequence improvements has reduced the acquisition time of multi-slice EPI by over ten fold. This technique has recently become extremely useful for (i) functional MRI studies improving the statistical definition of neuronal networks, and (ii) diffusion based fiber tractography to visualize structural connections in the human brain. Several applications and evaluations are underway which show promise for this family of fast imaging sequences.
Multi-modal MR-PET-EEG data acquisition in simultaneous mode confers a number of advantages at 3 T and 9.4 T. The three modalities complement each other well; structural-functional imaging being the domain of MRI, molecular imaging with specific tracers is the strength of PET, and EEG provides a temporal dimension where the other two modalities are weak. The utility of hybrid MR-PET at 3 T in a clinical setting is presented and critically discussed. The potential problems and the putative gains to be accrued from hybrid imaging at 9.4 T, with examples from the human brain, are outlined. Steps on the road to 9.4 T multi-modal MR-PET-EEG are also illustrated. From an MR perspective, the potential for ultra-high resolution structural imaging is discussed and example images of the cerebellum with an isotropic resolution of 320 m are presented, setting the stage for hybrid imaging at ultra-high field. Further, metabolic imaging is discussed and high-resolution images of the sodium distribution are presented. Examples of tumour imaging on a 3 T MR-PET system are presented and discussed. Finally, the perspectives for multi-modal imaging are discussed based on two on-going studies, the first comparing MR and PET methods for the measurement of perfusion and the second which looks at tumour delineation based on MRI contrasts but the knowledge of tumour extent is based on simultaneously acquired PET data.
Hormonal systems are major regulators of metabolic and cognitive function and many of these, including the critical stress-responsive hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, release their constituent hormones in a circadian manner. This circadian rhythmicity is made up from an underlying approximate hourly ultradian rhythm. In order to understand the importance of both circadian and ultradian rhythms in man it is important to be able to carry out multiple sampling studies over extended periods in a subject's home setting, which is the most meaningful physiological setting for homeostatically important hormones. This study has developed a novel automated sampling system that, when used in combination with a microdialysis system, collects timed samples of microdialysis fluid over a full 24h in individuals going about their normal everyday activity. The apparatus has the capacity to provide sufficient sample volumes to measure changes in hormone concentration over 24h, including the important period when subjects are asleep.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that affects more than five million Americans and is characterized by a progressive loss of memory, loss of cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain, formation of amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles, and an increase in oxidative stress. Recent studies indicate that dietary supplements of antioxidants and omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids may reduce the cognitive deficits in AD patients. The current study tested a combinatorial treatment of antioxidants from tart cherry extract and essential fatty acids from Nordic fish and emu oils for reducing cognitive deficits in the mu-p75 saporin (SAP)-induced mouse model of AD. Mice were given daily gavage treatments of Cerise() Total-Body-Rhythm (TBR; containing tart cherry extract, Nordic fish oil, and refined emu oil) or vehicle (methylcellulose) for 2 weeks before intracerebroventricular injections of the cholinergic toxin, mu-p75 SAP, or phosphate-buffered saline. The TBR treatments continued for an additional 17 days, when the mice were tested on a battery of cognitive and motor tasks. Results indicate that TBR decreased the SAP-induced cognitive deficits assessed by the object-recognition, place-recognition, and Morris-water-maze tasks. Histological examination of the brain tissue indicated that TBR protected against SAP-induced inflammatory response and loss of cholinergic neurons in the area around the medial septum. These findings indicate that TBR has the potential to serve as an adjunctive treatment which may help reduce the severity of cognitive deficits in disorders involving cholinergic deficits, such as AD.

Mutations in the genes encoding leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) and -synuclein are associated with both autosomal dominant and idiopathic forms of Parkinson's disease (PD). -Synuclein is the main protein in Lewy bodies, hallmark inclusions present in both sporadic and familial PD. We show that in PD brain tissue, the levels of LRRK2 are positively related to the increase in -synuclein phosphorylation and aggregation in affected brain regions (amygdala and anterior cingulate cortex), but not in the unaffected visual cortex. In disease-affected regions, we show co-localization of these two proteins in neurons and Lewy body inclusions. Further, in vitro experiments show a molecular interaction between -synuclein and LRRK2 under endogenous and over-expression conditions. In a cell culture model of -synuclein inclusion formation, LRRK2 co-localizes with the -synuclein inclusions, and knocking down LRRK2 increases the number of smaller inclusions. In addition to providing strong evidence for an interaction between LRRK2 and -synuclein, our results shed light on the complex relationship between these two proteins in the brains of patients with PD and the underlying molecular mechanisms of the disease.
Research involving military service members has shown a strong relationship between combat experiences and increased risk for posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and other mental health problems. Comparatively little research has examined the relationship between combat experiences, PTSD, aggression, and unethical conduct on the battlefield, although news stories sometimes suggest links between unethical conduct and disorders such as PTSD. This study systematically examined whether unethical conduct is a proxy for aggression and whether specific combat experiences and PTSD are independently associated with unethical behavior. The results of this study indicate that aggression ( = 0.30) and specific combat experiences (particularly, witnessing war atrocities [ = 0.14] and fighting [ = 0.13]) are much more strongly associated with unethical conduct than is PTSD ( = 0.04).


Neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) are common clinical features of Parkinson's disease (PD). However, NPS profiles in PD subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) have scarcely been investigated. We aimed to describe the NPS profiles of non-demented PD subjects with and without MCI. A total of 410 non-demented PD subjects were included. Of these, 164 were cognitively normal PD subjects (PD-cn), 142 PD had amnestic MCI (PD-aMCI), and 104 had PD with non-amnestic MCI (PD-naMCI). NPS were evaluated in accordance with the Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI). PD-aMCI subjects revealed the highest NPS burden, followed by PD-naMCI and then PD-cn. Overall, the most common NPS in PD-MCI were in order: depression, sleep disturbance, anxiety and apathy. Irritability was significantly associated with PD-aMCI and PD-naMCI. Prospective studies are required to evaluate the significance, clinical correlates and prognostic role of NPS in subject with PD-MCI.
Pain occurring in Parkinson's disease (PD) may affect a large proportion of patients. Based on the results of the methodologically more robust case-control studies that detected a significantly greater frequency of pain in PD patients than in control subjects, pain should now be considered as a non-motor symptom of PD. The heterogeneous quality of pain, the variable relationship of pain with parkinsonian motor signs, and the mixed response of pain to dopaminergic drugs suggest complex mechanisms for pain in PD. Some evidence raises the possibility of common mechanisms shared by pain patients, regardless of the clinical heterogeneity of pain and its variable relationship with motor signs.
Aging is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD) and is associated with cognitive decline. However, underlying molecular mechanisms of brain aging are not clear. Recent studies suggest epigenetic influences on gene expression in AD, as DNA methylation levels influence protein and mRNA expression in postmortem AD brain. We hypothesized that some of these changes occur with normal aging. To test this hypothesis, we measured markers of the arachidonic acid (AA) cascade, neuroinflammation, pro- and anti-apoptosis factors, and gene specific epigenetic modifications in postmortem frontal cortex from nine middle-aged [41  1 (SEM) years] and 10 aged subjects (70  3 years). The aged compared with middle-aged brain showed elevated levels of neuroinflammatory and AA cascade markers, altered pro and anti-apoptosis factors and loss of synaptophysin. Some of these changes correlated with promoter hypermethylation of brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), cyclic AMP responsive element binding protein (CREB), and synaptophysin and hypomethylation of BCL-2 associated X protein (BAX). These molecular alterations in aging are different from or more subtle than changes associated with AD pathology. The degree to which they are related to changes in cognition or behavior during normal aging remains to be evaluated.
The 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin, 5-HT) type 3 (5-HT3) receptor belongs to the superfamily of Cys-loop ligand-gated ion channels, and can be either homopentameric (5-HT3A) or heteropentameric (5-HT3AB) receptor. Several modulators are known, which either inhibit or potentiate this channel, but few have any appreciable selectivity between the two subtypes or can modulate one receptor differently to the other. In this study, we show that the anticancer drug, topotecan, bidirectionally modulates the 5-HT3 receptor using a two-electrode voltage clamp technique. Topotecan inhibited 5-HT-gated current through homomeric 5-HT3A receptors. Interestingly, however, additional expression of the 5-HT3B subunit changed the response to topotecan dramatically from an inhibitory to a potentiatory one. This effect was dependent on the level of 5-HT3B subunit expression. Moreover, the effect was reduced in the receptors containing the 5-HT3B(Y129S) polymorphic variant. These finding could explain individual differences in the sensitivity to topotecan-induced nausea and vomiting.
In the male brain, the medial preoptic nucleus (POM) is known to be a critical relay for the activation of sexual behaviour, with the aromatisation of testosterone into 17-oestradiol (E2 ) playing a key role. Acute stress has been shown to differentially modulate the aromatase enzyme in this and other brain nuclei in a sex-specific manner. In POM specifically, stress induces increases in aromatase activity (AA) that are both rapid and reversible. How the physiological processes initiated during an acute stress response mediate sex- and nuclei- specific changes in AA and which stress response hormones are involved remains to be determined. By examining the relative effects of corticosterone (CORT), arginine vasotocin (AVT, the avian homologue to arginine vasopressin) and corticotrophin-releasing factor (CRF), the present study aimed to define the hormone profile regulating stress-induced increases in AA in the POM. We found that CORT, AVT and CRF all appear to play some role in these changes in the male brain. In addition, these effects occur in a targeted manner, such that modulation of the enzyme by these hormones only occurs in the POM rather than in all aromatase-expressing nuclei. Similarly, in the female brain, the experimental effects were restricted to the POM but only CRF was capable of inducing the stress-like increases in AA. These data further demonstrate the high degree of specificity (nuclei-, sex- and hormone-specific effects) in this system, highlighting the complexity of the stress-aromatase link and suggesting modes through which the nongenomic modulation of this enzyme can result in targeted, rapid changes in local oestrogen concentrations.

Visual hallucinations (VHs) can be associated with a variety of clinical conditions, and are also experienced by healthy people due to visual impairment. The condition is known as Charles Bonnet Syndrome (CBS). The circumstances favoring VHs support the hypothesis that sensory deprivation enhances the ongoing activity of the visual system after sensory loss. Clinician should be aware that a significant proportion of visually impaired patients experience complex VHs, which are sometimes distressing. Herein, we report two cases of CBS. Case 1 is a 60-year-old man with visual impairment due to orbit pseudotumor in autoimmune hypothyroidism. Case 2 is an 87-year-old woman with Parkinson's disease and a 15-year history of intermittent complex VHs due to age-related macular degeneration in both eyes. In both cases investigations for alternative pathological causes of VHs were negative and, therefore, the aetiology of hallucinations was attributed to CBS. The course and treatment of CBS patients vary according to the nature of the visual dysfunction. Drug treatments remain partially satisfactory, with individual cases successfully treated with atypical antipsychotics. Nonpharmacological interventions aimed to reduce the visual pathway deprivation. Reassurance of the benign nature of CBS is essential to support patients and reduce caregiver's burden.
Factors modifying the clinical penetrance of DYT1 dystonia are incompletely defined. Particularly, the contribution of extragenetic factors has been subject to only limited investigation and remains largely unexplored. A possible effect of childhood infections has been proposed, and the effect of other factors, such as perinatal adversity and trauma, has not been systematically investigated. We performed an exploratory analysis of the exposure to perinatal adversity, childhood infections, general anaesthesia and trauma comparing 39 manifesting carriers of the GAG mutation, 23 non-manifesting carriers and 48 non-carriers from a multi-centre European series of 28 families with DYT1 dystonia, by means of a self-completed questionnaire and clinical interview. Detailed information on perinatal adversities (pre-term birth, complications at natural delivery, urgent caesarean section), previous childhood infections, and prior general anaesthesia or physical trauma was recorded. A positive association between a history of complications of vaginal delivery and manifestation of dystonia was detected, which was not confounded by age, gender, or education level (odds ratio 8.47, 95 % confidence interval 1.45-49.4, p = 0.02). We could not observe any significant association between presence of dystonia and the other investigated variables. Comparing non-manifesting carriers to non-carriers, the presence of the GAG mutation per se was not associated with any of the environmental exposures explored. Perinatal adversities might modulate the clinical penetrance of DYT1 dystonia; their interaction with known genetic factors modifying penetrance of this condition should be investigated in new, larger collaborative studies.
Dopamine transporter imaging is typically abnormal in Parkinson's disease and shows reduced striatal uptake, which is typically greater contralateral to the clinically more affected side. However, tremor-dominant Parkinson's disease patients may have significantly lower uptake in the striatum ipsilateral to the rest-tremor compared to akinetic-rigid PD patients, implying a possible role of an ipsilateral deficit in the generation of rest-tremor.We report here three patients with rest-tremor and the unexpected finding of an ipsilateral presynaptic dopaminergic deficit with normal uptake contralateral to the rest-tremor in dopamine transporter imaging. We divided them in two groups, with and without a corresponding structural lesion in brain imaging. These data may suggest a role of ipsilateral dopaminergic deficit in the generation of rest-tremor. An explanation of these findings could be damage of crossed dopaminergic fibres from the substantia nigra to thalamus, which can cause motor impairment ipsilateral to dopamine depletion experimentally. This is speculative but there is no doubt that these cases exist and we encourage others to report similar cases, as this may assist in the better understanding of the yet unknown pathophysiology of rest-tremor.
To identify the relationship between pathologic electroencephalographic (EEG) patterns, clinical and neuroradiological abnormalities, and outcome in hospitalized patients with acute encephalopathy. This 5-year cohort study was performed at an academic tertiary care center. EEGs in 154 patients with altered mental status were classified according to five predefined patterns: Isolated continuous slowing of background activity (theta, theta/delta, and delta activity) and patterns with slowing background activity with episodic transients [i.e., triphasic waves (TWs) or frontal intermittent delta activity (FIRDA)]. Clinical characteristics, blood tests and neuroimaging were compared among groups. Associations between EEG patterns and structural and non-structural abnormalities were calculated. Glasgow Outcome Score &gt;3 at discharge was defined as favorable and 1-3 as unfavorable outcome. In multivariable analyses, theta was associated with brain atrophy (OR 2.6, p = 0.020), theta/delta with intracerebral hemorrhages (OR 6.8, p = 0.005), FIRDA with past cerebrovascular accidents (OR 2.7, p = 0.004), TWs with liver or multi-organ failure (OR 6, p = 0.004; OR 4, p = 0.039), and delta activity with alcohol/drug abuse with or without intoxication, and HIV infection (OR 3.8, p = 0.003; OR 9, p = 0.004). TWs were associated with death (OR 4.5, p = 0.005); theta/delta with unfavorable outcomes (OR 2.5, p = 0.033), while patients with FIRDA had favorable outcomes (OR 4.8, p = 0.004). In encephalopathic patients, well-defined EEG patterns are associated with specific pathological conditions and outcomes, suggesting that mechanistic hypotheses underlie these abnormal EEG patterns. To clarify the respective contributions of non-structural and structural abnormalities to encephalopathy reflected in specific EEG patterns, prospective studies using continuous EEG monitoring during the acute onset of encephalopathy are needed.
Some people with chronic epilepsy (PWE) make clinically unnecessary, and potentially avoidable, visits to hospital emergency departments. Whilst expensive, it is not known how to reduce them. We recently conducted the first trial of an epilepsy-nurse specialist intervention which aimed to optimise self-management skills in PWE attending emergency departments and advise them on appropriate emergency services use. Based on in-depth semi-structured interviews, we here report the perceived support needs of patients who have attended a emergency department for epilepsy and the benefits of the intervention which they identified. Nested qualitative study. After receiving the intervention, 20 participants were invited to interview. They described their experience of the intervention, to what extent they valued it and its benefits and limitations. Interviews were audio-recorded, transcribed and thematically analysed. Most valued the additional support. Those who previously used emergency departments most perceived greatest benefit. Participants felt it redressed limitations to usual care, including providing information about living with epilepsy, and an opportunity to discuss feelings about epilepsy. Perceived benefits included improvements in emotional well-being, confidence dealing with seizures and medication adherence. The intervention was acceptable to patients. People with epilepsy who had attended a emergency department on more than one occasion perceived most benefit. This suggests they want additional care. Some perceived benefits in domains possibly causally related to emergency department use. This suggests the intervention, with optimisation, may have the components to reduce emergency department visits. Our results provide insights into how to support PWE who attend emergency departments and how needs differ amongst this group.
Glycogen storage disease type 2/Pompe disease is a progressive muscle disorder with a wide range of phenotypic presentations, caused by an inherited deficiency of acid alpha-glucosidase. Since 2004 only a limited number of patients have been treated with recombinant human alpha-glucosidase from rabbit milk whereas since 2006 enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) with alglucosidase alfa has been licensed for the treatment of Pompe disease. This systematic review evaluates the clinical efficacy and safety of alglucosidase alfa treatment of juvenile and adult patients with late-onset Pompe disease (LOPD). Studies of alglucosidase alfa treatment of LOPD patients-published up to January 2012-were identified by electronic searching of the EMBASE and MEDLINE databases, and manual searching of the reference lists. Data on ERT outcomes were extracted from selected papers and analyzed descriptively. No statistical analysis was performed owing to data heterogeneity. Twenty-one studies containing clinical data from 368 LOPD patients were analyzed. Overall, at least two-thirds of patients were stabilized or had improved creatine kinase levels and muscular and/or respiratory function following treatment with alglucosidase alfa. ERT was well tolerated; most adverse events were mild or moderate infusion-related reactions. In conclusion, alglucosidase alfa treatment is effective and well tolerated and attenuates progression of LOPD in most patients. Further research is required to investigate factors such as age at diagnosis, phenotypic presentation, and genotypic characteristics, identification of which may enable better clinical and therapeutic management of LOPD patients.


In the majority of the normal population, the left hemisphere is dominant for language. In epilepsy, a higher proportion of 'atypical' language representation is encountered. This can follow one of three patterns: (1) altered interhemispheric representation, where the spectrum of lateralisation is shifted to the right; (2) interhemispheric dissociation of linguistic subfunctions; or (3) intrahemispheric changes in representation. Knowledge of these patterns is essential for avoiding postoperative language deficits in epilepsy patients undergoing surgery. Several predictors of atypical language representation exist. It is more prevalent in left-handed individuals. Lesions in rough proximity to classical language areas are more associated with atypical language, although in some cases, remote lesions, such as in the hippocampus, can also lead to altered language representation. The more disruptive the lesion, the more likely atypical language is to be found. Widespread and frequent interictal epileptiform discharges are also associated with atypical language. Atypical language representation is more likely to be present when injury or epilepsy onset occurred at a young age. Thus, a subgroup of patients can be defined in whom atypical language representation is more likely to be found.
Intercepting momentarily invisible moving objects requires internally generated estimations of target trajectory. We demonstrate here that the parabigeminal nucleus (PBN) encodes such estimations, combining sensory representations of target location, extrapolated positions of briefly obscured targets, and eye position information. Cui and Malpeli (Cui H, Malpeli JG. J Neurophysiol 89: 3128-3142, 2003) reported that PBN activity for continuously visible tracked targets is determined by retinotopic target position. Here we show that when cats tracked moving, blinking targets the relationship between activity and target position was similar for ON and OFF phases (400 ms for each phase). The dynamic range of activity evoked by virtual targets was 94% of that of real targets for the first 200 ms after target offset and 64% for the next 200 ms. Activity peaked at about the same best target position for both real and virtual targets. PBN encoding of target position takes into account changes in eye position resulting from saccades, even without visual feedback. Since PBN response fields are retinotopically organized, our results suggest that activity foci associated with real and virtual targets at a given target position lie in the same physical location in the PBN, i.e., a retinotopic as well as a rate encoding of virtual-target position. We also confirm that PBN activity is specific to the intended target of a saccade and is predictive of which target will be chosen if two are offered. A Bayesian predictor-corrector model is presented that conceptually explains the differences in the dynamic ranges of PBN neuronal activity evoked during tracking of real and virtual targets.
Absolute visual thresholds are limited by &quot;dark noise,&quot; which in Drosophila photoreceptors is dominated by brief (10 ms), small (2 pA) inward current events, occurring at 2/s, believed to reflect spontaneous G protein activations. These dark events were increased in rate and amplitude by a point mutation in myosin III (NINAC), which disrupts its interaction with the scaffolding protein, INAD. This phenotype mimics that previously described in null mutants of ninaC (no inactivation no afterpotential; encoding myosin III) and an associated protein, retinophilin (rtp). Dark noise was similarly increased in heterozygote mutants of diacylglycerol kinase (rdgA/+). Dark noise in ninaC, rtp, and rdgA/+ mutants was greatly suppressed by mutations of the Gq -subunit (Gq) and the major light-sensitive channel (trp) but not rhodopsin. ninaC, rtp, and rdgA/+ mutations also all facilitated residual light responses in Gq and PLC hypomorphs. Raising cytosolic Ca(2+) in the submicromolar range increased dark noise, facilitated activation of transient receptor potential (TRP) channels by exogenous agonist, and again facilitated light responses in Gq hypomorphs. Our results indicate that RTP, NINAC, INAD, and diacylglycerol kinase, together with a Ca(2+)-dependent threshold, share common roles in suppressing dark noise and regulating quantum bump generation; consequently, most spontaneous G protein activations fail to generate dark events under normal conditions. By contrast, quantum bump generation is reliable but delayed until sufficient G proteins and PLC are activated to overcome threshold, thereby ensuring generation of full-size bumps with high quantum efficiency.
The caudal dentate nucleus (DN) in lateral cerebellum is connected with two visual/oculomotor areas of the cerebrum: the frontal eye field and lateral intraparietal cortex. Many neurons in frontal eye field and lateral intraparietal cortex produce &quot;delay activity&quot; between stimulus and response that correlates with processes such as motor planning. Our hypothesis was that caudal DN neurons would have prominent delay activity as well. From lesion studies, we predicted that this activity would be related to self-timing, i.e., the triggering of saccades based on the internal monitoring of time. We recorded from neurons in the caudal DN of monkeys (Macaca mulatta) that made delayed saccades with or without a self-timing requirement. Most (84%) of the caudal DN neurons had delay activity. These neurons conveyed at least three types of information. First, their activity was often correlated, trial by trial, with saccade initiation. Correlations were found more frequently in a task that required self-timing of saccades (53% of neurons) than in a task that did not (27% of neurons). Second, the delay activity was often tuned for saccade direction (in 65% of neurons). This tuning emerged continuously during a trial. Third, the time course of delay activity associated with self-timed saccades differed significantly from that associated with visually guided saccades (in 71% of neurons). A minority of neurons had sensory-related activity. None had presaccadic bursts, in contrast to DN neurons recorded more rostrally. We conclude that caudal DN neurons convey saccade-related delay activity that may contribute to the motor preparation of when and where to move.
When the two hands act together to achieve a goal, the redundancy of the system makes it necessary to distribute the responsibility for error corrections across the two hands. In an experiment in which participants control a single cursor with the movements of both hands, we show that right-handed individuals correct for movement errors more with their nondominant left hand than with their right hand, even though the dominant right hand corrects the same errors more quickly and efficiently when each hand acts in isolation. By measuring the responses to rapid cursor and target displacements using force channels, we demonstrate that this shift is due to a modulation of the feedback gains of each hand rather than to a shift in the onset of the corrective response. We also show that the shift toward left-hand corrections is more pronounced for errors that lead to adaptation (cursor displacements) than for perturbations that do not (target displacements). This finding provides some support for the idea that the motor system assigns the correction to the most likely source of the error to induce learning and to optimize future performance. Finally, we find that the relative strength of the feedback corrections in the redundant task correlates positively with those found for the nonredundant tasks. Thus the process of responsibility assignment modulates the processes that normally determine the gains of feedback correction rather than completely overwriting them.
Taste stimuli encountered in the natural environment are usually combinations of multiple tastants. Although a great deal is known about how neurons in the taste system respond to single taste stimuli in isolation, less is known about how the brain deals with such mixture stimuli. Here, we probe the responses of single neurons in primary gustatory cortex (GC) of awake rats to an array of taste stimuli including 100% citric acid (100 mM), 100% sodium chloride (100 mM), 100% sucrose (100 mM), and a range of binary mixtures (90/10, 70/30, 50/50, 30/70, and 10/90%). We tested for the presence of three different hypothetical response patterns: 1) responses varying monotonically as a function of concentration of sucrose (or acid) in the mixture (the &quot;monotonic&quot; pattern); 2) responses increasing or decreasing as a function of degree of mixture of the stimulus (the &quot;mixture&quot; pattern); and 3) responses that change abruptly from being similar to one pure taste to being similar the other (the &quot;categorical&quot; pattern). Our results demonstrate the presence of both monotonic and mixture patterns within responses of GC neurons. Specifically, further analysis (that included the presentation of 50 mM sucrose and citric acid) made it clear that mixture suppression reliably precedes a palatability-related pattern. The temporal dynamics of the emergence of the palatability-related pattern parallel the temporal dynamics of the emergence of preference behavior for the same mixtures as measured by a brief access test. We saw no evidence of categorical coding.
The avian auditory papilla contains two classes of sensory receptor, tall hair cells (THCs) and short hair cells (SHCs), the latter analogous to mammalian outer hair cells with large efferent but sparse afferent innervation. Little is known about the tuning, transduction, or electrical properties of SHCs. To address this problem, we made patch-clamp recordings from hair cells in an isolated chicken basilar papilla preparation at 33C. We found that SHCs are electrically tuned by a Ca(2+)-activated K(+) current, their resonant frequency varying along the papilla in tandem with that of the THCs, which also exhibit electrical tuning. The tonotopic map for THCs was similar to maps previously described from auditory nerve fiber measurements. SHCs also possess an A-type K(+) current, but electrical tuning was observed only at resting potentials positive to -45 mV, where the A current is inactivated. We predict that the resting potential in vivo is approximately -40 mV, depolarized by a standing inward current through mechanotransducer (MT) channels having a resting open probability of 0.26. The resting open probability stems from a low endolymphatic Ca(2+) concentration (0.24 mM) and a high intracellular mobile Ca(2+) buffer concentration, estimated from perforated-patch recordings as equivalent to 0.5 mM BAPTA. The high buffer concentration was confirmed by quantifying parvalbumin-3 and calbindin D-28K with calibrated postembedding immunogold labeling, demonstrating &gt;1 mM calcium-binding sites. Both proteins displayed an apex-to-base gradient matching that in the MT current amplitude, which increased exponentially along the papilla. Stereociliary bundles also labeled heavily with antibodies against the Ca(2+) pump isoform PMCA2a.
Immature excitatory synapses often have NMDA receptors but not AMPA receptors in central neurons, including visual cortical pyramidal neurons. These synapses, called silent synapses, are converted to functional synapses with AMPA receptors by NMDA receptor activation during early development. It is likely that this process underlies the activity-dependent refinement of neuronal circuits and brain functions. In the present study, we investigated postnatal development of excitatory synapses, focusing on the role of visual inputs in the conversion of silent to functional synapses in mouse visual cortex. We analyzed presumably unitary excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) between a pair of layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons, using minimal stimulation with a patch pipette attached to the soma of one of the pair. The proportion of silent synapses was estimated by the difference in the failure rate between AMPA- and NMDA-EPSCs. In normal development, silent synapses were present abundantly before eye opening, decreased considerably by the critical period of ocular dominance plasticity, and almost absent in adulthood. This decline in silent synapses was prevented by dark rearing. The amplitude of presumably unitary AMPA-EPSCs increased with age, but this increase was suppressed by dark rearing. The quantal amplitude of AMPA-EPSCs and paired-pulse ratio of NMDA-EPSCs both remained unchanged during development, independent of visual experience. These results indicate that visual inputs are required for the conversion of silent to functional synapses and this conversion largely contributes to developmental increases in the amplitude of presumably unitary AMPA-EPSCs.
Somatic sensory signals provide a major source of feedback to motor cortex. Changes in somatosensory systems after stroke or injury could profoundly influence brain computer interfaces (BCI) being developed to create new output signals from motor cortex activity patterns. We had the unique opportunity to study the responses of hand/arm area neurons in primary motor cortex to passive joint manipulation in a person with a long-standing brain stem stroke but intact sensory pathways. Neurons responded to passive manipulation of the contralateral shoulder, elbow, or wrist as predicted from prior studies of intact primates. Thus fundamental properties and organization were preserved despite arm/hand paralysis and damage to cortical outputs. The same neurons were engaged by attempted arm actions. These results indicate that intact sensory pathways retain the potential to influence primary motor cortex firing rates years after cortical outputs are interrupted and may contribute to online decoding of motor intentions for BCI applications.
Sensory feedback is critical for normal locomotion and adaptation to external perturbations during movement. Feedback provided by group Ia afferents influences motor output both directly through monosynaptic connections and indirectly through spinal interneuronal circuits. For example, the circuit responsible for reciprocal inhibition, which acts to prevent co-contraction of antagonist flexor and extensor muscles, is driven by Ia afferent feedback. Additionally, circuits mediating presynaptic inhibition can limit Ia afferent synaptic transmission onto central neuronal targets in a task-specific manner. These circuits can also be activated by stimulation of proprioceptive afferents. Rodent locomotion rapidly matures during postnatal development; therefore, we assayed the functional status of reciprocal and presynaptic inhibitory circuits of mice at birth and compared responses with observations made after 1 wk of postnatal development. Using extracellular physiological techniques from isolated and hemisected spinal cord preparations, we demonstrate that Ia afferent-evoked reciprocal inhibition is as effective at blocking antagonist motor neuron activation at birth as at 1 wk postnatally. In contrast, at birth conditioning stimulation of muscle nerve afferents failed to evoke presynaptic inhibition sufficient to block functional transmission at synapses between Ia afferents and motor neurons, even though dorsal root potentials could be evoked by stimulating the neighboring dorsal root. Presynaptic inhibition at this synapse was readily observed, however, at the end of the first postnatal week. These results indicate Ia afferent feedback from the periphery to central spinal circuits is only weakly gated at birth, which may provide enhanced sensitivity to peripheral feedback during early postnatal experiences.
A key component of executive control and decision making is the ability to use the consequences of chosen actions to update and inform the process of future action selection. Evaluative signals, which monitor the outcomes of actions, are critical for this ability. Signals related to the evaluation of actions have been identified in eye movement-related areas of the medial frontal cortex. Here we examined whether such evaluative signals are also present in areas of the medial frontal cortex related to arm movements. To answer this question, we recorded from cells in the supplementary motor area (SMA) and pre-SMA, while monkeys performed an arm movement version of the countermanding paradigm. SMA and pre-SMA have been implicated in the higher-order control of movement selection and execution, although their precise role within the skeletomotor control circuit is unclear. We found evaluative signals that encode information about the expected outcome of the reward, the actual outcome, and the mismatch between actual and intended outcome. These findings suggest that signals that monitor and evaluate movement outcomes are represented throughout the medial frontal cortex, playing a general role across effector systems. These evaluation signals supervise the relationship between intentional motor behavior and reward expectation and could be used to adaptively shape future goal-directed behavior.
Cross-correlation of neural discharges was used to investigate the connections between expiratory bulbospinal neurons (EBSNs) in the caudal medulla and expiratory motoneurons innervating thoracic and abdominal muscles in anesthetized cats. Peaks were seen in the cross-correlation histograms for around half of the EBSN-nerve pairs for the following: at T8, the nerve branches innervating internal intercostal muscle and external abdominal oblique muscle and a more distal branch of the internal intercostal nerve; and at L1, a nerve branch innervating internal abdominal oblique muscle and a more distal branch of the ventral ramus. Fewer peaks were seen for the L1 nerve innervating external abdominal oblique, but a paucity of presumed -motoneuron discharges could explain the rarity of the peaks in this instance. Taking into account individual EBSN conduction times to T8 and to L1, as well as peripheral conduction times, nearly all of the peaks were interpreted as representing monosynaptic connections. Individual EBSNs showed connections at both T8 and L1, but without any discernible pattern. The overall strength of the monosynaptic connection from EBSNs at L1 was found to be very similar to that at T8, which was previously argued to be substantial and responsible for the temporal patterns of expiratory motoneuron discharges. However, we argue that other inputs are required to create the stereotyped spatial patterns of discharges in the thoracic and abdominal musculature.
Saccade adaptation is a mechanism that adjusts saccade landing positions if they systematically fail to reach their intended target. In the laboratory, saccades can be shortened or lengthened if the saccade target is displaced during execution of the saccade. In this study, saccades were performed from different positions to an adapted saccade target to dissociate adaptation to a spatiotopic position in external space from a combined retinotopic and spatiotopic coding. The presentation duration of the saccade target before saccade execution was systematically varied, during adaptation and during test trials, with a delayed saccade paradigm. Spatiotopic shifts in landing positions depended on a certain preview duration of the target before saccade execution. When saccades were performed immediately to a suddenly appearing target, no spatiotopic adaptation was observed. These results suggest that a spatiotopic representation of the visual target signal builds up as a function of the duration the saccade target is visible before saccade execution. Different coordinate frames might also explain the separate adaptability of reactive and voluntary saccades. Spatiotopic effects were found only in outward adaptation but not in inward adaptation, which is consistent with the idea that outward adaptation takes place at the level of the visual target representation, whereas inward adaptation is achieved at a purely motor level.
Temporal lobe epilepsy is associated with loss of interneurons and inhibitory dysfunction in the dentate gyrus. While status epilepticus (SE) leads to changes in granule cell inhibition, whether dentate basket cells critical for regulating granule cell feedforward and feedback inhibition express tonic GABA currents (I(GABA)) and undergo changes in inhibition after SE is not known. We find that interneurons immunoreactive for parvalbumin in the hilar-subgranular region express GABAA receptor (GABA(A)R) -subunits, which are known to underlie tonic I(GABA). Dentate fast-spiking basket cells (FS-BCs) demonstrate baseline tonic I(GABA) blocked by GABA(A)R antagonists. In morphologically and physiologically identified FS-BCs, tonic I(GABA) is enhanced 1 wk after pilocarpine-induced SE, despite simultaneous reduction in spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic current (sIPSC) frequency. Amplitude of tonic I(GABA) in control and post-SE FS-BCs is enhanced by 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisoxazolo[5,4-c]pyridin-3-ol (THIP), demonstrating the contribution of GABA(A)R -subunits. Whereas FS-BC resting membrane potential is unchanged after SE, perforated-patch recordings from FS-BCs show that the reversal potential for GABA currents (E(GABA)) is depolarized after SE. In model FS-BCs, increasing tonic GABA conductance decreased excitability when E(GABA) was shunting and increased excitability when E(GABA) was depolarizing. Although simulated focal afferent activation evoked seizurelike activity in model dentate networks with FS-BC tonic GABA conductance and shunting E(GABA), excitability of identical networks with depolarizing FS-BC E(GABA) showed lower activity levels. Thus, together, post-SE changes in tonic I(GABA) and E(GABA) maintain homeostasis of FS-BC activity and limit increases in dentate excitability. These findings have implications for normal FS-BC function and can inform studies examining comorbidities and therapeutics following SE.
We investigated the ionic mechanisms that allow dynamic regulation of action potential (AP) amplitude as a means of regulating energetic costs of AP signaling. Weakly electric fish generate an electric organ discharge (EOD) by summing the APs of their electric organ cells (electrocytes). Some electric fish increase AP amplitude during active periods or social interactions and decrease AP amplitude when inactive, regulated by melanocortin peptide hormones. This modulates signal amplitude and conserves energy. The gymnotiform Eigenmannia virescens generates EODs at frequencies that can exceed 500 Hz, which is energetically challenging. We examined how E. virescens meets that challenge. E. virescens electrocytes exhibit a voltage-gated Na(+) current (I(Na)) with extremely rapid recovery from inactivation ((recov) = 0.3 ms) allowing complete recovery of Na(+) current between APs even in fish with the highest EOD frequencies. Electrocytes also possess an inwardly rectifying K(+) current and a Na(+)-activated K(+) current (I(KNa)), the latter not yet identified in any gymnotiform species. In vitro application of melanocortins increases electrocyte AP amplitude and the magnitudes of all three currents, but increased I(KNa) is a function of enhanced Na(+) influx. Numerical simulations suggest that changing I(Na) magnitude produces corresponding changes in AP amplitude and that K(Na) channels increase AP energy efficiency (10-30% less Na(+) influx/AP) over model cells with only voltage-gated K(+) channels. These findings suggest the possibility that E. virescens reduces the energetic demands of high-frequency APs through rapidly recovering Na(+) channels and the novel use of KNa channels to maximize AP amplitude at a given Na(+) conductance.
Hippocampal theta and gamma oscillations coordinate the timing of multiple inputs to hippocampal neurons and have been linked to information processing and the dynamics of encoding and retrieval. One major influence on hippocampal rhythmicity is from cholinergic afferents. In both humans and rodents, aging is linked to impairments in hippocampus-dependent function along with degradation of cholinergic function. Cholinomimetics can reverse some age-related memory impairments and modulate oscillations in the hippocampus. Therefore, one would expect corresponding changes in these oscillations and possible rescue with the cholinomimetic physostigmine. Hippocampal activity was recorded while animals explored a familiar or a novel maze configuration. Reexposure to a familiar situation resulted in minimal aging effects or changes in theta or gamma oscillations. In contrast, exploration of a novel maze configuration increased theta power; this was greater in adult than old animals, although the deficit was reversed with physostigmine. In contrast to the theta results, the effects of novelty, age, and/or physostigmine on gamma were relatively weak. Unrelated to the behavioral situation were an age-related decrease in the degree of theta-gamma coupling and the fact that physostigmine lowered the frequency of theta in both adult and old animals. The results indicate that age-related changes in gamma and theta modulation of gamma, while reflecting aging changes in hippocampal circuitry, seem less related to aging changes in information processing. In contrast, the data support a role for theta and the cholinergic system in encoding and that hippocampal aging is related to impaired encoding of new information.
Many critically ill patients in intensive care units suffer from an infection-induced whole body inflammatory state known as sepsis, which causes severe weakness in patients who survive. The mechanisms by which sepsis triggers intensive care unit-acquired weakness (ICUAW) remain unclear. Currently, research into ICUAW is focused on dysfunction of the peripheral nervous system. During electromyographic studies of patients with ICUAW, we noticed that recruitment was limited to few motor units, which fired at low rates. The reduction in motor unit rate modulation suggested that functional impairment within the central nervous system contributes to ICUAW. To understand better the mechanism underlying reduced firing motor unit firing rates, we moved to the rat cecal ligation and puncture model of sepsis. In isoflurane-anesthetized rats, we studied the response of spinal motoneurons to injected current to determine their capacity for initiating and firing action potentials repetitively. Properties of single action potentials and passive membrane properties of motoneurons from septic rats were normal, suggesting excitability was normal. However, motoneurons exhibited striking dysfunction during repetitive firing. The sustained firing that underlies normal motor unit activity and smooth force generation was slower, more erratic, and often intermittent in septic rats. Our data are the first to suggest that reduced excitability of neurons within the central nervous system may contribute to ICUAW.
Sensory systems are dynamic. They must process a wide range of natural signals that facilitate adaptive behaviors in a manner that depends on an organism's constantly changing goals. A full understanding of the sensory physiology that underlies adaptive natural behaviors must therefore account for the activity of sensory systems in light of these behavioral goals. Here we present a novel technique that combines in vivo electrophysiological recording from awake, freely moving songbirds with operant conditioning techniques that allow control over birds' recognition of conspecific song, a widespread natural behavior in songbirds. We show that engaging in a vocal recognition task alters the response properties of neurons in the caudal mesopallium (CM), an avian analog of mammalian auditory cortex, in European starlings. Compared with awake, passive listening, active engagement of subjects in an auditory recognition task results in neurons responding to fewer song stimuli and a decrease in the trial-to-trial variability in their driven firing rates. Mean firing rates also change during active recognition, but not uniformly. Relative to nonengaged listening, active recognition causes increases in the driven firing rates in some neurons, decreases in other neurons, and stimulus-specific changes in other neurons. These changes lead to both an increase in stimulus selectivity and an increase in the information conveyed by the neurons about the animals' behavioral task. This study demonstrates the behavioral dependence of neural responses in the avian auditory forebrain and introduces the starling as a model for real-time monitoring of task-related neural processing of complex auditory objects.
The sensitivity of posttetanic potentiation (PTP) to high-frequency stimulation (HFS) steeply decays during the first 2 postnatal weeks. We investigated the underlying mechanisms for the developmental change of PTP induced by HFS (100 Hz, 2 s) at postnatal days 4-6 and 9-11 at the rat calyx of Held synapse. Low-concentration tetraphenylphosphonium (2 M), an inhibitor of mitochondrial Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger, suppressed the amount of posttetanic residual Ca(2+) and PTP to a larger extent at the immature calyx synapse, indicating a developmental reduction of mitochondrial contribution to PTP. The higher amount of mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake during HFS and consequent posttetanic residual Ca(2+) at the immature calyx of Held was associated with higher peak of HFS-induced Ca(2+) transients, most likely because the mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake during HFS was supralinearly dependent on the presynaptic resting Ca(2+) level. Probing into the contribution of Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchangers to Ca(2+) clearance, we found a specific upregulation of the K(+)-dependent Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger (NCKX) activity in the mature calyx of Held. We conclude that the upregulation of NCKX limits the Ca(2+) buildup and inhibits mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake during HFS, which in turn results in the reduction of posttetanic residual Ca(2+) and PTP at the mature calyx of Held synapse.
Cobalamin (Vitamin B) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of various neuropsychiatric disorders. A review of 19 patients (14 vegetarians) with demonstrable vitamin B deficiency showed varied psychiatric symptomatology, with the majority not having significant hematological or neurological manifestations.
High rostral anterior cingulate cortex (rACC) activity has been shown to predict antidepressant treatment response; however, it is unclear whether this is a fixed versus variable marker of responsiveness. The authors measured rACC theta current density in 22 subjects 5 weeks before and again immediately before 5 weeks of blinded treatment with sertraline. Mixed-effects regression analysis found that the relationship between response and rACC activity depended significantly on the timing of the rACC assessment; rACC activity measured immediately before treatment was a significantly better predictor of response. rACC activity may constitute a variable &quot;state&quot; indicator of responsiveness to antidepressants.
With advances in the neuro-imaging modalities, diverse manifestations of the cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (CVT) are being recognized. There are very few reports of isolated cranial nerve palsies in CVT. In this case report, we describe a patient of lower motor neuron facial palsy with CVT who was successfully treated with anticoagulation, highlighting the atypical manifestation of the disease.
A 42-year-old young lady presented with acute onset of dizziness, drooping of left eye with binocular diplopia and inability to walk unassisted. She had past history of uncontrolled diabetes mellitus and hypertension. On examination, she had left fascicular type of third nerve palsy, vertical one and half syndrome (VOHS), left internuclear ophthalmoplegia and skew deviation with ipsilesional hypertropia. She also had thalamic astasia and right unilateral asterixis. Her MRI revealed T2 and Flair hyper intense signal changes with restricted diffusion in the left thalamus, subthalamus and left midbrain. MR Angiography was normal. Thalamic-subthalamic paramedian territory infarct is relatively uncommon. It can present with oculomotor abnormalities including vertical one and half syndrome, skew deviation, thalamic astasia and asterixis. This case is reported for the rarity of the presenting clinical findings in unilateral thalamo-mesencephalic infarcts.
Self-mutilation acts are known to characterize the borderline personality disorders. However, voluntary cutting of the male genital organ remains extremely rare. The present paper reports a case of a 25-years-old young male with a borderline personality. The patient committed a genital self-mutilation (GSM) targeting suicide during incarceration stage in jail. In addition, a discussion of the epidemiological and psychopathological aspects of the self-mutilation of borderline patients was been conducted. A particular interest is attributed to the genital self-mutilation and a review of the literature is presented.


Patients with traumatic brain injury (TBI) are at an increased risk of developing venous thromboembolic events (VTE). Pharmacological thromboprophylaxis (PTP) is routinely delayed because of concerns of exacerbating intracranial hemorrhage (ICH). The aim of this review is to examine the literature and assimilate suitable data to assess the safety and efficacy of PTP administered within 72h in TBI patients. We systematically searched the literature for randomized controlled trials or cohort studies reporting on the timing of PTP in TBI. We dichotomized the timing of PTP to early and late at 72h post-injury. The rates of VTE and ICH progression were our primary endpoints and were pooled using a fixed-effects model. A total of five retrospective cohort studies were included within the review including a total of 1624 patients, of which 713 received early PTP and 911 received late PTP. Within the early and late group there was a total of 43 and 106 VTE respectively, with a risk ratio of 0.52 (0.37, 0.73). Assessing safety, the relative risk of ICH progression in the early compared with the late PTP group was 0.64 (0.35, 1.14). Based on the available literature, we can tentatively conclude that early PTP (&lt;72h) reduces the risk of VTE without affecting progression of ICH. However, much work is yet to be done to better clarify ICH subtypes at risk of progression and the implementation of evidence-based guidelines backed up with randomized control trial level evidence.
The objective of the study was to examine how S100B, a biomarker of traumatic brain injury (TBI), contributes to outcome prediction after adjusting for known parameters, including age, Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS), pupil reaction, and computed tomography (CT) variables; to examine which parameters have the best correlation to elevated serum levels of S100B; and to investigate when to sample S100B to achieve the strongest association to outcome. This retrospective study included 265 patients with TBI admitted to the neurointensive care unit, Karolinska University Hospital Solna, Stockholm, Sweden. Univariate and multivariate proportional odds regressions were performed to determine parameters most closely related to outcome, and how S100B adds to prediction accuracy. Age (p&lt;0.0001), pupil reaction (p&lt;0.0001), and levels of S100B (p&lt;0.0001) had the strongest statistical correlation to outcome. The area under curve of S100B, the first 48h after trauma, yielded an additional explained variance of 6.6% in excess of known outcome parameters, including age, GCS, pupil reaction, and CT variables, themselves exhibiting an explained variance of 29.3%. S100B adds substantial information regarding patient outcome, in excess of that provided by known parameters. Only CT variables were found to be significant predictors of increased levels of S100B in uni- and multivariate analysis. Early samples of S100B, within 12h after trauma, appear to have little prognostic value, and S100B should likely be sampled 12-36h following trauma to best enhance TBI outcome prediction.
The similarities and differences between acute nonconvulsive seizures (NCS) and other epileptic events, for example, periodic epileptiform discharges (PED) and intermittent rhythmic delta activities (IRDA), were characterized in rat models of penetrating and ischemic brain injuries. The NCS were spontaneously induced by either unilateral frontal penetrating ballistic-like brain injury (PBBI) or permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO), and were detected by continuous electroencephalogram (EEG) monitoring begun immediately after the injury and continued for 72h or 24h, respectively. Analysis of NCS profiles (incidence, frequency, duration, and time distribution) revealed a high NCS incidence in both injury models. The EEG waveform expressions of NCS and PED exhibited intrinsic variations that resembled human electrographic manifestations of post-traumatic and post-ischemic ictal and inter-ictal events, but these waveform variations were not distinguishable between the two types of brain injury. However, the NCS after pMCAO occurred more acutely and intensely (latency=0.6h, frequency=25 episodes/rat) compared with the PBBI-induced NCS (latency=24h, frequency=10 episodes/rat), such that the most salient features differentiating post-traumatic and post-ischemic NCS were the intensity and time distribution of the NCS profiles. After pMCAO, nearly 50% of the seizures occurred within the first 2h of injury, whereas after PBBI, NCS occurred sporadically (0-5%/h) throughout the 72h recording period. The PED were episodically associated with NCS. By contrast, the IRDA appeared to be independent of other epileptic events. This study provided comprehensive comparisons of post-traumatic and post-ischemic epileptic profiles. The identification of the similarities and differences across a broad spectrum of epileptic events may lead to differential strategies for post-traumatic and post-stroke seizure interventions.
Pigs continue to grow in importance as a tool in neuroscience. However, behavioral tests that have been validated in the rodent model do not translate well to pigs because of their very different responses to behavioral stimuli. We refined metrics for assessing porcine open field behavior to detect a wide spectrum of clinically relevant behaviors in the piglet post-traumatic brain injury (TBI). Female neonatal piglets underwent a rapid non-impact head rotation in the sagittal plane (n=8 evaluable) or were instrumented shams (n=7 evaluable). Open field testing was conducted 1 day prior to injury (day -1) in order to establish an individual baseline for analysis, and at days +1 and +4 after injury. Animals were then killed on day +6 after injury for neuropathological assessment of axonal injury. Injured piglets were less interested in interacting with environmental stimuli and had a lower activity level than did shams. These data were compared with previously published data for axial rotational injuries in neonatal piglets. Acute behavioral outcomes post-TBI showed a dependence on the rotational plane of the brain injury, with animals with sagittal injuries demonstrating a greater level of inactivity and less random usage of the open field space than those with axial injuries. The persistence of axonal injury is also dependent on the rotational plane, with sagittal rotations causing more prolonged injuries than axial rotations. These results are consistent with animal studies, finite element models, and studies of concussions in football, which have all demonstrated differences in injury severity depending upon the direction of head impact rotation.
The National Institute on Drug Abuse organized a symposium on drugs of abuse, dopamine, and HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND)/HIV-associated dementia (HAD) in Rockville, Maryland, October 4, 2011. The purpose of this symposium was to evaluate the potential role of dopamine in the potentiation of HAND/HAD by drugs of abuse. A summary of the symposium has been presented in this report.




Nerve injury induces long-term changes in gene expression in the nociceptive circuitry and can lead to chronic neuropathic pain. However, the transcriptional mechanism involved in neuropathic pain is poorly understood. Nuclear factor of activated T-cells (NFATc) is a transcriptional factor regulated by the Ca(2+)-dependent protein phosphatase calcineurin. In this study, we determined nerve injury-induced changes in the expression of NFATc1-c4 in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and spinal cords and their role in the development of neuropathic pain. The mRNA of NFATc1-c4 was detected in the rat DRG and dorsal spinal cord. Nerve injury transiently elevated NFATc1-c3 mRNA levels and persistently increased NFATc4 and C-C chemokine receptor type 2 (CCR2) mRNA levels in the DRG. However, NFATc1-c4 mRNA levels in the spinal cord were not altered significantly by nerve injury. Nerve injury also significantly increased the protein level of dephosphorylated NFATc4 in the DRG. Intrathecal injection of the specific NFATc inhibitor 11R-VIVIT or the calcineurin inhibitor FK-506 (tacrolimus) early after nerve injury significantly attenuated the development of tactile allodynia. In addition, treatment with FK-506 or 11R-VIVIT significantly reduced the mRNA levels of NFATc4 and CCR2 but not large-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels, in the DRG after nerve injury. Our findings suggest that peripheral nerve injury causes a time-dependent change in NFATc1-c4 expression in the DRG. Calcineurin-NFATc-mediated expression of pronociceptive cytokines contributes to the transition from acute to chronic pain after nerve injury.
Pharmacological magnetic resonance imaging (phMRI) is one method by which a drug's pharmacodynamic effects in the brain can be assessed. Although phMRI has been frequently used in preclinical and clinical settings, the extent to which a phMRI signature for a compound translates between rodents and humans has not been systematically examined. In the current investigation, we aimed to build on recent clinical work in which the functional response to 0.1 and 0.2 mg/70 kg i.v. buprenorphine (partial -opioid receptor agonist) was measured in healthy humans. Here, we measured the phMRI response to 0.04 and 0.1 mg/kg i.v. buprenorphine in conscious, naive rats to establish the parallelism of the phMRI signature of buprenorphine across species. PhMRI of 0.04 and 0.1 mg/kg i.v. buprenorphine yielded dose-dependent activation in a brain network composed of the somatosensory cortex, cingulate, insula, striatum, thalamus, periaqueductal gray, and cerebellum. Similar dose-dependent phMRI activation was observed in the human phMRI studies. These observations indicate an overall preservation of pharmacodynamic responses to buprenorphine between conscious, naive rodents and healthy human subjects, particularly in brain regions implicated in pain and analgesia. This investigation further demonstrates the usefulness of phMRI as a translational tool in neuroscience research that can provide mechanistic insight and guide dose selection in drug development.
We compared the differential effects of positional isomers of acetylsalicylic acid (o-ASA, m-ASA, and p-ASA) on cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibition, gastric prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), malondialdehyde, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-) levels, superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity, human adenocarcinoma colon cancer cell growth inhibition, cell proliferation, apoptosis, and cell-cycle progression. We also evaluated the gastric toxicity exerted by ASA isomers. All ASA isomers inhibit COX enzymes, but only the o-ASA exerted an irreversible inhibitory profile. We did not observe a significant difference between ASA isomers in their ability to decrease the in vivo synthesis of PGE2 and SOD activity. Furthermore, all isomers increased the levels of gastric and TNF- when administered orally at equimolar doses. We observed a dose-dependent cell growth inhibitory effect; the order of potency was p-ASA &gt; m-ASA  o-ASA. There was a dose-dependent decrease in cell proliferation and an increase in apoptosis, with a concomitant Go/G1 arrest. The ulcerogenic profile of the three ASA isomers showed a significant difference between o-ASA (aspirin) and its two positional isomers when administered orally at equimolar doses (1 mmol/kg); the ulcer index (UI) for o-ASA indicated extensive mucosal injury (UI = 38), whereas m-ASA and p-ASA produced a significantly decreased toxic response (UI = 12 and 8, respectively) under the same experimental conditions. These results suggest that the three positional isomers of ASA exert practically the same biologic profile in vitro and in vivo but showed different safety profiles. The mechanism of gastric ulcer formation exerted by aspirin and its two isomers warrants a more detailed and thorough investigation.

Gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) is a bombesin-like peptide with a widespread distribution in mammalian CNS, where it has a role in food intake, circadian rhythm generation, fear memory, itch sensation and sexual behaviour. While it has been established that GRP predominantly excites neurons, details of the membrane mechanism involved in this action remain largely undefined. We used perforated patch clamp recording in acute brain slice preparations to investigate GRP-affected receptors and ionic conductances in neurons of the rat paraventricular thalamic nucleus (PVT). PVT is a component of the midline and intralaminar thalamus that participates in arousal, motivational drives and stress responses, and exhibits a prominence of GRP-like immunoreactive fibres. Exposure of PVT neurons to low nanomolar concentrations of GRP induced sustained TTX-resistant membrane depolarizations that could trigger rhythmic burst discharges or tonic firing. Membrane current analyses in voltage clamp revealed an underlying postsynaptic bombesin type 2 receptor-mediated inward current that resulted from the simultaneous suppression of a Ba(2+)-sensitive inward rectifier K(+) conductance and activation of a non-selective cation conductance with biophysical and pharmacological properties reminiscent of transient receptor potential vanilloid (TRPV) 1. A role for a TRPV1-like conductance was further implied by a significant suppressant influence of a TRPV1 antagonist on GRP-induced membrane depolarization and rhythmic burst or tonic firing. The results provide a detailed picture of the receptor and ionic conductances that are involved in GRP's excitatory action in midline thalamus.
The T1R1 receptor subunit acts as an umami taste receptor in combination with its partner, T1R3. In addition, metabotropic glutamate receptors (brain and taste variants of mGluR1 and mGluR4) are thought to function as umami taste receptors. To elucidate the function of T1R1 and the contribution of mGluRs to umami taste detection in vivo, we used newly developed knock-out (T1R1(-/-)) mice, which lack the entire coding region of the Tas1r1 gene and express mCherry in T1R1-expressing cells. Gustatory nerve recordings demonstrated that T1R1(-/-) mice exhibited a serious deficit in inosine monophosphate-elicited synergy but substantial residual responses to glutamate alone in both chorda tympani and glossopharyngeal nerves. Interestingly, chorda tympani nerve responses to sweeteners were smaller in T1R1(-/-) mice. Taste cell recordings demonstrated that many mCherry-expressing taste cells in T1R1(+/-) mice responded to sweet and umami compounds, whereas those in T1R1(-/-) mice responded to sweet stimuli. The proportion of sweet-responsive cells was smaller in T1R1(-/-) than in T1R1(+/-) mice. Single-cell RT-PCR demonstrated that some single mCherry-expressing cells expressed all three T1R subunits. Chorda tympani and glossopharyngeal nerve responses to glutamate were significantly inhibited by addition of mGluR antagonists in both T1R1(-/-) and T1R1(+/-) mice. Conditioned taste aversion tests demonstrated that both T1R1(-/-) and T1R1(+/-) mice were equally capable of discriminating glutamate from other basic taste stimuli. Avoidance conditioned to glutamate was significantly reduced by addition of mGluR antagonists. These results suggest that T1R1-expressing cells mainly contribute to umami taste synergism and partly to sweet sensitivity and that mGluRs are involved in the detection of umami compounds.
Functional serotonin 3 (5-HT3) receptors are transiently expressed by cerebellar granule cells during early postnatal development, where they modulate short-term synaptic plasticity at the parallel fibre-Purkinje cell synapse. Here, we show that serotonin controls maturation of Purkinje cells in the mouse cerebellum. The 5-HT3 receptors regulate morphological maturation of Purkinje cells during early postnatal development, and this effect is mediated by the glycoprotein reelin. Using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings we also investigated physiological development of Purkinje cells in 5-HT3A receptor knockout mice during early postnatal development, and found abnormal physiological maturation, characterized by a more depolarized resting membrane potential, an increased input resistance and the ability to fire action potentials upon injection of a depolarizing current at an earlier age. Furthermore, short-term synaptic plasticity was impaired at both the parallel fibre-Purkinje cell and the climbing fibre-Purkinje cell synapses, and both the amplitude and the frequency of spontaneous miniature events recorded from Purkinje cells were increased. The expedited morphological and physiological maturation affects the whole cerebellar cortical network, as indicated by delayed climbing fibre elimination in 5-HT3A receptor knockout mice. There was no difference between wild-type and 5-HT3A receptor knockout mice in any of the morphological or physiological properties described above at later ages, indicating a specific time window during which serotonin regulates postnatal development of the cerebellum via 5-HT3 receptors expressed by granule cells.
GABAergic granule cells (GCs) regulate, via mitral cells, the final output from the olfactory bulb to piriform cortex and are central for the speed and accuracy of odour discrimination. However, little is known about the local circuits in which GCs are embedded and how GCs respond during functional network activity. We recorded inhibitory and excitatory currents evoked during a single sniff-like odour presentation in GCs in vivo. We found that synaptic excitation was extensively activated across cells, whereas phasic inhibition was rare. Furthermore, our analysis indicates that GCs are innervated by a persistent firing of deep short axon cells that mediated the inhibitory evoked responses. Blockade of GABAergic synaptic input onto GCs revealed a tonic inhibitory current mediated by furosemide-sensitive GABA(A) receptors. The average current associated with this tonic GABAergic conductance was 3-fold larger than that of phasic inhibitory postsynaptic currents. We show that the pharmacological blockage of tonic inhibition markedly increased the occurrence of supra-threshold responses during an odour-stimulated sniff. Our findings suggest that GCs mediate recurrent or lateral inhibition, depending on the ambient level of extracellular GABA.
Intestinal epithelial intercellular tight junctions (TJs) provide a rate-limiting barrier restricting passive transepithelial movement of solutes. TJs are highly dynamic areas, and their permeability is changed in response to various stimuli. Defects in the intestinal epithelial TJ barrier may contribute to intestinal inflammation or leaky gut. The gastrointestinal tract may be the largest extrapineal source of endogenous melatonin. Melatonin released from the duodenal mucosa is a potent stimulant of duodenal mucosal bicarbonate secretion (DBS). The aim of this study was to elucidate the role of melatonin in regulating duodenal mucosal barrier functions, including mucosal permeability, DBS, net fluid flux, and duodenal motor activity, in the living animal. Rats were anesthetized with thiobarbiturate, and a ~30-mm segment of the proximal duodenum with an intact blood supply was perfused in situ. Melatonin and the selective melatonin receptor antagonist luzindole were perfused luminally or given intravenously. Effects on permeability (blood-to-lumen clearance of (51)Cr-EDTA), DBS, mucosal net fluid flux, and duodenal motility were monitored. Luminal melatonin caused a rapid decrease in paracellular permeability and an increase in DBS, but had no effect on duodenal motor activity or net fluid flux. Luzindole did not influence any of the basal parameters studied, but significantly inhibited the effects of melatonin. The nonselective and noncompetitive nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist mecamylamine abolished the effect of melatonin on duodenal permeability and reduced that on DBS. In conclusion, these findings provide evidence that melatonin significantly decreases duodenal mucosal paracellular permeability and increases DBS. The data support the important role of melatonin in the neurohumoral regulation of duodenal mucosal barrier.

The neurophysiological bases of cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) for obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) are incompletely understood. Previous studies, though sparse, implicate metabolic changes in pregenual anterior cingulate cortex (pACC) and anterior middle cingulate cortex (aMCC) as neural correlates of response to CBT. The goal of this pilot study was to determine the relationship between levels of the neurochemically interlinked metabolites glutamate+glutamine (Glx) and N-acetyl-aspartate+N-acetyl-aspartyl-glutamate (tNAA) in pACC and aMCC to pretreatment OCD diagnostic status and OCD response to CBT. Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging ((1)H MRSI) was acquired from pACC and aMCC in 10 OCD patients at baseline, 8 of whom had a repeat scan after 4 weeks of intensive CBT. pACC was also scanned (baseline only) in 8 age-matched healthy controls. OCD symptoms improved markedly in 8/8 patients after CBT. In right pACC, tNAA was significantly lower in OCD patients than controls at baseline and then increased significantly after CBT. Baseline tNAA also correlated with post-CBT change in OCD symptom severity. In left aMCC, Glx decreased significantly after intensive CBT. These findings add to evidence implicating the pACC and aMCC as loci of the metabolic effects of CBT in OCD, particularly effects on glutamatergic and N-acetyl compounds. Moreover, these metabolic responses occurred after just 4 weeks of intensive CBT, compared to 3 months for standard weekly CBT. Baseline levels of tNAA in the pACC may be associated with response to CBT for OCD. Lateralization of metabolite effects of CBT, previously observed in subcortical nuclei and white matter, may also occur in cingulate cortex. Tentative mechanisms for these effects are discussed. Comorbid depressive symptoms in OCD patients may have contributed to metabolite effects, although baseline and post-CBT change in depression ratings varied with choline-compounds and myo-inositol rather than Glx or tNAA.
This study examines health and legal problems associated with use of commonly reported substances and combinations of substances in a sample of adults with long histories of methamphetamine (meth) use. Data are from a 2009-11 eight-year follow-up interview in an intensive natural history study (N = 373). Respondents who had not used illicit substances in the year preceding the follow-up interview (38%) were compared to users of marijuana-only (16%), meth-only (7%), and poly-drug users who used meth + marijuana but not heroin or cocaine (19%), and poly-drug users who used heroin and/or cocaine (20%). Multinomial regression results indicate that compared to drug-abstinent individuals, greater depressive symptomatology was reported for poly-drug users of meth + marijuana (p = .001), and arrest rates were higher for poly-drug users who used heroin/cocaine (p = .006); no differences in health, mental health, or criminal involvement were observed for meth-only users compared to abstinent individuals. Users of marijuana-only and poly-drug users of heroin/cocaine experienced poorer physical health status than those who were abstinent. To further explore this finding, use of marijuana for medical reasons was examined by drug use group. Overall, health and criminal outcomes varied based on type and combination of substances used, and these differences should be considered when planning treatment strategies.


Dural arteriovenous fistula (DAVF) is also known as dural arteriovenous malformation. Two forms of DAVF have been introduced, however, here we present an exceptional case of DAVF with unique origin and drainage. In this study, we present a rare case of multiple DAVFs in a 50 year old man with right parietal intraparenchymal hemorrhage. MRI showed two round right parieto-occipital masses with flow void intensity adjacent to superior sagittal sinus (SSS). Another pathology connected to SSS by an abnormal cortical vein was detected anterior to first lesion. This study showed that both DAVFs were simultaneously drained in SSS in our patient.
The objective of the study was to determine whether ADORA2A or PER3 polymorphisms contribute to individual responsivity to sleep restriction. Nineteen healthy adults (ages 18-39, 11 males, 8 females) underwent sleep restriction (SR) which consisted of seven nights of 3h time in bed (TIB) (04:00-07:00). SR was preceded by seven in-laboratory nights of 10h TIB (21:00-07:00) and followed by three nights of 8h TIB (23:00-07:00). Volunteers underwent psychomotor vigilance, objective alertness, and subjective sleepiness assessments throughout. Volunteers were genotyped for the PER3 VNTR polymorphism (PER3(4/4) n=7; PER3(4/5) n=10; PER3(5/5) n=2) and the ADORA2A c.1083T&gt;C polymorphism, (ADORA2A(C) (/T) n=9; ADORA2A(T) (/T) n=9; ADORA2A(C) (/C) n=1) using polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Separate mixed-model anovas were used to assess contributions of ADORA2A and PER3 polymorphisms. Results showed that PER3(4/4) and ADORA2A(C/T) individuals expressed greater behavioral resiliency to SR compared to PER(4/5) and ADORA2A(T/T) individuals. Our findings contrast with previously reported non-significant effects for the PER3 polymorphism under a less challenging sleep restriction regimen (4h TIB per night for five nights). We conclude that PER3 and ADORA2A polymorphisms become more behaviorally salient with increasing severity and/or duration of sleep restriction (based on psychomotor vigilance). Given the small sample size these results are preliminary and require replication.













A new pulse sequence for high-resolution T2-weighted (T2-w) imaging is proposed - image domain propeller fast spin echo (iProp-FSE). Similar to the T2-w PROPELLER sequence, iProp-FSE acquires data in a segmented fashion, as blades that are acquired in multiple TRs. However, the iProp-FSE blades are formed in the image domain instead of in the k-space domain. Each iProp-FSE blade resembles a single-shot fast spin echo (SSFSE) sequence with a very narrow phase-encoding field of view (FOV), after which N rotated blade replicas yield the final full circular FOV. Our method of combining the image domain blade data to a full FOV image is detailed, and optimal choices of phase-encoding FOVs and receiver bandwidths were evaluated on phantom and volunteers. The results suggest that a phase FOV of 15-20%, a receiver bandwidth of 32-63 kHz and a subsequent readout time of about 300 ms provide a good tradeoff between signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) efficiency and T2 blurring. Comparisons between iProp-FSE, Cartesian FSE and PROPELLER were made on single-slice axial brain data, showing similar T2-w tissue contrast and SNR with great anatomical conspicuity at similar scan times - without colored noise or streaks from motion. A new slice interleaving order is also proposed to improve the multislice capabilities of iProp-FSE.
Diffusion-tensor imaging is widely used to characterize diffusion in biological tissue, however, the derived anisotropy information, e.g., the fractional anisotropy, is ambiguous. For instance, low values of the diffusion anisotropy in brain white matter voxels may reflect a reduced axon density, i.e., a loss of fibers, or a lower fiber coherence within the voxel, e.g., more crossing fibers. This ambiguity can be avoided with experiments involving two diffusion-weighting periods applied successively in a single acquisition, so-called double-wave-vector or double-pulsed-field-gradient experiments. For a long mixing time between the two periods such experiments are sensitive to the cells' eccentricity, i.e., the diffusion anisotropy present on a microscopic scale. In this study, it is shown that this microscopic diffusion anisotropy can be detected in white matter in the living human brain, even in a macroscopically isotropic region-of-interest (fractional anisotropy = 0). The underlying signal difference between parallel and orthogonal wave vector orientations does not show up in standard diffusion-weighting experiments but is specific to the double-wave-vector experiment. Furthermore, the modulation amplitude observed is very similar for regions-of-interest with different fractional anisotrpy values. Thus, double-wave-vector experiments may provide a direct and reliable access to white matter integrity independent of the actual fiber orientation distribution within the voxel.
Oscillating gradient spin-echo (OGSE) pulse sequences have been proposed for acquiring diffusion data with very short diffusion times, which probe tissue structure at the subcellular scale. OGSE sequences are an alternative to pulsed gradient spin echo measurements, which typically probe longer diffusion times due to gradient limitations. In this investigation, a high-strength (6600 G/cm) gradient designed for small-sample microscopy was used to acquire OGSE and pulsed gradient spin echo data in a rat hippocampal specimen at microscopic resolution. Measurements covered a broad range of diffusion times (TDeff = 1.2-15.0 ms), frequencies ( = 67-1000 Hz), and b-values (b = 0-3.2 ms/m2). Variations in apparent diffusion coefficient with frequency and diffusion time provided microstructural information at a scale much smaller than the imaging resolution. For a more direct comparison of the techniques, OGSE and pulsed gradient spin echo data were acquired with similar effective diffusion times. Measurements with similar TDeff were consistent at low b-value (b &lt; 1 ms/m(2) ), but diverged at higher b-values. Experimental observations suggest that the effective diffusion time can be helpful in the interpretation of low b-value OGSE data. However, caution is required at higher b, where enhanced sensitivity to restriction and exchange render the effective diffusion time an unsuitable representation. Oscillating and pulsed gradient diffusion techniques offer unique, complementary information. In combination, the two methods provide a powerful tool for characterizing complex diffusion within biological tissues.

Autism is a pervasive developmental disorder that is characterized by the behavioral traits of impaired social cognition and communication, and repetitive and/or obsessive behavior and interests. Although there are many theories and speculations about the pathogenetic causes of autism, the disruption of the serotonergic system is one of the most consistent and well-replicated findings. Recently, it has been reported that placenta-derived serotonin is the main source in embryonic day (E) 10-15 mouse forebrain, after that period, the serotonergic fibers start to supply serotonin into the forebrain. E 10-15 is the very important developing period, when cortical neurogenesis, migration and initial axon targeting are processed. Since all these events have been considered to be involved in the pathogenesis of autism and they are highly controlled by serotonin signals, the paucity of placenta-derived serotonin should have potential importance when the pathogenesis of autism is considered. I, thus, postulate a hypothesis that placenta-derived hypo-serotonin situations in the developing forebrain cause autism. The hypothesis is as follows. Various factors, such as inflammation, dysfunction of the placenta, together with genetic predispositions cause a decrease of placenta-derived serotonin levels. The decrease of placenta-derived serotonin levels leads to hypo-serotonergic situations in the forebrain of the fetus. The paucity of serotonin in the forebrain leads to mis-wiring in important regions which are responsible for the theory of mind. The paucity of serotonin in the forebrain also causes over-growth of serotonergic fibers. These disturbances result in network deficiency and aberration of the serotonergic system, leading to the autistic phenotypes.
Aiming to further our understanding of fundamental mechanisms of auditory working memory (WM), the present study compared performance for three auditory materials (words, tones, timbres). In a forward recognition task (Experiment 1) participants indicated whether the order of the items in the second sequence was the same as in the first sequence. In a backward recognition task (Experiment 2) participants indicated whether the items of the second sequence were played in the correct backward order. In Experiment 3 participants performed an articulatory suppression task during the retention delay of the backward task. To investigate potential length effects the number of items per sequence was manipulated. Overall findings underline the benefit of a cross-material experimental approach and suggest that human auditory WM is not a unitary system. Whereas WM processes for timbres differed from those for tones and words, similarities and differences were observed for words and tones: Both types of stimuli appear to rely on rehearsal mechanisms, but might differ in the involved sensorimotor codes.

The -aminobutyric acid (GABA) A receptor is composed of a variety of subunits and combinations and shows a characteristic distribution in the CNS. To date, 20 subunits of the GABA A receptor have been cloned: 1-6, 1-4, 1-3, , ,  , , and 1-3. Oocyte of Xenopus laevis is one of the most frequently used heterologous expression systems, which are used to design and analyze specific combinations of GABA A receptor subunits. In oocytes, a certain GABA A receptor function is studied only by comparing the amplitude of the response to GABA and other drugs by physiological and pharmacological methods. According to the studies on Xenopus laevis oocytes, the 122S receptor combination is mostly used. The 1-containing receptors mediate sedative and anticonvulsant acts. The results of studies on oocytes show that PKA, NKCC1, P2X3 receptors, and GABA A receptor-associated protein, etc., are existing systems that show different reactivity to the GABA A receptors. The GABA A receptor subunits contain distinct binding sites for BZDs, neurosteroids, general anesthetics, etc., which are responsible for the numerous functions of the GABA A receptor. A variety of other drugs, such as topiramate, TG41, (+)- and (-)-borneol, apigenin, and 6-methylflavone could also have modulatory effects on the GABA A receptors. Some of the different models and hypotheses on GABA A receptor structure and function have been achieved by using the two-electrode voltage clamp method in oocytes.
Solute carriers (SLCs) comprise a large family of membrane transporters responsible for the transmembrane transport of a wide variety of substrates such as inorganic ions, amino acids, neurotransmitters and sugars. Despite being the largest family of membrane transport proteins, SLCs have been relatively under-utilized as therapeutic drug targets by approved drugs. In this paper, we aim to catalogue therapeutic SLCs utilized by approved drugs or currently in clinical trials. By mining information on clinical trials from the Centerwatch.com &quot;drugs in clinical trials database&quot; we were able to identify potentially novel SLC drug targets currently under development. We also searched the literature for SLCs that have been discussed as future therapeutic drug targets. We find SLCs to be utilized as therapeutic targets in treatment of a wide variety of diseases and disorders, such as major depression, ADHD, osteoporosis and hypertension. Drugs targeting SLCs for treatment of diabetes, constipation and hypercholesterolaemia are currently in clinical trials. SLC drug targets have also been explored in clinical trials for cardioprotection after an ischemic event. SLCs are of particular interest as targets in antineoplastic treatment and for the targeted transport of cytotoxic drugs into tumors, e.g. via the glucose transporters GLUT1-5 and SGLT1-3.
The acetyl-CoA (Ac-CoA) transporter, ACATN is a multiple (11 or 12) transmembrane protein in the endoplasmic reticulum. Ac-CoA is transported into the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum/Golgi apparatus, where it serves as the substrate of acetyltransferases that modify a variety of molecules including the sialic acid residues of gangliosides and lysine residues of membrane proteins. The ACATN gene, assigned as SLC33A1, was cloned from human melanoma cells and encodes the ACATN/ACATN1 (Acetyl-CoA Transporter 1) protein. Although homologs of this family of proteins have been identified in lower organisms such as Escherichia coli, Drosophila melanogaster and Caenorhabditis elegans, only one member of this SLC33A1 family has been identified. Although acetylated gangliosides are synthesized in the luminal Golgi membrane and show a highly tissue-specific distribution, ACATN1 is enriched in the ER membrane and is ubiquitously expressed. Phylogenetically, the SLC33A1 gene is highly conserved, suggesting that it is particularly significant. In fact, ACATN1 is essential for motor neuron viability. SLC33A1 is associated with neurodegenerative disorders such as sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and Spastic Paraplegia 42, in the Chinese population.
About 25% of all solute carriers (SLCs) are likely to transport amino acids as their primary substrate. One of the major phylogenetic clusters of amino acid transporters from the SLC family is the -family, which is part of the PFAM APC clan. The -family includes three SLC families, SLC32, SLC36 and SLC38 with one, four and eleven members in humans, respectively. The most well characterized genes within these families are the vesicular inhibitory amino acid transporter (VIAAT, SLC32A1), PAT1 (SLC36A1), PAT2 (SLC36A2), PAT4 (SLC36A4), SNAT1 (SLC38A1), SNAT2 (SLC38A2), SNAT3 (SLC38A3), and SNAT4 (SLC38A4). Here we review the structural characteristics and functional role of these transporters. We also mined the complete protein sequence datasets for nine different genomes to clarify the evolutionary history of the -family of transporters. We show that all three main branches of the this family are found as far back as green algae suggesting that genes from these families existed in the early eukaryote before the split of animals and plants and that they are present in most animal species. We also address the potential of further drug development within this field highlighting the important role of these transporters in neurotransmission and transport of amino acids as nutrients.
The exocytotic release of neurotransmitters requires active transport into synaptic vesicles and other types of secretory vesicles. Members of the SLC18 family perform this function for acetylcholine (SLC18A3, the vesicular acetylcholine transporter or VAChT) and monoamines such as dopamine and serotonin (SLC18A1 and 2, the vesicular monoamine transporters VMAT1 and 2, respectively). To date, no specific diseases have been attributed to a mutation in an SLC18 family member; however, polymorphisms in SLC18A1 and SLC18A2 may confer risk for some neuropsychiatric disorders. Additional members of this family include SLC18A4, expressed in insects, and SLC18B1, the function of which is not known. SLC18 is part of the Drug:H(+) Antiporter-1 Family (DHA1, TCID 2.A.1.2) within the Major Facilitator Superfamily (MFS, TCID 2.A.1).
The SLC13 family comprises five genes (SLC13A1, SLC13A2, SLC13A3, SLC13A4, and SLC13A5) encoding structurally related multi-spanning transporters (8-13 transmembrane domains) with orthologues found in prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Mammalian SLC13 members mediate the electrogenic Na(+)-coupled anion cotransport at the plasma membrane of epithelial cells (mainly kidney, small intestine, placenta and liver) or cells of the central nervous system. While the two SLC13 cotransporters NaS1 (SLC13A1) and NaS2 (SLC13A4) transport anions such sulfate, selenate and thiosulfate, the three other SLC13 members, NaDC1 (SLC13A2), NaCT (SLC13A5) and NaDC3 (SLC13A3), transport di- and tri-carboxylate Krebs cycle intermediates such as succinate, citrate and -ketoglutarate. All these transporters play a variety of physiological and pathophysiological roles in the different organs. Thus, the purpose of this review is to summarize the roles of SLC13 members in human physiology and pathophysiology and what the therapeutic perspectives are. We have also described the most recent advances on the structure, expression, function and regulation of SLC13 transporters.
Recently, we reported an elevated level of glucose-generated carbonyl adducts on cardiac ryanodine receptor (RyR2) and sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase (SERCA2) in hearts of streptozotocin(STZ)-induced diabetic rats. We also showed these adduct impaired RyR2 and SERCA2 activities, and altered evoked Ca(2+) transients. What is less clear is if lipid-derived malondialdehyde (MDA) and 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (4-HNE) also chemically react with and impair RyR2 and SERCA2 activities in diabetes? This study used western blot assays with adduct-specific antibodies and confocal microscopy to assess levels of MDA, 4-HNE, N ()-carboxy(methyl)lysine (CML), pentosidine, and pyrraline adducts on RyR2 and SERCA2 and evoked intracellular transient Ca(2+) kinetics in myocytes from control, diabetic, and treated-diabetic rats. MDA and 4-HNE adducts were not detected on RyR2 and SERCA2 from either control or 8 weeks diabetic rats with altered evoked Ca(2+) transients. However, CML, pentosidine, and pyrraline adducts were elevated three- to five-fold (p &lt; 0.05). Treating diabetic rats with pyridoxamine (a scavenger of reactive carbonyl species, RCS) or aminoguanidine (a mixed reactive oxygen species-RCS scavenger) reduced CML, pentosidine, and pyrraline adducts on RyR2 and SERCA2 and blunted SR Ca(2+) cycling changes. Treating diabetic rats with the superoxide dismutase mimetic tempol had no impact on MDA and 4-HNE adducts on RyR2 and SERCA2, and on SR Ca(2+) cycling. From these data we conclude that lipid-derived MDA and 4-HNE adducts are not formed on RyR2 and SERCA2 in this model of diabetes, and are therefore unlikely to be directly contributing to the SR Ca(2+) dysregulation.
Early hyperglycemic insult can lead to permanent, cumulative damage that might be one of the earliest causes for a pre-diabetic situation. Despite this, the early phases of hyperglycemic exposure have been poorly studied. We have previously demonstrated that mitochondrial injury takes place early on upon hyperglycemic exposure. In this work, we demonstrate that just 1 h of hyperglycemic exposure is sufficient to induce increased mitochondrial membrane potential and generation. This is accompanied (and probably caused) by a decrease in the cells' NAD(+)/NADH ratio. Furthermore, we show that the modulation of the activity of parallel pathways to glycolysis can alter the effects of hyperglycemic exposure. Activation of the pentose phosphate pathway leads to diminished effects of glucose on the above parameters, either by removing glucose from glycolysis or by NADPH generation. We also demonstrate that the hexosamine pathway inhibition also leads to a decreased effect of excess glucose. So, this work demonstrates the need for increased focus of study on the reductive status of the cell as one of the most important hallmarks of initial hyperglycemic damage.
Endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) have become of concern for a variety f health issues. Due to their effects on the endocrine system they have been thoroughly examined with regards to sexual dysfunction, malformation, and cancers of reproductive origin. Bisphenol-A (BPA) is a widely studied EDC and has been characterized regarding its estrogenic effects on a variety of cell types. BPA also alters immune responses. In this review, we examine some of the documented effects of EDCs, with a focus on BPA that pertain to modulation of the immune system and various immune cell populations. We highlight the multiple actions of BPA on altering T cell subsets, B cell functions, and dendritic cell and macrophage biology. Finally, we consider that these immunological activities of BPA may be mediated through estrogen receptor signaling, arylhydrocarbon receptor, and the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor family of nuclear receptors.

-Synuclein (SNCA) is a substantive component of Lewy bodies, the pathological hallmark of Parkinson's disease (PD). The discovery and subsequent derivation of its role in PD has led to a suprising but fruitful convergence of the fields of biochemistry and molecular genetics. In particular, the manipulation of the cell lines of a number of forms of familial PD has implicated SNCA in distinct and diverse biochemical pathways related to its pathogenesis. This current and rapidly evolving concept indicates PD is a disease in which interacting pathways of oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction and impaired regulation of protein turnover interact to cause dopaminergic cell dysfunction and death. SNCA has a central role in these processes and manipulation of its expression, degradation and aggregation appear to be promising neuroprotective therapeutic targets.
In this study, we screened in vitro the different capabilities of trophic factors with promising effect for enhancing selective regeneration and thus promoting specific reinnervation of target organs after peripheral nerve regeneration. We found that FGF-2 (18 kDa) was the trophic factor that exerted the most selective effect in promoting neurite outgrowth of spinal motoneurons both in terms of elongation and arborization. The mechanism underlying this effect on neuritogenesis seems related to FGF-2 enhancing the interaction between FGFR-1 and PSA-NCAM. The interaction of these two receptors is important during the early stages of neuritogenesis and pathfinding, while integrin alpha7B subunit seems to play a role during neurite stabilization.
An increasing wealth of data indicates a close relationship between the presynaptic protein alpha-synuclein and Parkinson's disease (PD) pathogenesis. Alpha-synuclein protein levels are considered as a major determinant of its neurotoxic potential, whereas secreted extracellular alpha-synuclein has emerged as an additional important factor in this regard. However, the manner of alpha-synuclein degradation in neurons remains contentious. Both the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) and the autophagy-lysosome pathway (ALP)-mainly macroautophagy and chaperone-mediated autophagy-have been suggested to contribute to alpha-synuclein turnover. Additionally, other proteases such as calpains, neurosin, and metalloproteinases have been also proposed to have a role in intracellular and extracellular alpha-synuclein processing. Both UPS and ALP activity decline with aging and such decline may play a pivotal role in many neurodegenerative conditions. Alterations in these major proteolytic pathways may result in alpha-synuclein accumulation due to impaired clearance. Conversely, increased alpha-synuclein protein burden promotes the generation of aberrant species that may impair further UPS or ALP function, generating thus a bidirectional positive feedback loop leading to neuronal death. In the current review, we summarize the recent findings related to alpha-synuclein degradation, as well as to alpha-synuclein-mediated aberrant effects on protein degradation systems. Identifying the factors that regulate alpha-synuclein association to cellular proteolytic pathways may represent potential targets for therapeutic interventions in PD and related synucleinopathies.
The toxicity of -synuclein in the neuropathology of Parkinson's disease which includes its hallmark aggregation has been studied scrupulously in the last decade. Although little is known regarding the normal functions of -synuclein, its association with membrane phospholipids suggests its potential role in signaling pathways. Following extensive evidences for its nuclear localization, we and others recently demonstrated DNA binding activity of -synuclein that modulates its conformation as well as aggregation properties. Furthermore, we also underscored the similarities among various amyloidogenic proteins involved in neurodegenerative diseases including amyloid beta peptides and tau. Our more recent studies show that -synuclein is glycated and glycosylated both in vitro and in neurons, significantly affecting its folding, oligomeric, and DNA binding properties. Glycated -synuclein causes increased genome damage both via its direct interaction with DNA and by increased generation of reactive oxygen species as glycation byproduct. In this review, we discuss the mechanisms of glycation and other posttranslational modifications of -synuclein, including phosphorylation and nitration, and their role in neuronal death in Parkinson's disease.
Parkinson's disease patients exhibit progressive spreading of aggregated -synuclein in the nervous system. This slow process follows a specific pattern in an inflamed tissue environment. Recent research suggests that prion-like mechanisms contribute to the propagation of -synuclein pathology. Little is known about factors that might affect the prion-like behavior of misfolded -synuclein. In this review, we suggest that neuroinflammation plays an important role. We discuss causes of inflammation in the olfactory bulb and gastrointestinal tract and how this may promote the initial misfolding and aggregation of -synuclein, which might set in motion events that lead to Parkinson's disease neuropathology. We propose that neuroinflammation promotes the prion-like behavior of -synuclein and that novel anti-inflammatory therapies targeting this mechanism could slow disease progression.
Metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGlu5) is a target for the treatment of central nervous system (CNS) disorders, such as schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease. Furthermore, mGlu5 has been shown to play an important role in hippocampal synaptic plasticity, specifically in long-term depression (LTD) and long-term potentiation (LTP), which is thought to be involved in cognition. Multiple mGlu5-positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) have been developed from a variety of different scaffolds. Previous work has extensively characterized a common allosteric site on mGlu5, termed the MPEP (2-Methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine) binding site. However, one mGlu5 PAM, CPPHA (N-(4-chloro-2-[(1,3-dioxo-1,3-dihydro-2H-isoindol-2-yl)methyl]phenyl)-2-hydroxybenzamide), interacts with a separate allosteric site on mGlu5. Using cell-based assays and brain slice preparations, we characterized the interaction of a potent and efficacious mGlu5 PAM from the CPPHA series termed NCFP (N-(4-chloro-2-((4-fluoro-1,3-dioxoisoindolin-2-yl)methyl)phenyl)picolinamide). NCFP binds to the CPPHA site on mGlu5 and potentiates mGlu5-mediated responses in both recombinant and native systems. However, NCFP provides greater mGlu5 subtype selectivity than does CPPHA, making it more suitable for studies of effects on mGlu5 in CNS preparations. Of interest, NCFP does not potentiate responses involved in hippocampal synaptic plasticity (LTD/LTP), setting it apart from other previously characterized MPEP site PAMs. This suggests that although mGlu5 PAMs may have similar responses in some systems, they can induce differential effects on mGlu5-mediated physiologic responses in the CNS. Such stimulus bias by mGlu5 PAMs may complicate drug discovery efforts but would also allow for specifically tailored therapies, if pharmacological biases can be attributed to different therapeutic outcomes.

The plasticity of excitatory synapses is an essential brain process involved in cognitive functions, and dysfunctions of such adaptations have been linked to psychiatric disorders such as depression. Although the intracellular cascades that are altered in models of depression and stress-related disorders have been under considerable scrutiny, the molecular interplay between antidepressants and glutamatergic signaling remains elusive. Using a combination of electrophysiological and single nanoparticle tracking approaches, we here report that the cognitive enhancer and antidepressant tianeptine (S 1574, [3-chloro-6-methyl-5,5-dioxo-6,11-dihydro-(c,f)-dibenzo-(1,2-thiazepine)-11-yl) amino]-7 heptanoic acid, sodium salt) favors synaptic plasticity in hippocampal neurons both under basal conditions and after acute stress. Strikingly, tianeptine rapidly reduces the surface diffusion of AMPA receptor (AMPAR) through a Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII)-dependent mechanism that enhances the binding of AMPAR auxiliary subunit stargazin with PSD-95. This prevents corticosterone-induced AMPAR surface dispersal and restores long-term potentiation of acutely stressed mice. Collectively, these data provide the first evidence that a therapeutically used drug targets the surface diffusion of AMPAR through a CaMKII-stargazin-PSD-95 pathway, to promote long-term synaptic plasticity.
The striatum, comprising the caudate nucleus, putamen and nucleus accumbens, occupies a strategic location within cortico-striato-pallido-thalamic-cortical (corticostriatal) re-entrant neural circuits. Striatal neurodevelopment is precisely determined by phylogenetically conserved homeobox genes. Consisting primarily of medium spiny neurons, the striatum is strictly topographically organized based on cortical afferents and efferents. Particular corticostriatal neural circuits are considered to subserve certain domains of cognition, emotion and behaviour. Thus, the striatum may serve as a map of structural change in the cortical afferent pathways owing to deafferentation or neuroplasticity, and conversely, structural change in the striatum per se may structurally disrupt corticostriatal pathways. The morphology of the striatum may be quantified in vivo using advanced magnetic resonance imaging, as may cognitive functioning pertaining to corticostriatal circuits. It is proposed that striatal morphology may be a biomarker in neurodegenerative disease and potentially the basis of an endophenotype.


Functional neurological symptoms are one of the most common conditions observed in neurological practice, but understanding of their underlying neurobiology is poor. Historic psychological models, based on the concept of conversion of emotional trauma into physical symptoms, have not been implemented neurobiologically, and are not generally supported by epidemiological studies. In contrast, there are robust clinical procedures that positively distinguish between organic and functional motor signs that rely primarily on distracting attention away from movement or accessing it covertly. We aimed to investigate the neurobiological principles underpinning these techniques and implications for understanding functional symptoms. We assessed 11 patients with functional motor symptoms and 11 healthy controls in three experimental set-ups, where voluntary movements were made either with full explicit control or could additionally be influenced automatically by factors of which participants were much less aware (one-back reaching, visuomotor transformation, and precued reaction time with variable predictive value of the precue). Patients specifically failed in those tasks where preplanning of movement could occur and under conditions of increasing certainty regarding the movement to be performed. However, they implicitly learned to adapt to a visuomotor transformation as well as healthy controls. We propose that when the movement to be performed can be preplanned or is highly predicted, patients with functional motor symptoms shift to an explicit attentive mode of processing that impairs kinematics of movement control, but movement becomes normal when such processes cannot be employed (e.g., during unexpected movement or implicit motor adaptation).
Thirty-four patients have been studied from the time of initiation of pharmacological treatment in a long-term prospective study of levodopa effects and disease progression in Parkinson's disease. Objective motor scoring of the response to levodopa in defined off states was performed every 3 years. The mean time from the initiation of levodopa treatment to the most recent measurements was 18.2 years. Of 8 patients who are still alive, only 3 had none of the features of the advanced disease phase (dementia, hallucinations, frequent falling). Off-phase motor function worsened at a yearly rate of 1.9% of the maximum disability score, although the plots of the serial scores showed that the magnitude of the levodopa response is well preserved. There was little difference in the rate of progression between patients with tremor-dominant and non-tremor-dominant motor subtypes. Those who developed dementia had more rapid deterioration of motor scores, with significantly worse off-phase (P = .008) and on-phase (P = .03) motor function. A graph of serial scores of patients who have died, aligned for time of death, showed an upward curving trend of motor disability in the last 5 years of the disease course. Its advanced phase may reveal that Parkinson's disease has an exponential pattern of progression.

Balance impairment is a principal symptom of cerebellar disease, but is poorly understood partly because subjects with heterogenous cerebellar and extracerebellar lesions have often been studied. Spinocerebellar ataxia type 6 (SCA6) provides an opportunity to understand balance dysfunction associated with a relatively homogenous cerebellar lesion. This study investigated stance instability in SCA6 and how it is affected by varying stance width. Body sway, as well as its directional preponderance and distribution across joints, was measured three-dimensionally in 17 SCA6 and 17 matched healthy control subjects. Subjects stood for 40 seconds on a stable surface with their eyes open and feet positioned at various stance widths (32, 16, 8, 4, and 0 cm). SCA6 subjects swayed faster than controls at every stance width. Decreasing the stance width produced a disproportionate increase in sway speed in SCA6 subjects, compared to controls. Directional preponderance of sway was dependent on stance width, but did not differ between groups. Joint instability was increased by reducing stance width in both groups, but there was greater instability of the ankle joint in the roll plane in the SCA6 group. Measures of global instability correlated strongly with disease severity measured with the Scale for the Assessment and Rating of Ataxia (r = 0.79). The sway characteristics suggest a disruption of sensorimotor processing for balance control in SCA6. The correlation with disease severity implies that balance impairment is a feature of progression of SCA6 clinical syndrome. With stance width standardized, the instability measures employed could provide sensitive, continuous outcome measures of longitudinal or therapeutic change.

The unmet need for therapies capable of repairing the central nervous system (CNS) damage occurring in many diseases including multiple sclerosis (MS) has sparked the interest of the neurological community for stem cell-based therapies. An exhaustive amount of preclinical data has shown that the intravenous administration of mesenchymal stem cells (MSC), a subset of progenitor cells isolated from many mesodermal tissues, effectively ameliorates experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a model of MS, through the release of anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective molecules. Based on these results, several small pilot clinical trials in subjects with advanced MS have demonstrated that MSC administration is safe and provided an early signal of clinical effectiveness. The current aim of clinicians and scientists interested in the development of MSC-based strategies for the treatment of MS is to have the ultimate demonstration in large clinical trials that MSC can inhibit CNS inflammation and foster tissue repair as realized clinically, with functional recovery, or visualized by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
Ion channel dysfunction is an important mechanism that contributes to functional disability and axonal degeneration in multiple sclerosis (MS). Recent studies have revealed that there are complex rearrangements of voltage-gated Na(+) channels that occur with acute brain inflammation in MS, with up-regulation of primitive Na(+) channel isoforms such as Nav 1.2 during acute inflammation. While these changes may help support neural conduction, increased expression of 'persistent' Na(+) conductances and altered function of the Na(+)/K(+) pump may contribute to axonal degeneration in MS. Increased expression of K(+) channels due to demyelination has also been considered as a contributing factor to conduction failure in MS. Recent phase II and phase III clinical trials have demonstrated improvements in walking speed in patients receiving fampridine SR, a K(+) channel blocker. This medication appears to be well-tolerated with a low risk of serious adverse events and provides benefits in both relapsing and progressive forms of MS.






It was a single tweet. In February, after US President Barack Obama made a subtle nod to a new neuroscience project in his annual State of the Union address, Francis Collins, director of the country's National Institutes of Health (NIH), posted on the @NIHDirector Twitter feed: &quot;Obama mentions the #NIH Brain Activity Map in #SOTU.&quot; Instantly, scientists were buzzing with rumors that the Brain Activity Map could be the next moon shot, with a budget and timeline similar to the Human Genome Project. The brain map began as a brief white paper and has grown into a large--and still largely undefined--collaboration of several government agencies, nonprofit foundations and private companies. As the stakeholders describe in a commentary published last month (339, 1284-1285, 2013), the goal of the initiative is to understand how thousands of neurons work in concert to control behavior and trigger disease. Miyoung Chun, vice president for science programs at The Kavli Foundation in Oxnard, California, has been developing the project since the beginning and is the self-described &quot;glue&quot; between its many diverse stakeholders. Chun spoke with Virginia Hughes about the evolution of the project and what it might mean for biomedicine.
Sorting nexin 27 (SNX27), a brain-enriched PDZ domain protein, regulates endocytic sorting and trafficking. Here we show that Snx27(-/-) mice have severe neuronal deficits in the hippocampus and cortex. Although Snx27(+/-) mice have grossly normal neuroanatomy, we found defects in synaptic function, learning and memory and a reduction in the amounts of ionotropic glutamate receptors (NMDA and AMPA receptors) in these mice. SNX27 interacts with these receptors through its PDZ domain, regulating their recycling to the plasma membrane. We demonstrate a concomitant reduced expression of SNX27 and CCAAT/enhancer binding protein  (C/EBP) in Down's syndrome brains and identify C/EBP as a transcription factor for SNX27. Down's syndrome causes overexpression of miR-155, a chromosome 21-encoded microRNA that negatively regulates C/EBP, thereby reducing SNX27 expression and resulting in synaptic dysfunction. Upregulating SNX27 in the hippocampus of Down's syndrome mice rescues synaptic and cognitive deficits. Our identification of the role of SNX27 in synaptic function establishes a new molecular mechanism of Down's syndrome pathogenesis.


Induction of histone acetylation in the nucleus accumbens (NAc), a key brain reward region, promotes cocaine-induced alterations in gene expression. Histone deacetylases (HDACs) tightly regulate the acetylation of histone tails, but little is known about the functional specificity of different HDAC isoforms in the development and maintenance of cocaine-induced plasticity, and previous studies of HDAC inhibitors report conflicting effects on cocaine-elicited behavioral adaptations. Here we demonstrate that specific and prolonged blockade of HDAC1 in NAc of mice increased global levels of histone acetylation, but also induced repressive histone methylation and antagonized cocaine-induced changes in behavior, an effect mediated in part through a chromatin-mediated suppression of GABAA receptor subunit expression and inhibitory tone on NAc neurons. Our findings suggest a new mechanism by which prolonged and selective HDAC inhibition can alter behavioral and molecular adaptations to cocaine and inform the development of therapeutics for cocaine addiction.
A major goal of biomedical research is the identification of molecular and cellular mechanisms that underlie memory storage. Here we report a previously unknown signaling pathway that is necessary for the conversion from short- to long-term memory. The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) complex 2 (mTORC2), which contains the regulatory protein Rictor (rapamycin-insensitive companion of mTOR), was discovered only recently and little is known about its function. We found that conditional deletion of Rictor in the postnatal murine forebrain greatly reduced mTORC2 activity and selectively impaired both long-term memory (LTM) and the late phase of hippocampal long-term potentiation (L-LTP). We also found a comparable impairment of LTM in dTORC2-deficient flies, highlighting the evolutionary conservation of this pathway. Actin polymerization was reduced in the hippocampus of mTORC2-deficient mice and its restoration rescued both L-LTP and LTM. Moreover, a compound that promoted mTORC2 activity converted early LTP into late LTP and enhanced LTM. Thus, mTORC2 could be a therapeutic target for the treatment of cognitive dysfunction.
To choose between manifestly distinct options, it is suggested that the brain assigns values to goals using a common currency. Although previous studies have reported activity in ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) correlating with the value of different goal stimuli, it remains unclear whether such goal-value representations are independent of the associated stimulus categorization, as required by a common currency. Using multivoxel pattern analyses on functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data, we found a region of medial prefrontal cortex to contain a distributed goal-value code that is independent of stimulus category. More ventrally in the vmPFC, we found spatially distinct areas of the medial orbitofrontal cortex to contain unique category-dependent distributed value codes for food and consumer items. These results implicate the medial prefrontal cortex in the implementation of a common currency and suggest a ventral versus dorsal topographical organization of value signals in the vmPFC.
Current methods for studying oligodendrocyte myelination using primary neurons are limited by the time, cost and reproducibility of myelination in vitro. Nanofibers with diameters of &gt;0.4 m fabricated from electrospinning of liquid polystyrene are suitable scaffolds for concentric membrane wrapping by oligodendrocytes. With the advent of aligned electrospinning technology, nanofibers can be rapidly fabricated, standardized, and configured into various densities and patterns as desired. Notably, the minimally permissive culture environment of fibers provides investigators with an opportunity to explore the autonomous oligodendrocyte cellular processes underlying differentiation and myelination. The simplicity of the system is conducive to monitoring oligodendrocyte proliferation, migration, differentiation and membrane wrapping in the absence of neuronal signals. Here we describe protocols for the fabrication and preparation of nanofibers aligned on glass coverslips for the study of membrane wrapping by rodent oligodendrocytes. The entire protocol can be completed within 2 weeks.

Mild traumatic brain injury (TBI), which is defined as a head trauma resulting in a brief loss of consciousness and/or alteration of mental state, is usually benign, but occasionally causes persistent and sometimes progressive symptoms. Whether a threshold for the amount of brain injury and/or individual vulnerability might contribute to the development of these long-term consequences is unknown. Furthermore, reliable diagnostic methods that can establish whether a blow to the head has affected the brain (and in what way) are lacking. In this Review, we discuss potential biomarkers of injury to different structures and cell types in the CNS that can be detected in body fluids. We present arguments in support of the need for further development and validation of such biomarkers, and for their use in assessing patients with head trauma in whom the brain might have been affected. Specifically, we focus on the need for such biomarkers in the management of sports-related concussion, the most common cause of mild TBI in young individuals, to prevent long-term neurological sequelae due to concussive or subconcussive blows to the head.
The neuronal isoform of cytoplasmic polyadenylation element-binding protein (CPEB) is a regulator of local protein synthesis at synapses and is critical in maintaining learning-related synaptic plasticity in Aplysia. Previous studies indicate that the function of Aplysia CPEB can be modulated by conversion to a stable prion-like state, thus contributing to the stabilization of long-term memory on a molecular level. Here, we used biophysical methods to demonstrate that Aplysia CPEB, like other prions, undergoes a conformational switch from soluble -helix-rich oligomer to -sheet-rich fiber in vitro. Solid-state NMR analyses of the fibers indicated a relatively rigid N-terminal prion domain. The fiber form of Aplysia CPEB showed enhanced binding to target mRNAs as compared to the soluble form. Consequently, we propose a model for the Aplysia CPEB fibers that may have relevance for functional prions in general.
The instantaneous phase of neural rhythms is important to many neuroscience-related studies. In this letter, we show that the statistical sampling properties of three instantaneous phase estimators commonly employed to analyze neuroscience data share common features, allowing an analytical investigation into their behavior. These three phase estimators-the Hilbert, complex Morlet, and discrete Fourier transform-are each shown to maximize the likelihood of the data, assuming the observation of different neural signals. This connection, explored with the use of a geometric argument, is used to describe the bias and variance properties of each of the phase estimators, their temporal dependence, and the effect of model misspecification. This analysis suggests how prior knowledge about a rhythmic signal can be used to improve the accuracy of phase estimates.
Neural encoding and decoding provide perspectives for understanding neural representations of sensory inputs. Recent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies have succeeded in building prediction models for encoding and decoding numerous stimuli by representing a complex stimulus as a combination of simple elements. While arbitrary visual images were reconstructed using a modular model that combined the outputs of decoder modules for multiscale local image bases (elements), the shapes of the image bases were heuristically determined. In this work, we propose a method to establish mappings between the stimulus and the brain by automatically extracting modules from measured data. We develop a model based on Bayesian canonical correlation analysis, in which each module is modeled by a latent variable that relates a set of pixels in a visual image to a set of voxels in an fMRI activity pattern. The estimated mapping from a latent variable to pixels can be regarded as an image basis. We show that the model estimates a modular representation with spatially localized multiscale image bases. Further, using the estimated mappings, we derive encoding and decoding models that produce accurate predictions for brain activity and stimulus images. Our approach thus provides a novel means of revealing neural representations of stimuli by automatically extracting modules, which can be used to generate effective prediction models for encoding and decoding.
The Hindmarsh-Rose (HR) dynamical system is a well-known model of neuronal activity. It is known that two HR neurons can synchronize when coupled in the action potential variable. Here, I report on exponentially fast synchronization of two HR neurons with novel unidirectional coupling. Explicit proof of global stability is given where the Lyapunov function is found with single parameter bounds as sufficient criteria. Numerical explorations verify such synchronization yet reveal additional single-link unidirectional couplings enabling full or subsystem synchronization where the parameters of two HR neurons might differ. Despite the mathematical prediction, from neuroscience and molecular biology points of view such connectivity between neurons has no simple explanation. The result opens up a fundamental question on the valid interpretation of unidirectional links, their potential use, and if such synchronization is an active principle of biological neurons.
Evolutionary neuroscience has been mainly dominated by the principle of phylogenetic conservation, specifically, by the search for similarities in brain organization. This principle states that closely related species tend to be similar because they have a common ancestor. However, explaining, for instance, behavioral differences between humans and chimpanzees, has been revealed to be notoriously difficult. In this paper, the hypothesis of a common information-processing principle exploited by the brains evolved through natural evolution is explored. A model combining recent advances in cognitive psychology and evolutionary neuroscience is presented. The macroscopic effects associated with the intelligence-like structures postulated by the model are analyzed from a statistical mechanics point of view. As a result of this analysis, some plausible explanations are put forward concerning the disparities and similarities in cognitive capacities which are observed in nature across species. Furthermore, an interpretation on the efficiency of brain's computations is also provided. These theoretical results and their implications against modern theories of intelligence are shown to be consistent with the formulated hypothesis.
Pyramidal cells perform computations on their inputs within the context of the local network. The present computational study investigates the consequences of feed-forward inhibition for the firing rate and reliability of a typical hippocampal pyramidal neuron that can respond with single spikes as well as bursts. A simple generic inhibitory interneuron is connected in a feed-forward mode to a pyramidal cell and this minimal circuit is activated with frozen noise. The properties (reversal potential, projection site, propagation delay, fast or slow kinetics) of the connecting synapse and the coupling strength between the interneuron and the pyramidal cell are varied. All forms of inhibition considered here decrease the burst rate, but the effects on the single spike (spikes that are not part of a burst) rate are more ambiguous. Slow dendritic shunting inhibition increases the single spike rate, but fast somatic inhibition does not. When a propagation delay is included in the slow dendritic synapse, the increase of the single spike rate is smaller, an effect that could also be obtained by lowering the reversal potential of the synaptic current. Cross-correlations, reverse correlation analysis and decorrelating the interneuron and pyramidal cell activity are used to demonstrate that these effects depend critically on the exact timing of inhibition, emphasizing the relevance of spatiotemporal organization. The reliability of the firing of the pyramidal cell is quantified with the Victor-Purpura measure. When burst and spikes together or spikes alone are taken into account, feed-forward inhibition makes firing more reliable. This is not the case when the analysis is restricted to bursts. A hyperpolarization-activated, non-specific cation current (Ih) is inserted into the dendritic membrane of the pyramidal cell, where it slightly depolarizes the membrane and reduces its time constant. This dendritic h-current increases the output frequency, makes inhibition less effective and introduces spike-spike interactions at a 40-140 ms time scale. Feed-forward inhibition always decreases the burst firing rate, but the effects on the single spike rate depended on the spatiotemporal organization of inhibition. Therefore, using different connection strategies, the spike and burst rate of such a minimal circuit can be modulated independently.
Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is a key histopathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis of the Dutch type (HCHWA-D). CAA is characterized by amyloid-beta (A) depositions and remodeling of the extracellular matrix (ECM) in brain vessels and plays an important role in the development and progression of both AD and HCHWA-D. Tissue transglutaminase (tTG) modulates the ECM by molecular cross-linking of ECM proteins. Here, we investigated the distribution pattern, cellular source, and activity of tTG in CAA in control, AD, and HCHWA-D cases. We observed increased tTG immunoreactivity and colocalization with A in the vessel wall in early stage CAA, whereas in later CAA stages, tTG and its cross-links were present in halos enclosing the A deposition. In CAA, tTG and its cross-links at the abluminal side of the vessel were demonstrated to be either of astrocytic origin in parenchymal vessels, of fibroblastic origin in leptomeningeal vessels, and of endothelial origin at the luminal side of the deposited A. Furthermore, the ECM proteins fibronectin and laminin colocalized with the tTG-positive halos surrounding the deposited A in CAA. However, we observed that in situ tTG activity was present throughout the vessel wall in late stage CAA. Together, our data suggest that tTG and its activity might play a differential role in the development and progression of CAA, possibly evolving from direct modulation of A aggregation to cross-linking of ECM proteins resulting in ECM restructuring.
Sequence analysis of all the exons of EIF4G1 in 96 Asian patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) did not reveal any pathogenic mutations. A novel coding variant (Pro693Ser) in exon 15 (position 2077) was detected in one PD patient but not in 539 control subjects. Analysis of a coding polymorphic variant (rs2178403) in 1330 subjects revealed similar frequency between control subjects (0.638) and PD patients (0.640). EIF4G1 is an uncommon cause of PD in our Asian cohort.
It is widely accepted that hypoperfusion and changes in capillary morphology are involved in the etiopathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). This is difficult to reconcile with the hyperperfusion observed in young high-risk subjects. Differences in the way cerebral blood flow (CBF) is coupled with the local metabolic needs during different phases of the disease can explain this apparent paradox. This review describes this coupling in terms of a model of cerebral oxygen availability that takes into consideration the heterogeneity of capillary blood flow patterns. The model predicts that moderate increases in heterogeneity requires elevated CBF in order to maintain adequate oxygenation. However, with progressive increases in heterogeneity, the resulting low tissue oxygen tension will require a suppression of CBF in order to maintain tissue metabolism. The observed biphasic nature of CBF responses in preclinical AD and AD is therefore consistent with progressive disturbances of capillary flow patterns. Salient features of the model are discussed in the context of AD pathology along with potential sources of increased capillary flow heterogeneity.
Default mode network resting state activity in posterior cingulate cortex is abnormally reduced in Alzheimer disease (AD) patients. Fluctuating cognition and electroencephalogram abnormalities are established core and supportive elements respectively for the diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Our aim was to assess whether patients with DLB with both of these features have different default mode network patterns during resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging compared with AD. Eighteen patients with DLB, 18 AD patients without fluctuating cognition, and 15 control subjects were selected after appropriate matching and followed for 2-5 years to confirm diagnosis. Independent component analysis with functional connectivity (FC) and Granger causality approaches were applied to isolate and characterize resting state networks. FC was reduced in AD and DLB patients compared with control subjects. Posterior cingulate cortex activity was lower in AD than in control subjects and DLB patients (p &lt; 0.05). Right hemisphere FC was reduced in DLB patients in comparison with control subjects but not in patients with AD, and was correlated with severity of fluctuations ( = -0.69; p &lt; 0.01). Causal flow analysis showed differences between patients with DLB and AD and control subjects.
Brain microvasculature plays a critical role in the regulation of homeostasis of neural tissues. The present study focuses on characteristic microvascular basement membrane (bm) aberrations in the midbrain periaqueductal gray matter (PAG) and their relation to aging. The PAG can be considered a caudal extension of the limbic system and is a key structure in the regulation of a myriad of autonomic and motor control functions. In an ultrastructural study, morphologic changes in mesencephalic PAG capillaries were assessed in aged and young hamster and compared with those in caudal brainstem areas. Bm aberrations were studied in 1200 capillaries (n = 600 young hamsters; n = 600 aged hamsters). A new, never reported variant of bm degeneration was found that presented itself as foamy-like structures accumulating within the lamina densa of notably PAG capillaries. We classified these foamy structures as 'spumiform basement membrane degenerations' (sbmd) in which we could distinguish 4 stages depending on the size and intramembranous localization, ranging from split bm (stage I), intermediate stages II and III, to extensive stage IV, affecting almost the complete capillary bm outline. In the PAG of senescent animals various stages of sbmd were observed in 92  3% of all capillaries. Stage II was most prominently present (59%), followed by stage III (20%), and stage IV (13%). These bm aberrations were clearly age-dependent because in young animals, only 5% of the PAG capillaries showed characteristics of sbmd. For comparison, in the pontine reticular formation at the PAG-level, 41% of the capillaries showed a form of sbmd, but these defects were significantly less severe (stages I-II, 98%), and caudal brainstem structures displayed no sbmd at all. In addition to sbmd, diffuse endothelial changes, disrupted tight junctions, thickening of the bm, pericyte degeneration, and gliosis were observed in PAG capillaries. It is hypothesized that selective bm permeability of PAG capillaries results in a sequence of bm damage events that start with split bm, gradually changing into more and more extensive sbmd accumulations that eventually almost completely surround the capillary. Progressive sbmd in PAG capillaries might lead to a loss of blood-brain barrier function and consequently to impairment of autonomic and motor control functions exerted by the PAG.
Mutations in the profilin 1 (PFN1) gene, encoding a member of the profilin family of small actin-binding proteins, have been recently reported in patients with familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). In this study we aimed to determine the prevalence of PFN1 mutations by sequencing the coding region of this gene in a cohort of 94 familial ALS patients from France and Quebec. No mutations were identified in our cohort suggesting that PFN1 gene mutations are a very rare cause of familial ALS among patients with predominantly European ancestry.
Individuals who report subjective cognitive complaints but perform normally on neuropsychological tests might be at increased risk for pathological cognitive aging. The current study examined the effects of the presence of subjective cognitive complaints on functional brain activity during a working memory task in a sample of middle-aged postmenopausal women. Twenty-three postmenopausal women aged 50-60 completed a cognitive complaint battery of questionnaires. Using 20% of items endorsed as the threshold, 12 women were categorized as cognitive complainers (CC) and 11 were noncomplainers (NC). All subjects then took part in a functional magnetic resonance imaging scanning session during which they completed a visual-verbal N-back test of working memory. Results showed no difference in working memory performance between CC and NC groups. However, the CC group showed greater activation relative to the NC group in a broad network involved in working memory including the middle frontal gyrus (Brodmann area [BA] 9 and 10), the precuneus (BA 7), and the cingulate gyrus (BA 24 and 32). The CC group recruited additional regions of the working memory network compared with the NC group as the working memory load and difficulty of the task increased. This study showed brain activation differences during working memory performance in a middle-aged group of postmenopausal women with subjective cognitive complaints but without objective cognitive deficit. These findings suggest that subjective cognitive complaints in postmenopausal women might be associated with increased cortical activity during effort-demanding cognitive tasks.
Seizures occur in the basal ganglia (BG) of epileptic patients and in animal models of epilepsy, but there is relatively little known about how these events are gated and/or propagated through this structure. Here, we present and characterize a model of in vitro seizure-like events (SLEs) in the striatum by applying chemostimulants to brain slices from young rat pups. We found that bath perfusion of artificial cerebral spinal fluid (aCSF) containing 0.25 mM MgCl(2), 5mM KCl and 100 M 4-aminopyridine (LM/HK/4AP) elicited recurrent hyper-excitability in striatal medium spiny neurons (MSNs) in the form of paroxysmal depolarization shifts (PDSs) with an amplitude of 27.8  2.1 mV and a duration of 29.4  3.7s. PDSs coincided with SLEs in the striatal network with an amplitude of 106.5  11.3 V, duration of 23.6  3.2 s, and a spiking frequency of 7.9  1.3 Hz. Notably, chemostimulant-induced MSN PDSs were predominantly observed at earlier ages (P7-11), whereas occurrence of MSN PDSs declined to 50% by P12 and were no longer noted after P14; antagonism of the cannabinoid receptor (CB1) with 10 M LY 320135 along with perfusion of LM/HK/4AP in older animals (P14-15) was unable to elicit MSN PDSs and SLEs. PDSs and SLEs were blocked with 60 M 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate (APV), an N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) blocker, or with traditional anticonvulsants such as 100 M phenytoin or 50 M carbamazepine. Conversely, blockade of 2-amino-3-(5-methyl-3-oxo-1,2-oxazol-4-yl) propanoic acid receptors (AMPARs) with 10 M CNQX or T- and L-type Ca(2+) channels with 50 M NiCl(2) or 50 M nimodipine, respectively, did not significantly change MSN PDS and SLE amplitudes, durations and frequencies seen with LM/HK/4AP treatment alone. Striatal SLEs were driven by MSN hyper-excitability and synchrony since neither the presence of 1M scopolamine, a muscarinic acetylcholine (ACh) receptor inhibitor, nor selective inhibition of fast-spiking interneurons (FSIs) with 50M IEM1460 had any significant effect on MSN PDSs and SLEs. Next, we physically isolated the striatum from cortical and thalamic input and found that the striatum was intrinsically capable of manifesting NMDAR-dependent SLEs. Altogether, the present study is the first to deconstruct how SLEs can form in the striatum by examining how MSN activity coincides with SLEs. It also highlights a previously unrecognized potential for the striatum to manifest SLEs in vitro, without involving the cortex and thalamus. From these findings, further hypotheses can be developed for studying the BG's role in seizure generation and propagation, which may lead to novel pharmacological targets for the treatment of epilepsy.
This paper addresses the relative independence of different types of lexical- and factually-based semantic knowledge in JM, a 9-year-old boy with Klinefelter syndrome (KS). JM was matched to typically developing (TD) controls on the basis of chronological age. Lexical-semantic knowledge was investigated for common noun (CN) and mathematical vocabulary items (MV). Factually-based semantic knowledge was investigated for general and number facts. For CN items, JM's lexical stores were of a normal size but the volume of correct 'sensory feature' semantic knowledge he generated within verbal item descriptions was significantly reduced. He was also significantly impaired at naming item descriptions and pictures, particularly for fruit and vegetables. There was also weak object decision for fruit and vegetables. In contrast, for MV items, JM's lexical stores were elevated, with no significant difference in the amount and type of correct semantic knowledge generated within verbal item descriptions and normal naming. JM's fact retrieval accuracy was normal for all types of factual knowledge. JM's performance indicated a dissociation between the representation of CN and MV vocabulary items during development. JM's preserved semantic knowledge of facts in the face of impaired semantic knowledge of vocabulary also suggests that factually-based semantic knowledge representation is not dependent on normal lexical-semantic knowledge during development. These findings are discussed in relation to the emergence of distinct semantic knowledge representations during development, due to differing degrees of dependency upon the acquisition and representation of semantic knowledge from verbal propositions and perceptual input.
Oxidative stress has been identified as an important contributor to neurodegeneration associated with acute CNS injuries and diseases such as spinal cord injury (SCI), traumatic brain injury (TBI), and ischemic stroke. In this review, we briefly detail the damaging effects of oxidative stress (lipid peroxidation, protein oxidation, etc.) with a particular emphasis on DNA damage. Evidence for DNA damage in acute CNS injuries is presented along with its downstream effects on neuronal viability. In particular, unchecked oxidative DNA damage initiates a series of signaling events (e.g. activation of p53 and PARP-1, cell cycle re-activation) which have been shown to promote neuronal loss following CNS injury. These findings suggest that preventing DNA damage might be an effective way to promote neuronal survival and enhance neurological recovery in these conditions. Finally, we identify the telomere and telomere-associated proteins (e.g. telomerase) as novel therapeutic targets in the treatment of neurodegeneration due to their ability to modulate the neuronal response to both oxidative stress and DNA damage.
Dopamine is produced first by hydroxylalation of l-tyrosine to l-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-dopa) and subsequently by the decarboxylation of l-dopa to dopamine catalysed by the enzymes tyrosine hydroxylase and aromatic l-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) respectively. Reduced glutathione (GSH) acts as a major cellular antioxidant. We have investigated the role of dopamine in the control of GSH homeostasis in brain cells. The SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cell line was found to increase intracellular GSH levels in response to 50M dopamine treatment. Similarly the 1321N1 human astrocytoma cell line was found to increase GSH release in response to 50M dopamine. The same concentration of l-dopa was also found to increase intracellular GSH in SH-SY5Y cells, however when AADC was inhibited this affect was abolished. Furthermore 1321N1 cells which were found to have almost undetectable levels of AADC activity did not increase GSH release in response to 50M l-dopa. These results suggest that at these concentrations dopamine has the potential to act as a signal for the upregulation of GSH synthesis within neuronal-like cells and for the increased trafficking of GSH from astrocytes to neurons. This effect could potentially relate to the activation of antioxidant response elements leading to the induction of phase II detoxifying enzymes including those involved in GSH synthesis and release. The inability of l-dopa to produce a similar effect when AADC was inhibited or when AADC activity was absent indicates that these effects are relatively specific to dopamine. Additionally dopamine but not l-dopa treatment led in an increase in complex I activity of the respiratory chain in SH-SY5Y cells which may be related to the effect of dopamine on GSH levels.
Alzheimer's disease, the most prevalent age-related neurodegenerative disease, is characterized by the presence of extracellular senile plaques composed of amyloid-beta (A) peptide and intracellular neurofibrillary tangles. More than 50 % of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients also exhibit abundant accumulation of -synuclein (-Syn)-positive Lewy bodies. This Lewy body variant of AD (LBV-AD) is associated with accelerated cognitive dysfunction and progresses more rapidly than pure AD. In addition, it has been suggested that A and -Syn can directly interact. In this study we investigated the effect of -Syn on A-induced toxicity in cortical neurons. In order to mimic the intracellular accumulation of -Syn observed in the brain of LBV-AD patients, we used valproic acid (VPA) to increase its endogenous expression levels. The release of -Syn from damaged presynaptic terminals that occurs during the course of the disease was simulated by challenging cells with recombinant -Syn. Our results showed that either VPA-induced -Syn upregulation or addition of recombinant -Syn protect primary cortical neurons from soluble A1-42 decreasing the caspase-3-mediated cell death. It was also found that neuroprotection against A-induced toxicity mediated by -Syn overexpression involves the PI3K/Akt cell survival pathway. Furthermore, recombinant -Syn was shown to directly interact with A1-42 and to decrease the levels of A1-42 oligomers, which might explain its neuroprotective effect. In conclusion, we demonstrate that either endogenous or exogenous -Syn can be neuroprotective against A-induced cell death, suggesting a cell defence mechanism during the initial stages of the mixed pathology.
It has been widely suggested that oxidative stress products play an important role in the pathophysiology of epilepsy. Capparis ovata (C. ovata) may useful treatment of epilepsy because it contains antioxidant flavonoids. The current study was designed to determine the effects of C. ovata on lipid peroxidation, antioxidant levels and electroencephalography (EEG) records in pentylentetrazol (PTZ)-induced epileptic rats. Thirty-two rats were randomly divided into four groups. First group was used as control although second group was PTZ group. Oral 100 and 200 mg/kg C. ovata were given to rats constituting the third and fourth groups for 7 days before PTZ administration. Second, third and forth groups received 60 mg/kg PTZ for induction of epilepsy. Three hours after administration of PTZ, EEG records, brain cortex and blood samples were taken all groups. The lipid peroxidation levels of the brain cortex, number of spikes and epileptiform discharges of EEG were higher in PTZ group than in control and C. ovata group whereas they were decreased by C. ovata administration. Vitamin A, vitamin C, vitamin E and -carotene concentrations of brain cortex and latency to first spike of EEG were decreased by the PTZ administration although the brain cortex and plasma vitamin concentrations, and brain cortex and erythrocyte glutathione and glutathione peroxidase values were increased in PTZ + 100 and PTZ + 200 mg C. ovata groups. In conclusion, C. ovata administration caused protection against the PTZ-induced brain oxidative toxicity by inhibiting free radical and epileptic seizures, and supporting antioxidant redox system.
Intracranial hypertension is an emergency suspected from clinical symptoms, imaging data and ophthalomologic signs. Intracranial hypertension is confirmed by invasive intracranial monitoring, which is the gold standard technique to measure intracranial pressure (ICP). Because of complications, hemorrhage or infection, non-invasive methods have been developed such as neuroimaging, transcranial Doppler sonography and optic nerve sheath diameter (ONSD) ultrasonography. We have reviewed ONSD technique that detects intracranial hypertension related volume variations of subarachnoid space along the retro bulbar segment of the optic nerve. Technique, indications and prospects are discussed.


Recent results from neuroimaging appear to indicate that some patients in a vegetative state have partially intact awareness. These results may demonstrate misdiagnosis and suggest the need not only for alternative forms of treatment, but also for the reconsideration of end-of-life decisions in cases of disorders of consciousness. This article addresses the second consequence. First, I will discuss which aspects of consciousness may be involved in neuroimaging findings. I will then consider various factors relevant to ethical end-of-life decision-making, and analyse whether and to what extent the above consequence applies to these factors. It will be shown that knowledge of the existence of partial awareness in patients with disorders of consciousness only influences end-of-life decision-making if certain background assumptions are made.

Longitudinal studies on aging brain function have shown declines in frontal activity as opposed to the over-recruitment shown in cross-sectional studies. Such mixed findings suggest that age-related changes in frontal activity may be process- and region-specific, having varied associations across different frontal regions involved in distinct cognitive processes, rather than generalized across the frontal cortex. Using data from the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging (BLSA), we examined individual differences through cross-sectional associations at baseline evaluation and longitudinal changes in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in relation to different executive abilities in cognitively normal older adults. We found that, at baseline, greater rCBF in middle frontal regions correlated with better performance in abstraction and chunking, but greater rCBF in the insula and a distinct middle frontal region correlated with poorer inhibition and discrimination, respectively. In addition, increases in frontal rCBF over time were associated with longitudinal declines in abstraction, chunking, inhibition, discrimination, switching, and manipulation. These findings indicate process- and region-specific, rather than uniform, age-related changes in frontal brain-behavior associations, and also suggest that longitudinally high-levels of frontal engagement reflect declining rather than stable cognition.
The act of opening (or closing) one's eyes has long been demonstrated to impact on brain function. However, the eyes open condition is usually accompanied by visual input, and this effect may have been a significant confounding factor in previous studies. To clarify this situation, we extended the traditional eyes open/closed study to a two-factor balanced, repeated measures resting state fMRI (rs-fMRI) experiment, in which light on/off was also included as a factor. In 16 healthy participants, we estimated the univariate properties of the BOLD signal, as well as a bivariate measure of functional connectivity and multivariate network topology measures. Across all these measures, we demonstrate that human brain adopts a distinctive configuration when eyes are open (compared to when eyes are closed) independently of exogenous light input: (i) the eyes open states were associated with decreased BOLD signal variance (P-value=0.0004), decreased fractional amplitude of low frequency fluctuation (fALFF. P-value=0.0061), and decreased Hurst exponent (H. P-value=0.0321) mainly in the primary and secondary sensory cortical areas, the insula, and the thalamus. (ii) The strength of functional connectivity (FC) between the posterior cingulate cortex (PCC), a major component of the default mode network (DMN), and the bilateral perisylvian and perirolandic regions was also significantly decreased during eyes open states. (iii) On the other hand, the average network connection distance increased during eyes open states (P-value=0.0139). Additionally, the metrics of univariate, bivariate, and multivariate analyses in this study are significantly correlated. In short, we have shown that the marked effects on the dynamics and connectivity of fMRI time series brought by volitional eyes open or closed are simply endogenous and irrespective of exogenous visual stimulus. The state of eyes open (or closed) may thus be an important factor to control in design of rs-fMRI and even other cognitive block or event-related experiments.
Cognition that is not based on perception can lead to at least two different outcomes. In some situations, cognition that is independent of perception can allow actions to be selected other than those prescribed by immediate perceptual input. In others, cognition can be independent of perception and unrelated to the current behavioral goal allowing thoughts to develop that are largely independent of the actions involved in an external task. The default mode network (DMN) has been implicated in both of these kinds of perceptually decoupled thought. The current experiment used functional magnetic resonance imaging to explore whether a common region of this network was co-activated by both of these states. Both the medial pre-frontal cortex and the posterior cingulate - two major hubs of the DMN - showed greater activity when (i) actions that did not depend upon immediate perceptual input were faster and (ii) when actions based on perceptual input were slower. Together these data suggest that the DMN is important in cognition that is independent from perceptual input regardless of whether such thoughts result in action, or, instead compete with the behavioral goals of the moment.
Alcohol abuse is associated with long-term reductions in fronto-cortical volume and limbic metabolism. However, an unanswered question in alcohol research is whether these alterations are the sole consequence of chronic alcohol use, or contain heritable contributions reflecting biological propensity toward ethanol addiction. Animal models of genetic predisposition to alcohol dependence can be used to investigate the role of inborn brain abnormalities in the aetiology of alcoholism. Here we used magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the Marchigian-Sardinian (msP) alcohol-preferring rats to assess the presence of inherited structural or functional brain alterations. Alcohol-nave msP (N=22) and control rats (N=26) were subjected to basal cerebral blood volume (bCBV) mapping followed by voxel-based morphometry (VBM) of grey matter and tract-based spatial statistics mapping of white matter fractional anisotropy. msP rats exhibited significantly reduced bCBV, an established marker of resting brain function, in focal cortico-limbic and thalamic areas, together with reduced grey matter volume in the thalamus, ventral tegmental area, insular and cingulate cortex. No statistically significant differences in fractional anisotropy were observed between groups. These findings highlight the presence of inborn grey matter and metabolic abnormalities in alcohol-nave msP rats, the localization and sign of which are remarkably similar to those mapped in abstinent alcoholics and subjects at high risk for alcohol dependence. Collectively, these results point for a significant role of heritable neurofunctional brain alterations in biological propensity toward ethanol addiction, and support the translational use of advanced imaging methods to describe the circuital determinants of vulnerability to drug addiction.


Detailed cell and network morphologies are becoming increasingly important in Computational Neuroscience. Great efforts have been undertaken to systematically record and store the anatomical data of cells. This effort is visible in databases, such as NeuroMorpho.org. In order to make use of these fast growing data within computational models of networks, it is vital to include detailed data of morphologies when generating those cell and network geometries. For this purpose we developed the Neuron Network Generator NeuGen 2.0, that is designed to include known and published anatomical data of cells and to automatically generate large networks of neurons. It offers export functionality to classic simulators, such as the NEURON Simulator by Hines and Carnevale (2003). NeuGen 2.0 is designed in a modular way, so any new and available data can be included into NeuGen 2.0. Also, new brain areas and cell types can be defined with the possibility of constructing user-defined cell types and networks. Therefore, NeuGen 2.0 is a software package that grows with each new piece of anatomical data, which subsequently will continue to increase the morphological detail of automatically generated networks. In this paper we introduce NeuGen 2.0 and apply its functionalities to the CA1 hippocampus. Runtime and memory benchmarks show that NeuGen 2.0 is applicable to generating very large networks, with high morphological detail.



During cerebral ischemia, neurons are injured by various mechanisms including excitotoxicity, oxidative stress, and inflammatory responses. Thus, pharmacological manipulation of multiple cytotoxic pathways has been pursued for the treatment of ischemic injury. Cis-hinokiresinol, a naturally occurring phenylpropanoid, was previously reported to possess anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory and estrogen-like activities. In the present study, we investigated anti-ischemic effects of trans- and cis-hinokiresinols using invitro as well as invivo experimental models. The ORAC and DPPH assays showed that two isomers had similar free radical scavenging activities. However, only trans-hinokiresinol significantly decreased neuronal injury in cultured cortical neurons exposed to oxygen-glucose deprivation (75min) followed by re-oxygenation (9h). The differential neuroprotective effect could be due to the stereo-specific augmentation of Cu/Zn-SOD activity by trans-hinokiresinol, when compared with cis-hinokiresinol. Similarly, in rats subjected to transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (1.5h) followed by 24-h reperfusion, pre-ischemic treatment with trans-hinokiresinol, but not with cis-isomer, reduced cerebral infarct volume. Interestingly, however, post-ischemic treatment with both hinokiresinols (2 and 7h after onset of ischemia) significantly reduced cerebral infarct. When administered after onset of ischemia, trans-hinokiresinol, but not its cis-isomer reduced nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity in ischemic regions. In contrast, both hinokiresinols suppressed neutrophil infiltration and IL-1 release to a similar extent. The observed differential anti-oxidant, but comparable anti-inflammatory, activities may explain the stereo-specific anti-ischemic activities and different therapeutic time windows of the hinokiresinols examined. More detailed delineation of the anti-ischemic mechanism(s) of hinokiresinols may provide a better strategy for development of efficacious regimens for cerebral ischemic stroke.
While the activity-dependent mechanisms guiding functional maturation of synaptic transmission postsynaptically are well characterized, less is known about the corresponding presynaptic mechanisms. Here we show that during the first postnatal week, a subset of CA3-CA1 synapses express postsynaptically induced LTP that is tightly associated with a robust decrease in synaptic facilitation, consistent with an increase in release probability (P(r)). The loss of facilitation is readily induced by physiologically relevant pairing protocols at immature synapses and is dependent on activation of NMDA-receptors but not L-type calcium channels. The putative pre- and postsynaptic components of neonatal LTP were distinguished in their downstream signaling requirements, PKC activity being selectively needed for the decrease in facilitation but not for synaptic potentiation per se. These data suggest that maturation of glutamatergic synapses involves a critical period during which presynaptic function is highly susceptible to activity-dependent regulation via a PKC-dependent mechanism.
Pathological gambling is widespread among adolescents (3-8%). Gambling proneness can be evaluated in animals using the Probabilistic Delivery (PD) task. In this operant protocol, rats learn to choose for large over small reward. Subsequently, the probability of large reward-delivery decreases progressively to very low levels. Using a home-cage version of the PD task, we studied (Exp. 1-3) the development of preference for the largest reward in middle (pnd 34-35) and late (pnd 48-49) adolescent rats, using the standard paradigm (Zoratto etal., 2012) and then modifying: (i) probability &quot;p&quot; initially associated with the largest reward; (ii) size difference between rewards; (iii) &quot;removable&quot; or &quot;fixed&quot; partitions (allowing to house animals in couples, separating them only during testing). The standard paradigm (p=50%, 2 vs 6 pellets; &quot;removable&quot; partitions) does not allow the establishment of preference for the largest reward, at neither adolescent age. Conversely, the modified paradigm (p=66%; 1 vs 5 pellets; &quot;fixed&quot; partitions) allows the development of such preference, already at pnd 34-35. By using the best combination of these factors, we then investigated (Exp. 4) the characteristics of gambling behaviour in middle adolescent (pnd 36-49) and young adult (pnd 67-80) rats. Gambling proneness appears slightly increased during adolescence when compared to adulthood. Notably, inadequate responses (expressed during post-choice timeout, 30s) appear markedly reduced, suggesting developing animals to be insensitive to reward-delivery omission. In conclusion, methodological refinement is essential to allow the study of risk-prone behaviour during rat adolescence, thus contributing to a better understanding of psychobiological determinants of gambling.
Maturation of mesocorticolimbic dopamine systems occurs during adolescence, and exposure to social stress during this period results in behavioral dysfunction including substance abuse disorders. Adult male rats exposed to repeated social defeat in adolescence exhibit reduced basal dopamine tissue content in the medial prefrontal cortex, altered dopamine tissue content in corticoaccumbal dopamine regions following acute amphetamine, and increased amphetamine conditioned place preference following repeated amphetamine treatment. Such changes may reflect altered amphetamine-induced extracellular dopamine release in the corticoaccumbal regions. Therefore, we used invivo microdialysis to measure extracellular dopamine simultaneously within the medial prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens core of previously defeated rats and controls, in response to either acute or repeated (7 daily injections) of amphetamine (1.0mg/kg). Locomotion responses to acute/repeated amphetamine were also assessed the day prior to taking dopamine measurements. Adolescent defeat potentiated adult locomotion responses to acute amphetamine, which was negatively correlated with attenuated amphetamine-induced dopamine release in the medial prefrontal cortex, but there was no difference in amphetamine-induced accumbal dopamine release. However, both locomotion and corticoaccumbal dopamine responses to repeated amphetamine were equivalent between previously defeated rats and controls. These data suggest adolescent defeat enhances behavioral responses to initial amphetamine exposure as a function of diminished prefrontal cortex dopamine activity, which may be sufficient to promote subsequently enhanced seeking of drug-associated cues. Interestingly, repeated amphetamine treatment appears to normalize amphetamine-elicited locomotion and cortical dopamine responses observed in adult rats exposed to adolescent social defeat, providing implications for treating stress-induced dopamine dysfunction.
L-dopa is a precursor for dopamine synthesis and a mainstay treatment for Parkinson's disease. However, l-dopa therapy is not without side effects that may be attributed to non-dopaminergic mechanisms. Synthesized dopamine can be neurotoxic through its enzymatic degradation by monoamine oxidase (MAO) to form the reactive byproduct, hydrogen peroxide and hydroxyl radicals or through auto-oxidation to form highly reactive quinones that can bind proteins and render them non-functional. Since l-dopa could be decarboxylated by aromatic amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) present within both dopamine and serotonin neurons, it was hypothesized that serotonin neurons convert l-dopa into dopamine to generate excessive reactive oxygen species and quinoproteins that ultimately lead to serotonin neuron death. To examine the effects of l-dopa on serotonin neurons, the RN46A-B14 cell line was used. These immortalized serotonergic cell cultures were terminally differentiated and then incubated with varying concentrations of l-dopa. Results show that RN46A-B14 cells contain AADC and can synthesize dopamine after incubation with l-dopa. Furthermore, l-dopa dose-dependently increased intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) and cell death. Dopamine, ROS production and cell death were attenuated by co-incubation with the AADC inhibitor, NSD-1015. The MAO inhibitor, pargyline, also attenuated cell death and ROS after l-dopa treatment. Lastly, quinoprotein formation was enhanced significantly by incubation with l-dopa. Taken together, these data illustrate that serotonergic cells can produce dopamine and that the accumulation of dopamine after l-dopa and its subsequent degradation can lead to ROS production and death of RN46A-B14 serotonergic cells.
BMS-763534 is a potent (CRF(1) IC(50)=0.4nM) and selective (&gt;1000-fold selectivity vs. all other sites tested) CRF(1) receptor antagonist (pA2=9.47 vs. CRF(1)-mediated cAMP production in Y79 cells). BMS-763534 accelerated the dissociation of (125)I-o-CRF from rat frontal cortex membrane CRF(1) receptors consistent with a negative allosteric modulation of CRF binding. BMS-763534 produced dose-dependent increases in CRF(1) receptor occupancy and anxiolytic efficacy; lowest effective anxiolytic dose=0.56mg/kg, PO, which was associated with 715% CRF(1) receptor occupancy of frontoparietal CRF(1) receptors. Sedative/ataxic effects of BMS-763534 were only observed at high dose multiples (54-179) relative to the lowest dose required for anxiolytic efficacy. At doses of 5- to 18-fold higher than the lowest efficacious dose in the anxiety assay, BMS-763534 shared subjective effects with the benzodiazepine chlordiazepoxide. Interestingly BMS-790318, the O-demethylated metabolite of BMS-763534, showed weak affinity for the TBOB site of the GABA(A) receptor (67% inhibition at 10M) and augmented GABA evoked currents (EC(50)=1.6M). Thus, the unanticipated signal in the drug discrimination assay may have resulted from an interaction of the metabolite BMS-790318 with the TBOB site on the GABA(A) channel where it appears to behave as an allosteric potentiator of GABA evoked currents.
Benzodiazepines (BZDs) are first-line therapy for treatment of status epilepticus (SE). However, BZD treatment is negatively affected by seizure duration due to decreases in BZD-sensitive GABA(A) receptors during prolonged SE. Stiripentol (STP) is an anticonvulsant that is used as add-on treatment for Dravet Syndrome. Recent studies have shown that STP is a positive allosteric modulator of the GABA(A) receptor. The subunit selectivity of STP at this receptor suggests that it would be anticonvulsant in both brief as well as prolonged SE. We tested this possibility by comparing the ability of STP and diazepam (DZP), a commonly used BZD, to terminate behavioral convulsions in a rodent model of pharmacoresistant SE. We found that STP was anticonvulsant in this model and remained effective during prolonged SE, unlike DZP which exhibited a 14 fold increase in its ED(50). Whole cell recording from hippocampal slices from these animals revealed that STP potentiated GABAergic IPSCs, as well as tonic GABAergic current by acting at a site on the GABA(A) receptor separate from the BDZ binding site. Potentiation of GABAergic currents by STP remained intact during prolonged SE, while potentiation by DZP was lost. Both IPSC potentiation and anticonvulsant activity of STP were greater in younger animals than in adults. These findings suggest that at doses that yield therapeutically relevant concentrations, STP is anticonvulsant by potentiating GABAergic inhibition and that the subunit selectivity profile of STP enables it to remain effective despite GABA(A) receptor subunit changes during prolonged SE.
Glucose improves memory for a variety of tasks when administered to rats and mice near the time of training. Prior work indicates glucose may enhance memory by increasing the synthesis and release of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine in the brain. To investigate if specific acetylcholine receptor subtypes may mediate some of the memory-enhancing actions of glucose, we examined the effects of subtype-specific nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonists on memory in Fischer-344 rats and also examined the ability of glucose to reverse drug-induced impairments. Pre-training peripheral injections of methyllycaconitine (MLA) or dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DHE), which are specific 7 and 42 nicotinic receptor antagonists, respectively, dose-dependently impaired retention latencies in an inhibitory avoidance task when tested 7-days but not 1h after training. Immediate post-training glucose injections attenuated the impairments, but were more effective in attenuating the DHE-induced impairments. Likewise, peripheral or direct intrahippocampal injections of MLA or DHE dose-dependently impaired spatial working memory scores on a spontaneous alternation task. Concurrent administration of glucose reversed DHE- but not MLA-induced impairments. CREB phosphorylation downstream of cholinergic signaling was assessed 30min after spontaneous alternation testing and intrahippocampal drug infusions. Both MLA and DHE impaired hippocampal CREB phosphorylation; glucose reversed DHE- but not MLA-induced deficits. The effectiveness of glucose in reversing DHE- but not MLA-induced impairments in behavioral performance and CREB phosphorylation suggests that activation of 7 receptors may play an important role in memory enhancement by glucose.
It has been shown that ethanol exposure can activate astrocytes and microglia resulting in the production of neuroimmune factors, including the chemokine CCL2. The role of these neuroimmune factors in the effects of ethanol on the central nervous system has yet to be elucidated. To address this question, we investigated the effects of ethanol on synaptic transmission and plasticity in the hippocampus from mice that express elevated levels of CCL2 in the brain and their non-transgenic littermate controls. The brains of the transgenic mice simulate one aspect of the alcoholic brain, chronically increased levels of CCL2. We used extracellular field potential recordings in acutely isolated hippocampal slices to identify neuroadaptive changes produced by elevated levels of CCL2 and how these neuroadaptive changes affect the actions of acute ethanol. Results showed that synaptic transmission and the effects of ethanol on synaptic transmission were similar in the CCL2-transgenic and non-transgenic hippocampus. However, long-term potentiation (LTP), a cellular mechanism thought to underlie learning and memory, in the CCL2-transgenic hippocampus was resistant to the ethanol-induced depression of LTP observed in the non-transgenic hippocampus. Consistent with these results, ethanol pretreatment significantly impaired cued and contextual fear conditioning in non-transgenic mice, but had no effect in CCL2-transgenic mice. These data show that chronically elevated levels of CCL2 in the hippocampus produce neuroadaptive changes that block the depressing effects of ethanol on hippocampal synaptic plasticity and support the hypothesis that CCL2 may provide a neuroprotective effect against the devastating actions of ethanol on hippocampal function.
Alcohol dependence/addiction is mediated by complex neural mechanisms that involve multiple brain circuits and neuroadaptive changes in a variety of neurotransmitter and neuropeptide systems. Although recent studies have provided substantial information on the neurobiological mechanisms that drive alcohol drinking behavior, significant challenges remain in understanding how alcohol-induced neuroadaptations occur and how different neurocircuits and pathways cross-talk. This review article highlights recent progress in understanding neural mechanisms of alcohol addiction from the perspectives of the development and maintenance of alcohol dependence. It provides insights on cross talks of different mechanisms and reviews the latest studies on metaplasticity, structural plasticity, interface of reward and stress pathways, and cross-talk of different neural signaling systems involved in binge-like drinking and alcohol dependence.
The selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are the most widely prescribed pharmacological treatment for depression. Since their introduction many have considered the primary mechanism by which the SSRIs produced therapeutic improvement in depression is their effect on monoaminergic signalling. In recent years, however, the credibility of the monoamine theory and the therapeutic efficacy of these compounds in the treatment of depression has been extensively criticized. In the current review the legitimacy of these criticisms is critically examined, in many instances the evidence base used to support these criticisms is found to be weak. Nevertheless, the apparent 'failure' of the monoamine theory has been of benefit in motivating research into alternative mechanisms through which the SSRIs may act. Given research demonstrating that depressive symptoms are intimately linked with disturbances in pro-inflammatory signalling, perhaps the most promising discovery has been the realisation that SSRIs posses significant anti-inflammatory properties. These recent findings are discussed and contextualised with respect to the neurogenic, neurotrophic and gluatamatergic effects that these drugs also possess.

Neurobehavioral research with non-human primates has shown that different attributes of motion stimuli, such as direction and speed can be stored in visual short-term memory (VSTM) with a high degree of accuracy. We examined VSTM for global motion with a memory masking paradigm to determine which stimulus attributes are important in the storage process. We presented in two visual quadrants global motion random dot kinematograms (RDKs), whereas in the two remaining visual quadrants we presented random-motion RDKs. This pattern of stimulation was displayed in two distinct temporal intervals, i.e., sample and test stimuli (duration: 200 ms), separated in time by a 3.2-s delay period. During the delay period a random- or directional-motion mask was presented briefly (200 ms) either at the beginning, in the middle or at the end of the delay period. The results showed that the mask mainly interferes with performance when displayed 200 ms after the offset of the sample and when it had a coherent direction rather than random directions. Moreover, the mask is significantly more effective when its direction and speed matched that of the remembered sample. These results support the notion that the memory representation of global motion is selective for direction and speed, being compromised by intervening directional stimuli presented immediately after the encoding phase. Moreover, this selectivity suggests that the same neural mechanisms involved in the processing of global motion may be recruited for its storage.
Although posterior parietal cortex (PPC) has been traditionally associated with spatial attention and sensorimotor functions, recent neuroimaging evidence has suggested the involvement of regions of left PCC (LPPC) in memory retrieval. Yet, the role of the parietal lobe in memory-related functions is still controversial. Here we investigated the causal involvement of different LPPC regions in episodic memory retrieval using repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) during a task that provided both objective and subjective measures of item recognition and source memory. Stimulation sites were identified on the basis of a recent fMRI study showing the involvement of regions of the default mode network (DMN), such as the angular gyrus (AG) in the inferior parietal lobule (IPL), during search for relevant information in episodic memory, and regions of the dorsal attention network (DAN), such as the superior parietal lobule (SPL), during perceptual search. We predicted a selective disruption of memory performance following rTMS stimulation of the left AG relative to a sham condition or stimulation of the left SPL. We found a modest but significant decrease of sensitivity for item recognition when AG was directly compared to SPL, but not to sham stimulation. A stronger effect was however observed for the criterion of source memory judgments when comparing AG with both SPL and sham stimulation, suggesting that the rTMS over AG affects subjective aspects of source monitoring associated with the weighing of relevant retrieved information for source attribution.
Resilience refers to the capacity to cope effectively in stressful situations or adversity. It may involve the ability to experience emotions matching the demands of environmental circumstances. The brain mechanisms underlying resilience remain unclear. In this study, we aim to investigate the relationship between the neural basis of emotional experience and resilience. Thirty-six fire-fighters were included. They performed an fMRI script-driven paradigm comprising relaxing and trauma-related scripts to evaluate the cerebral substrate of emotional experience (p&lt;0.05, FDR-corrected). Correlations were examined between fMRI activations and the resilience DRS15 scale (p&lt;0.05). Resilience was positively correlated with the right amygdala and left orbitofrontal activations when performing the contrast of trauma vs. relaxing script. The present study provides neural data on the mechanisms underlying resilience and their relationship with emotional reactivity, suggesting that appropriate emotional response in stressful situations is essential for coping with aversive events in daily life.
Children with language-learning impairment (LLI) have consistently shown difficulty with tasks requiring precise, rapid auditory processing. Remediation based on neural plasticity assumes that the temporal precision of neural coding can be improved by intensive training protocols. Here, we examined the extent to which early oscillatory responses in auditory cortex change after audio-visual training, using combined source modeling and time-frequency analysis of the human electroencephalogram (EEG). Twenty-one elementary school students diagnosed with LLI underwent the intervention for an average of 32 days. Pre- and post-training assessments included standardized language/literacy tests and EEG recordings in response to fast-rate tone doublets. Twelve children with typical language development were also tested twice, with no intervention given. Behaviorally, improvements on measures of language were observed in the LLI group following completion of training. During the first EEG assessment, we found reduced amplitude and phase-locking of early (45-75 ms) oscillations in the gamma-band range (29-52 Hz), specifically in the LLI group, for the second stimulus of the tone doublet. Amplitude reduction for the second tone was no longer evident for the LLI children post-intervention, although these children still exhibited attenuated phase-locking. Our findings suggest that specific aspects of inefficient sensory cortical processing in LLI are ameliorated after training.
Functional neuroimaging studies have implicated dysregulation of prefrontal circuits in major depressive disorder (MDD), and these circuits are a viable target for predicting treatment outcomes. However, because of the heterogeneity of tasks and samples used in studies to date, it is unclear whether the central dysfunction is one of prefrontal hyperreactivity or hyporeactivity. We used a standardized battery of tasks and protocols for functional magnetic resonance imaging, to identify the common vs the specific prefrontal circuits engaged by these tasks in the same 30 outpatients with MDD compared with 30 matched, healthy control participants, recruited as part of the International Study to Predict Optimized Treatment in Depression (iSPOT-D). Reflecting cognitive neuroscience theory and established evidence, the battery included cognitive tasks designed to assess functions of selective attention, sustained attention-working memory and response inhibition, and emotion tasks to assess explicit conscious and implicit nonconscious viewing of facial emotion. MDD participants were distinguished by a distinctive biosignature of: hypoactivation of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex during working memory updating and during conscious negative emotion processing; hyperactivation of the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex during working memory and response inhibition cognitive tasks and hypoactivation of the dorsomedial prefrontal during conscious processing of positive emotion. These results show that the use of standardized tasks in the same participants provides a way to tease out prefrontal circuitry dysfunction related to cognitive and emotional functions, and not to methodological or sample variations. These findings provide the frame of reference for identifying prefrontal biomarker predictors of treatment outcomes in MDD.
Memory retrieval is impaired at very low as well as very high cortisol levels, but not at intermediate levels. This inverted-U-shaped relationship between cortisol levels and memory retrieval may originate from different roles of the mineralocorticoid (MR) and glucocorticoid receptor (GR) that bind cortisol with distinctly different affinity. Here, we examined the role of MRs and GRs in human memory retrieval using specific receptor antagonists. In two double-blind within-subject, cross-over designed studies, young healthy men were asked to retrieve emotional and neutral texts and pictures (learnt 3 days earlier) between 0745 and 0915 hours in the morning, either after administration of 400 mg of the MR blocker spironolactone vs placebo (200 mg at 2300 hours and 200 mg at 0400 hours, Study I) or after administration of the GR blocker mifepristone vs placebo (200 mg at 2300 hours, Study II). Blockade of MRs impaired free recall of both texts and pictures particularly for emotional material. In contrast, blockade of GRs resulted in better memory retrieval for pictures, with the effect being more pronounced for neutral than emotional materials. These findings indicate indeed opposing roles of MRs and GRs in memory retrieval, with optimal retrieval at intermediate cortisol levels likely mediated by high MR but concurrently low GR activation.
Skin picking disorder (SPD) is characterized by the repetitive and compulsive picking of skin, resulting in tissue damage. Neurocognitive findings in SPD implicate difficulty with response inhibition (suppression of pre-potent motor responses). This function is dependent on the integrity of the right frontal gyrus and the anterior cingulate cortices, and white-matter tracts connecting such neural nodes. It was hypothesized that SPD would be associated with reduced fractional anisotropy in regions implicated in top-down response suppression, particularly white-matter tracts in proximity of the bilateral anterior cingulate and right frontal (especially orbitofrontal and inferior frontal) cortices. 13-subjects meeting proposed SPD criteria for DSM-5 free from other current psychiatric comorbidities, and 12 healthy comparison subjects underwent MRI with a 3-T system. Between-group comparisons of imaging data underwent voxelwise analysis with permutation modeling and cluster correction. Fractional anisotropy (measured using diffusion tensor imaging) was the primary outcome measure. Subjects with SPD exhibited significantly reduced fractional anisotropy in tracts distributed bilaterally, which included the anterior cingulate cortices. Fractional anisotropy did not correlate significantly with SPD disease severity, or depressive or anxiety scores. These findings implicate disorganization of white-matter tracts involved in motor generation and suppression in the pathophysiology of SPD, findings remarkably similar to those previously reported in trichotillomania. This study adds considerable support to the notion that-in addition to the phenomenological and comorbid overlap between SPD and trichotillomania-these disorders likely share overlapping neurobiology.
Patients with epilepsy are at high risk for major depression relative to the general population, and both disorders are associated with changes in adult hippocampal neurogenesis, although the mechanisms underlying disease onset remain unknown. The expression of fosB, an immediate early gene encoding FosB and FosB/2FosB by alternative splicing and translation initiation, is known to be induced in neural progenitor cells within the subventricular zone of the lateral ventricles and subgranular zone of the hippocampus, following transient forebrain ischemia in the rat brain. Moreover, adenovirus-mediated expression of fosB gene products can promote neural stem cell proliferation. We recently found that fosB-null mice show increased depressive behavior, suggesting impaired neurogenesis in fosB-null mice. In the current study, we analyzed neurogenesis in the hippocampal dentate gyrus of fosB-null and fosB(d/d) mice that express FosB/2FosB but not FosB, in comparison with wild-type mice, alongside neuropathology, behaviors, and gene expression profiles. fosB-null but not fosB(d/d) mice displayed impaired neurogenesis in the adult hippocampus and spontaneous epilepsy. Microarray analysis revealed that genes related to neurogenesis, depression, and epilepsy were altered in the hippocampus of fosB-null mice. Thus, we conclude that the fosB-null mouse is the first animal model to provide a genetic and molecular basis for the comorbidity between depression and epilepsy with abnormal neurogenesis, all of which are caused by loss of a single gene, fosB.
We investigated the interaction between the corticostriatal glutamatergic afferents and dopamine D1-like and D2-like receptors in the dorsomedial striatum (dm-STR) in attention and executive response control in the five-choice serial reaction time (5-CSRT) task. The competitive NMDA receptor antagonist 3-(R)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP) injected in the mPFC impaired accuracy and increased premature and perseverative responding, raising GLU, DA, and GABA release in the dm-STR. The D1-like antagonist SCH23390 injected in the dm-STR reversed the CPP-induced accuracy deficit but did not affect the increase in perseverative responding. In contrast, the D2-like antagonist haloperidol injected in the dm-STR reduced the CPP-induced increase in perseverative responding but not the accuracy deficit. The different roles of dorsal striatal D1-like and D2-like receptor were further supported by the finding that activation of D1-like receptor in the dm-STR by SKF38393 impaired accuracy but not perseverative responding while the D2-like agonist quinpirole injected in the dm-STR increased perseverative responding but did not affect accuracy. These findings suggest that integration of cortical information by D1-like receptors in the dm-STR is a key mechanism of the input selection process of attention while the integration of corticostriatal signals by D2-like receptors preserves the ability to switch from one act/response to the next in a complex motor sequence, thus providing for behavioral flexibility.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune demyelinating disease of the central nervous system, and microglia and macrophages play important roles in its pathogenesis. The activation of microglia and macrophages accompanies disease development, whereas depletion of these cells significantly decreases disease severity. Microglia and macrophages usually have diverse and plastic phenotypes. Both pro-inflammatory and antiinflammatory microglia and macrophages exist in MS and its animal model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. The polarization of microglia and macrophages may underlie the differing functional properties that have been reported. in this review, we discuss the responses and polarization of microglia and macrophages in MS, and their effects on its pathogenesis and repair. Harnessing their beneficial effects by modulating their polarization states holds great promise for the treatment of inflammatory demyelinating diseases.
The differentiation of and myelination by oligodendrocytes (OLs) are exquisitely regulated by a series of intrinsic and extrinsic mechanisms. As each OL can make differing numbers of myelin segments with variable lengths along similar axon tracts, myelination can be viewed as a graded process shaped by inhibitory/inductive cues during development. Myelination by OLs is a prime example of an adaptive process determined by the microenvironment and architecture of the central nervous system (CNS). in this review, we discuss how myelin formation by OLs may be controlled by the heterogeneous microenvironment of the CNS. Then we address recent findings demonstrating that neighboring OLs may compete for available axon space, and highlight our current understanding of myelin-based inhibitors of axonal regeneration that are potentially responsible for the reciprocal dialogue between OLs and determine the numbers and lengths of myelin internodes. Understanding the mechanisms that control the spatiotemporal regulation of myelinogenic potential during development may provide valuable insight into therapeutic strategies for promoting remyelination in an inhibitory microenvironment.
Cellular therapies are becoming a major focus for the treatment of demyelinating diseases such as multiple sclerosis (MS), therefore it is important to identify the most effective cell types that promote myelin repair. Several components contribute to the relative benefits of specific cell types including the overall efficacy of the cell therapy, the reproducibility of treatment, the mechanisms of action of distinct cell types and the ease of isolation and generation of therapeutic populations. A range of distinct cell populations promote functional recovery in animal models of MS including neural stem cells and mesenchymal stem cells derived from different tissues. Each of these cell populations has advantages and disadvantages and likely works through distinct mechanisms. The relevance of such mechanisms to myelin repair in the adult central nervous system is unclear since the therapeutic cells are generally derived from developing animals. Here we describe the isolation and characterization of a population of neural cells from the adult spinal cord that are characterized by the expression of the cell surface glycoprotein NG2. In functional studies, injection of adult NG2(+) cells into mice with ongoing MOG35-55-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) enhanced remyelination in the CNS while the number of CD3(+) T cells in areas of spinal cord demyelination was reduced approximately three-fold. In vivo studies indicated that in EAE, NG2(+) cells stimulated endogenous repair while in vitro they responded to signals in areas of induced inflammation by differentiating into oligodendrocytes. These results suggested that adult NG2(+) cells represent a useful cell population for promoting neural repair in a variety of different conditions including demyelinating diseases such as MS.







Giant basilar artery aneurysms are rarely associated with hydrocephalus. When it occurs the treatment usually addresses the hydrocephalus rather than the aneurysm itself, especially if it is already thrombosed. The treatment options include ventriculoperitoneal shunting and endoscopic third ventriculostomy, which may be related to high complication rates. However, reducing the intracranial hypertension may produce aneurysmal growth. We report a patient with obstructive hydrocephalus due to thrombosed giant basilar artery aneurysm. The patient initially presented with symptoms of increased intracranial pressure, and was managed by ventriculoperitoneal shunting with significant symptomatic improvement. Fifteen days after operation, the patient died due to a cerebrovascular event. We report a case that deteriorated because of cerebral infarction due to aneurysmal growth after ventriculoperitoneal shunting. We also discuss the treatment options in such cases.
Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS) is frequently associated with malignancy, especially small cell lung cancer (SCLC). Here, we describe a patient with a 5-year history of cervical myelopathy who presented with recurrent limb weakness of her limbs and complained of recent progressive weakness. Following an examination that included electromyography, a chest CT scan, and a bronchofiberscopy examination with brushing biopsy, the patient was diagnosed with LEMS and SCLC. This case report highlights the ongoing need for clinicians to be observant for cases of LEMS, to consider both patient history and physical examination data, and to accurately obtain a differential diagnosis between LEMS and other diseases, which also cause weakness.
Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) and acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM) are clinically distinct demyelinating disorders that share an autoimmune pathogenesis and prior history of viral infection or vaccination. Concurrent GBS and ADEM are uncommon with few reported cases. Our patient is a 10-year-old girl who presented with acute quadriparesis, areflexia, and urinary retention. Lumber puncture revealed mild pleocytosis and elevated protein. She required mechanical ventilation and failed to improve after intravenous immunoglobulins. She subsequently developed double vision and disturbed level of consciousness. Brain MRI revealed multiple white matter lesions suggestive of ADEM. Based on the temporal association and exclusion of alternative etiologies, we made a diagnosis of GBS and ADEM. She improved remarkably after intravenous methylprednisolone. We conclude that co-morbid GBS and ADEM is an uncommon entity presenting with severe neurological morbidity. Prompt recognition and treatment can hasten the recovery and therefore improve the neurological outcome.
We report a case involving a 7-year-old girl who initially presented with seizure and hypertensive encephalopathy, serious autonomic manifestations associated with Guillain-Barr syndrome, followed by subsequent bilateral ascending flaccid paralysis. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis showed cytoalbuminous dissociation. Nerve conduction velocity tests showed features of demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy. An immunofluorescence test of her serum was positive for mycoplasma immunoglobulin M antibody. The present case highlights the importance of considering the initial autonomic manifestations of Guillain-Barr syndrome in the differential diagnosis of unexplained acute hypertensive crisis.
Primary antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) is an autoimmune disease defined by vascular thrombosis, pregnancy complications, and persistent antiphospholipid antibodies. Neurological manifestations include stroke, seizures, and chorea among others. Seizures are often precipitated by an acute ischemic event, but occasionally, structural abnormalities are absent. We present a 61-year-old man who developed partial seizures that progressed into partial status epilepticus. His seizures were intractable and required aggressive treatment with multiple anti-epileptic medications. He was diagnosed with primary APS and treated with anticoagulation. Head imaging did not reveal any acute ischemic events. This case demonstrates that primary APS may present as a refractory status epilepticus unrelated to acute cerebral ischemia.






Transcranial Doppler is a non-invasive, non-ionizing ultrasound-based imaging modality that is inexpensive with a short learning curve. It can be performed and interpreted at the bedside. This review explores the value of the transcranial Doppler technique as a confirmatory tool for brain death. The early confirmation of brain death enables the treating physicians in early decision-making and family counseling toward better care approaches, including the option of organ donation for transplantation at the appropriate time. We recommend this modality be incorporated as part of the brain death criteria in the Saudi Arabian health care system guidelines and utilized in different tiers of our hospital system.
Idiopathic generalized epilepsies (IGE) are genetic based seizures with normal neurologic exam, intelligence, and imaging studies. Based on the age of onset and prominent seizure type, different syndromes were identified. The purpose of this study is to summarize the characteristics, prognosis, and choices of antiepileptic drugs (AED) in common syndromes of IGE. In addition, we review the updated role of new AEDs in specific syndromes of IGE. The first choice AED is usually valproate. Most drug trials on the effects of new AEDs compared them with placebo and not valproate. However, some of the broad spectrum new AEDs may be considered as the first choice in specific conditions. In true refractory patients, combination therapy and vagal nerve stimulation could be the next option. In the proper management of IGE, neurologists should consider the predominant seizure type, patient gender, co-morbidities, and antiepileptic drugs that may aggravate a specific seizure type.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (Lou Gehrig's disease) is a devastating neurodegenerative disorder for which the only licensed treatment is riluzole. Although riluzole clinical efficacy is rather limited, its use has important implications for identifying those parameters that might improve its clinical benefits (dose, timing, disease stage) and for its off-label administration in other neurodegenerative diseases, such as spinal cord injury. Studies of riluzole also have an intrinsically heuristic value to unveil mechanisms regulating the excitability of brain and spinal neurons because this drug is a pharmacological tool to probe the function of certain ion channels, or to study neurotransmitter release processes, and intracellular neuroprotective pathways. The present review focuses on how riluzole acts on brain and spinal neurons within motor networks, what mechanisms can be deduced from its effects, and what conditions may favor its use to contrast neurodegeneration or to ameliorate late symptoms like spasticity. Taking as an example the experimental neurodegeneration caused by overactivation of glutamatergic synapses (excitotoxicity), it seems likely that protection of motor networks by riluzole involves selected administration timing and dosing to target processes for releasing glutamate from very active synapses or for dampening repetitive firing by hyperfunctional motor cells.



Ventral spinal root avulsion causes complete denervation of muscles in the limb and also progressive death of segmental motoneurons (MN) leading to permanent paralysis. The chances for functional recovery after ventral root avulsion are very poor owing to the loss of avulsed neurons and the long distance that surviving neurons have to re-grow axons from the spinal cord to the corresponding targets. Following unilateral avulsion of L4, L5 and L6 spinal roots in adult rats, we performed an intraspinal transplant of mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) and surgical re-implantation of the avulsed roots. Four weeks after avulsion the survival of MN in the MSC-treated animals was significantly higher than in vehicle-injected rats (45% vs. 28%). Re-implantation of the avulsed roots in the injured spinal cord allowed the regeneration of motor axons. By combining root re-implantation and MSC transplant the number of surviving MN at 28 days post-injury was higher (60%) than in re-implantation alone animals (46%). Electromyographic tests showed evidence of functional re-innervation of anterior tibialis and gastrocnemius muscles by the regenerated motor axons only in rats with the combined treatment. These results indicate that MSC are helpful in enhancing neuronal survival and increased the regenerative growth of injured axons. Surgical re-implantation and MSC grafting combined had a synergic neuroprotective effect on MN and on axonal regeneration and muscle re-innervation after spinal root avulsion.
Two important pathophysiological mechanisms involved during cerebral ischemia are oxidative stress and inflammation. In pathological conditions such as brain ischemia the ability of free radicals production is greater than that of elimination by endogenous antioxidative systems, so brain is highly injured due to oxidation and neuroinflammation. Fibrates as peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)- ligands, are reported to have antioxidant and anti-inflammatory actions. In this study, gemfibrozil, a fibrate is investigated for its therapeutic potential against global cerebral ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury of male and female rats. This study particularly has focused on inflammatory and antioxidant signaling pathways, such as nuclear factor erythroid-related factor (Nrf)-2, as well as the activity of some endogenous antioxidant agents. It was found that pretreatment of animals with gemfibrozil prior to I/R resulted in a sexually dimorphic outcome. Within females it proved to be protective, modulating inflammatory factors and inducing antioxidant defense system including superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase, as well as glutathione level. However, Nrf-2 signaling pathway was not affected. It also decreased malondialdehyde level as an index of lipid peroxidation. In contrast, gemfibrozil pretreatment was toxic to males, enhancing the expression of inflammatory factors such as tumor necrosis factor-, nuclear factor-B, and cyclooxygenase-2, and decreasing Nrf-2 expression and SOD activity, leading to hippocampal neurodegeneration. Considering that gemfibrozil is a commonly used anti-hyperlipidemic agent in clinic, undoubtedly more investigations are crucial to exactly unravel its sex-dependent neuroprotective/neurodegenerative potential.
Accumulating evidence suggests a role of inflammation in the pathophysiology of a number of neuropsychiatric diseases. The second generation antibiotic drug minocycline has potent neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory effects. We reported that minocycline could attenuate behavioral abnormalities and dopaminergic neurotoxicity in mice after administration of methamphetamine or 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA). Furthermore, we reported that minocycline was effective in the animal models of schizophrenia. Moreover, a double-blind, placebo-control, cross-over study showed that minocycline was effective in the rewarding effects in healthy human subjects. In this article, we would like to discuss minocycline as a potential therapeutic drug for methamphetamine-related disorders.
Cognitive deficits are a core symptom of schizophrenia and marked in the sub-domains of cognition. They have been shown to predict whether a patient will be able to meet functional goals. Because of the small effect size of pharmacotherapy on cognitive function, cognitive remediation has gradually been introduced into the psychiatric rehabilitation. This non-pharmacological treatment for improving neurocognition aims to enhance the neurocognitive strategies relevant to their chosen recovery goals through engaging the participants in learning activities in a highly motivated way. Most meta-analytic studies on this new treatment report moderate effect sizes on cognition with the notable differences in their effects possibly due to their distinct practice methods. The impact of this treatment on daily functioning, however, has been found to be smaller than that on neurocognitive skills. It is thus suggested that cognitive remediation should be implemented in concert with other types of programs for psychiatric rehabilitation.
The patients with schizophrenia suffer from a lot of severe symptoms; positive symptoms, negative symptoms and cognitive impairment. However, the pathophysiology remains almost unknown, and no curative therapy is available for the patients. Thus, the elucidation of the pathophysiology and development of curative therapy are imperative. Epigenetics is a promising approach in that it can explain the environmental effects as well as gene-environmental interaction. Here, we review the recent progress of epigenetic studies in relation to schizophrenia and discuss the limitation of previous studies. Epigenetic studies applying the recent progress of genomics and neuroscience will contribute to better understanding of schizophrenia pathophysiology and the development of therapeutic strategy.



Despite initial promising results, the success of clinical trials testing oncolytic viruses in glioblastoma patients has been limited. Innate immunity appears to be one among several barriers against successful viral oncolysis. Recent findings suggest a mechanism by which natural killer cells limit the efficacy of oncolytic viruses via natural cytotoxicity receptors.
Cisplatin is the most common antineoplastic drug used for the therapy of solid tumours. To date, researchers have focused on the dosage to be administered for each specific tumour, mainly considering the local adverse effects. The aim of this study was to correlate the severity of the adverse effects with: i) the dosage of cisplatin; ii) the specific site of the tumour; iii) the association with other drugs; and iv) the symptoms. We analysed data from 123 patients with 11 different tumour classes undergoing therapy from 2007 to 2008 at St.Anna Hospital (Ferrara, Italy), using the Spearman non-parametric correlation index. Even though significant correlations were found among the variables, the overall results showed that the main factor influencing the severity of the adverse effects was the dosage of cisplatin administered.






People with chronic pain and comorbid posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) report more severe pain and poorer quality of life than those with chronic pain alone. This study evaluated the extent to which associations between PTSD and chronic pain interference and severity are mediated by pain-related coping strategies and depressive symptoms. Veterans with chronic pain were divided into 2 groups, those with (n=65) and those without (n=136) concurrent PTSD. All participants completed measures of pain severity, interference, emotional functioning, and coping strategies. Those with current PTSD reported significantly greater pain severity and pain interference, had more symptoms of depression, and were more likely to meet diagnostic criteria for a current alcohol or substance use disorder (all p-values &lt;.01). Participants with PTSD reported more use of several coping strategies, including guarding, resting, relaxation, exercise/stretching, and coping self-statements. Illness-focused pain coping (i.e., guarding, resting, and asking for assistance) and depressive symptoms jointly mediated the relationship between PTSD and both pain interference (total indirect effect=0.194, p&lt;.001) and pain severity (total indirect effect=0.153, p=.004). Illness-focused pain coping also evidenced specific mediating effects, independent of depression. In summary, specific pain coping strategies and depressive symptoms partially mediated the relationship between PTSD and both pain interference and severity. Future research should examine whether changes in types of coping strategies after targeted treatments predict improvements in pain-related function for chronic pain patients with concurrent PTSD.
The combined oral contraceptive pill (COCP) has been implicated in the development of a number of chronic pain conditions. Modern COCP formulations produce a low endogenous estradiol, low progesterone environment similar to the early follicular phase of the natural menstrual cycle, with a variable effect on serum androgen levels. We used behavioural measures and functional magnetic resonance imaging to investigate the response to experimental thermal stimuli in healthy women, in both a natural and COCP-induced low endogenous estradiol state, to investigate whether alterations in central pain processing may underlie these observations in COCP users. Although COCP users overall did not require lower temperatures to obtain a fixed pain intensity, alterations in the brain response to these stimuli were observed. In a subgroup of COCP users with significantly reduced serum testosterone, however, lower temperatures were required. Region-of-interest analysis revealed that within key regions of the descending pain inhibitory system, activity in response to noxious stimulation varied with serum testosterone levels in both groups of women. Of particular interest, in COCP users, activity in the rostral ventromedial medulla increased with increasing testosterone and in those women with low testosterone, was significantly reduced compared to controls. These findings suggest that, in a low endogenous estradiol state, testosterone may be a key factor in modulating pain sensitivity via descending pathways. Specifically, failure to engage descending inhibition at the level of the rostral ventromedial medulla may be responsible for the reduction in temperature required by COCP users with low circulating testosterone.

The anti-inflammatory and anti-nociceptive properties of Rosmarinus officinalis L. (ROL) extract and its major constituent, carnosol in male NMRI mice (W:25-30 g) have been evaluated in the present study. Formalin (2%, 20 microL) was injected into the plantar portion of the hind paw and resulting pain and inflammation was studied for 60 min. The plant extract, carnosol and other drugs were administered intraperitoneally or subcutaneously 30 min before formalin injection. In a separate experiment, the effects of the extract and carnosol on plasma corticosterone levels and activity of the enzymes cyclooxygenase type 1 and 2 (COX1 and COX2) were investigated. Injection of different doses of ROL and carnosol reduced pain in the phase 2 of the formalin test, which was not inhibited by naloxone and/or memantine. In addition, pretreatment of the animals with ROL and/or carnosol reduces the formalin-induced inflammation. Furthermore, the extract and carnosol did not affect plasma corticosterone levels compared with the control group. Interestingly, both the extract and carnosol inhibited COX1 and COX2 activity. It could be concluded that ROL extract and carnosol suppressed pain and inflammation induced by formalin injection, which may be due to inhibition of COX1 and COX2 enzymes activity.
Actin depolymerizing factors regulate actin dynamics involved in cellular processes such as morphogenesis, motility, development and infection. Here, a novel actin depolymerizing factor gene (CiADF 2 ) was cloned from the cDNA library of Cryptocaryon irritans, a parasitic ciliate causing cryptocaryonosis. The full-length cDNA of CiADF 2 was 531 bp. Its open reading frame (ORF) was 417 bp, encoding a polypeptide of 138 aa with typical features of the ADF/cofilin family. Reverse transcription-PCR suggested that CiADF 2 is expressed in all stages of the life cycle. After site-directed mutagenesis of a non-universal genetic code, the ORF was subcloned in Escherichia coli. The bacteria were induced with the addition of isopropylthio--D-galactoside to express a fusion protein of recombinant CiADF2 (rCiADF2) with glutathione S transferase. Sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and Western blot confirmed the predicted molecular mass of rCiADF2 of 162 kDa. A mouse antibody against rCiADF2 recognized native CiADF2, and rCiADF2 reacted with mouse antisera against C. irritans trophonts. CiADF2 was abundant in the plasma around cytostomes, suggesting that CiADF2 is involved in ciliate movement. Moreover, rCiADF2 showed F-actin binding and depolymerizing activity. This study will help to clarify the pathogenic biology of the parasite and develop effective control measures for cryptocaryonosis.



Microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type II (OMIM 210720) is a rare autosomal recessive condition frequently associated with early-onset cerebrovascular disease. Presymptomatic detection and intervention could prevent the adverse consequences associated with this. We reviewed published cases of microcephalic osteodysplastic primordial dwarfism type II to ascertain prevalence and characteristics of cerebrovascular disease and use these data to propose an evidence-based approach to cerebrovascular screening. Of 147 cases identified, 47 had cerebrovascular disease (32%), including occlusive arteriopathy (including moyamoya) and cerebral aneurysmal disease. Occlusive disease occurred in younger individuals, and progression can be both rapid and clinically silent. A reasonable screening approach would be magnetic resonance imaging and angiography of the cervical and intracranial circulation at diagnosis, repeated at yearly intervals until 10 years, and every 2 years thereafter, unless clinical concerns occur earlier. At present it would appear that this needs to be life-long. Families and professionals should be alerted to the potential significance of neurologic symptoms and measures should be taken to maintain good vascular health in affected individuals.

Schizophrenia is a mental illness characterized by a breakdown in cognition and emotion. Over the years, drug treatment for this disorder has mainly been compromised of orthosteric ligands that antagonize the active site of the dopamine D2 receptor. However, these drugs are limited in their use and often lead to the development of adverse movement and metabolic side effects. Allosteric modulators are an emerging class of therapeutics with significant advantages over orthosteric ligands, including an improved therapeutic and safety profile. This study investigates our newly developed allosteric modulator, PAOPA, which is a specific modulator of the dopamine D2 receptor. Previous studies have shown PAOPA to attenuate schizophrenia-like behavioral abnormalities in preclinical models. To advance this newly developed allosteric drug from the preclinical to clinical stage, this study examines the pharmacokinetic behavior and toxicological profile of PAOPA. Results from this study prove the effectiveness of PAOPA in reaching the implicated regions of the brain for therapeutic action, particularly the striatum. Pharmacokinetic parameters of PAOPA were found to be comparable to current market antipsychotic drugs. Necropsy and histopathological analyses showed no abnormalities in all examined organs. Acute and chronic treatment of PAOPA indicated no movement abnormalities commonly found with the use of current typical antipsychotic drugs. Moreover, acute and chronic PAOPA treatment revealed no hematological or metabolic abnormalities classically found with the use of atypical antipsychotic drugs. Findings from this study demonstrate a better safety profile of PAOPA, and necessitates the progression of this newly developed therapeutic for the treatment of schizophrenia.
A temporal motor defect in speech preparation and/or planning may contribute to the development of stuttering. This defect may be linked to a dysfunctional cortical-subcortical network at the level of the striatum. To determine whether structural differences exist and whether group differences are associated with stuttering severity or manual laterality, the caudate was measured in 14 children who stutter (CWS) and in a control group of right-handed boys, ages 8-13 years. There was a statistically significant hemisphere by group effect for caudate volume. CWS had reduced right caudate volume and atypical leftward asymmetry compared to controls. Nine of the 13 CWS with atypical caudate asymmetry had atypical manual laterality. These anomalies may represent a vulnerability that perturbs speech planning/preparation and contributes to inefficiencies in action-perception coupling that may be an indicator of stuttering susceptibility. These results suggest that right-handed boys who stutter may have a defect in the feedforward cortico-striato-thalamo-cortical networks.
Bipolar disorder (BD) is a lifelong severe psychiatric condition with high morbidity, disability and excess mortality. The longitudinal clinical trajectory of BD is significantly modified by pharmacological treatment(s), both in acute and in long-term stages. However, a large proportion of BD patients have inadequate response to pharmacological treatments. Pharmacogenomic research may lead to the identification of molecular predictors of treatment response. When integrated with clinical information, pharmacogenomic findings may be used in the future to determine the probability of response/nonresponse to treatment on an individual basis. Here we present a selective review of pharmacogenomic findings in BD. In light of the evidence suggesting a genetic effect of lithium reponse in BD, we focused particularly on the pharmacogenomic literature relevant to this trait. The article contributes a detailed overview of the current status of pharmacogenomics in BD and offers a perspective on the challenges that can hinder its transition to personalized healthcare.
Several studies have suggested a role for neuropeptide Y (NPY) in addiction to drugs of abuse, including cocaine. Recently, our group showed a role for the NPY Y5 receptor in the modulation of acute reinforcing effects of cocaine using self-administration and hyperlocomotion paradigms. In the present study, we further explored potential anti-addiction-related effects of Y5 antagonism in another murine model of cocaine addiction-related behavior: conditioned place-preference (CPP). Using this model, it was tested whether blockade or deficiency of the NPY Y5 receptor could influence the induction, extinction or reinstatement of a conditioned cocaine response. We found that the Y5 antagonist L-152,804 causes faster extinction and reduced reinstatement of cocaine-induced CPP but did not reduce the ability of cocaine to induce CPP. Similarly, Y5-KO mice displayed faster extinction, and reinstatement of cocaine-induced CPP was absent. The development of CPP for cocaine was similar between Y5-KO and WT mice. Taken together, the present data show that Y5 antagonism attenuates relapse to cocaine addiction-related behavior. Prevention of relapse is considered to be of pivotal importance for the development of an effective treatment against cocaine addiction and therefore Y5 receptors could be a potential future therapeutic target in cocaine addiction.
Several types of learning and memory processes are regulated by the hippocampus which is an important subcortical structure in the mammalians' brain. Previous investigations have shown that different receptor systems in the CA1 region of hippocampus are involved in learning and memory functions. Investigating the possible influence of dorsal hippocampal GABA-A receptors on histamine-induced spatial facilitation in adult male Wistar rats was the focus of the current study. Rats were bilaterally implanted with dorsal hippocampal (CA1) cannulae, recovered from surgery and then trained in Morris water maze (MWM) for 4 consecutive days. A block of four trials was given each day. All drugs were injected into CA1 regions, 5min before training. Pre-training intra-CA1 microinjection of muscimol, a GABA-A receptor agonist, at the dose of 0.01 or 0.02g/rat, increased the traveled distance or the escape latency and traveled distance to the hidden platform, respectively, indicating a water maze spatial acquisition impairment. Intra-CA1 administration of bicuculline, a GABA-A receptor antagonist however, significantly decreased the escape latency and traveled distance to the hidden platform, suggesting a spatial learning facilitation. On the other hand, pre-training intra-CA1 microinjection of the subthreshold dose of muscimol plus different doses of histamine (0.025, 0.05 and 0.1g/rat) did not alter the histamine response. Meanwhile, the co-administration of the ineffective dose of bicuculline together with histamine potentiated the spatial learning. Moreover, bilateral infusion of histamine (0.025, 0.05 and 0.1g/rat) by itself, facilitated the spatial learning. Notably, the drug injections had no effect on swimming speed during the MWM training sessions. Our results suggest that the dorsal hippocampal (CA1) GABA-A mechanism(s) may influence the histamine-induced facilitation of spatial acquisition.
Numerous studies have shown a decreased analgesic potency of morphine in exercise trained animals. Since G-protein subunits have a critical role in opioid effects at the cellular level and the exact mechanism(s) of exercise-induced morphine insensitivity has not been fully clarified, the present study was designed to determine the changes in the levels of Gi and G proteins gene expression involved in this phenomenon. All experiments were carried out on male Wistar rats. Nociceptive thermal threshold was determined by the tail-flick method. Physical training was performed using treadmill apparatus. Semiquantitative RT-PCR and Western blot techniques were used to estimate Gai and G mRNA and protein levels, respectively and normalized to an internal standard (-actin). The antinociceptive effect of intrathecal morphine (5, 10 and 15g) was significantly suppressed in trained rats. Following physical training, a significant decrease in the mRNA and protein levels of Gi (P&lt;0.001 and P&lt;0.05 respectively) and G (P&lt;0.01 and P&lt;0.001 respectively) were observed in the dorsal portion of the lumbar spinal cord. In conclusion, our results reveal that the expression patterns of the opioid receptor signaling elements change in exercise training animals. This may be, at least partly, responsible for exercise-induced morphine insensitivity.
Adolescents drink largely in social situations, likely in an attempt to facilitate social interactions. This study sought to examine alterations in the incentive salience of a social stimulus following repeated stress exposure and acute ethanol administration in adolescent and adult male Sprague-Dawley rats. Subjects were either exposed to 5days of restraint stress, chronic variable stress (CVS), which consisted of a different stressor every day, or non-stressed. On test day, the animals were injected with 0, 0.25, 0.5, or 0.75g/kg ethanol and placed in a social approach test in which they could see, hear, and smell a social conspecific, but could not physically interact with it. All the animals showed an interest in the social stimulus, with adolescents engaging in more social investigation than adults. Restraint stressed adults showed ethanol-induced increases in social investigation, while ethanol effects were not seen in any other group. An ethanol-associated increase in 50kHz ultrasonic vocalization (USV) production was only evident in restraint stressed adolescents following 0.75g/kg ethanol. 50kHz USVs were not correlated with time spent investigating the social stimulus in any test condition. These results show that age differences in the facilitatory effects of ethanol on incentive salience of social stimuli are moderated by stress, with the facilitation of social approach by ethanol only evident in restraint stressed adults.
The responses of hamsters to intracranial injections of the cholinergic agonist oxotremorine (OXO) implicate cholinergic mechanisms in the medial preoptic area (MPOA) in the control of male mating behavior. To extend these observations, we ran three studies of responses to cholinergic drugs delivered singly or in combination to the vicinity of the MPOA. The first tested responses to OXO, confirming its ability to reduce the postejaculatory interval. The second complemented the first by examining responses to MPOA microinjections of the cholinergic antagonist scopolamine (SCO). These caused several changes revolving around intromission. These included increases in intromission frequency and ejaculation latency. They also included a change in the patterning of intromissions, marked by continuous strings without the usual separation by dismounts. The final study resembled the others in examining the effects of MPOA injections of OXO and SCO but focused on the ability of each drug to antagonize responses to the other. Most of the responses to OXO and SCO individually replicated earlier findings, though the measures examined here also permitted the description of effects on some noncopulatory sexual behaviors, specifically the male's inspection of the female. However, the most interesting results may be those suggesting asymmetry in the responses to the addition of the second drug: Whereas responses to OXO tended to be antagonized by SCO, OXO was less effective at counteracting responses to SCO. Though the explanation of this asymmetry is not completely clear, it is consistent with previous suggestions of differences in the affinities of these drugs for subtypes of muscarinic receptors. Therefore, it suggests that the cholinergic synapses and circuits controlling distinct elements of male behavior could differ in their dependence on these receptors.
Enhancing the effects of endogenously-released cannabinoid ligands in the brain might provide therapeutic effects more safely and effectively than administering drugs that act directly at the cannabinoid receptor. Inhibitors of fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) prevent the breakdown of endogenous ligands for cannabinoid receptors and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPAR), prolonging and enhancing the effects of these ligands when they are naturally released. This review considers recent research on the effects of FAAH inhibitors and PPAR activators in animal models of addiction and cognition (specifically learning and memory). These studies show that FAAH inhibitors can produce potentially therapeutic effects, some through cannabinoid receptors and some through PPAR. These effects include enhancing certain forms of learning, counteracting the rewarding effects of nicotine and alcohol, relieving symptoms of withdrawal from cannabis and other drugs, and protecting against relapse-like reinstatement of drug self-administration. Since FAAH inhibition might have a wide range of therapeutic actions but might also share some of the adverse effects of cannabis, it is noteworthy that at least one FAAH-inhibiting drug (URB597) has been found to have potentially beneficial effects but no indication of liability for abuse or dependence. Although these areas of research are new, the preliminary evidence indicates that they might lead to improved therapeutic interventions and a better understanding of the brain mechanisms underlying addiction and memory.
Nutrition plays a minor role in psychiatric practice which is currently dominated by a pharmacological treatment algorithm. An accumulating body of evidence has implicated deficits in the dietary essential long-chain omega-3 (LCn-3) fatty acids, eicosapenaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), in the pathophysiology of several major psychiatric disorders. LCn-3 fatty acids have an established long-term safety record in the general population, and existing evidence suggests that increasing LCn-3 fatty acid status may reduce the risk for cardiovascular disease morbidity and mortality. LCn-3 fatty acid supplementation has been shown to augment the therapeutic efficacy of antidepressant, mood-stabilizer, and second generation antipsychotic medications, and may additionally mitigate adverse cardiometabolic side-effects. Preliminary evidence also suggests that LCn-3 fatty acid supplementation may be efficacious as monotherapy for primary and early secondary prevention and for perinatal symptoms. The overall cost-benefit ratio endorses the incorporation of LCn-3 fatty acids into psychiatric treatment algorithms. The recent availability of laboratory facilities that specialize in determining blood LCn-3 fatty acid status and emerging evidence-based consensus guidelines regarding safe and efficacious LCn-3 fatty acid dose ranges provide the infrastructure necessary for implementation. This article outlines the rationale for incorporating LCn-3 fatty acid treatment into psychiatric practice.
Over more than a century of research has established the fact that sleep benefits the retention of memory. In this review we aim to comprehensively cover the field of &quot;sleep and memory&quot; research by providing a historical perspective on concepts and a discussion of more recent key findings. Whereas initial theories posed a passive role for sleep enhancing memories by protecting them from interfering stimuli, current theories highlight an active role for sleep in which memories undergo a process of system consolidation during sleep. Whereas older research concentrated on the role of rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep, recent work has revealed the importance of slow-wave sleep (SWS) for memory consolidation and also enlightened some of the underlying electrophysiological, neurochemical, and genetic mechanisms, as well as developmental aspects in these processes. Specifically, newer findings characterize sleep as a brain state optimizing memory consolidation, in opposition to the waking brain being optimized for encoding of memories. Consolidation originates from reactivation of recently encoded neuronal memory representations, which occur during SWS and transform respective representations for integration into long-term memory. Ensuing REM sleep may stabilize transformed memories. While elaborated with respect to hippocampus-dependent memories, the concept of an active redistribution of memory representations from networks serving as temporary store into long-term stores might hold also for non-hippocampus-dependent memory, and even for nonneuronal, i.e., immunological memories, giving rise to the idea that the offline consolidation of memory during sleep represents a principle of long-term memory formation established in quite different physiological systems.
Sensory processing in the brain includes three key operations: multisensory integration-the task of combining cues into a single estimate of a common underlying stimulus; coordinate transformations-the change of reference frame for a stimulus (e.g., retinotopic to body-centered) effected through knowledge about an intervening variable (e.g., gaze position); and the incorporation of prior information. Statistically optimal sensory processing requires that each of these operations maintains the correct posterior distribution over the stimulus. Elements of this optimality have been demonstrated in many behavioral contexts in humans and other animals, suggesting that the neural computations are indeed optimal. That the relationships between sensory modalities are complex and plastic further suggests that these computations are learned-but how? We provide a principled answer, by treating the acquisition of these mappings as a case of density estimation, a well-studied problem in machine learning and statistics, in which the distribution of observed data is modeled in terms of a set of fixed parameters and a set of latent variables. In our case, the observed data are unisensory-population activities, the fixed parameters are synaptic connections, and the latent variables are multisensory-population activities. In particular, we train a restricted Boltzmann machine with the biologically plausible contrastive-divergence rule to learn a range of neural computations not previously demonstrated under a single approach: optimal integration; encoding of priors; hierarchical integration of cues; learning when not to integrate; and coordinate transformation. The model makes testable predictions about the nature of multisensory representations.
Our actions take place in space and time, but despite the role of time in decision theory and the growing acknowledgement that the encoding of time is crucial to behaviour, few studies have considered the interactions between neural codes for objects in space and for elapsed time during perceptual decisions. The speed-accuracy trade-off (SAT) provides a window into spatiotemporal interactions. Our hypothesis is that temporal coding determines the rate at which spatial evidence is integrated, controlling the SAT by gain modulation. Here, we propose that local cortical circuits are inherently suited to the relevant spatial and temporal coding. In simulations of an interval estimation task, we use a generic local-circuit model to encode time by 'climbing' activity, seen in cortex during tasks with a timing requirement. The model is a network of simulated pyramidal cells and inhibitory interneurons, connected by conductance synapses. A simple learning rule enables the network to quickly produce new interval estimates, which show signature characteristics of estimates by experimental subjects. Analysis of network dynamics formally characterizes this generic, local-circuit timing mechanism. In simulations of a perceptual decision task, we couple two such networks. Network function is determined only by spatial selectivity and NMDA receptor conductance strength; all other parameters are identical. To trade speed and accuracy, the timing network simply learns longer or shorter intervals, driving the rate of downstream decision processing by spatially non-selective input, an established form of gain modulation. Like the timing network's interval estimates, decision times show signature characteristics of those by experimental subjects. Overall, we propose, demonstrate and analyse a generic mechanism for timing, a generic mechanism for modulation of decision processing by temporal codes, and we make predictions for experimental verification.
Fitting models to behavior is commonly used to infer the latent computational factors responsible for generating behavior. However, the complexity of many behaviors can handicap the interpretation of such models. Here we provide perspectives on problems that can arise when interpreting parameter fits from models that provide incomplete descriptions of behavior. We illustrate these problems by fitting commonly used and neurophysiologically motivated reinforcement-learning models to simulated behavioral data sets from learning tasks. These model fits can pass a host of standard goodness-of-fit tests and other model-selection diagnostics even when the models do not provide a complete description of the behavioral data. We show that such incomplete models can be misleading by yielding biased estimates of the parameters explicitly included in the models. This problem is particularly pernicious when the neglected factors are unknown and therefore not easily identified by model comparisons and similar methods. An obvious conclusion is that a parsimonious description of behavioral data does not necessarily imply an accurate description of the underlying computations. Moreover, general goodness-of-fit measures are not a strong basis to support claims that a particular model can provide a generalized understanding of the computations that govern behavior. To help overcome these challenges, we advocate the design of tasks that provide direct reports of the computational variables of interest. Such direct reports complement model-fitting approaches by providing a more complete, albeit possibly more task-specific, representation of the factors that drive behavior. Computational models then provide a means to connect such task-specific results to a more general algorithmic understanding of the brain.
The failure of current strategies to provide an explanation for controversial findings on the pattern of pathophysiological changes in Alzheimer's Disease (AD) motivates the necessity to develop new integrative approaches based on multi-modal neuroimaging data that captures various aspects of disease pathology. Previous studies using [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) and structural magnetic resonance imaging (sMRI) report controversial results about time-line, spatial extent and magnitude of glucose hypometabolism and atrophy in AD that depend on clinical and demographic characteristics of the studied populations. Here, we provide and validate at a group level a generative anatomical model of glucose hypo-metabolism and atrophy progression in AD based on FDG-PET and sMRI data of 80 patients and 79 healthy controls to describe expected age and symptom severity related changes in AD relative to a baseline provided by healthy aging. We demonstrate a high level of anatomical accuracy for both modalities yielding strongly age- and symptom-severity- dependant glucose hypometabolism in temporal, parietal and precuneal regions and a more extensive network of atrophy in hippocampal, temporal, parietal, occipital and posterior caudate regions. The model suggests greater and more consistent changes in FDG-PET compared to sMRI at earlier and the inversion of this pattern at more advanced AD stages. Our model describes, integrates and predicts characteristic patterns of AD related pathology, uncontaminated by normal age effects, derived from multi-modal data. It further provides an integrative explanation for findings suggesting a dissociation between early- and late-onset AD. The generative model offers a basis for further development of individualized biomarkers allowing accurate early diagnosis and treatment evaluation.
In all sexual organisms, adaptations exist that secure the safe reassortment of homologous alleles and prevent the intrusion of potentially hazardous alien DNA. Some bacteria engage in a simple form of sex known as transformation. In the human pathogen Neisseria meningitidis and in related bacterial species, transformation by exogenous DNA is regulated by the presence of a specific DNA Uptake Sequence (DUS), which is present in thousands of copies in the respective genomes. DUS affects transformation by limiting DNA uptake and recombination in favour of homologous DNA. The specific mechanisms of DUS-dependent genetic transformation have remained elusive. Bioinformatic analyses of family Neisseriaceae genomes reveal eight distinct variants of DUS. These variants are here termed DUS dialects, and their effect on interspecies commutation is demonstrated. Each of the DUS dialects is remarkably conserved within each species and is distributed consistent with a robust Neisseriaceae phylogeny based on core genome sequences. The impact of individual single nucleotide transversions in DUS on meningococcal transformation and on DNA binding and uptake is analysed. The results show that a DUS core 5'-CTG-3' is required for transformation and that transversions in this core reduce DNA uptake more than two orders of magnitude although the level of DNA binding remains less affected. Distinct DUS dialects are efficient barriers to interspecies recombination in N. meningitidis, N. elongata, Kingella denitrificans, and Eikenella corrodens, despite the presence of the core sequence. The degree of similarity between the DUS dialect of the recipient species and the donor DNA directly correlates with the level of transformation and DNA binding and uptake. Finally, DUS-dependent transformation is documented in the genera Eikenella and Kingella for the first time. The results presented here advance our understanding of the function and evolution of DUS and genetic transformation in bacteria, and define the phylogenetic relationships within the Neisseriaceae family.
Traits that are attractive to the opposite sex are often positively correlated when scaled such that scores increase with attractiveness, and this correlation typically has a genetic component. Such traits can be genetically correlated due to genes that affect both traits (&quot;pleiotropy&quot;) and/or because assortative mating causes statistical correlations to develop between selected alleles across the traits (&quot;gametic phase disequilibrium&quot;). In this study, we modeled the covariation between monozygotic and dizygotic twins, their siblings, and their parents (total N=7,905) to elucidate the nature of the correlation between two potentially sexually selected traits in humans: height and IQ. Unlike previous designs used to investigate the nature of the height-IQ correlation, the present design accounts for the effects of assortative mating and provides much less biased estimates of additive genetic, non-additive genetic, and shared environmental influences. Both traits were highly heritable, although there was greater evidence for non-additive genetic effects in males. After accounting for assortative mating, the correlation between height and IQ was found to be almost entirely genetic in nature. Model fits indicate that both pleiotropy and assortative mating contribute significantly and about equally to this genetic correlation.


The mimics and chameleons of functional symptoms in neurology could be a whole textbook of neurology. Nevertheless, there are some recurring themes when things go wrong, notably diagnostic bias introduced by the presence or absence of psychiatric comorbidity or life events, neurological diseases that look 'weird' and lack of appreciation of the more unusual features of functional symptoms themselves.
Since the introduction of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator and thrombolysis, acute ischemic stroke has become a treatable disorder if the patient presents within the 4.5-hour time window. Typically, sporadic stroke is caused by atherosclerotic disease involving large or small cerebral arteries or secondary to a cardioembolic source often associated with atrial fibrillation. In the over-65-year age group, more rare causes of stroke, such as antiphospholipid syndromes, are unusual; such stroke etiologies are mostly seen in a younger age group (&lt;55 years). Here we describe acute ischemic stroke in three patients &gt;65 years with hepatitis C-associated antiphospholipid antibodies. We suggest that screening for antiphospholipid disorders in the older patient might be warranted, with potential implications for therapeutic management and secondary stroke prevention.
Working memory is a crucial component of most cognitive tasks. Its neuronal mechanisms are still unclear despite intensive experimental and theoretical explorations. Most theoretical models of working memory assume both time-invariant neural representations and precise connectivity schemes based on the tuning properties of network neurons. A different, more recent class of models assumes randomly connected neurons that have no tuning to any particular task, and bases task performance purely on adjustment of network readout. Intermediate between these schemes are networks that start out random but are trained by a learning scheme. Experimental studies of a delayed vibrotactile discrimination task indicate that some of the neurons in prefrontal cortex are persistently tuned to the frequency of a remembered stimulus, but the majority exhibit more complex relationships to the stimulus that vary considerably across time. We compare three models, ranging from a highly organized line attractor model to a randomly connected network with chaotic activity, with data recorded during this task. The random network does a surprisingly good job of both performing the task and matching certain aspects of the data. The intermediate model, in which an initially random network is partially trained to perform the working memory task by tuning its recurrent and readout connections, provides a better description, although none of the models matches all features of the data. Our results suggest that prefrontal networks may begin in a random state relative to the task and initially rely on modified readout for task performance. With further training, however, more tuned neurons with less time-varying responses should emerge as the networks become more structured.
Neocortex, the neuronal structure at the base of the remarkable cognitive skills of mammals, is a layered sheet of neuronal tissue composed of juxtaposed and interconnected columns. A cortical column is considered the basic module of cortical processing present in all cortical areas. It is believed to contain a characteristic microcircuit composed of a few thousand neurons. The high degree of cortical segmentation into vertical columns and horizontal layers is a boon for scientific investigation because it eases the systematic dissection and functional analysis of intrinsic as well as extrinsic connections of the column. In this review we will argue that in order to understand neocortical function one needs to combine a microscopic view, elucidating the workings of the local columnar microcircuits, with a macroscopic view, which keeps track of the linkage of distant cortical modules in different behavioral contexts. We will exemplify this strategy using the model system of vibrissal touch in mice and rats. On the macroscopic level vibrissal touch is an important sense for the subterranean rodents and has been honed by evolution to serve an array of distinct behaviors. Importantly, the vibrissae are moved actively to touch - requiring intricate sensorimotor interactions. Vibrissal touch, therefore, offers ample opportunities to relate different behavioral contexts to specific interactions of distant columns. On the microscopic level, the cortical modules in primary somatosensory cortex process touch inputs at highest magnification and discreteness - each whisker is represented by its own so-called barrel column. The cellular composition, intrinsic connectivity and functional aspects of the barrel column have been studied in great detail. Building on the versatility of genetic tools available in rodents, new, highly selective and flexible cellular and molecular tools to monitor and manipulate neuronal activity have been devised. Researchers have started to combine these with advanced and highly precise behavioral methods, on par with the precision known from monkey preparations. Therefore, the vibrissal touch model system is exquisitely positioned to combine the microscopic with the macroscopic view and promises to be instrumental in our understanding of neocortical function.
One of the great challenges of systems neuroscience is to understand how the neocortex transforms neuronal representations of the physical characteristics of sensory stimuli into the percepts which can guide the animal's decisions. Here we present progress made in understanding behavioral and neurophysiological aspects of a highly efficient sensory apparatus, the rat whisker system. Beginning with the 1970s discovery of &quot;barrels&quot; in the rat and mouse brain, one line of research has focused on unraveling the circuits that transmit information from the whiskers to the sensory cortex, together with the cellular mechanisms that underlie sensory responses. A second, more recent line of research has focused on tactile psychophysics, that is, quantification of the behavioral capacities supported by whisker sensation. The opportunity to join these two lines of investigation makes whisker-mediated sensation an exciting platform for the study of the neuronal bases of perception and decision-making. Even more appealing is the beginning-to-end prospective offered by this system: the inquiry can start at the level of the sensory receptor and conclude with the animal's choice. We argue that rats can switch between two modes of operation of the whisker sensory system: (1) generative mode and (2) receptive mode. In the generative mode, the rat moves its whiskers forward and backward to actively seek contact with objects and to palpate the object after initial contact. In the receptive mode, the rat immobilizes its whiskers to optimize the collection of signals from an object that is moving by its own power. We describe behavioral tasks that rats perform in these different modes. Next, we explore which neuronal codes in sensory cortex account for the rats' discrimination capacities. Finally, we present hypotheses for mechanisms through which &quot;downstream&quot; brain regions may read out the activity of sensory cortex in order to extract the significance of sensory stimuli and, ultimately, to select the appropriate action.
Psychometric functions are often interpreted in the context of Signal Detection Theory, which emphasizes a distinction between sensory processing and non-sensory decision rules in the brain. This framework has helped to relate perceptual sensitivity to the &quot;neurometric&quot; sensitivity of sensory-driven neural activity. However, perceptual sensitivity, as interpreted via Signal Detection Theory, is based on not just how the brain represents relevant sensory information, but also how that information is read out to form the decision variable to which the decision rule is applied. Here we discuss recent advances in our understanding of this readout process and describe its effects on the psychometric function. In particular, we show that particular aspects of the readout process can have specific, identifiable effects on the threshold, slope, upper asymptote, time dependence, and choice dependence of psychometric functions. To illustrate these points, we emphasize studies of perceptual learning that have identified changes in the readout process that can lead to changes in these aspects of the psychometric function. We also discuss methods that have been used to distinguish contributions of the sensory representation versus its readout to psychophysical performance.
Phenomenological models of decision-making, including the drift-diffusion and race models, are compared with mechanistic, biologically plausible models, such as integrate-and-fire attractor neuronal network models. The attractor network models show how decision confidence is an emergent property; and make testable predictions about the neural processes (including neuronal activity and fMRI signals) involved in decision-making which indicate that the medial prefrontal cortex is involved in reward value-based decision-making. Synaptic facilitation in these models can help to account for sequential vibrotactile decision-making, and for how postponed decision-related responses are made. The randomness in the neuronal spiking-related noise that makes the decision-making probabilistic is shown to be increased by the graded firing rate representations found in the brain, to be decreased by the diluted connectivity, and still to be significant in biologically large networks with thousands of synapses onto each neuron. The stability of these systems is shown to be influenced in different ways by glutamatergic and GABAergic efficacy, leading to a new field of dynamical neuropsychiatry with applications to understanding schizophrenia and obsessive-compulsive disorder. The noise in these systems is shown to be advantageous, and to apply to similar attractor networks involved in short-term memory, long-term memory, attention, and associative thought processes.

This paper is written from a psychodynamic clinician's perspective, juxtaposing a psychoanalytic-attachment model of depression with recent developments in neuroscience. Three main components of the attachment approach are described: the role of loss, of childhood trauma predisposing to depression in later life, and failure of co-regulation of role of primitive emotions, such as fear, despair, and helplessness. Blatt's distinction between anaclitic and introjective depression is delineated and related to hyper- and de-activation of the attachment dynamic. Recent advances in evolutionary, sociological, epigenetic, biochemical, and neuro-imaging studies of depression are reviewed. A dynamic model of depression is proposed, linking interpersonal and intra-psychic perspectives with neuro-anatomical models. The final section of the paper considers the specific role of psychodynamic approaches to the treatment of refractory depression. These include length of treatment, capacity to rework implicit memories, and focus on transference and counter-transference.

Anger is associated with various responses. Research on the neuroscience of anger has revealed that greater left than right frontal cortical activity is associated with angry approach-oriented responses, such as aggression, whereas greater right than left frontal cortical activity is associated with inhibited angry responses mixed with anxiety. In the current research, we extended these past studies by manipulating asymmetric frontal cortical activity using transcranial direct current stimulation and assessing its influence on ruminative responses to an interpersonal insult. Results revealed that self-reported rumination was greatest for participants who received a manipulated increase in relative right frontal cortical activity compared with those who received either a manipulated increase in relative left frontal cortical activity or sham stimulation. Taken together with past findings, the current results suggest that anger associated with greater relative left frontal cortical activity predicts approach-oriented aggressive action, whereas anger associated with greater relative right frontal cortical activity predicts inhibited rumination.
Efforts to characterize the memory system that supports sentence comprehension have historically drawn extensively on short-term memory as a source of mechanisms that might apply to sentences. The focus of these efforts has changed significantly in the past decade. As a result of changes in models of short-term working memory (ST-WM) and developments in models of sentence comprehension, the effort to relate entire components of an ST-WM system, such as those in the model developed by Baddeley (Nature Reviews Neuroscience 4: 829-839, 2003) to sentence comprehension has largely been replaced by an effort to relate more specific mechanisms found in modern models of ST-WM to memory processes that support one aspect of sentence comprehension--the assignment of syntactic structure (parsing) and its use in determining sentence meaning (interpretation) during sentence comprehension. In this article, we present the historical background to recent studies of the memory mechanisms that support parsing and interpretation and review recent research into this relation. We argue that the results of this research do not converge on a set of mechanisms derived from ST-WM that apply to parsing and interpretation. We argue that the memory mechanisms supporting parsing and interpretation have features that characterize another memory system that has been postulated to account for skilled performance-long-term working memory. We propose a model of the relation of different aspects of parsing and interpretation to ST-WM and long-term working memory.
Working memory (WM) and attention have been studied as separate cognitive constructs, although it has long been acknowledged that attention plays an important role in controlling the activation, maintenance, and manipulation of representations in WM. WM has, conversely, been thought of as a means of maintaining representations to voluntarily guide perceptual selective attention. It has more recently been observed, however, that the contents of WM can capture visual attention, even when such internally maintained representations are irrelevant, and often disruptive, to the immediate external task. Thus, the precise relationship between WM and attention remains unclear, but it appears that they may bidirectionally impact one another, whether or not internal representations are consistent with the external perceptual goals. This reciprocal relationship seems, further, to be constrained by limited cognitive resources to handle demands in either maintenance or selection. We propose here that the close relationship between WM and attention may be best described as a give-and-take interdependence between attention directed toward either actively maintained internal representations (traditionally considered WM) or external perceptual stimuli (traditionally considered selective attention), underpinned by their shared reliance on a common cognitive resource. Put simply, we argue that WM and attention should no longer be considered as separate systems or concepts, but as competing and influencing one another because they rely on the same limited resource. This framework can offer an explanation for the capture of visual attention by irrelevant WM contents, as well as a straightforward account of the underspecified relationship between WM and attention.

The early social environment has a profound impact on developmental trajectories. Although an impoverished early environment can undermine the acquisition of appropriate social skills, the specific role played by the different components of an individual's early environment in building social competencies has not been fully elucidated. Here we setup an asynchronous communal nesting paradigm in mice to disentangle the influence of maternal care and early peer interactions on adult social behavior and neural systems reportedly involved in the regulation of social interactions. The asynchronous communal nesting consists of three mothers giving birth three days apart, generating three groups of pups - the Old, the Middle and the Young - all raised in a single nest from birth to weaning. We scored the amount of maternal and peer interactions received by these mice and by a fourth group reared under standard conditions. At adulthood, the four experimental groups have been investigated for social behavior in a social interaction test, i.e. facing an unfamiliar conspecific during five 20-min daily encounters, and for oxytocin receptor and brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels. Results show that only individuals exposed to high levels of both maternal and peer interactions demonstrated elaborate adult agonistic competencies, i.e. the ability to promptly display a social status, and high BDNF levels in the hippocampus, frontal cortex and hypothalamus. By contrast, only individuals exposed to high levels of peer interactions showed enhanced adult affiliative behavior and enhanced oxytocin receptor levels in selected nuclei of the amygdala. Overall these findings indicate that early interactions with mother and peers independently shape specific facets of adult social behavior and neural systems involved in social interaction.




The goal of this study was to cast light on the existence of functional callosal channels for the interhemispheric transfer (IHT) of spatial and semantic information. To do so, we recorded event-related potentials in healthy humans while performing a primed odd-even discrimination task. Targets were visually presented numbers preceded by single-letter primes signaling the probable presentation of an odd or an even number. Primes and targets could appear either in the same or in different visual fields, thus requiring an IHT in the latter case. The P1 and N2 components were influenced by IHT of spatial information only, whereas the later N400 was influenced by IHT of both spatial and semantic information. This was not the case for the P3b, which was modulated by semantic validity only. These results provide novel evidence of the existence of a temporally separated interhemispheric exchange of spatial and semantic information.
Cognitive control is required for correct antisaccade performance. High antisaccade error rates characterize certain psychiatric disorders, but can be highly variable, even among healthy groups. Antisaccade data were acquired from a large sample of healthy undergraduates, and error rate was quantified. Participants who reliably made few errors (good, n = 13) or many errors (poor, n = 13) were recruited back to perform antisaccades during fMRI acquisition. A data-derived model was used to compare signal between good and poor performers during blocks of antisaccade trials. Behaviorally derived regressors were used to compare signal between good and poor performers during correct and error trials. Results show differential activation in middle frontal gyrus and inferior parietal lobule between good and poor performers, suggesting that failure to recruit these top-down control regions corresponds to poor antisaccade performance in healthy young adults.

The prominence of neuroscience in the public sphere has escalated in recent years, provoking questions about how the public engages with neuroscientific ideas. Commentaries on neuroscience's role in society often present it as having revolutionary implications, fundamentally overturning established beliefs about personhood. The purpose of this article is to collate and review the extant empirical evidence on the influence of neuroscience on commonsense understandings of personhood. The article evaluates the scope of neuroscience's presence in public consciousness and examines the empirical evidence for three frequently encountered claims about neuroscience's societal influence: that neuroscience fosters a conception of the self that is based in biology, that neuroscience promotes conceptions of individual fate as predetermined, and that neuroscience attenuates the stigma attached to particular social categories. It concludes that many neuroscientific ideas have assimilated in ways that perpetuate rather than challenge existing modes of understanding self, others and society.

Growth arrest DNA damage-inducible 45a gene (Gadd45a) and immediate early response gene 5 (Ier5) have been emphasised as ideal radiation biomarkers in several reports. However, some aspects of radiation-induced transcriptional alterations of these genes are unknown. In this study, gender-dependency and dose-dependency as two factors that may affect radiation-induced transcription of Gadd45a and Ier5 genes were investigated. Human lymphocyte cells from six healthy voluntary blood donors (three women and three men) were irradiated in vitro with doses of 0.5-4.0 Gy from a (60)Co source and RNA isolated 4 h later using the High Pure RNA Isolation Kit. Dose and gender dependency of radiation-induced transcriptional alterations of Gadd45a and Ier5 genes were studied by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. The results showed that as a whole, Gadd45a and Ier5 gave responses to gamma rays, while the responses were independent of radiation doses. Therefore, regardless of radiation dose, Gadd45a and Ier5 can be considered potential radiation biomarkers. Besides, although radiation-induced transcriptional alterations of Gadd45a in female and male lymphocyte samples were insignificant at 0.5 Gy, at other doses, their quantities in female samples were at a significantly higher level than in male samples. Radiation-induced transcription of Ier5 of females samples had a reduction in comparison with male samples at 1 and 2 Gy, but at doses of 0.5 and 4 Gy, females were significantly more susceptible to radiation-induced transcriptional alteration of Ier5.
Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) plays an important role in lipid metabolism and neuronal repair. In humans, there are three major apoE isoforms: apoE2, apoE3 and apoE4. Compared to apoE3, apoE4 increases the risk to develop Alzheimer's disease, particularly in women, and of developing cognitive impairments after specific environmental challenges. ApoE isoform might also be a determinant of cognitive injury after cranial Fe irradiation. To assess this possibility, in this study female apoE2, apoE3 and apoE4 mice were cranially irradiated with Fe particles (600 MeV, 0, 1 or 2 Gy) and behaviorally tested 3 months later. Exploratory activity and measures of anxiety were also assessed as they can affect performance on cognitive tests. There were no effects of irradiation on exploratory activity or measures of anxiety in the open field or elevated zero maze. However, there were dose- and apoE isoform-dependent effects of irradiation on novel object recognition and spatial memory retention in the water maze. Compared to apoE2 and apoE3 mice, apoE4 mice were more sensitive to 2 Gy induced impairments in hippocampus-dependent spatial memory retention in the water maze after training to locate the first hidden platform location, but less sensitive to 2 Gy induced cortical impairments in novel object recognition. Conversely, of the irradiated mice, apoE4 mice irradiated with 1 Gy were the only group of mice that showed spatial memory retention for the second platform location after reversal learning in the water maze. Together, these data show that cranial Fe irradiation causes dose- and apoE isoform-dependent cognitive impairments in female mice and that anatomical specificity might contribute to the relative sensitivity of apoE4 mice to develop space radiation-induced cognitive impairments.
For accurate reading comprehension, readers must first learn to map letters to their corresponding speech sounds and meaning and then they must string the meanings of many words together to form a representation of the text. Furthermore, readers must master the complexities involved in parsing the relevant syntactic and pragmatic information necessary for accurate interpretation. Failure in this process can occur at multiple levels and cognitive neuroscience has been helpful in identifying the underlying causes of success and failure in reading single words and in reading comprehension. In general, neurobiological studies of skilled reading comprehension indicate a highly overlapping language circuit for single word reading, reading comprehension and listening comprehension with largely quantitative differences in a number of reading and language related areas. This paper reviews relevant research from studies employing neuroimaging techniques to study reading with a focus on the relationship between reading skill, single word reading, and text comprehension.
Tissue engineering (by culturing cells on appropriate scaffolds, and using bioreactors to drive the correct bone structure formation) is an attractive alternative to bone grafting or implantation of bone substitutes. Osteogenesis is a biological process that involves many molecular intracellular pathways organized to optimize bone modeling. The use of bioreactor systems and especially the perfusion bioreactor, provides both the technological means to reveal fundamental mechanisms of cell function in a 3D environment, and the potential to improve the quality of engineered tissues. In this mini-review all the characteristics for the production of an appropriate bone construct are analyzed: the stem cell source, scaffolds useful for the seeding of pre-osteoblastic cells and the effects of fluid flow on differentiation and proliferation of bone precursor cells. By automating and standardizing tissue manufacture in controlled closed systems, engineered tissues may reduce the gap between the process of bone formation in vitro and subsequent graft of bone substitutes in vivo.
Parkinson disease (PD) is the most common progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive death of midbrain dopaminergic neurons. Most neurodegenerative disease treatments are, at present, palliative. However, some natural herbal products have been shown to rescue neurons from death and apoptosis in some of neurodegenerative diseases. Not only Olea europaea L. olive oil, but also the leaves of this plant have been used for medical purposes. Olive leaf extract (OLE) is being used by people as a drink across the world and as an integral ingredient in their desire to maintain and improve their health. Here, we investigated the effects of OLE and its main phenolic component oleuropein on 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced toxicity in rat adrenal pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells as an in vitro model of PD. Cell damage was induced by 150M 6-OHDA. The cell survival rate was examined by MTT assay. Generation of intra-cellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) was studied using fluorescence spectrophotometry. Immunoblotting and DNA analysis were also employed to determine the levels of biochemical markers of apoptosis in the cells. The data showed that 6-OHDA could decrease the viability of the cells. In addition, intra-cellular ROS, activated caspase 3, Bax/Bcl-2 ratio, as well as DNA fragmentation were significantly increased in 6-OHDA-treated cells. Incubation of cells with OLE (400 and 600g/mL) and oleuropein (20 and 25g/mL) could decrease cell damage and reduce biochemical markers of cell death. The results suggest that OLE and oleuropein have anti-oxidant protective effects against 6-OHDA-induced PC12 cell damage. The protective effects of OLE and oleuropein are correlative with their anti-oxidative and anti-apoptotic properties and suggest their therapeutic potential in the treatment of PD.
We hypothesised that phase II time constant (2) of alveolar O2 uptake ( [Formula: see text] ) is longer in hypoxia than in normoxia as a consequence of a parallel deceleration of the kinetics of O2 delivery ( [Formula: see text] ). To test this hypothesis, breath-by-breath [Formula: see text] and beat-by-beat [Formula: see text] were measured in eight male subjects (25.43.4yy, 1.810.05m, 78.85.7kg) at the onset of cycling exercise (100W) in normoxia and acute hypoxia ( [Formula: see text] ). Blood lactate ([La]b) accumulation during the exercise transient was also measured. The 2 for [Formula: see text] was shorter than that for [Formula: see text] in normoxia (8.36.8s versus 17.83.1s), but not in hypoxia (31.521.7s versus 28.4 5.45.4s). [La]b was increased in the exercise transient in hypoxia (3.00.5mM at exercise versus 1.70.2mM at rest), but not in normoxia. We conclude that the slowing down of the [Formula: see text] kinetics generated the longer 2 for [Formula: see text] in hypoxia, with consequent contribution of anaerobic lactic metabolism to the energy balance in exercise transient, witnessed by the increase in [La]b.
Our understanding of the sites and mechanisms underlying rhythmic breathing as well as the neuromodulatory control of respiratory rhythm, pattern, and respiratory motoneuron excitability during perinatal development has advanced significantly over the last 20 years. A major catalyst was the development in 1991 of the rhythmically-active medullary slice preparation, which provided precise mechanical and chemical control over the network as well as enhanced physical and optical access to key brainstem regions. Insights obtained in vitro have informed multiple mechanistic hypotheses. In vivo tests of these hypotheses, performed under conditions of reduced control and precision but more obvious physiological relevance, have clearly established the significance for respiratory neurobiology of the rhythmic slice preparation. We review the contributions of this preparation to current understanding/concepts in respiratory control, and outline the limitations of this approach in the context of studying rhythm and pattern generation, homeostatic control mechanisms and murine models of human genetic disorders that feature prominent breathing disturbances.



Characterizing the anatomical substrates of major brain functions such as cognition and emotion is of utmost importance to the ongoing efforts of understanding the nature of psychiatric ailments and their potential treatment. The aim of our study was to investigate how the brain handles affective and cognitive interferences on cognitive processes. Functional magnetic resonance imaging investigation was performed on healthy individuals, comparing the brain oxygenation level dependent activation patterns during affective and cognitive counting Stroop tasks. The affective Stroop task activated rostral parts of medial prefrontal cortex (PFC) and rostral and ventral parts of lateral PFC, while cognitive Stroop activated caudal parts of medial PFC and caudal and dorsal parts of lateral PFC. Our findings suggest that the brain may handle affective and cognitive interference on cognitive processes differentially, with affective interference preferentially activating rostral and ventral PFC networks and cognitive interference activating caudal and dorsal PFC networks.

Self-efficacy, defined as the confidence one has in the ability to perform a behavior or specific task, has been introduced as a crucial motivational factor for successfully carrying out social and everyday living skills (Bandura, 1977, 1997). Few studies have assessed its role in functioning in schizophrenia. The current study was designed to investigate whether degree of illness insight determined whether self-efficacy was a mediator of the relationship between two key illness features, negative symptoms and cognition, and functional skills. Sixty-nine individuals with schizophrenia were administered measures of self-efficacy, cognition, symptoms, insight and performance-based measure of everyday living and social skill. Results revealed that self-efficacy was only linked to measures of functional skills when illness insight was intact. There was evidence of moderation of confounding effects such that when self-efficacy was controlled, the relationship between negative symptoms and measures of everyday life skills became non-significant, but only when illness insight was intact. These findings emphasize the importance of including illness insight in models of the role of self-efficacy in functioning in schizophrenia.


Genomically identical cells have long been assumed to comprise the human brain, with post-genomic mechanisms giving rise to its enormous diversity, complexity, and disease susceptibility. However, the identification of neural cells containing somatically generated mosaic aneuploidy - loss and/or gain of chromosomes from a euploid complement - and other genomic variations including LINE1 retrotransposons and regional patterns of DNA content variation (DCV), demonstrate that the brain is genomically heterogeneous. The precise phenotypes and functions produced by genomic mosaicism are not well understood, although the effects of constitutive aberrations, as observed in Down syndrome, implicate roles for defined mosaic genomes relevant to cellular survival, differentiation potential, stem cell biology, and brain organization. Here we discuss genomic mosaicism as a feature of the normal brain as well as a possible factor in the weak or complex genetic linkages observed for many of the most common forms of neurological and psychiatric diseases.
Cerebral herniation occurs due to lateral or vertical shifts in brain tissue as a complication of an intra- or extra-axial nervous system pathology. Midline shift of midline brain structures has been independently associated with poor outcome in a variety of neurologic injuries. Herniation may present as a subacute phenomenon constituting mild and progressive alteration of consciousness or as a hyperacute scenario wherein there is rapid decompensation of intracranial compliance. If left uncontrolled, cerebral herniation will lead to destruction of arousal mechanisms and result in a comatose state. A protocol-based approach for the management of herniation has the potential to minimize or reverse these shifts and in conjunction with clinical examination, radiologic data and neuromonitoring techniques offer the option of preventing a second catastrophe. In this article, the authors discuss the mechanisms that lead to coma in brain-herniating patients and the treatment choices that have been successfully used in this patient population.
Over the last decade, significant improvements have been made in understanding and categorizing coma and disorders of consciousness. Although imaging techniques have been paramount in exploring disorders of consciousness, electrophysiologic techniques continue to be important for studying brain function in behaviorally unresponsive patients. In acute coma, electroencephalogram and evoked potentials have important roles in excluding nonconvulsive seizures, determining prognosis, monitoring for signs of improvement or worsening, and examining for markers of conscious response to external stimuli. Absence of cortical SSEPs is the most specific marker of poor prognosis after cardiac arrest. Recognition of stimulus-induced epileptiform discharges and clinical seizures has further blurred the lines along the ictal-interictal spectrum in coma. For chronic disorders of consciousness, more experimental techniques, such as cognitive event-related potentials and long-latency evoked potentials, have demonstrated an expanded role in determining prognosis and examining for indicators of consciousness. Like functional magnetic resonance imaging, these specialized techniques have demonstrated signs of preserved cognition in patients who otherwise appear unconscious. Future directions for clinical electrophysiologic testing in disorders of consciousness are likely to include automated and quantitative signal processing techniques and better standardization of cognitive event-related potentials.
Rab GTPases play an essential role in the regulation of intracellular transport including the budding, tethering, and fusion of vesicles as well as organelle motility. The regulation of G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) trafficking by Rab GTPases has traditionally been regarded as a non-specific process that facilitates the movement of the receptors between intracellular membrane compartments. Thus, alterations in GPCR signal transduction and trafficking following the overexpression of constitutively active and dominant negative Rabs were originally considered to be solely the passive by-product of perturbations in intracellular compartmental dynamics. Recently, an explosion of experimental studies has provided increasingly convincing evidence that receptor trafficking actively affects the signal transduction of cargo proteins and that the signaling of GPCR vesicular cargo can in turn modulate Rab GTPase regulated intracellular transport processes. This research is revealing how different Rabs coordinate with themselves and other regulatory molecules to mediate protein trafficking, as well as uncovers novel functions for traditional Rabs, while illustrating the active role these trafficking molecules play in pathology of disease. Recently published in the Journal of Neuroscience, Esseltine et al., present a novel role for the typified exocytic small G protein Rab8 in the intracellular trafficking and signal transduction of metabotropic glutamate receptor 1.
'Ego depletion' refers to the phenomenon of diminished ability to enact self-regulation with repeated efforts. Several models offer process accounts of how ego depletion works, but few studies directly investigate these processes. A study in this issue of Social, Cognitive, &amp; Affective Neuroscience by Wagner and Heatherton is among the first to do so. Their results substantiate one possible mechanism of ego depletion and, more broadly, illustrate how neuroscience data can further social psychological theory.
The power of an object to afford a suitable act has been shown to depend on its reachability. Nevertheless, most of our perception and action occur in a social context. Little research has directly explored whether the possibility for other people to act upon an object may affect our processing of its affording features. To tackle this issue, we magnetically stimulated the left primary motor cortex and recorded motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) while participants were presented with a handled object (i.e. a mug) close either to them or to a virtual individual such as an avatar. We found highest MEPs both when the mug was near enough to be actually reachable for the participants and also when it was out of reach for them, provided that it was ready to the avatar's hand. We propose that this effect is likely to be due to an interpersonal bodily space representation, which plays critical role in basic social interaction.
Rejections of unfair offers in the ultimatum game (UG) are commonly assumed to reflect negative emotional arousal mediated by the anterior insula and medial prefrontal cortex. We aimed to disentangle those neural mechanisms associated with direct personal involvement ('I have been treated unfairly') from those associated with fairness considerations, such as the wish to discourage unfair behavior or social norm violations ('this person has been treated unfairly'). For this purpose, we used fMRI and asked participants to play the UG as responders either for themselves (myself) or on behalf of another person (third party). Unfair offers were equally often rejected in both conditions. Neuroimaging data revealed a dissociation between the medial prefrontal cortex, specifically associated with rejections in the myself condition, thus confirming its role in self-related emotional responses, and the left anterior insula, associated with rejections in both myself and third-party conditions, suggesting a role in promoting fair behavior also toward third parties. Our data extend the current understanding of the neural substrate of social decision making, by disentangling the structures sensitive to direct emotional involvement of the self from those implicated in pure fairness considerations.
Reasoning often occurs under emotionally charged, opinion-laden circumstances. The belief-bias effect indexes the extent to which reasoning is based upon beliefs rather than logical structure. We examined whether emotional content increases this effect, particularly for adults genetically predisposed to be more emotionally reactive. SS/SL(G) carriers of the serotonin transporter genotype (5-HTTLPR) were less accurate selectively for evaluating emotional relational reasoning problems with belief-logic conflict relative to L(A)L(A) carriers. Trait anxiety was positively associated with emotional belief-bias, and the 5-HTTLPR genotype significantly accounted for the variance in this association. Thus, deductive reasoning, a higher cognitive ability, is sensitive to differences in emotionality rooted in serotonin neurotransmitter function.
Social dysfunction has been recognized as an elementary feature of schizophrenia, but it remains a crucial issue whether social deficits in schizophrenia concern the inter-subjective domain or primarily have their roots in disturbances of self-experience. Social perception comprises vicarious processes grounding an experiential inter-relationship with others as well as self-regulation processes allowing to maintain a coherent sense of self. The present study investigated whether the functional neural basis underlying these processes is altered in first-episode schizophrenia (FES). Twenty-four FES patients and 22 healthy control participants underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging during a social perception task requiring them to watch videos depicting other individuals' inanimate and animate/social tactile stimulations, and a tactile localizer condition. Activation in ventral premotor cortex for observed bodily tactile stimulations was reduced in the FES group and negatively correlated with self-experience disturbances. Moreover, FES patients showed aberrant differential activation in posterior insula for first-person tactile experiences and observed affective tactile stimulations. These findings suggest that social perception in FES at a pre-reflective level is characterized by disturbances of self-experience, including impaired multisensory representations and self-other distinction. However, the results also show that social perception in FES involves more complex alterations of neural activation at multiple processing levels.

Neuronal stem cells residing in a niche on the surface of the adult crayfish (Procambarus clarkii) brain are not self-renewing. However, the neuronal precursors in the niche are not depleted despite continued neurogenesis and the exit of precursor cells from the niche throughout the organism's life. The neurogenic niche is therefore not a closed system, and we have previously proposed that the stem cell pool is replenished from the hematopoietic system. Noonin et al. (2012) demonstrated that the hematopoietic system in the crayfish Pacifastacus leniusculus includes an anterior proliferation center (APC) lying near the brain; they suggest that multipotent stem cells are concentrated in this region, and that the APC may provide neuronal stem cells for adult neurogenesis. The present study extends this work by describing the location and cellular organization of hematopoietic tissues in P. clarkii. We find that the APC lies within the cor frontale, or auxiliary heart, which pumps hemolymph to the brain and eyes through the cerebral and ophthalmic arteries, respectively. Vascular extensions of the cerebral artery converge on the neurogenic niche. APC cells lie in layered sheets within the cor frontale and form rosette-like structures reminiscent of stem cells in other developing tissues. We confirm here that APC cells in P. clarkii have characteristics of multipotent stem cells, and that their location within the cor frontale allows direct access to regions in the central nervous system in which adult neurogenesis occurs.








The use and misuse of digital technologies among adolescents has been the focus of fiery debates among parents, educators, policy-makers and in the media. Recently, these debates have become shaped by emerging data from cognitive neuroscience on the development of the adolescent brain and cognition. &quot;Neuroplasticity&quot; has functioned as a powerful metaphor in arguments both for and against the pervasiveness of digital media cultures that increasingly characterize teenage life. In this paper, we propose that the debates concerning adolescents are the meeting point of two major social anxieties both of which are characterized by the threat of &quot;abnormal&quot; (social) behaviour: existing moral panics about adolescent behaviour in general and the growing alarm about intense, addictive, and widespread media consumption in modern societies. Neuroscience supports these fears but the same kinds of evidence are used to challenge these fears and reframe them in positive terms. Here, we analyze discourses about digital media, the Internet, and the adolescent brain in the scientific and lay literature. We argue that while the evidential basis is thin and ambiguous, it has immense social influence. We conclude by suggesting how we might move beyond the poles of neuro-alarmism and neuro-enthusiasm. By analyzing the neurological adolescent in the digital age as a socially extended mind, firstly, in the sense that adolescent cognition is distributed across the brain, body, and digital media tools and secondly, by viewing adolescent cognition as enabled and transformed by the institution of neuroscience, we aim to displace the normative terms of current debates.
Gene therapy strategies for the treatment of inherited retinal diseases have made major advances in recent years. This review focuses on adeno-associated viral (AAV) vector approaches to treat retinal degeneration and, thus, prevent or delay the onset of blindness. Data from human clinical trials of gene therapy for retinal disease show encouraging signs of safety and efficacy from AAV vectors. Recent progress in enhancing cell-specific targeting and transduction efficiency of the various retinal layers plus the use of AAV-delivered growth factors to augment the therapeutic effect and limit cell death suggest even greater success in future human trials is possible.
It was recently discovered that while under normal conditions inhaled nitric oxide (iNO) does not affect cerebral blood flow, it selectively dilates arterioles in the ischemic penumbra during experimental cerebral ischemia, thereby increasing collateral blood flow and reducing ischemic brain damage. The mechanism was verified in multiple models, but only in male animals. Our aim was to evaluate the effects of iNO on brain injury in neonatal males and females. Nine-day-old mice were subjected to unilateral hypoxia-ischemia (HI), using 10% oxygen balanced with nitrogen, with or without 50 ppm NO. Brain injury 72 h after HI was reduced by iNO as judged by percentage of injury (-21.7%), atrophy (-23.7%), and total pathological score (-29%). The injury was significantly reduced in males (-32.4%, p&lt;0.05) but not in females (-7.1%, n.s.). Neither the numbers nor the proliferation rates of neural stem cells in the dentate gyrus were affected by iNO. In summary, intraischemic iNO reduced neonatal HI brain injury in a gender-related manner.
Activation of microglia/macrophages is important in neonatal hypoxic-ischemic (HI) brain injury. Based on experimental studies, we identified macrophage/microglia-derived mediators with potential neurotoxic effects after neonatal HI and examined them in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from newborn infants after birth asphyxia. Galectin-3 is a novel inflammatory mediator produced by microglia/macrophages. Galectin-3 is chemotactic for inflammatory cells and activates nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase resulting in production and release of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) is a tissue-degrading protease expressed by activated microglia in the immature brain after HI. Both galectin-3 and MMP-9 contribute to brain injury in animal models for neonatal HI. Quinolinic acid (QUIN) is a neurotoxic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor agonist also produced by activated microglia/macrophages. Galectin-3 and MMP-9 were measured by ELISA and QUIN by mass spectrometry. Asphyxiated infants (n=20) had higher levels of galectin-3 (mean (SEM) 2.64 (0.43) ng/mL) and QUIN (335.42 (58.9) nM) than controls (n=15) (1.36 (0.46) ng/mL and 116.56 (16.46) nM, respectively), p&lt;0.05 and p&lt;0.01. Infants with septic infections (n=10) did not differ from controls. Asphyxiated infants with abnormal outcome had higher levels of galectin-3 (3.96 (0.67) ng/mL) than those with normal outcome (1.76 (0.32) ng/mL), p=0.02, and the difference remained significant in the clinically relevant group of infants with moderate encephalopathy. MMP-9 was detected in few infants with no difference between groups. The potentially neurotoxic macrophage/microglia-derived mediators galectin-3 and QUIN are increased in CSF after birth asphyxia and could serve as markers and may contribute to injury.
The choroid plexus is the site of the blood-cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) barrier (BCSFB) and has also been considered as a possible route for peripheral immune signals and cells to transfer to the central nervous system. Infection/inflammation stimulates innate and subsequent adaptive immune responses via Toll-like receptors (TLRs). In this study, we have investigated the mRNA expression of TLRs, cytokines, and tight junction proteins in the choroid plexus in the immature brain after systemic inflammation, as well as accumulation of immune cells into the CSF. Specific ligands for TLR-1/2, TLR-3, and TLR-4 were administered to postnatal day8 mice and mRNA expression for the targeted genes was examined in the choroid plexus. We found that mRNA for all four TLRs was detected in the choroid plexus under control conditions. Following immune stimulation, expression of all the TLRs was upregulated by their respective ligands, except for TLR-4 mRNA, which was downregulated by Pam3CSK4 (PAM; a TLR-1/2 ligand). In addition, we investigated BCSFB regulation after TLR stimulation and found that TLR-1/2 and TLR-4 activation was associated with changes in mRNA expression of the tight junction protein occludin in the choroid plexus. PAM induced choroid plexus transcription of TNF- and resulted in the most dramatic increase in numbers of white blood cells in the CSF. The data suggest a possible mechanism whereby systemic inflammation stimulates TLRs in the choroid plexus, which may lead to disturbances in choroid plexus barrier function, as well as infiltration of immune cells through the plexus.
Episodes of neonatal hypoxia-ischemia (H-I) are strongly associated with cerebral palsy and a wide spectrum of other neurological deficits in children. Two key processes required to repair damaged organs are to amplify the number of precursors capable of regenerating damaged cells and to direct their differentiation towards the cell types that need to be replaced. Since hypoxia induces vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) production, it is logical to predict that VEGFs are key mediators of tissue repair after H-I injury. The goal of this study was to test the hypothesis that certain VEGF isoforms increase during recovery from neonatal H-I and that they would differentially affect the proliferation and differentiation of subventricular zone (SVZ) progenitors. During the acute recovery period from H-I both VEGF-A and VEGF-C were transiently induced in the SVZ, which correlated with an increase in SVZ blood vessel diameter. These growth factors were produced by glial progenitors, astrocytes and to a lesser extent, microglia. VEGF-A promoted the production of astrocytes from SVZ glial progenitors while VEGF-C stimulated the proliferation of both early and late oligodendrocyte progenitors, which was abolished by blocking the VEGFR-3. Altogether, these results provide new insights into the signals that coordinate the reactive responses of the progenitors in the SVZ to neonatal H-I. Our studies further suggest that therapeutics that extend VEGF-C production and/or agonists that stimulate the VEGFR-3 will promote oligodendrocyte progenitor cell development to enhance myelination after perinatal brain injury.
Cyclosporine (CsA) and sirolimus (SRL) have been associated with undesirable side effects, including posttransplantation diabetes and hyperlipidemia, but the molecular mechanisms underlying these effects remain to be elucidated. Animal studies focusing on clinically relevant doses are advised. This study sought to compare the metabolic effects on isolated rat adipocytes treated with either CsA or SRL ex vivo and after long-term in vivo treatment in Wistar rats. We assessed the ex vivo effects of CsA (0.5-30 mol/L) and SRL (1-250 mol/L) on insulin-stimulated (14)C-glucose uptake in epididymal adipocytes (n = 6-9). In parallel, rats (n = 12) were treated with either vehicle, CsA (5 mg/kg/d) or SRL (1 mg/kg/d) for either 3 or 9 weeks. At the end of the treatment, glucose tolerance test (GTT) and insulin-stimulated (14)C-glucose uptake as well as biochemical parameters were analyzed. A significant reduction in the insulin-stimulated glucose uptake over basal was observed among isolated adipocytes, whether exposed ex vivo or in vivo to CsA or SRL treatment. Furthermore, the SRL group showed significantly lighter fat pads and smaller adipocytes at 3 weeks with a smaller gain in body weight throughout the study compared with either the vehicle or CsA cohorts. Glucose intolerance was observed after a GTT, at the end of the treatment with either drug. Additionally, at 9 weeks serum triglycerides were increased by CsA compared with vehicle or SRL treatment. Interestingly, although SRL-treated animals presented higher fed and fasted insulin levels compared with either group, suggesting insulin resistance, the CsA group presented lower fed and fasted insulin values, suggesting a defect in insulin secretion at 9 weeks. These results suggested that either ex vivo treatment of fat cells or in vivo treatment of rats with CsA or SRL impaired insulin-stimulated glucose uptake by adipocytes. Both drugs caused glucose intolerance, which altogether could be responsible for the development of posttransplantation diabetes.
Music is used to regulate mood and arousal in everyday life and to promote physical and psychological health and well-being in clinical settings. However, scientific inquiry into the neurochemical effects of music is still in its infancy. In this review, we evaluate the evidence that music improves health and well-being through the engagement of neurochemical systems for (i) reward, motivation, and pleasure; (ii) stress and arousal; (iii) immunity; and (iv) social affiliation. We discuss the limitations of these studies and outline novel approaches for integration of conceptual and technological advances from the fields of music cognition and social neuroscience into studies of the neurochemistry of music.
A recent study demonstrates that intersubject variability in functional connectivity is heterogeneous across the cortex, with significantly higher variability in multimodal association cortex. Rather than being 'noise', intersubject variability is invaluable for understanding principles of brain evolution and ontogenetic development, and for interpreting statistical maps in task-based functional neuroimaging studies.

It is widely accepted that Hebbian forms of plasticity mediate selective modifications in synaptic strength underlying information encoding in response to experience and circuit formation or refinement throughout development. Several complementary forms of homeostatic plasticity coordinate to keep Hebbian plasticity in check, frequently through the actions of conserved regulatory molecules. Recent evidence suggests that this may be the case for adenosine, which is ubiquitous in the brain and is released by both neurons and glial cells via constitutive and activity-dependent mechanisms. Through A1 and A2A receptor activation, adenosine modulates neuronal homeostasis and tunes the ability of synapses to undergo and/or sustain plasticity. Here, we review how adenosine equilibrates neuronal activity and sets the stage for synaptic plasticity.

The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans displays a surprisingly sophisticated behavioral repertoire that includes the utilization of both associative and non-associative forms of learning. Elucidating the molecular basis of learning remains a fundamental, yet daunting, challenge of modern neuroscience. In Pereira and van der Kooy (ref. 2), we described the use of a two input-two output stimuli system to dissociate between associative and non-associative learning and between memory acquisition and retrieval processes. Briefly, one finding indicated that after training with the odorant isoamyl alcohol (IsoA), we could preferentially retrieve either associative or non-associative memory with a choice of either a benzaldehyde (Bnz) or IsoA retrieval stimulus, respectively. Here, we describe how that apparently enigmatic molecular cross wiring of the two forms of memory examined could represent an evolutionary relic of the ancient divergence between non-associative and associative learning. In addition, we extrapolate on the utility and subtleties of using such a system to dissociate and decipher the components of memory in C. elegans.
Recently, it is unclear about the mechanism of notable regenerated ability of adult zebrafish after spinal cord injury. To investigate the effects of brain on restoration from spinal cord injury, adult zebrafish spinal cord injury model was built and brain samples were dissected at different time points after the injury. Real-time quantitative PCR and in situ hybridization were applied to reveal the dynamics of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (gdnf) and nitric oxide synthases (nos) mRNA expression in various regions of zebrafish brain. The results showed that, compared to sham group at each time points separately, the expression of gdnf mRNA in adult zebrafish brain during both acute phase (4 h and 12 h) and chronic phase of neuroregeneration (6 d and 11 d) increased significantly (P&lt;0.05). The expression of nos mRNA in zebrafish brain enhanced during acute phase, and then reduced to the level lower than the sham group during the chronic phase of neuroregeneration (11 d) (P&lt;0.05). This suggests that brain may promote neural axons regeneration in spinal cord via a more beneficial microenvironment which retains higher level of gdnf and lower level of nos.
We describe the morphology and innervation of the midgut and hindgut of the giant land snail Megalobulimus abbreviatus for the first time. The midgut (stomach and intestine) and hindgut (rectum and anus) are innervated by the subesophageal ganglia, through the gastrointestinal branch (originated from the visceral nerve) and the rectum-anal nerve, respectively. Backfilling through these nerves revealed neuronal bodies, mainly in the right parietal and visceral ganglia. The enteric plexuses of the midgut and hindgut are formed by extensive axonal networks and several neuronal somata arranged in clusters or as isolated cells. The gastrointestinal branch and the rectum-anal nerve directly innervate the enteric plexuses of the intestine and the hindgut, respectively. However, the outer wall of the stomach has a stomatogastric nervous system, which consists of four ganglia: stomatogastric, gastric, cardic, and pyloric. Fibers of the gastrointestinal branch project to these ganglia. Anterograde tracing from stomatogastric system ganglia revealed that the enteric plexus of the stomach is innervated only by these peripheral ganglia. Anterograde tracing of the gastrointestinal branch did not result in labeling in the enteric plexus of the stomach. Therefore, the midgut and hindgut of M. abbreviatus is controlled by an intrinsic innervation, constituted by the submucous and myenteric plexuses, which are innervated directly by neurons from the subesophageal ganglia or indirectly via the stomatogastric nervous system (for the stomach).
Anatomical studies have shown that primary somatosensory (S1) and primary motor (M1) cortices are reciprocally connected. The M1 to S1 projection is thought to represent a modulatory signal that conveys motor-related information to S1. Here, we investigated M1 synaptic inputs to S1 by injecting an AAV virus containing channelrhodopsin-2 and a fluorescent tag into M1. Consistent with previous results, we found labeling of M1 axons within S1 that was most robust in the deep layers and in L1. Labeling was sparse in L4 and was concentrated in the interbarrel septa, largely avoiding barrel centers. In S1, we recorded in vitro from regular-spiking excitatory neurons and fast-spiking and somatostatin-expressing inhibitory interneurons. All 3 cell types had a high probability of receiving direct excitatory M1 input. Both excitatory and inhibitory cells within L4 were the least likely to receive such input from M1. Disynaptic inhibition was observed frequently, indicating that M1 recruits substantial inhibition within S1. Additionally, a subpopulation of L6 regular-spiking excitatory neurons received exceptionally strong M1 input. Overall, our results suggest that activation of M1 evokes within S1 a bombardment of excitatory and inhibitory synaptic activity that could contribute in a layer-specific manner to state-dependent changes in S1.

Optogenetics has rapidly become a standard method in neuroscience research. Although significant progress has been made in the development of molecular tools, refined techniques for combined light delivery and recording in vivo are still lacking. For example, simultaneous intracellular recording and light stimulation have only been possible by using two separate positioning systems. To overcome this limitation, we have developed a glass pipette holder which contains an additional port for the insertion of an optical fiber into the pipette. This device, which we called &quot;optopatcher&quot; allows whole cell patch-clamp recording simultaneously with direct projection of light from the recording pipette. The holder spares the use of an additional manipulator and, importantly, enables accurate, stable and reproducible illumination. In addition, replacement of standard pipettes is done as easily as with the available commercial holders. Here we used the optopatcher in vivo to record the membrane potential of neurons from different cortical layers in the motor cortex of transgenic mice expressing channelrhodopsin-2 under the Thy1 promoter. We demonstrate the utility of the optopatcher by recording LFP and intracellular responses to light stimulation.
Many locomotor measures commonly used to assess functional deficits following neurological injury are velocity dependent. This makes the comparison of faster pre-injury walking to slower post-injury walking a challenging process. In lieu of calculating mean values at specific velocities, we have employed the use of nonlinear regression techniques to quantify locomotor measures across all velocities. This enables us to assess more accurately the locomotor recovery of rats after a cervical spinal cord injury. For example, while the mean stride length of the hindlimbs decreased following injury, regression analysis revealed that the change was due to the reduction in walking speed and not a functional deficit. A significant difference in the percent of the right forelimb step cycle that was spent in stance phase, or duty factor, was found across all velocities, however this deficit spontaneously recovered after 6 weeks. Conversely, no differences were initially found in hindlimb stride length, but abnormal compensatory techniques were found to have developed 3 weeks after injury.

Anomalous activations of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and posterior cerebral areas have been reported in previous studies of working memory in schizophrenia. Several interpretations have been reported: e.g., neural inefficiency, the use of different strategies and differences in the functional organization of the cerebral cortex. To better understand these abnormal activations, we investigated the cerebral bases of a working memory component process, namely refreshing (i.e., thinking briefly of a just-activated representation). Fifteen patients with schizophrenia and 15 control subjects participated in this functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study. Participants were told that whenever they saw a word on the screen, they had to read it silently to themselves (read and repeat conditions), and when they saw a dot, they had to think of the just-previous word (refresh condition). The refresh condition (in comparison with the read condition) was associated with significantly increased activation in the left inferior frontal gyrus and significantly decreased connectivity within the prefrontal cortex and between the prefrontal and parietal cortices in patients with schizophrenia in comparison with control subjects. These results suggest that prefrontal dysfunctions in schizophrenia might be related to a defective ability to initiate (rather than to execute) specific cognitive processes.
The aim of the study was to investigate whether polymorphisms in the preproghrelin gene are associated with anxiety disorders, such as panic disorder, in humans. Panic disorder is a severe anxiety disorder, characterized by sudden attacks of intense fear or anxiety in combination with somatic symptoms. The preproghrelin gene codes for two gut-derived circulating peptides that have been linked to anxiety-like behaviour in rodents: ghrelin (an orexigenic, pro-obesity hormone) and obestatin. In the present study, we genotyped three missense mutations in the preproghrelin gene in 215 patients suffering from panic disorder and in 451 controls. The A allele of the rs4684677 polymorphism was significantly associated with panic disorder, while there were no significant associations with the two other polymorphisms studied. We conclude that the rs4684677 (Gln90Leu) polymorphism in the preproghrelin gene may be associated with increased risk of panic disorder. It will be important to confirm these findings in additional panic disorder patient groups.
The relationship of neurocognitive course with clinical and functional outcomes in psychosis is not well known, especially in the long term. The aim of the study was to examine the clinical and neuropsychological course of first-episode psychosis patients at 5-year follow-up and analyze the relationship of cognitive performance with clinical and functional outcome. The 5-year follow-up was conducted with 26 first-episode psychosis patients. Psychotic symptoms were measured by the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale, manic and depressive symptoms by the Young Mania Rating Scale and Hamilton Depression Rating Scale respectively, and psychosocial functioning by the Functioning Assessment Short Test. The cognitive domains were assessed by the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale, the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, the Trail Making Test, the Verbal Fluency Test, the Stroop Colour-Word Test and the Wechsler Memory Scale. Patients showed symptomatic improvement in the follow-up except in negative psychotic symptoms. There was also improvement in most cognitive domains except in working memory and processing speed in the follow-up. Working memory impairment was associated to negative psychotic symptoms and poor functional outcomes. Negative symptoms mediated the relationship between working memory and outcome. Therefore, negative symptoms should be a primary target of treatment to improve functional outcomes.
Emerging evidence suggests a decline of ER expression in various peripheral cancers. ER has been proposed as a cancer brake that inhibits tumor proliferation. In the current study, we have identified ER5 as the predominant isoform of ER in human glioma and its expression was significantly increased in human glioma as compared with non-neoplastic brain tissue. Hypoxia and activation of hypoxia inducible factor (HIF) increased ER transcription in U87 cells, suggesting elevated ER expression in glioma might be induced by the hypoxic stress in the tumor. Over-expression of either ER1 or ER5 increased PTEN expression and inhibited activation of the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway. In addition, ER5 inhibited the MAPK/ERK pathway. In U87 cells, ER1 and ER5 inhibit cell proliferation and reduced cells in the S+G2/M phase. Our findings suggest hypoxia induced ER5 expression in glioma as a self-protective mechanism against tumor proliferation and that ER5 might serve as a therapeutic target for the treatment of glioma.
Hyaluronan is a large glycosaminoglycan, which is abundant in the extracellular matrix of the developing rodent brain. In the adult brain however, levels of hyaluronan are significantly reduced. In this study, we used neurocan-GFP as a histochemical probe to analyze the distribution of hyaluronan in the adult mouse subventricular zone (SVZ), as well as in the rostral migratory stream (RMS). Interestingly, we observed that hyaluronan is generally downregulated in the adult brain, but notably remains at high levels in the SVZ and RMS; areas in which neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) persist, proliferate and migrate throughout life. In addition, we found that the receptor for hyaluronan-mediated motility (Rhamm) was expressed in migrating neuroblasts in these areas, indicating that Rhamm could be involved in regulating hyaluronan-mediated cell migration. Hyaluronan levels are balanced by synthesis through hyaluronan synthases (Has) and degradation by hyaluronidases (Hyal). We found that Has1 and Has2, as well as Hyal1 and Hyal2 were expressed in GFAP positive cells in the adult rodent SVZ and RMS, indicating that astrocytes could be regulating hyaluronan-mediated functions in these areas. We also demonstrate that hyaluronan levels are substantially increased at six weeks following a photothrombotic stroke lesion to the adult mouse cortex. Furthermore, GFAP positive cells in the peri-infarct area express Rhamm. Thus, hyaluronan may be involved in regulating cell migration in the normal SVZ and RMS and could also be responsible for priming the peri-infarct area following an ischemic lesion for cell migration.
Neurite outgrowth, a cell differentiation process involving membrane morphological changes, is critical for neuronal network and development. The membrane lipid, phosphatidylinositol (PI) 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2), is a key regulator of many important cell surface events of membrane signaling, trafficking and dynamics. This lipid is produced mainly by the type I PI 4-phosphate 5-kinase (PIP5K) family members. In this study, we addressed whether PIP5K, an isoform of PIP5K, could have a role in neurite outgrowth induced by nerve growth factor (NGF). For this purpose, we knocked down PIP5K in PC12 rat pheochromocytoma cells by stable expression of PIP5K microRNA that significantly reduced PIP5K expression and PIP2 level. Interestingly, NGF-induced neurite outgrowth was more prominent in PIP5K-knockdown (KD) cells than in control cells. Conversely, add-back of PIP5K into PIP5K KD cells abrogated the effect of NGF on neurite outgrowth. NGF treatment activated PI 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt pathway, which seemed to be associated with reactive oxygen species generation. Similar to the changes in neurite outgrowth, the PI3K/Akt activation by NGF was potentiated by PIP5K KD, but was attenuated by the reintroduction of PIP5K. Moreover, exogenously applied PIP2 to PIP5K KD cells also suppressed Akt activation by NGF. Together, our results suggest that PIP5K acts as a negative regulator of NGF-induced neurite outgrowth by inhibiting PI3K/Akt signaling pathway in PC12 cells.
Eukaryotic elongation factor 2 (eEF-2) is an important regulator of the protein translation machinery whereby it controls the movement of the ribosome along the mRNA. The activity of eEF-2 is regulated by changes in cellular energy status and nutrient availability and by posttranslational modifications such as phosphorylation and mono-ADP-ribosylation. However, the mechanisms regulating protein translation under conditions of cellular stress in neurons are unknown. Here we show that when rat hippocampal neurons experience oxidative stress (lipid peroxidation induced by exposure to cumene hydroperoxide; CH), eEF-2 is hyperphosphorylated and ribosylated, resulting in reduced translational activity. The degradation of eEF-2 requires calpain proteolytic activity and is accompanied by accumulation of eEF-2 in the nuclear compartment. The subcellular localization of both native and phosphorylated forms of eEF-2 is influenced by CRM1 and 14.3.3, respectively. In hippocampal neurons p53 interacts with nonphosphorylated (active) eEF-2, but not with its phosphorylated form. The p53-eEF-2 complexes are present in cytoplasm and nucleus, and their abundance increases when neurons experience oxidative stress. The nuclear localization of active eEF-2 depends upon its interaction with p53, as cells lacking p53 contain less active eEF-2 in the nuclear compartment. Overexpression of eEF-2 in hippocampal neurons results in increased nuclear levels of eEF-2 and decreased cell death after exposure to CH. Our results reveal novel molecular mechanisms controlling the differential subcellular localization and activity state of eEF-2 that may influence the survival status of neurons during periods of elevated oxidative stress.
Lafora disease (LD) is a teenage-onset inherited progressive myoclonus epilepsy characterized by the accumulations of intracellular inclusions called Lafora bodies and caused by mutations in protein phosphatase laforin or ubiquitin ligase malin. But how the loss of function of either laforin or malin causes disease pathogenesis is poorly understood. Recently, neuronatin was identified as a novel substrate of malin that regulates glycogen synthesis. Here we demonstrate that the level of neuronatin is significantly up-regulated in the skin biopsy sample of LD patients having mutations in both malin and laforin. Neuronatin is highly expressed in human fetal brain with gradual decrease in expression in developing and adult brain. However, in adult brain, neuronatin is predominantly expressed in parvalbumin-positive GABAergic interneurons and localized in their processes. The level of neuronatin is increased and accumulated as insoluble aggregates in the cortical area of LD brain biopsy samples, and there is also a dramatic loss of parvalbumin-positive GABAergic interneurons. Ectopic expression of neuronatin in cultured neuronal cells results in increased intracellular Ca(2+), endoplasmic reticulum stress, proteasomal dysfunction, and cell death that can be partially rescued by malin. These findings suggest that the neuronatin-induced aberrant Ca(2+) signaling and endoplasmic reticulum stress might underlie LD pathogenesis.
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), like most cancers, possesses a unique bioenergetic state of aerobic glycolysis known as the Warburg effect. Here, we documented that methylene blue (MB) reverses the Warburg effect evidenced by the increasing of oxygen consumption and reduction of lactate production in GBM cell lines. MB decreases GBM cell proliferation and halts the cell cycle in S phase. Through activation of AMP-activated protein kinase, MB inactivates downstream acetyl-CoA carboxylase and decreases cyclin expression. Structure-activity relationship analysis demonstrated that toluidine blue O, an MB derivative with similar bioenergetic actions, exerts similar action in GBM cell proliferation. In contrast, two other MB derivatives, 2-chlorophenothiazine and promethazine, exert no effect on cellular bioenergetics and do not inhibit GBM cell proliferation. MB inhibits cell proliferation in both temozolomide-sensitive and -insensitive GBM cell lines. In a human GBM xenograft model, a single daily dosage of MB does not activate AMP-activated protein kinase signaling, and no tumor regression was observed. In summary, the current study provides the first in vitro proof of concept that reversal of Warburg effect might be a novel therapy for GBM.


