
In this article, the author attempts to demonstrate a relationship between neurobiological dysfunctions and/or genetically determined deviant behavior and personality traits as well as moral abnormalities. Data from neuroscience show that a number of neurological dysfunctions are linked to cognitive and emotional disturbances. Cognitive and emotional abnormalities, in turn, are frequently related to moral dysfunctions. Moreover, neurological disorders can produce dramatic psychological and social problems, personality changes, and behavioral problems in patients. Those mental, emotional, and psychosocial problems and related moral dysfunctions are frequently linked to violence and/or criminal behavior. Genetic research found evidence of inheritability of antisocial traits, which interfere with moral development and activities. This information has consequences for any assessment and disposition within the legal system. More research on the interrelationship between neuro(bio)logical, genetic, emotional, and mental aspects of moral dysfunctions is needed for the development of adequate treatment, prevention, and intervention programs.

We investigated the effect of several doses of scopolamine in older rabbits that were trained for 20 days in the 750 ms delay eyeblink classical conditioning procedure. Our aim was to determine if the scopolamine-injected older rabbit would be a useful model for testing drugs for cognition enhancement in Alzheimer's disease (AD). A total of 39 rabbits with a mean age of 31 months received classical eyeblink conditioning with daily injections of 0.25, 0.75, or 1.5 mg/kg scopolamine hydrobromide or sterile saline vehicle. Doses of 0.75 and 1.5 mg/kg scopolamine significantly impaired acquisition, whereas acquisition was not significantly impaired with 0.25 mg/kg scopolamine. Results exhibit parallels in performance on delay eyeblink classical conditioning between scopolamine-treated older rabbits and human patients diagnosed with AD.
The N-methyl- D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, able to detect the coincidence of pre- and postsynaptic events, is considered to be the molecular analogue of associative learning. Associative learning is well known in leeches, particularly for reflexive shortening. The neuronal circuits underlying shortening have been documented and include neurons that release glutamate. Is this type of learning in leeches also mediated by NMDA receptors? The synapse between the P sensory neuron and the motoneuron-like AP cell was examined and: (1) NMDA failed to elicit a response in the AP cell, (2) the NMDA receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphopentanoic acid affected synaptic transmission only at high, non-specific levels, and (3) the antagonist for the glycine-binding site 7-chloro-kynurenic acid at 20 microM did not inhibit transmission. Therefore, there are evidently no NMDA receptors at the P to AP synapse, suggesting other mechanisms of associative learning in leeches.


The scalp-recorded amplitude-modulation following response (AMFR) is gaining recognition as an objective audiometric tool, but little is known about the neural sources that underlie this potential. We hypothesized, based on our human studies and single-unit recordings in animals, that the scalp-recorded AMFR reflects the interaction of multiple sources. We tested this hypothesis using an animal model, the unanesthetized rabbit. We compared AMFRs recorded from the surface of the brain at different locations and before and after the administration of agents likely to enhance or suppress neural generators. We also recorded AMFRs locally at several stations along the auditory neuraxis. We conclude that the surface-recorded AMFR is indeed a composite response from multiple brain generators. Although the response at any modulation frequency can reflect the activity of more than one generator, the AMFRs to low and high modulation frequencies appear to reflect a strong contribution from cortical and subcortical sources, respectively.

The authors have previously shown that bilirubin-oxidation products (BOXes) are present in CSF of subarachnoid hemorrhage patients with vasospasm, and that BOXes cause vasoconstriction in vitro. This study determined whether BOXes cause vasospasm in vivo. Identical volumes of either lysed blood or standardized amounts of BOXes were injected into the cisterna magna of adult rats. BOX injections caused 6 of 10 rats to die within 10 minutes, whereas 12 of 12 rats survived for 24 hours after blood injections. The mechanism for this significant (P &lt; or = 0.01) increase in mortality was unclear. To directly test whether BOXes produced vasospasm, a cranial window technique was used. Application of 20 microL of 10-micromol/L bilirubin had little effect on the vessels. However, application of BOXes produced marked, dose-dependent small artery and arteriole vasospasm that approached a 90% decrease in diameter by 40 minutes after application in some vessels, and persisted for at least 24 hours. To determine if BOX-mediated vasospasm led to cortical injury, histology and immunocytochemistry were performed on animals that survived for 24 hours. There was a BOX-related stress protein response for HSP25 and HSP32 (HO-1) without evidence of infarction. The finding that the BOXes produce vasospasm of cerebral vessels in vivo, in conjunction with BOXes being found in CSF of vasospasm patients, supports our hypothesis that BOXes contribute to or cause cerebral vasospasm after subarachnoid hemorrhage.
Neurons express a variety of plasma-membrane potassium channels that play important roles in regulating neuronal excitability and synaptic transmission, but also contain mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium channels, the functions of which are unknown. Studies of cardiac cells suggest that similar mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium channels are involved in the process of ischemic preconditioning, suggesting a role in regulating cell survival. The authors report that mice given diazoxide, an activator of mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium channels, exhibited a large (60% to 70%) decrease in cortical infarct size after permanent occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. Diazoxide decreases neuronal apoptosis and increases astrocyte survival and activation in the penumbral region of the ischemic cortex. The neuroprotective effect of diazoxide is abolished by 5-hydroxydecanoate, a selective antagonist of mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium channels. Studies of cultured hippocampal neurons reveal that diazoxide depolarizes mitochondria, prevents cytochrome c release, and protects cells against death induced by staurosporine and chemical hypoxia. Diazoxide increased the levels of Bcl2 and inhibited the association of Bax with mitochondria in neurons exposed to an apoptotic insult, suggesting that activation of mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium channels may stabilize mitochondrial function by differentially modulating proapoptotic and antiapoptotic proteins. Collectively, the data suggest that mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium channels play a key role in modulating neuronal survival under ischemic conditions, and identify agents that activate mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium channels as potential therapeutics for stroke and related neurodegenerative conditions.
The present study examined the ability of 12 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 12 age- and education-matched normal control (NC) subjects to learn and retain the visuomotor skills necessary to efficiently trace a pattern (e.g., a 4- or 6-pointed star) seen only in mirror-reversed view. Those AD (N=6) and NC (N=7) subjects who were able to initially perform the basic mirror tracing task did not differ significantly in initial level of performance, learning over trials, retention of the skill over a 30-min delay interval, and generalization of the skill to a new figure or to the opposite direction of tracing. The AD patients who were unable to initially perform the mirror tracing task were significantly worse than those who could perform the task on several neuropsychological measures sensitive to deficits in problem solving and executive functions, but not on tests of global cognitive decline, memory, language, or visuoperceptual functioning. These results indicate that acquisition and retention of a complex visuomotor skill can proceed normally in the early stages of AD in those individuals who can initially perform the basic task, and that inability to perform the basic task may be related to the frontal lobe dysfunction that is often prominent in the disorder.
The purpose of this study was to quantify the distortion of electrical fields by skull foramina using an in vitro model. Extracranial voltage generated by current dipoles located inside a human calva immersed in saline were measured when a 4-mm hole was open and when it was blocked with paraffin wax. Dipoles were located either along the internal surface of the bone (superficial dipoles) or at increasing distances from the bone (deep dipoles). With the hole open, extracranial signals had a substantially greater amplitude than with the hole blocked. The locations of the largest voltage values recorded outside the skull depended on the distance of the recording electrode from the hole rather than on the location of the internal dipole. For superficial dipoles, voltage values with the hole open were as much as 116 times greater than when the hole was blocked. Furthermore, when the hole was open, the largest extracranial signals were seen at the hole even when the dipole was 5 to 6 cm away from the hole. The effects of skull holes were less prominent for deep dipoles than for superficial dipoles. Skull discontinuities can be major determinants for the distribution of extracranial EEG signals. These results have implications for EEG interpretation and for source localization.
Depression is an illness that causes symptoms in both the body and the brain, i.e., painful physical as well as emotional and vegetative symptoms. Ascending serotonergic and noradrenergic pathways may mediate the emotional and vegetative symptoms of depression and can potentially be targets of serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors to obtain relief of these symptoms. Descending serotonergic and noradrenergic pathways may regulate the painful physical symptoms of depression, and when targeted by serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, relieve these symptoms as well. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors have a remission rate of 35%, and dual-action reuptake inhibitors have a 45% remission rate. Despite these results, the best treatment of depression currently recognizes the 3 types of symptoms and targets them all for complete remission no matter which drug is used.
Constraints on interlimb coordination have been studied intensively in past years with a primary focus on temporal features. The present study addressed spatial constraints or the degree of directional interference as a function of different line combinations between the upper limbs as well as the modulation of this interference as a result of different board orientations within the performer's workspace. This paradigm was used to address a prominent theme in motor neuroscience, namely whether (bimanual) movements are encoded within an allocentric reference frame (pattern of interference invariant with respect to extrinsic space) or within an egocentric reference frame (pattern of interference invariant relative to the center of the performer's action space, i.e., intrinsic). The observed patterns of interference revealed that movements are primarily encoded within a radial egocentric reference frame in which the performer is the center of action space. The present psychophysical findings converge with primate single-cell recording studies in which the direction has been identified as a primary movement parameter that is encoded in various brain regions, thereby constituting a principal determinant of bilateral interference.
The study investigated the neuronal basis of the retrieval of words from the mental lexicon. The semantic category interference effect was used to locate lexical retrieval processes in time and space. This effect reflects the finding that, for overt naming, volunteers are slower when naming pictures out of a sequence of items from the same semantic category than from different categories. Participants named pictures blockwise either in the context of same- or mixed-category items while the brain response was registered using magnetoencephalography (MEG). Fifteen out of 20 participants showed longer response latencies in the same-category compared to the mixed-category condition. Event-related MEG signals for the participants demonstrating the interference effect were submitted to a current source density (CSD) analysis. As a new approach, a principal component analysis was applied to decompose the grand average CSD distribution into spatial subcomponents (factors). The spatial factor indicating left temporal activity revealed significantly different activation for the same-category compared to the mixed-category condition in the time window between 150 and 225 msec post picture onset. These findings indicate a major involvement of the left temporal cortex in the semantic interference effect. As this effect has been shown to take place at the level of lexical selection, the data suggest that the left temporal cortex supports processes of lexical retrieval during production.
Event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging was used to identify brain areas involved in spatial attention and determine whether these operate unimodally or supramodally for vision and touch. On a trial-by-trial basis, a symbolic auditory cue indicated the most likely side for the subsequent target, thus directing covert attention to one side. A subsequent target appeared in vision or touch on the cued or uncued side. Invalidly cued trials (as compared with valid trials) activated the temporo-parietal junction and regions of inferior frontal cortex, regardless of target modality. These brain areas have been associated with multimodal spatial coding in physiological studies of the monkey brain and were linked to a change in the location that must be attended to in the present study. The intraparietal sulcus and superior frontal cortex were also activated in our task, again, regardless of target modality, but did not show any specificity for invalidly cued trials. These results identify a supramodal network for spatial attention and reveal differential activity for inferior circuits involving the temporo-parietal junction and inferior frontal cortex (specific to invalid trials) versus more superior intraparietal-frontal circuits (common to valid and invalid trials).
This study asks whether photomechanical movements in the retinal cells of the lateral eye of the American horseshoe crab, Limulus polyphemus, are controlled locally within each ommatidium, or whether they are a retinal array property involving lateral communication between ommatidia. Three experiments were performed. A small spot, a vertical slit down the center, or the anterior third of an otherwise masked eye was illuminated. The contralateral eye was fully illuminated in each experiment and served as a light-adapted control. Morphometric analyses of aperture length and rhabdom dimensions were made from serial 1-microm plastic sections. The results suggest there is a different spatial threshold for photomechanical movement for aperture lengthening than for rhabdom lengthening. When only a few ommatidia are illuminated, the aperture does not change. When about 10% are illuminated, they lengthen, but the masked ommatidia do not. When about a third are illuminated, all the ommatidia in the eye lengthen together, including the two thirds that were masked. When either only a few ommatidia or about 10% of the ommatidia are illuminated, rhabdom shape is unchanged. When a third of the eye is illuminated, the illuminated rhabdoms lengthen, but the masked rhabdoms do not.
This study evaluated the influence of neighborhoods and socioeconomic disadvantage on behavioral problems rated by parents and teachers in a nationally representative sample of children ages 4 to 11 years living in Canada. Between-neighborhood variation accounted for 7.6% and 6.6% of parent and teacher ratings, respectively. About 25.0% of this neighborhood variation could be explained by socioeconomic variables evenly divided between neighborhood and family-level measures. Family socioeconomic status, lone-parent family status, and percentage of lone parents in neighborhoods were strong, reliable predictors of behavioral problems. Ratings were contextualized: Fewer behavioral problems were assessed in children from well-off families living in disadvantaged neighborhoods, whereas more problems were assessed in children from poor families living in advantaged neighborhoods.
The hexameric ATPase, N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor (NSF) is implicated in the release of neurotransmitters and in mediating fusion between intracellular membranes. Due to the conservation of proteins in constitutive and regulated membrane fusion reactions, NSF and its downstream targets have been predicted also to participate in fusion reactions underlying endocrine function, but there is little experimental evidence to support such a role for NSF in insect neuroendocrine secretion. Here we have characterized the NSF orthologue (MsNSF) from the endocrine model for development Manduca sexta. MsNSF is developmentally regulated in endocrine organs of the protocerebral complex. Enrichment of MsNSF in corpora cardiaca (CC) and not in corpora allata (CA) indicates that it might play a preferential role in releasing hormones produced in CC. Endocrine/paracrine cells of the enteric system in M. sexta exhibit selective MsNSF enrichment. Together the data point to a more selective participation of MsNSF in development of M. sexta by its involvement in a subset of factors, whereas other as-yet-unidentified homolog(s) might regulate secretion from CA and a large set of endocrine/paracrine cells. We further characterized the in vivo role of MsNSF by heterologous expression. In contrast to vertebrate NSF, MsNSF is functional in yeast membrane fusion in vivo. MsNSF rectifies defects in SEC18 (yeast NSF homologue) at nearly all discernible steps where Sec18p has been implicated in the biosynthetic route. This underscores the utility of our approach to delineate functional roles for proteins from systems that are not currently amenable to in vitro reconstitution.
Microglial cells represent the major immunocompetent element of the CNS and are activated by any type of brain injury or disease. A candidate for signaling neuronal injury to microglial cells is the CC chemokine ligand CCL21, given that damaged neurons express CCL21. Investigating microglia in acute slices and in culture, we demonstrate that a local application of CCL21 for 30 s triggered a Cl(-) conductance with lasted for tens of minutes. This response was sensitive to the Cl(-) channel blockers 4,4'-diisothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid and 4-acetamide-4'-isothiocyanatostilbene, 2,2'-disulfonic acid. Moreover, CCL21 triggered a chemotaxis response, which was sensitive to Cl(-) channel blockers. In microglial cells cultured from CCR7 knockout mice, CCL21 produced the same type of Cl(-) current as well as a chemotaxis response. In contrast, in microglial cells from CXCR3 knockout mice, CCL21 triggered neither a Cl(-) conductance nor a chemotaxis response after CCL21 application. We conclude that the CCL21-induced Cl(-) current is a prerequisite for the chemotaxis response mediated by the activation of CXCR3 but not CCR7 receptors, indicating that in brain CCL21 acts via a different receptor system than in lymphoid organs.
In this study, we have examined the effects of n-3 fatty acid deficient diets on the phospholipids (PL) molecular species composition in the hippocampus. Female rats were raised for two generations on diets containing linoleic acid (18:2n-6), with or without supplementation of alpha-linolenic acid (18:3n-3) or 18:3n-3 plus docosahexaenoic acid (22:6n-3). At 84 days of age, the hippocampal phospholipids were analyzed by reversed phase HPLC-electrospray ionization mass spectrometry. Depleting n-3 fatty acids from the diet led to a reduction of 22:6n-3 molecular species in phosphatidylcholine (PC), phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), PE-plasmalogens (PLE), and phosphatidylserine (PS) by 70-80%. In general, 22:6n-3 was replaced with 22:5n-6 but the replacement at the molecular species level did not always occur in a reciprocal manner, especially in PC and PLE. In PC, the 16:0,22:6n-3 species was replaced by 16:0,22:5n-6 and 18:0,22:5n-6. In PLE, substantial increases of both 22:5n-6 and 22:4n-6 species compensated for the decreases in 22:6n-3 species in n-3 fatty acid deficient groups. While the total PL content was not affected by n-3 deficiency, the relative distribution of PS decreased by 28% with a concomitant increase in PC. The observed decrease of 22:6n-3 species along with PS reduction may represent key biochemical changes underlying losses in brain-hippocampal function associated with n-3 deficiency.
There are contradictory reports regarding the effects of inhalation anesthetics on the immune system. Measurable immune responses have been studied in vitro, but little is known about the in vivo effects in the intact organism. We used an attenuated, non-neuroinvasive, nonlethal strain of the encephalitic West Nile virus, termed WN-25, which can become lethal in combination with environmental stressors, to study possible modulatory immune effects of inhalation anesthetics in mice. Both single short-term exposure and repeated exposure to halothane and nitrous oxide were studied. Exposure to 30% CO2 served as a positive control. Mortality, brain invasion, spleen weight, and antiviral antibodies served as the experimental endpoints. Halothane and nitrous oxide led to viral brain invasion, increased mortality, and suppressed immune response in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. Repeated exposures had a cumulative effect. Assessment of the stability of the viral attenuation did not demonstrate any alteration in the character of the virus, suggesting an increased access to the brain by inhalation anesthetics that led to the fatal encephalitis. These findings may be of special concern to populations at risk, such as operating room staff and patients undergoing general anesthesia in endemic areas of encephalitic virus species, in which subclinical infection may develop into an overt disease.
Lineal structures in biological tissue support a wide variety of physiological functions, including membrane stabilization, vascular perfusion, and cell-to-cell communication. In 1953, Smith and Guttman demonstrated a stereological method to estimate the total length density (Lv) of linear objects based on random intersections with a two-dimensional sampling probe. Several methods have been developed to ensure the required isotropy of object-probe intersections, including isotropic-uniform-random (IUR) sections, vertical-uniform-random (VUR) slices, and isotropic virtual planes. The disadvantages of these methods are the requirements for inconvenient section orientations (IUR, VUR) or complex counting rules at multiple focal planes (isotropic virtual planes). To overcome these limitations we report a convenient and straightforward approach to estimate Lv and total length, L, for linear objects on tissue sections cut at any arbitrary orientation. The approach presented here uses spherical probes that are inherently isotropic, combined with unbiased fractionator sampling, to demonstrate total L estimation for thin nerve fibres in dorsal hippocampus of the mouse brain.
The extracellular molecule semaphorin 3A (Sema3A) is proposed to be a negative guidance cue that participates in patterning DRG sensory axons in the developing chick spinal cord. During development Sema3A is first expressed throughout the spinal cord gray matter, but Sema3A expression later disappears from the dorsal horn, where small-caliber cutaneous afferents terminate. Sema3A expression remains in the ventral horn, where large-muscle proprioceptive afferents terminate. It has been proposed that temporal changes in the sensitivity of different classes of sensory afferents to Sema3A contribute to the different pathfinding of these sensory afferents. This study compared the expression of the semaphorin 3A receptor subunit, neuropilin-1, and the collapse response of growth cones to semaphorin 3A for NGF (cutaneous)- and NT3 (proprioceptive)-dependent sensory axons extended from E6-E10 chick embryos. Growth cones extended from E6 DRGs in NT3-containing medium expressed neuropilin-1 and collapsed in response to Sema3A. From E7 until E10 NT3-responsive growth cones expressed progressively lower levels of neuropilin-1, and were less sensitive to Sema3A. On the other hand, growth cones extended from DRGs in NGF-containing medium expressed progressively higher levels of neuropilin-1 and higher levels of collapse response to Sema3A over the period from E6-E10. Thus, developmental patterning of sensory terminals in the chick spinal cord may arise from changes in both Sema3A expression in the developing spinal cord and accompanying changes in neuronal expression of the Sema3A receptor subunit, neuropilin-1.
The central component of the medial preoptic nucleus (MPNc) of the rat has served as an excellent model of sexual differentiation. The MPNc is larger in adult males than in females, and its development is regulated by perinatal gonadal hormones. Although testosterone (T) and its metabolite estradiol (E) sexually differentiate this region, the exact mechanism by which they act during development is not known. There is a dramatic sex difference in the expression of progesterone receptors (PR) in the MPN during development; perinatal males express higher levels of PR than females. Additionally, PR expression during this time is dependent on exposure to T. Thus, PR induction may be one mechanism by which T sexually differentiates the MPN. The present study investigated the potential role of PR in the sexual differentiation of the MPNc. Anatomical examination of PR distribution within the MPN of neonatal males revealed the presence of PR immunoreactive cells within the MPNc, suggesting a direct route of action for PR in the development of the MPNc. Additionally, we measured the effects of neonatal RU486 treatment, a progesterone and glucocorticoid receptor antagonist, on subsequent MPNc volume in neonatally T-treated females and neonatally castrated males, given T. RU486 treatment reduced the MPNc volume of T-treated females while it increased the volume in T-treated, neonatally castrated males. These results, taken together with the expression of PR in the MPNc, suggest that PR may influence the sexual differentiation of the MPNc volume.
Steady-state microdialysis is a widely used technique to monitor the concentration changes and distributions of substances in tissues. To obtain more information about brain tissue properties from microdialysis, a dual-probe approach was applied to infuse and sample the radiotracer, [3H]mannitol, simultaneously both in agar gel and in the rat striatum. Because the molecules released by one probe and collected by the other must diffuse through the interstitial space, the concentration profile exhibits dynamic behavior that permits the assessment of the diffusion characteristics in the brain extracellular space and the clearance characteristics. In this paper a mathematical model for dual-probe microdialysis was developed to study brain interstitial diffusion and clearance processes. Theoretical expressions for the spatial distribution of the infused tracer in the brain extracellular space and the temporal concentration at the probe outlet were derived. A fitting program was developed using the simplex algorithm, which finds local minima of the standard deviations between experiments and theory by adjusting the relevant parameters. The theoretical curves accurately fitted the experimental data and generated realistic diffusion parameters, implying that the mathematical model is capable of predicting the interstitial diffusion behavior of [3H]mannitol and that it will be a valuable quantitative tool in dual-probe microdialysis.
Dual-probe microdialysis was used to study interstitial diffusion in the rat brain. A radiolabelled tracer, (3H]mannitol, was continuously infused at different concentrations via a probe acutely implanted into the striatum of an anaesthetized male rat or into a dilute agar gel. Samples were collected by a second probe placed 1 mm away from the first, and the recovered [3H]mannitol was measured by liquid scintillation counting. In the striatum, the delivery of [3H]mannitol was counteracted by its removal from the extracellular space by passive uptake into cells and clearance into the microcirculation, causing the diffusion profile to approach quasi steady-state levels within 2 h. Diffusion data from brain and agar were analysed using a mathematical model. The apparent (effective) diffusion coefficient for [3H]mannitol was D* = 2.9 x 10(-6) cm2/s, the effective volume fraction alpha* = 0.30 and the clearance rate constant kappa= 2.3 x 10(-5)/s. A tortuosity, lambda = 1.81, and penetration distance r = 4.2 mm, were calculated. We conclude that, using dual-probe microdialysis, parameters reflecting geometric and dynamic tissue properties may be obtained using appropriate mathematical analysis. Quantitative dual-probe microdialysis will be valuable in characterizing interstitial diffusion and the clearance processes underpinning volume transmission in the brain.
Midbrain dopamine (DA) cells of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) and the ventral tegmental area (VTA) exhibit somatodendritic release of DA. To address how somatodendritic release is regulated by synaptic glutamatergic and GABAergic input, we examined the effect of ionotropic-receptor antagonists on locally evoked extracellular DA concentration ([DA]o) in guinea pig midbrain slices. Evoked [DA]o was monitored with carbon-fiber microelectrodes and fast-scan cyclic voltammetry. In SNc, evoked [DA]o was 160% of control in the presence of the AMPA-receptor antagonist, GYKI-52466, or the NMDA-receptor antagonist, AP5. Similar increases were seen with the GABAA-receptor antagonist, picrotoxin, or the GABA(B)-receptor antagonist, saclofen. The increase seen with GYKI-52466 was prevented when both picrotoxin and saclofen were present, consistent with normal, AMPA-receptor mediated activation of GABAergic inhibition. The increase with AP5 persisted, however, implicating NMDA-receptor mediated activation of another inhibitory circuit in SNc. In the VTA, by contrast, evoked [DA]o was unaffected by GYKI-52466 and fell slightly with AP5. Neither picrotoxin nor saclofen alone or in combination had a significant effect on evoked [DA]o. When GABA receptors were blocked in the VTA, evoked [DA]o was decreased by 20% with either GYKI-52466 or AP5. These data suggest that in SNc, glutamatergic input acts predominantly on GABAergic or other inhibitory circuits to inhibit somatodendritic DA release, whereas in VTA, the timing or strength of synaptic input will govern whether the net effect on DA release is excitatory or inhibitory.
In this paper, we further develop the general theory of microdialysis by extending the linear model of Bungay et al. to provide a theoretical basis for in vitro and in vivo microdialysis. Specifically, we considered the effect of active clearance processes on in vivo microdialysis, and thereby elaborated the theory of Benveniste et al. to endogenous compounds. We examined the use of steady state tissue diffusion resistance with negligible clearance processes to interpret microdialysis data. The influence of the tissue properties on the in vitro and in vivo recoveries in dual-probe microdialysis was analyzed and we simulated the effect of the operating parameters on dual probe microdialysis performance. We estimated that the minimum clearance rate constant detectable by microdialysis in a quasi-steady state is about 5.5 x 10(-5) s(-1). This minimum rate constant establishes a criterion, below which inhibition of the active clearance processes does not show detectable influences on the microdialysis extraction efficiency.
In adrenalectomized (ADX) rats, either corticosterone replacement or increased sucrose intake will restore body weight gain, uncoupling protein-1, fat depot mass, food intake and corticotropin-releasing factor mRNA expression to normal. Here, we tested the potential interactions between sucrose intake and circulating corticosterone on behavioural, metabolic, autonomic and neuroendocrine responses to the stress of cold. Rats were left intact, sham-ADX, or ADX and replaced with pellets that provided normal, basal (30%B) or high stress (100%B) constant circulating concentrations of corticosterone +/- sucrose. More calories were consumed in cold than at room temperature (RT), provided that corticosterone concentrations were elevated above mean daily basal values in cold. Neither increased sucrose nor increased chow ingestion occurred in cold if the rats were ADX and replaced with 30%B. However, sucrose drinking in this group markedly ameliorated other responses to cold. By contrast, ADX30%B rats not drinking sucrose fared poorly, and none of the metabolic or endocrine variables were similar to those in sham-ADX controls. ADX100%B group in cold, resembled intact rats without sucrose; however, this group was metabolically abnormal at RT. We conclude that drinking sucrose lowers stress-induced corticosterone secretion while reducing many responses to cold; elevated corticosterone concentrations in the stress-response range are essential for the normal integrated cold-induced responses to occur.
Short days induce multiple changes in reproductive and immune function in Siberian hamsters. Short-day reproductive inhibition in this species is regulated by an endogenous timing mechanism; after approximately 20 weeks in short days, neuroendocrine refractoriness to short-day patterns of melatonin develops, triggering spontaneous recrudescence of the reproductive system. It is unknown whether analogous mechanisms control immune function, or if photoperiodic changes in immune function are masked by prevailing photoperiod. In Experiment 1, 3 weeks of exposure to long days was not sufficient to induce long-day-like enhancement of in vitro lymphocyte proliferation in short-day adapted male Siberian hamsters. Experiment 2 tested the hypothesis that immunological photorefractoriness is induced by prolonged exposure to short days. Adult male hamsters were gonadectomized or sham-gonadectomized and housed in long (14 h light/day) or short (10 h light/day) photoperiods for 12, 32 or 40 weeks. Somatic and reproductive regression occurred after 12 weeks in short days, and spontaneous recrudescence was complete after 32-40 weeks in short days, indicative of somatic and reproductive photorefractoriness. In gonad-intact hamsters, 12 weeks of exposure to short days decreased the number of circulating granulocytes and increased the number of B-like lymphocytes. After 32 weeks in short days, these measures were restored to long-day values, indicative of photorefractoriness; castration eliminated these effects of photoperiod. In both intact and castrated hamsters, in vitro proliferation of splenic lymphocytes was inhibited by 12 weeks of exposure to short days. After 40 weeks in short days lymphocyte proliferation was restored to long-day values in intact hamsters, but remained suppressed in castrated hamsters. These results suggest that short-day-induced inhibition of lymphocyte function does not depend on gonadal regression, but that spontaneous recrudescence of this measure is dependent on gonadal recrudescence. In Experiment 3, in vitro treatment with melatonin enhanced basal proliferation of lymphocytes from male hamsters exposed to short days for 12 weeks, but had no effect on lymphocytes of photorefractory hamsters or long-day control hamsters. Lymphocytes of castrated hamsters were unresponsive to in vitro melatonin, suggesting that photoperiodic changes in gonadal hormone secretion may be required to activate mechanisms which permit differential responsiveness to melatonin depending on phase in the annual reproductive cycle. Together, these data indicate that, similar to the reproductive system, the immune system of male Siberian hamsters exhibits refractoriness to short days.
GABA neurones in the preoptic area (POA) are critical for oestradiol (E2)-dependent surge release of luteinizing hormone (LH); however, it is not clear which population(s) of POA GABA neurones is involved. The goals of the present studies were: (i) to determine whether E2 regulates GABA neurones similarly in two subdivisions of the POA that play a role in LH surge release, the rostral POA region that contains the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis (rPOA/OVLT), and the region containing the anteroventral periventricular nucleus (AVPV) and medial preoptic nucleus (MPN) and (ii) to determine whether GABA neurones in either or both regions exhibit temporal changes consistent with a role in the regulation of LH surge release. To accomplish these goals, we measured glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) 65 and 67 mRNA levels at several time points in ovariectomized (OVX), E2-treated OVX rats exhibiting LH surge release, and in E2-treated OVX rats in which LH surge release was blocked by prior administration of progesterone (P4). Our findings demonstrate that, despite their close proximity, GABA neurones in the AVPV/MPN region are regulated differently from those in the rPOA/OVLT. Only neurones in the AVPV/MPN region show temporal changes in GAD 67 mRNA expression that appear to be linked to positive-feedback effects of E2 on luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) and LH release. Our findings also indicate that a morning rise and an afternoon fall in GAD 67 mRNA levels marks two E2-dependent signals required for LHRH and LH surge release. Finally, our results suggest that there are distinct E2-induced signals to the rPOA/OVLT and AVPV/MPN regions and that these signals differentially regulate GAD 65 and 67 gene expression.
It has now been nearly 15 years since the immediate early gene, c-fos, and its protein product, Fos, were introduced as tools for determining activity changes within neurones of the nervous system. In the ensuing years, this approach was applied to neuroendocrine study with success. With it have come advances in our understanding of which neuroendocrine neurones respond to various stimuli and how other central nervous system components interact with neuroendocrine neurones. Use of combined tract-tracing approaches, as well as double-labelling for Fos and transmitter markers, have added to characterization of neuroendocrine circuits. The delineation of the signal transduction cascades that induce Fos expression has led to establishment of the relationship between neurone firing and Fos expression. Importantly, we can now appreciate that Fos expression is often, but not always, associated with increased neuronal firing and vice versa. There are remaining gaps in our understanding of Fos in the nervous system. To date, knowledge of what Fos does after it is expressed is still limited. The transience of Fos expression after stimulation (especially if the stimulus is persistent) complicates design of experiments to assess the function of Fos and makes Fos of little value as a marker for long-term changes in neurone activity. In this regard, alternative approaches must be sought. Useful alternative approaches employed to date to monitor neuronal changes in activity include examination of (i) signal transduction intermediates (e.g. phosphorylated CREB); (ii) transcriptional/translational intermediates (e.g. heteronuclear RNA, messenger RNA (mRNA), prohormones); and (iii) receptor translocation. Another capitalizes on the fact that many neuroendocrine systems show striking stimulus-transcription coupling in the regulation of their transmitter or its synthetic enzymes. Together, as we move into the 21st Century, the use of multiple approach to study activity within neuroendocrine systems will further our understanding of these important systems.

In early-onset myasthenia gravis (EOMG), the thymus usually shows medullary lymph node-type infiltrates, rearranged bands of hyperplastic epithelium and focal fenestrations in the intervening laminin borders. This resemblance to autoimmune target organs may reflect autoantigen expression by rare thymic myoid cells, long ago implicated circumstantially as agents provocateurs. In this quantitative study, they were frequently seen at the laminin fenestrations; if so, germinal centers (GC) were significantly commoner nearby, our most EOMG-specific finding (not seen in a distinct MG patient subset). As autoantibodies became detectable, myoid cell involvement apparently progressed. Our unifying hypothesis--that an early autoantibody attack on myoid cells provokes local GC formation--helps to resolve many puzzles.
Neurological deficit in experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) and multiple sclerosis (MS) is probably a consequence of synergy between T and B cell responses to CNS antigens. During the demyelinating phase of chronic relapsing EAE in ABH mice, anti-myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) responses were increased compared to the inflammatory acute phase, but such levels did not correlate with the severity of clinical disease. The pathogenicity of antibodies (Ab) to MOG, myelin basic protein (MBP), proteolipid protein (PLP) and galactocerebroside (GalC) was investigated in vivo following injection at the onset of EAE. An IgG2a monoclonal Ab (mAb), clone Z12, directed to MOG augmented clinical disease and demyelination in ABH and C57BL/6 mice, but not MOG knock-out mice. No effect was observed with F(ab(2))' fragments of Z12 or with the anti-MOG IgG1 mAbs, clones Y10 or 8-18C5. Cobra venom factor partially reduced the augmenting effect of mAb Z12 suggesting a role for complement. The pathogenic effect of anti-myelin Abs was not restricted to MOG since an anti-GalC mAb exacerbated inflammation in the CNS while an MBP mAb (clone 22) reduced clinical disease. Taken together, these data provide further evidence that myelin-reactive Abs generated during autoimmune neurological disease may play an important role not only in the pathogenesis of disease but also the regulation of myelin-targeted autoimmune disease.
Diabetic sensory polyneuropathy is characterized by a distal axonopathy of dying-back type. It is accompanied by a failure of axonal regeneration, in which nonenzymatic glycosylation (glycation) of the extracellular matrix may be involved. In the present study, the effects of glycation of collagen IV and laminin, major components of basal lamina, on neuron survival and neurite extension were investigated in tissue culture. Fast glycation of laminin was achieved by incubation with glycolaldehyde and glycation of collagen IV by incubation with glucose. The degree of glycation was estimated by fluorescence analysis. Glycated or nonglycated laminin or collagen IV were used as substrates for culture of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons from neonatal rats. Cultures were assessed for the proportion of cells attaching to the substrate, surviving and bearing neurites. Cell attachment and the proportion bearing neurites were significantly reduced on collagen IV glycated for 2 weeks, but survival was only affected by glycation for 4 or 5 weeks. All 3 parameters were significantly reduced on glycated compared with unglycated laminin. Glycation of both laminin and collagen IV produced considerable morphological differences in the cultured neurons on scanning electron microscopy. Dissociated DRG neurons from adult animals with streptozotocin-induced diabetes cultured on nonglycated substrates survived less well and produced fewer neurites. Glycation of collagen IV and laminin thus affects neuronal survival, neurite production and cell morphology, and diabetes affects both the survival of sensory neurons in culture and their ability to extend neurites.
This paper analyses all the peer-reviewed articles published by European authors in 161 neurological journals screened by ISI in accordance with Current Contents/Life Science and Current Contents/Clinical Medicine in the period 1995-1998. Our aim was to report the amount and quality of neurological research in the different countries of the European Union (EU), the USA and the world. The number of papers, the impact factors (IF), the population of the source country and gross domestic product (GDP), were downloaded. Data show that in the EU there is a progressive increase in the number of published papers from 1995 to 1998 and that large countries such as Germany, the United Kingdom, France and Italy rank at the top four places for absolute number of papers. The gap in the number of papers between the USA and the EU significantly diminished in the examined period, from a difference of 14 % to 6 %. However, when the IF is considered, the USA performed better than EU, although excellent results have been obtained by the United Kingdom, Ireland, Netherlands and Sweden. When the number and quality of papers are plotted against the number of inhabitants or GDP, Sweden, the Netherlands and Finland are the leading countries in Europe. The present study demonstrates that neurological research in the EU is active and productive, is steadily increasing and is now a relevant part of all biomedical world research.
Serious neurological complications related to epidural anaesthesia and analgesia are only rarely reported. We describe the clinical and radiological features of three patients who sustained intrinsic spinal cord lesions after attempted epidural catheterisation. In each case there was an early onset of motor and sensory impairment after the procedure and MRI demonstrated similar, extensive, paracentral, high signal intensity lesions within the cord on T2 weighted images. Possible mechanisms to explain these MRI appearances are discussed. It is proposed that the most likely cause of these lesions was direct trauma to the spinal cord during the procedure and subsequent injection of fluid into the spinal cord producing localised hydromyelia. The prognosis in each case was for a gradual recovery of motor function but spinothalamic sensory impairment and severe spontaneous pain over the affected area persisted.


In this paper, we consider the impact that the novel functional neuroimaging techniques may have upon psychiatric illness. Functional neuroimaging has rapidly developed as a powerful tool in cognitive neuroscience and, in recent years, has seen widespread application in psychiatry. Although such studies have produced evidence for abnormal patterns of brain response in association with some pathological conditions, the core pathophysiologies remain unresolved. Although imaging techniques provide an unprecedented opportunity for investigation of physiological function of the living human brain, there are fundamental questions and assumptions which remain to be addressed. In this review we examine these conceptual issues under three broad sections: (1) characterising the clinical population of interest, (2) defining appropriate levels of description of normal brain function, and (3) relating these models to pathophysiological conditions. Parallel advances in each of these questions will be required before imaging techniques can impact on clinical decisions in psychiatry.
The classification of human gliomas is currently based solely on neuropathological criteria. Prognostic and therapeutic parameters are dependent upon whether the tumors are deemed to be of astrocytic or oligodendroglial in origin. We sought to identify molecular reagents that might provide a more objective parameter to assist in the classification of these tumors. In order to identify mRNA transcripts for genes normally transcribed exclusively by oligodendrocytes. Northern blot analysis was carried out on RNA samples from 138 human gliomas. Transcripts encoding the myelin basic protein (MBP) were found in an equally high percentage of tumors that by neuropathological criteria were either astrocytic or oligodendroglial. In contrast, proteolipid protein (PLP) and cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (CNP) mRNA molecules were found significantly more often in oligodendrogliomas than in astrocytomas. The strongest association with histological typing was found with the transcript for the myelin galactolipid biosynthetic enzyme UDP-galactose: ceramide galactosytransferase (CGT), which was about twice as frequently detected in tumors of oligodendroglial type. Results of glycolipid analyses were previously reported on a subset of the tumors studied herein. Statistical analyses of both molecular and biochemical data on this subset of astrocytomas, oligoastrocytomas, and oligodendrogliomas were performed to determine if a panel of markers could be used to separate astrocytic and oligodendroglial tumors. The presence of asialo GM1 (GA1) and the absence of paragloboside occurred most frequently in oligodendrogliomas. Ceramide monohexoside (CMH) levels correlated highly with the expression of mRNA for 4 myelin proteins: CGT, MBP, CNP, and PLP. The best combination of 2 markers of oligodendroglial tumors was CGT and GA1; the best combination of 3 markers was the presence of CGT, GA1, and the absence of paragloboside. We conclude that this combination of markers could be useful in distinguishing between astrocytic and oligodendroglial tumors.
Pain has long been thought to wax and wane in relative proportion to fluctuations in the intensity of noxious stimuli. Dynamic aspects of nociceptive processing, however, remain poorly characterized. Here we show that small decreases (+/-1-3 degrees C) in noxious stimulus temperatures (47-50 degrees C) evoked changes in perceived pain intensity that were as much as 271% greater than those of equal magnitude increases. These decreases in perceived pain intensity were sufficiently large to be indistinguishable from those evoked by 15 degrees C decreases to clearly innocuous levels. Furthermore, decreases in pain ratings following noxious stimulus offset were significantly greater than those occurring during adaptation to constant temperature stimuli. Together, these findings indicate that an analgesic mechanism is activated during noxious stimulus offset. This analgesic phenomenon may serve as a temporal contrast enhancement mechanism to amplify awareness of stimulus offset and to reinforce escape behaviors. Disruption of this mechanism may contribute importantly to chronic pain.
Experiments using electrical and mechanical activation of spinal reflexes have contributed important results toward the understanding of neuronal and synaptic dynamics involved in spinal neural circuits as well as their response to different inputs. In this work, data obtained from the simultaneous stimulation of both legs are analyzed to provide information on the degree of symmetry of the respective spinal reflex circuits and on the characteristics of reflex variability. H-reflexes recorded from relaxed muscles show a frequency-dependent amplitude depression when elicited by a train of stimuli. This effect has been attributed to homosynaptic depression. Soleus H-reflexes were recorded in response to trains of simultaneous stimuli applied to both legs in right-handed subjects that were sitting in a relaxed state. The first objective was to verify the existence of asymmetries in H-reflex parameters obtained from the two legs. We measured the mean, variance, and coefficient of variation of the depressed H-reflex amplitudes and the time constant of decay toward the depressed plateau. The second objective was the analysis of the time correlation of subsequent H-reflex amplitudes in a long train of responses recorded from a given leg. The statistical dependence of H-reflex amplitudes in the long trains recorded from both legs was also investigated. Data obtained from preliminary experiments showed that there was no effect of a given stimulus on the contralateral leg applied simultaneously or 1 s before, therefore validating the simultaneous stimulation paradigm. Paired t-tests indicated that several parameters measured bilaterally from soleus H-reflex trains of right-handed subjects were not statistically different in the overall, although individually there were statistically significant asymmetries, toward either the right or left leg. Sequences of H-reflex amplitudes, as measured by the auto-covariance, were either white or had a memory ranging from 2 up to 50 s. This indicates that the random fluctuations in presynaptic inhibition and/or postsynaptic inputs to motoneurons may have either fast or slow time courses. The average auto-covariance sequences of the right and left legs, computed from all subjects, were practically superposable. The cross-covariance between the bilateral H-reflex amplitudes showed a statistically significant peak at zero lag in some experiments, suggesting a correlation between the synaptic inputs to the Ia-motoneuron systems of the soleus muscles of both legs.
Recently, we cloned and began to characterize a new N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) subunit, NR3A. Here we extend our earlier findings by showing that recombinantly expressed NR3A in COS cells is biochemically associated with both NR1 and NR2 subunits. In the oocyte or HEK 293 cell expression systems, co-injection of NR3A with NR1/NR2 subunits acts in a dominant-interfering manner, resulting in a decrease in NMDAR unitary conductance, decrease in Ca(2+) permeability, decrease in Mg(2+) sensitivity, and slight increase in mean open time compared with NR1/NR2 channels. The smaller unitary conductance channel has also been observed in primary cortical neurons cultured from wild-type rodent on postnatal day 8 (P8) and similarly found to be relatively insensitive to Mg(2+) block. Consistent with these findings, whole cell NMDA-evoked currents are larger in NR3A-deficient mice compared with wild-type mice, and this effect follows a developmental pattern similar to that of NR3A protein expression on Western blots, with peak expression at P8. Finally, a new longer splice variant of NR3A has been cloned and found to be expressed in rodent cortical neurons by single-cell RT-PCR and in situ hybridization.
Olivocerebellar activity is organized such that synchronous complex spikes occur primarily among Purkinje cells located within the same parasagittally oriented strip of cortex. Previous findings have shown that this synchrony distribution is modulated by the release of GABA and glutamate within the inferior olive, which probably act by controlling the efficacy of the electrotonic coupling between olivary neurons. The relative strengths of these two neurotransmitters in modulating the patterns of synchrony were compared by obtaining multiple electrode recordings of spontaneous crus 2a complex spike activity during intraolivary injection of solutions containing a GABA(A) (picrotoxin) and/or AMPA [1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6-nitro-2,3-dioxo-benzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide disodium (NBQX)] receptor antagonist. Injection of either antagonist led to increased synchrony between cells located within the same parasagittally oriented approximately 250-microm-wide cortical strip. Picrotoxin also increased complex spike synchrony among cells located in different cortical strips, leading to a less prominent banding pattern, whereas injections of NBQX tended to decrease complex spike synchrony among such cells, enhancing the banding pattern. The relative strength of these two classes of olivary afferents was assessed by first injecting one of the antagonists alone and then in combination with the other. The enhanced banding pattern of complex spike synchrony following injection of NBQX alone remained during the subsequent combined injection of both antagonists. Furthermore, the widespread synchronization of complex spike activity following injection of picrotoxin alone was partially or completely reversed by combined injection of picrotoxin and NBQX. Changes in the climbing fiber reflex induced by the intraolivary injections paralleled the changes observed for spontaneous complex spike activity, indicating that the effects of picrotoxin and NBQX on the synchrony distribution reflect changes in the pattern of effective coupling of inferior olivary neurons and demonstrating that synchronous complex spike activity does not require simultaneous excitatory input to olivary cells. Finally the pattern of synchrony during motor cortical stimulation was examined. It was found that the patterns of synchrony for motor-cortex-evoked complex spike activity were similar to those of spontaneous activity, indicating an important role for electrotonic coupling in determining the response of the olivocerebellar system to afferent input. Moreover, intraolivary injections of picrotoxin increased the spatial distribution of the evoked response. In sum, the results provide evidence for the hypothesis that electrotonic coupling of inferior olivary neurons via gap junctions is the mechanism underlying complex spike synchrony and that this coupling plays an important role in determining the responses of the olivocerebellar system to synaptic input.
Gustatory responses in the brain stem are modifiable by several physiological factors, including blood insulin and glucose, intraduodenal lipids, gastric distension, and learning, although the neural substrates for these modulatory effects are not known. Stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus (LH) produces increases in food intake and alterations in taste preference behavior, whereas damage to this area has opposite effects. In the present study, we investigated the effects of LH stimulation on the neural activity of taste-responsive cells in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NST) of the hamster. Bipolar stimulating electrodes were bilaterally implanted in the LH, and the responses of 99 neurons in the NST, which were first characterized for their taste sensitivities, were tested for their response to both ipsilateral and contralateral LH stimulation. Half of the taste-responsive cells in the NST (49/99) were modulated by LH stimulation. Contralateral stimulation was more often effective (41 cells) than ipsilateral (13 cells) and always excitatory; 10 cells were excited bilaterally. Six cells were inhibited by ipsilateral stimulation. A subset of these cells (n = 13) was examined for the effects of microinjection of DL-homocysteic acid (DLH), a glutamate receptor agonist, into the LH. The effects of electrical stimulation were completely mimicked by DLH, indicating that cell somata in and around the LH are responsible for these effects. Other cells (n = 14) were tested for the effects of electrical stimulation of the LH on the responses to stimulation of the tongue with 0.032 M sucrose, NaCl, and quinine hydrochloride, and 0.0032 M citric acid. Responses to taste stimuli were more than doubled by the excitatory influence of the LH. These data show that the LH, in addition to its role in feeding and metabolism, exerts descending control over the processing of gustatory information through the brain stem.
The properties of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated currents at the giant cerebellar mossy-fiber unipolar brush cell (UBC) synapse were compared with those of adjacent granule cells using patch-clamp recording methods in thin slices of rat cerebellar nodulus. In UBCs, NMDA receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) decayed as a single exponential whose time constant was independent of membrane potential. The EPSC was reduced in all cells by the NR1/NR2B-selective antagonist ifenprodil, and the Zn(2+) chelator N,N,N',N'-tetrakis(2-pyridylmethyl)ethylenediamine (TPEN) produced a transient potentiation in 50% of cells. In contrast, the NMDA EPSC in granule cells decayed as a double exponential that dramatically switched to a slower rate at positive membrane potentials. The synaptic response in some granule cells also displayed a late second peak at positive potentials, and in others, activation of mossy fibers produced repetitive trains of EPSCs indicating they may be postsynaptic to the UBC network. Single-channel recordings of outside-out somatic patches from UBCs in magnesium-free solution revealed only high-conductance (50 pS) channels whose open time was increased with depolarization, but the opening frequency was decreased to yield a low (p(o) = 0.0298), voltage-independent opening probability. Lowering extracellular calcium (2.5-0.25 mM) had no effects on channel gating, although an increase of single-channel conductance was observed at lower calcium concentrations. Taken together, the data support the notion that the NMDA receptor in UBCs may comprise both NR1/NR2A and NR1/NR2B receptors. Furthermore, the properties of the EPSC in these two classes of feedforward glutamatergic interneurons display fundamental differences that may relate to their roles in synaptic integration.
Performance in visual discrimination tasks improves with practice. Although the psychophysical parameters of these improvements have suggested the involvement of early areas in visual cortex, there has been little direct study of the physiological correlates of such perceptual learning at the level of individual neurons. To examine how neuronal response properties in the early visual system may change with practice, we trained monkeys for more than 6 mo in an orientation discrimination task in which behaviorally relevant stimuli were restricted to a particular retinal location and oriented around a specific orientation. During training the monkeys' discrimination thresholds gradually improved to much better than those of naive monkeys or humans. Although this improvement was specific to the trained orientation, it showed little retinotopic specificity. The receptive field properties of single neurons from regions representing the trained location and a location in the opposite visual hemifield were measured in V1 and V2. In most respects the receptive field properties in the representations of the trained and untrained regions were indistinguishable. However, in the regions of V1 and V2 representing the trained location, there were slightly fewer neurons whose optimal orientation was near the trained orientation. This resulted in a small but significant decrease in the V1 population response to the trained orientation at the trained location. Consequently, the observed neuronal populations did not exhibit any orientation-specific biases sufficient to explain the orientation specificity of the behavioral improvement. Pooling models suggest that the behavioral improvement was accomplished with a task-dependent and orientation-selective pooling of unaltered signals from early visual neurons. These data suggest that, even for training with stimuli suited to the selectivities found in early areas of visual cortex, behavioral improvements can occur in the absence of pronounced changes in the physiology of those areas.
The main purpose of this study was to examine whether facilitation of human motor unit recruitment by repeated voluntary contractions is mediated, in part, by time and activity-dependent increases in the intrinsic excitability of the parent motoneuron. To do this, pairs of tibialis anterior or soleus motor units were recorded during slowly increasing and then decreasing voluntary contractions. The firing rate of the lower-threshold motor unit of the pair (control unit) was used as a measure of effective synaptic excitation (i.e., drive) to the motoneurons. This rate was used to estimate the recruitment threshold of the higher-threshold unit of the pair (test unit). The test unit was repeatedly recruited and de-recruited in a series of contractions, and the interval between the de-recruitment and re-recruitment of the test unit (interactivation interval) was systematically varied between 0.6 and 60 s. An increase in intrinsic excitability of a unit was considered to have occurred if the level of estimated synaptic input (as measured by the firing rate of the control motor unit) needed to recruit a unit was reduced. At short interactivation intervals (1-2 s), the control unit firing frequency was significantly lower when the test unit was recruited on the second contraction, compared with the first (by 3.9 Hz or a 64% reduction). This suggested that the intrinsic excitability of the test motor unit had increased during the second contraction because it could be recruited at a much lower level of estimated synaptic drive. Longer interaction intervals (2-6 s) produced less recruitment facilitation. At even longer interactivation intervals (&gt;6 s) there was no significant facilitation (time constant of effect was 4.8 s). In some motor units, the effect of this short-term facilitation appeared to be so pronounced that it resulted in reversing the order of de-recruitment with the other initially lower-threshold motor units. Such reversals were occasionally observed for orderly re-recruitment. The time course and behavior of the observed short-term facilitation of motor unit discharge was qualitatively similar to the warm-up phenomenon of plateau potentials seen in motoneurons of reduced preparations (e.g., 4-6 s). The possibility of warm-up contributing to the time and activity-dependent facilitation of human motor unit recruitment is discussed.
The main purpose of this study was to estimate the contribution of intrinsic activation of human motoneurons (e.g., by plateau potentials) during voluntary and reflexive muscle contractions. Pairs of motor units were recorded from either the tibialis anterior or soleus muscle during three different conditions: 1) during a brief muscle vibration followed by a slow relaxation of a steady isometric contraction; 2) during a triangular isometric torque contraction; and 3) during passive sinusoidal muscle stretch superimposed on a steady isometric contraction. In each case, the firing rate of a tonically firing control motor unit was used as a measure of the effective synaptic excitation (i.e., synaptic drive) to a slightly higher-threshold test motor unit that was recruited and de-recruited during a contraction trial. The firing rate of the control unit was compared at recruitment and de-recruitment of the test unit. This was done to determine whether the estimated synaptic drive needed to recruit a motor unit was less than the amount needed to sustain firing as a result of an added depolarization produced from intrinsic sources. After test unit recruitment, the firing rate of the control unit could be decreased significantly (on average by 3.6 Hz from an initial recruitment rate of 9.8 Hz) before the test unit was de-recruited during a descending synaptic drive. Similar decreases in control unit rate occurred in all three experimental conditions. This represents a possible 40% reduction in the estimated synaptic drive needed to maintain firing of a motor unit compared with the estimated amount needed to recruit the unit initially. The firing rates of both the control and test units were modulated together in a highly parallel fashion, suggesting that the unit pairs were driven by common synaptic inputs. This tight correlation further validated the use of the control unit firing rate as a monitor of synaptic drive to the test motor unit. The estimates of intrinsically mediated depolarization of human motoneurons ( approximately 40% during moderate contractions) are consistent with values obtained for plateau potentials obtained from intracellular recordings of motoneurons in reduced animal preparations, although various alternative mechanisms are discussed. This suggests that similar intrinsic conductances provide a substantial activation of human motoneurons during moderate physiological activity.
Glutamate, the neurotransmitter, enhances rapid-eye-movement (REM) sleep when microinjected into the brain stem pedunculopontine tegmentum (PPT) of the cat and rat. Glutamate and its various receptors are normally present in the PPT cholinergic cell compartment. The aim of this study was to identify which specific receptor(s) in the cholinergic cell compartment of the PPT are involved in glutamate-induced-REM sleep. To identify these glutamate-induced REM-sleep-generating receptor(s) in the PPT cholinergic cell compartment, specific receptors were pharmacologically blocked differentially by localized pretreatment of specific glutamate receptor antagonists; glutamate was then microinjected into the PPT cholinergic cell compartment while quantifying the effects on REM sleep in freely moving chronically instrumented rats. The results demonstrate that when kainate receptors were blocked by pretreatment with a kainate-specific receptor antagonist, microinjection of glutamate was unable to induce REM sleep. Pharmacological blockade of specific N-methyl-D-aspartate and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors was unable to block glutamate-microinjection-induced-REM sleep. These findings suggest, for the first time, that the activation of kainate receptors within the cholinergic cell compartment of the PPT is an essential portion of the mechanism for the generation of glutamate-induced REM sleep in the rat.
The first step in audition is a deflection of the sensory hair bundle that opens mechanically gated channels, depolarizing the sensory hair cells. Two mechanism of adaptation of mechano-electric transducer (MET) channels have been identified in turtle auditory hair cells. The rate of fast adaptation varies tonotopically and is postulated to underlie a mechanical tuning mechanism in turtle auditory hair cells. Fast adaptation is driven by a calcium-dependent feedback process associated with MET channels. The purpose of this paper is to test the hypothesis that fast adaptation contributes to MET channel kinetics and that variations in channel kinetics underlie the tonotopic distribution of fast adaptation. To test for kinetic differences, the open channel blocker dihydrostreptomycin (DHS) was used. DHS blocked MET currents from low-frequency cells (IC(50) = 14 +/- 2 microM) more effectively than high-frequency cells (IC(50) = 75 +/- 5 microM), suggesting differences in MET channel properties. DHS block showed similar calcium sensitivities at both papilla locations. No difference in calcium permeation or block of the transducer channels was observed, indicating that the DHS effect was not due to differences in the channel pore. Slowing adaptation increased DHS efficacy, and speeding adaptation decreased DHS efficacy, suggesting that adaptation was influencing DHS block. DHS block of MET channels slowed adaptation, most likely by reducing the peak intraciliary calcium concentration achieved, supporting the hypothesis that the rate of adaptation varies with the calcium load per stereocilia. Another channel blocker, amiloride showed similar efficacy for high- and low-frequency cells with an IC(50) of 24.2 +/- 0.5 microM and a Hill coefficient of 2 but appeared to block high-frequency channels faster than low-frequency channels. To further explore MET channel differences between papilla locations, stationary noise analysis was performed. Spectral analysis of the noise gave half power frequencies of 1,185 +/- 148 Hz (n = 6) and 551 +/- 145 Hz (n = 5) for high- and low-frequency cells in 2.8 mM external calcium. The half power frequency showed similar calcium sensitivity to that of adaptation shifting to 768 +/- 205 Hz (n = 4) and 289 +/- 63 Hz (n = 4) for high- and low-frequency cells in 0.25 mM external calcium. Both the pharmacological data and the noise analysis data are consistent with the hypothesis that the tonotopic distribution of fast adaptation is in part due to differences in MET channel kinetics. An increase in the number of MET channels per stereocilia (termed summation) and or intrinsic differences in MET channel kinetics may be the underlying mechanism involved in establishing the gradient.
The way in which the brain deals with sensory information relies not only on feedforward processing of signals from the periphery but also on feedback inputs. This is the case of the massive projection back from layer 6 in the visual cortex to the thalamus, for which, despite being the greatest single source of synaptic contacts, the functional role still remains unclear. In the cat lateral geniculate nucleus, part of this cortical feedback is mediated by type 1 metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR1s), which are exclusively located on distal segments of the relay-cell dendrites. Here we show that in adult cats the cortex uses a synaptic drive mediated by these receptors (mGluR1) specifically to enhance the excitatory center of the thalamic receptive field. Moreover the effect is maximum in response to those stimuli that effectively drive cortical cells, and importantly, it does not affect the spatiotemporal structure of the thalamic receptive field. Therefore, cortex, by closing this corticofugal &quot;loop,&quot; is able to increase the gain of its thalamic input within a focal spatial window, selecting key features of the incoming signal.
We have investigated how the nonclassical receptive field (nCRF) affects information transmission by V1 neurons during simulated natural vision in awake, behaving macaques. Stimuli were centered over the classical receptive field (CRF) and stimulus size was varied from one to four times the diameter of the CRF. Stimulus movies reproduced the spatial and temporal stimulus dynamics of natural vision while maintaining constant CRF stimulation across all sizes. In individual neurons, stimulation of the nCRF significantly increases the information rate, the information per spike, and the efficiency of information transmission. Furthermore, the population averages of these quantities also increase significantly with nCRF stimulation. These data demonstrate that the nCRF increases the sparseness of the stimulus representation in V1, suggesting that the nCRF tunes V1 neurons to match the highly informative components of the natural world.
Spatiotemporal profiles of ensemble subthreshold neuronal oscillation were studied in brainstem slices using high-speed voltage-sensitive dye imaging. After local electrical stimuli, the overall voltage profile demonstrated coherent oscillatory waves that spread over the inferior olive (IO). These oscillations were also observed in concurrently obtained intracellular recordings from IO neurons. Over the first few seconds after the stimuli, the optically recorded oscillations clustered into coherent groups comprising hundreds of neurons. Statistical analysis of the spatial profiles of these clusters revealed size fluctuation around stable core regions that were surrounded by a rim the diameter of which varied in time during the oscillation period. The neuronal ensemble oscillations were calcium derived and had an average frequency range of 1-7 Hz. This rhythmic response demonstrated a different spatiotemporal distribution in the presence of picrotoxin, which induced the merging of neuronal clusters into larger areas of coherent activity. The possibility that such clustering is a consequence of intrinsic oscillations in ensembles of coupled neurons was tested using mathematical modeling.
Several extracellular matrix (ECM) molecules have been identified as potent inhibitors of neurite outgrowth in vitro and are believed to limit axonal growth after CNS injury. Recent studies have shown that different members of the chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan (CSPG) class of putatively inhibitory ECM molecules are expressed after a number of CNS injuries. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the relative amounts of individual CSPGs expressed after spinal cord injury (SCI) and identify their cells of origin. Evaluation of total soluble CSPGs 2 weeks after dorsal column lesion in the rat demonstrated that NG2 is highly upregulated and is a major CSPG species. Immunocytochemical analysis further demonstrated that NG2 expression is upregulated within 24 hr of injury, peaks at 1 week, and remains elevated for at least an additional 7 weeks. NG2 expression results from a multicellular response to injury, including both reactive macrophages and oligodendrocyte progenitors; astrocytes were not identified as a major source of NG2. Immunocytochemical analysis of other CSPG family members 7 d after injury showed moderate upregulation of versican, brevican, and neurocan, and downregulation of phosphacan. Axonal tracing experiments demonstrated dense NG2 labeling adjacent to the forward processes of transected corticospinal tract axons in a spatial profile that could restrict axonal growth. Thus, NG2 is a major component of this putatively inhibitory class of ECM molecules expressed at sites of SCI and may restrict axonal regeneration.
Recombinant adeno-associated viral vectors display efficient tropism for transduction of the dopamine neurons of the substantia nigra. Taking advantage of this unique property of recombinant adeno-associated viral vectors, we expressed wild-type and A53T mutated human alpha-synuclein in the nigrostriatal dopamine neurons of adult rats for up to 6 months. Cellular and axonal pathology, including alpha-synuclein-positive cytoplasmic inclusions and swollen, dystrophic neurites similar to those seen in brains from patients with Parkinson's disease, developed progressively over time. These pathological alterations occurred preferentially in the nigral dopamine neurons and were not observed in other nondopaminergic neurons transduced by the same vectors. The degenerative changes were accompanied by a loss of 30-80% of the nigral dopamine neurons, a 40-50% reduction of striatal dopamine, and tyrosine hydroxylase levels that was fully developed by 8 weeks. Significant motor impairment developed in those animals in which dopamine neuron cell loss exceeded a critical threshold of 50-60%. At 6 months, signs of cell body and axonal pathology had subsided, suggesting that the surviving neurons had recovered from the initial insult, despite the fact that alpha-synuclein expression was maintained at a high level. These results show that nigral dopamine neurons are selectively vulnerable to high levels of either wild-type or mutant alpha-synuclein, pointing to a key role for alpha-synuclein in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. Targeted overexpression of alpha-synuclein in the nigrostriatal system may provide a new animal model of Parkinson's disease that reproduces some of the cardinal pathological, neurochemical, and behavioral features of the human disease.
Lymphocytes respond to myelin proteins after spinal cord injury (SCI) and may contribute to post-traumatic secondary degeneration. However, there is increasing evidence that autoreactive T-lymphocytes may also convey neuroprotection and promote functional recovery after CNS injury. To clarify the role of myelin autoreactive lymphocytes after SCI, we performed contusion injuries in the thoracic spinal cord of transgenic (Tg) mice in which &gt;95% of all CD4+ T-lymphocytes are reactive with myelin basic protein (MBP). We observed significantly impaired recovery of locomotor and reflex function in Tg mice compared with non-Tg (nTg) littermates. Measures of functional impairment in Tg mice correlated with significantly less white matter at the injury site, and morphometric comparisons of injured Tg and nTg spinal cords revealed increased rostrocaudal lesion expansion (i.e., secondary degeneration) in Tg mice. Rostrocaudal to the impact site in SCI-nTg mice, demyelination was restricted to the dorsal funiculus, i.e., axons undergoing Wallerian degeneration. The remaining white matter appeared normal. In contrast, lymphocytes were colocalized with regions of demyelination and axon loss throughout the white matter of SCI-Tg mice. Impaired neurological function and exacerbated neuropathology in SCI-Tg mice were associated with increased intraspinal production of proinflammatory cytokine mRNA; neurotrophin mRNA was not elevated. These data suggest that endogenous MBP-reactive lymphocytes, activated by traumatic SCI, can contribute to tissue injury and impair functional recovery. Any neuroprotection afforded by myelin-reactive T-cells is likely to be an indirect effect mediated by other non-CNS-reactive lymphocytes. Similar to the Tg mice in this study, a subset of humans that are genetically predisposed to autoimmune diseases of the CNS may be adversely affected by vaccine therapies designed to boost autoreactive lymphocyte responses after CNS trauma. Consequently, the safe implementation of such therapies requires that future studies define the mechanisms that control T-cell function within the injured CNS.
Parkinson's disease is characterized by a loss of dopaminergic nigrostriatal neurons. This neuronal loss is mimicked by the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+). MPP+ toxicity is mediated through inhibition of mitochondrial complex I, decreasing ATP production, and upregulation of oxygen radicals. There is evidence that the cell death induced by MPP+ is apoptotic and that inhibition of caspases may be neuroprotective. In primary cultures of rat mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons, MPP+ treatment decreased the number of surviving dopaminergic neurons in the cultures and the ability of the neurons to take up [3H]dopamine ([3H]DA). Caspase inhibition using the broad-spectrum inhibitor benzyloxycarbonyl-Val-Ala-Asp-fluoromethylketone (zVAD-fmk) spared MPP+-treated dopaminergic neurons and increased somatic size. There was a partial restoration of neurite length in zVAD-fmk-treated cultures, but little restoration of [3H]DA uptake. Peptide inhibitors of caspases 2, 3, and 9, but not of caspase 1, caused significant neuroprotection. Two novel caspase inhibitors were tested for neuroprotection, a broad spectrum inhibitor and a selective caspase 3 inhibitor; both inhibitors increased survival to &gt;90% of control. No neuroprotection was observed with an inactive control compound. MPP+ treatment caused chromatin condensation in dopaminergic neurons and increased expression of activated caspase 3. Inhibition of caspases with either zVAD-fmk or a selective caspase 3 inhibitor decreased the number of apoptotic profiles, but not expression of the active caspase. We conclude that MPP+ toxicity in primary dopaminergic neurons involves activation of a pathway terminating in caspase 3 activation, but that other mechanisms may underlie the neurite loss.
The dorsal striatum participates in motor function and stimulus-response or &quot;habit&quot; learning. Acetylcholine (ACh) is a prominent neurotransmitter in the striatum and exerts part of its actions through nicotinic cholinergic receptors. Activation of these receptors has been associated with the enhancement of learning and certainly is instrumental in habitual use of nicotine. Nicotinic receptors have also been suggested to be a possible therapeutic target for disorders of the basal ganglia. In this report we show that the activation of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in the dorsal striatum contributes to dopamine (DA)- and activity-dependent changes in synaptic efficacy. High-frequency activation of glutamatergic synapses onto striatal neurons results in a long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic efficacy that is dependent on the activation of dopamine receptors. This stimulation also produces robust increases in extracellular dopamine concentration as well as strong activation of cholinergic striatal interneurons. Antagonists of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors inhibit striatal LTD. However, on coapplication of dopamine reuptake inhibitors with nicotinic receptor antagonists, activity-induced striatal LTD is restored. Dopamine release is modulated by activation of nicotinic receptors in the dorsal striatum, and activation of nicotinic receptors during high-frequency synaptic activation appears to be capable of interacting with dopaminergic actions that lead to striatal LTD. Our results suggest that stimulation of mechanisms involved in striatal synaptic plasticity is an important role for striatal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors and that these mechanisms may contribute to the enhancement of learning and habit formation produced by nicotine intake.
Ras proteins are small GTPases with well known functions in cell proliferation and differentiation. In these processes, they play key roles as molecular switches that can trigger distinct signal transduction pathways, such as the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway, the phosphoinositide-3 kinase pathway, and the Ral-guanine nucleotide dissociation stimulator pathway. Several studies have implicated Ras proteins in the development and function of synapses, but the molecular mechanisms for this regulation are poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that the Ras-MAPK pathway is involved in synaptic plasticity at the Drosophila larval neuromuscular junction. Both Ras1 and MAPK are expressed at the neuromuscular junction, and modification of their activity levels results in an altered number of synaptic boutons. Gain- or loss-of-function mutations in Ras1 and MAPK reveal that regulation of synapse structure by this signal transduction pathway is dependent on fasciclin II localization at synaptic boutons. These results provide evidence for a Ras-dependent signaling cascade that regulates fasciclin II-mediated cell adhesion at synaptic terminals during synapse growth.
Extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins and their receptors, the integrins, actively participate in the control of many fundamental cellular functions in the developing nervous system, including the regulation of cell migration, differentiation, and survival and the control of neurite outgrowth. ECM-integrin interactions in the mature nervous system are commonly considered to be more static in nature and of little importance in the regulation of neuronal function. In contrast, we demonstrate that integrins and their ligands are capable of rapid neuromodulatory actions. Specifically, we show that integrin ligands can alter neuronal pacemaker properties, intracellular free Ca2+ levels, and voltage-gated Ca2+ currents in a matter of minutes. These findings indicate that ECM-integrin interactions play a dynamic role in regulating the physiological status of mature neurons, a process that may contribute to synaptic plasticity, neural regeneration, and neuropathology.
We report the establishment of continuously growing cell lines from spinal cords of normal and trisomy 16 fetal mice. We show that both cell lines, named M4b (derived from a normal animal) and MTh (trisomic) possess neurological markers by immunohistochemistry (neuron specific enolase, synaptophysin, microtubule associated protein-2 [MAP-2], and choline acetyltransferase) and lack glial traits (glial fibrillary acidic protein and S100). MTh cells were shown to overexpress mRNA of Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase, whose gene is present in autosome 16. We also studied intracellular Ca2+ signals ([Ca2+]i) induced by different agonists in Indo-1 loaded cells. Basal [Ca2+]i was significantly higher in MTh cells compared to M4b cells. Glutamate (200 microM) and (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (ACDP) (100 microM) induced rapid, transient increases in [Ca2+]i in M4b and MTh cells, indicating the presence of glutamatergic metabotropic receptors. N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and kainate, but not alpha-amino-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA), produced [Ca2+)]i rises in both cell types. MTh cells exhibited faster time-dependent decay phase kinetics in glutamate-induced responses compared to M4b cells. Nicotine induced a transient increase in [Ca2+]i in M4b and MTh cells, with significantly greater amplitudes in the latter compared to the former. Further, both cell types responded to noradrenaline. Finally, we examined cholinergic function in both cell lines and found no significant differences in the [3H]-choline uptake, but fractional acetylcholine release induced by either K+, glutamate or nicotine was significantly higher in MTh cells. These results show that M4b and MTh cells have neuronal characteristics and the MTh line shows differences which could be related to neuronal pathophysiology in Down's syndrome.
Molecular chaperones are well known for their role in facilitating the folding of nascent and newly synthesized proteins, but have other roles, including the assembly, translocation and renaturation of intracellular proteins. Axons are convenient tissues for the study of some of these other roles because they lack the capacity for significant protein synthesis. We examine the axonal transport of the cytosolic chaperonin containing T- complex polypeptide 1 (CCT) by labeling lumbar motor neurons with [35S]methionine and examining sciatic nerve proteins by 2-D gel electrophoresis and immunoblotting. All CCT subunits identifiable with specific antibodies, namely CCTalpha, CCTbeta, CCTgamma and CCTepsilon/CCTtheta; (the latter two subunits colocalized in analyses of rat nerve samples), appeared to be labeled in &quot;slow component b&quot; of axonal transport along with the molecular chaperone Hsc73 and actin, a major folding substrate for CCT. Our results are consistent with molecular chaperones having a post-translational role in maintaining the native form of actin during its slow transport to the axon terminal and ensuring its correct assembly into microfilaments.

Tissue damage and neurological dysfunction after spinal cord injury may result, in part, from delayed or secondary mechanisms that appear to involve several endogenous factors. Among them, neutrophils are known to play important roles in the pathomechanisms of the secondary injury, that is, neutrophils are activated by an interaction with the endothelial cells, migrate into the damaged tissue and release several kinds of proteases or oxygen radicals. In the present study, we examined heme oxygenase-1 expression in the damaged spinal cord. The administration of an inhibitor of heme oxygenase-1 in vivo produced a delayed recovery of motor function after spinal cord injury, suggesting that heme oxygenase-1 may play roles as an endogenous anti-inflammatory enzyme and protective gene in the damaged and inflammatory tissue. We found that many neutrophils expressing heme oxygenase-1 mRNA and protein were recruited into the damaged spinal cord with extensive hemorrhages during early stage of spinal cord injury. In an in vitro study, neutrophils incubated with proinflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin-1, 6 or interferon-gamma, expressed heme oxygenase-1 mRNA and protein. Based on these findings we conclude that the activated neutrophils can express heme oxygenase-1 in the injured spinal cord tissue, perhaps expecting modulatory and neuroprotective actions in the inflammatory response to spinal cord injury.

The evidence presented by Craig and his colleagues for an important projection from lamina I spinothalamic tract neurons to a renamed thalamic nucleus (the posterior part of the ventral medial nucleus or VMpo), as well as to the ventrocaudal medial dorsal and the ventral posterior inferior thalamic nuclei, is critically reviewed. Of particular concern is the denial of an important nociceptive lamina I projection to the ventrobasal complex. Contrary evidence is reviewed that strongly favors a role of spinothalamic projections from both lamina I and deep layers of the dorsal horn to the ventrobasal complex and other thalamic nuclei and from there to the SI and SII somatosensory cortices in the sensory-discriminative processing of pain and temperature information.
The present study explored the possibility that excitatory amino acid (EAA) sensitivity within the ventral pallidum (VP) is altered by long-term removal of dopamine (DA). Electrophysiological experiments were conducted in chloral hydrate-anesthetized rats 21 to 28 days after they received unilateral substantia nigra injections of the dopaminergic toxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). VP neurons increased firing at low microiontophoretic ejection currents of the EAA agonists N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA); however, high currents decreased action potential amplitude and rapidly caused cessation of neuronal firing. These responses likely reflected the induction of depolarization block for they were reversed by coiontophoresis of the hyperpolarizing transmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) at ejection current levels that normally suppressed firing. The ability of NMDA and AMPA to induce such inactivation was greater in the VP of 6-OHDA-lesioned hemispheres, but unchanged in reserpinized rats, verifying that the alterations in responding to NMDA were the result of chronic, rather than acute, DA removal. The adaptations do not appear to be the consequence of a diminished GABAergic tone for the ability of bicuculline to increase firing (due to blocking a tonic GABAergic input) was not changed. However, low ejection currents of GABA that were insufficient to alter firing rate greatly attenuated the ability of NMDA to induce an apparent depolarization inactivation when coiontophoresed with NMDA onto VP neurons of the lesioned, but not the unlesioned, hemisphere. These studies show that chronic DA removal altered the EAA-induced amplitude-decreasing (i.e., the apparent depolarization inactivation) effects in VP neurons in the absence of a decrease in GABAergic tone.
The interaction between astrocytes and neurons is examined from the standpoint of glutamate neurotoxicity. The review details 1. the distribution of glutamate transporters on astrocytes and neurons, provoking a reformulation of the interdependence between these two cell types in removing extracellular glutamate and preventing excitotoxic injury; 2. the potential involvement of aberrant glutamate transporter function in the etiology of neuropathological conditions; 3. the role of astrocyte-neuron interaction in widely divergent aspects of brain energetics; 4. the role of astrocytes in the process of glutamate recycling within the context of anesthetic treatment with pentobarbital and thiopental.
Previous reports showed that sympathetic stimulation affects the activity of muscle spindle afferents (MSAs). The aim of the present work is to study the characteristics of sympathetic modulation of MSA response to stretch: (i) on the dynamic and static components of the stretch response, and (ii) on group Ia and II MSAs to evaluate potentially different effects. In anaesthetised rabbits, the peripheral stump of the cervical sympathetic nerve (CSN) was stimulated at 10 impulses s(-1) for 45-90 s. The responses of single MSAs to trapezoidal displacement of the mandible were recorded from the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus. The following characteristic parameters were determined from averaged trapezoidal responses: initial frequency (IF), peak frequency at the end of the ramp (PF), and static index (SI). From these, other parameters were derived: dynamic index (DI = PF - SI), dynamic difference (DD = PF - IF) and static difference (SD = SI - IF). The effects of CSN stimulation were also evaluated during changes in the state of intrafusal muscle fibre contraction induced by succinylcholine and curare. In a population of 124 MSAs, 106 units (85.4 %) were affected by sympathetic stimulation. In general, while changes in resting discharge varied among different units (Ia vs. II) and experimental conditions (curarised vs. non-curarised), ranging from enhancement to strong depression of firing, the amplitude of the response to muscle stretches consistently decreased. This was confirmed and detailed in a quantitative analysis performed on 49 muscle spindle afferents. In both the non-curarised (23 units) and curarised (26 units) condition, stimulation of the CSN reduced the response amplitude in terms of DD and SD, but hardly affected DI. The effects were equally present in both Ia and II units; they were shown to be independent from gamma drive and intrafusal muscle tone and not secondary to muscle hypoxia. Sympathetic action on the resting discharge (IF) was less consistent. In the non-curarised condition, IF decreased in most Ia units, while in II units decreases and increases occurred equally often. In the curarised condition, IF in group II units mostly increased. The results have important functional implications on the control of motor function in a state of 'high' sympathetic activity, like excessive stress, as well as in certain pathological conditions such as sympathetically maintained pain.
The cellular mechanisms underlying vasomotion of irideal arterioles from juvenile rats have been studied using electrophysiological methods, ratiometric calcium measurements and video microscopy. Vasomotion was not affected by removal of the endothelium. Spontaneous contractions were preceded by spontaneous depolarizations. Both were abolished by the intracellular calcium chelator, BAPTA AM (20 microM), but not by ryanodine (10 microM), suggesting a dependence on the cyclical release of calcium from intracellular stores, other than those operated by ryanodine receptors. Oscillations were little changed when the membrane potential of short segments of arteriole was either depolarized or hyperpolarized. When the segments were voltage clamped, oscillating inward currents were recorded, indicating that the changes in membrane potential were voltage independent. Vasomotion was preceded by intracellular calcium oscillations and both were abolished by inhibitors of phospholipase C (U73122, 10 microM), phospholipase A(2) (AACOCF(3), 30 microM) and protein kinase C (chelerythrine chloride, 5 microM, and myristoylated protein kinase C peptide, 10 microM). Inhibition of vasomotion by the dual lipoxygenase and cyclo-oxygenase inhibitor, NDGA (10 microM), the lipoxygenase inhibitor, ETI (1 microM) but not by the cyclo-oxygenase inhibitors, aspirin (10 microM) and indomethacin (10 microM), or the cytochrome P450 inhibitor 17-ODYA (10 microM), suggested an involvement of the lipoxygenase pathway. The observations suggest that vasomotion of iris arterioles is voltage independent and results from the cyclical release of calcium from IP(3)-sensitive stores which are activated by cross talk between the phospholipase C and phospholipase A(2) pathways in vascular smooth muscle.
We summarize here currently available data related to an astroglia-secreted factor that induces neuronal apoptosis and behaves as an inhibitor of ionotropic inhibitory GABA(A) and glycine receptors.
Gap junctions are the morphological correlates of direct cell-cell communication and are formed of hexameric assemblies of gap junction proteins (connexins) into hemichannels (or connexons) provided by each coupled cell. Gap junction channels formed by each of the connexin subtypes (of which there are as many as 20) display different properties, which have been attributed to differences in amino acid sequences of gating domains of the connexins. Recent studies additionally indicate that connexin proteins interact with other cellular components to form a protein complex termed the Nexus. This review summarizes current knowledge regarding the protein-protein interactions involving of connexin proteins and proposes hypothesized functions for these interactions.
The observation that the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate released from presynaptic terminals can activate, beside the post-synaptic neuron, the glial cell astrocyte, stimulated glial cell research like no other event since the recognition in the 1980s that astrocytes can express on their membrane many receptors for classical neurotransmitters. The properties and the functional role(s) of such a neuron-to-astrocyte signaling have now become the focus of intense research in neurobiology. Indeed, a growing body of evidence has recently highlighted the ability of astrocytes to work as sophisticated detectors of synaptic activity: by changing the frequency of [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations evoked by the synaptic release of glutamate, these cells display the remarkable capacity to discriminate between different levels and patterns of synaptic activity. Furthermore, the observation that astrocytes increase the frequency of [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations in response to repetitive episodes of high neuronal activity challenges the common concept that memory function in the brain is an exclusive property of neuronal cells. Glutamate-mediated [Ca(2+)](i) elevations can also trigger in astrocytes the release of glutamate that can ultimately affect neuronal transmission. Given the wide role played by glutamate in brain physiology, our view on how the brain operates needs now to be revised taking into account the bi-directional, glutamatergic communication between neurons and astrocytes.



The C21 steroids, progesterone and 20 alpha-hydroxy-4-pregnen-3-one (20 alpha-DHP) play pivotal roles in the initiation, timing and maintenance of ovulatory function and pregnancy in female mammals. They also have growth factor and central nervous system (CNS) effects; some of these are non-genomic effects mediated through 5 alpha-reduced and 3 alpha-hydroxylated derivatives. These studies examined the in vivo uptake and conversion of 20 alpha-DHP in selected CNS sites and peripheral tissues after injection of [(3)H]-20 alpha-DHP. The effects of steroid mass, time after injection, and ovariectomy, adrenalectomy and estradiol treatment were assessed in the pineal gland, preoptic area of the hypothalamus (POA), medial basal hypothalamus (MBH), midbrain, cerebellum, cerebral cortex, anterior pituitary (AP), uterus and skeletal muscle. Tissue extracts were analyzed by scintillation counting and chromatography to quantify and localize 20 alpha-DHP and its 5 alpha-reduced derivatives. Injection of increasing mass of [(3)H]-20 alpha-DHP to ovariectomized/adrenalectomized (ovx/adx) rats results in a linear increase in (3)H-steroid 10 min post injection in all tissues. (3)H-steroid content increases with time over 1 h post injection in the pineal, AP and uterus. Tissue differences in (3)H-steroid level are observed with higher levels in pineal, MBH, POA, AP and midbrain than in cerebral cortex and cerebellum, and in uterus, ovary and adrenal than in muscle. Ovariectomy, adrenalectomy and estradiol treatment affect (3)H-steroid levels in a tissue dependent manner, and the metabolites of 20 alpha-DHP in MBH and AP differ between groups. The findings demonstrate that target tissues, including areas of the CNS, are able to selectively take up and retain 20 alpha-DHP, and also support a physiological role for this progestin and its metabolites in modulation of CNS and reproductive functions.
Electron tomography is providing a wealth of 3D structural data on biological components ranging from molecules to cells. We are developing a web-accessible database tailored to high-resolution cellular level structural and protein localization data derived from electron tomography. The Cell Centered Database or CCDB is built on an object-relational framework using Oracle 8i and is housed on a server at the San Diego Supercomputer Center at the University of California, San Diego. Data can be deposited and accessed via a web interface. Each volume reconstruction is stored with a full set of descriptors along with tilt images and any derived products such as segmented objects and animations. Tomographic data are supplemented by high-resolution light microscopic data in order to provide correlated data on higher-order cellular and tissue structure. Every object segmented from a reconstruction is included as a distinct entity in the database along with measurements such as volume, surface area, diameter, and length and amount of protein labeling, allowing the querying of image-specific attributes. Data sets obtained in response to a CCDB query are retrieved via the Storage Resource Broker, a data management system for transparent access to local and distributed data collections. The CCDB is designed to provide a resource for structural biologists and to make tomographic data sets available to the scientific community at large.
The use of chemokine receptors as cell recognition signals is a property common to several lentiviruses, including feline, human, and simian immunodeficiency viruses. Previously, two feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) isolates, V1CSF and Petaluma, were shown to use chemokine receptors in a strain-dependent manner to infect human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) (J. Johnston and C. Power, J. Virol. 73:2491-2498, 1999). Since the sequences of these viruses differed primarily in regions of the FIV envelope gene implicated in receptor use and cell tropism, envelope chimeras of V1CSF and Petaluma were constructed to investigate the role of envelope diversity in the profiles of chemokine receptors used by FIV to infect primate cells. By use of a receptor-blocking assay, all viruses were found to infect human and macaque PBMC through a mechanism involving the CXCR4 receptor. However, infection by viruses encoding the V3-to-V5 region of the V1CSF surface unit was also inhibited by blockade of the CCR3 or CCR5 receptor. Similar results were obtained with GHOST cells, human osteosarcoma cells expressing specific combinations of chemokine receptors. CXCR4 was required for infection by all FIV strains, but viruses expressing the V3-to-V5 region of V1CSF required the concurrent presence of either CCR3 or CCR5. In contrast, CXCR4 alone was sufficient to allow infection of GHOST cells by FIV strains possessing the V3-to-V5 region of Petaluma. To assess the role of primate chemokine receptors in productive infection, Crandell feline kidney (CrFK) cells that expressed human CXCR4, CCR3, or CCR5 in addition to feline CXCR4 were generated. Sustained infection by viruses encoding the V3-to-V5 region of V1CSF was detected in CrFK cells expressing human CCR3 or CCR5 but not in cells expressing CXCR4 alone, while all CrFK cell lines were permissive to viruses encoding the V3-to-V5 region of Petaluma. These results indicate that FIV uses chemokine receptors to infect both human and nonhuman primate cells and that the profiles of these receptors are dependent on envelope sequence, and they provide insights into the mechanism by which xenoinfections may occur.
The role of virus-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) in Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus (TMEV)-induced demyelinating disease, a viral model for multiple sclerosis, is not yet clear. To investigate the specificity and function of CTL generated in response to TMEV infection, we generated a panel of overlapping 20-mer peptides encompassing the entire capsid and leader protein region of the BeAn strain of TMEV. Binding of these peptides to H-2K(b) and H-2D(b) class I molecules of resistant mice was assessed using RMA-S cells. Several peptides displayed significant binding to H-2K(b), H-2D(b), or both. However, infiltrating cytotoxic T cells in the central nervous system of virus-infected mice preferentially lysed target cells pulsed with VP2(111-130/121-140) or VP2(121-130), a previously defined CTL epitope shared by the DA strain of TMEV and other closely related cardioviruses. In addition, at a high effector-to-target cell ratio, two additional peptides (VP2(161-180) and VP3(101-120)) sensitized target cells for cytolysis by infiltrating T cells or splenic T cells from virus-infected mice. The minimal epitopes within these peptides were defined as VP2(165-173) and VP3(110-120). Based on cytokine profiles, CTL specific for these subdominant epitopes are Tc2, in contrast to CTL for the immunodominant epitope, which are of the Tc1 type. Interestingly, CTL function towards both of these subdominant epitopes is restricted by the H-2D molecule, despite the fact that these epitopes bind both H-2K and H-2D molecules. This skewing toward an H-2D(b)-restricted response may confer resistance to TMEV-induced demyelinating disease, which is known to be associated with the H-2D genetic locus.

The brains of individuals who are cognitively normal show age-related changes that include an overall reduction in the brain volume and weight and enlargement of the brain ventricles. These changes are partly the result of nerve cell loss but accurate estimates of neuronal loss are notoriously difficult to make. There is loss of synapses and dendritic pruning in the aged brain but in selected areas rather than globally. Neurofibrillary tangles and senile plaques are the neuropathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease in which they are more abundant and widespread than in the brains of intellectually intact elderly people. Alzheimer's disease has, therefore, been regarded as accelerated brain ageing, however, since there is a strong genetic contribution to developing the disease it implies that it may not be the inevitable, even if frequent, consequence of old age. The interplay between genetic and environmental factors probably determines the degree of pathological brain ageing and whether or not individuals develop dementia.


Levels of phosphorylated adenosine nucleotides, including the universal energy carrier adenosine 5(')-triphosphate (ATP) and its metabolites adenosine 5(')-diphosphate (ADP) and adenosine 5(')-monophosphate (AMP), define the energy state in living cells and are dependent mainly on mitochondrial function. In this article, we describe a method based on the luciferase-luciferin system used to measure mitochondrial ATP synthesis continuously in permeabilized mammalian cells and mitochondria isolated from animal tissues. We also describe a technique that uses the expression of recombinant targeted luciferase to report ATP content in different cell compartments. Finally, we describe an HPLC-based method for accurate measurement of ATP, ADP, and AMP in cultured cells and animal tissues.
Perioperative hypotermia is a common, but preventable complication of anaesthesia and surgery. Mild perioperative hypothermia increases the incidence of morbid myocardial outcomes, reduces resistance to surgical wound infections, and prolongs both postanaesthetic recovery and hospitalization. Hypotermia causes a coagulopathy due to inhibition of platelet function. In this short review, we will discuss three studies done in the last 6 years, which explored the influence of perioperative hypotermia and blood loss. All evaluated blood loss during hip arthroplasty and had similar methodologies. Two studies demonstrate that blood loss is increased, especially during surgery, in hypotermic patients while a third study failed to identify any thermal influence on blood loss. The benefits of maintaining perioperative normothermia on blood loss thus remain unclear. We thus continue to recommend that surgical patients be kept normothermic.
Postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) are unpleasent for patients and increase the risk of aspiration pneumonia. PONV is the leading cause of unexpected admission following planned day surgery. Despite new anaesthetic drugs and antiemetics, the incidence of PONV remains high. The incidence of PONV depends numerous factors including age, gender, obesity, anxiety, gastroparesis, history of motion sickness, previous PONV, and the duration and type of surgery. Anaesthesia related factors include premedication, ventilation techniques, and postoperative pain management. Recently, the intraoperative inspired oxygen concentration was identified as a factor that influences PONV. Among the three studies that evaluated intraoperative supplemental O2 for prevention of PONV, two found that it halves PONV while the third failed to identify any benefit. Since supplemental O2 is inexpensive and essentially risk-free, it appears preferable to pharmacologic anti-emetics for prevention of PONV in abdominal surgery.
Ileus is a common postoperative complication after major abdominal surgery. Surgical manipulation of the bowel and stimulation of opiod receptor are the main causes of ileus. An investigational drug (ADL 8-2698, Alvinopam) a selective opioid antagonist with a very low oral absorption was recently introduced to clinical medicine. Unlike other opioid antagonist its activity is restricted to GI tract, it is potent, has a long duration of action, is orally effective, does not readily cross the blood-brain barrier even after intravenous administration in animals. Two randomized controlled clinical studies tested its effects in humans. Liu et al.'s study confirmed peripheral restriction of ADL 8-2698 by its lack of central effect on morphine analgesia and pupil miosis. They also showed that ADL 8-2698 prevents increases in gastrointestinal transit time. Taguchi et al. concluded that high dose (6 mg) of ADL 8-2698 archived fast recovery of gastrointestinal function, without antagonising analgesic efficacy of systemic opioid. In summary, selective inhibition of gastrointestinal opioid receptor by a peripherally restricted oral antagonist speeds recovery of bowel function, shortens times of hospitalization and preserves the analgesic effects of opiods.

Pediatric sleep physiology begins with development of the sleep/wake cycle, and the origins of active versus quiet sleep. The 24-hour circadian cycle becomes established at 3-6 months. Sleep disorders during infancy commonly include mild, usually self-limited conditions such as sleep-onset association disorder, excessive nighttime feedings, and poor limit-setting. These require behavioral management to avoid long-term deleterious sleep habits. In contrast, other sleep disorders are more ominous, including SIDS, central congenital hypoventilation syndrome, and sleep apnea. Childhood is generally considered the golden age of sleep, with brief latency to sleep onset, high efficiency, and easy awakening. Yet parasomnias, psychological factors, and sleep disturbances associated with common disorders such as ADHD disrupt the idealistic notion of childhood being a period of unfettered sleep. Adolescents have sleep requirements similar to adults, posing a challenge for them to adapt to school schedules and increasingly demanding lifestyles. Narcolepsy, usually diagnosed in adolescence or early adulthood, is a lifelong sleep disorder and has led to the identification of the hypocretin/orexin neurotransmitter system. Research advances in the complex interrelationships between developmental neurobiology, sleep disorders and behavior will lead to an enhanced understanding of the pathophysiology of sleep problems and lead to novel therapeutic strategies for sleep disturbances in children.
HA95, a nuclear protein homologous to AKAP95, has been identified in immune precipitates of the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) coactivating nuclear protein EBNA-LP from EBV-transformed lymphoblastoid cells (LCLs). We now find that HA95 and EBNA-LP are highly associated in LCLs and in B-lymphoma cells where EBNA-LP is expressed by gene transfer. Binding was also evident in yeast two-hybrid assays. HA95 binds to the EBNA-LP repeat domain that is the principal coactivator of transcription. EBNA-LP localizes with HA95 and causes HA95 to partially relocalize with EBNA-LP in promyelocytic leukemia nuclear bodies. Protein kinase A catalytic subunit alpha (PKAcsalpha) is significantly associated with HA95 in the presence or absence of EBNA-LP. Although EBNA-LP is not a PKA substrate, HA95 or PKAcsalpha expression in B lymphoblasts specifically down-regulates the strong coactivating effects of EBNA-LP. The inhibitory effects of PKAcsalpha are reversed by coexpression of protein kinase inhibitor. PKAcsalpha also inhibits EBNA-LP coactivation with the EBNA-2 acidic domain fused to the Gal4 DNA binding domain. Furthermore, EBNA-LP- and EBNA-2-induced expression of the EBV oncogene, LMP1, is down-regulated by PKAcsalpha or HA95 expression in EBV-infected lymphoblasts. These experiments indicate that HA95 and EBNA-LP localize PKAcsalpha at nuclear sites where it can affect transcription from specific promoters. The role of HA95 as a scaffold for transcriptional regulation is discussed.
Agrin is a nerve-derived signal that is essential for the proper organization of postsynaptic acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) at the vertebrate neuromuscular junction. It is likely that carbohydrates play a significant role in regulating agrin activity, as agrin binds multiple glycan structures and is itself a highly glycosylated protein. Here we provide support for this contention by showing that agrin can be modified with the CT antigen, a carbohydrate structure expressed at the neuromuscular junction, and by describing the resulting changes in agrin binding to neoglycoconjugates and cultured myotubes, as well as changes in agrin-dependent AChR clustering. Glycosylation of agrin with the CT antigen required the mucin domain and the dystroglycan/heparin-binding domain. The presence of the mucin domain lowered agrin binding to several N-acetyllactosaminyl-containing saccharides and C2 myotubes and lowered agrin activity in AChR clustering. Glycosylation of agrin with the CT antigen, by contrast, increased agrin binding to myotubes and potentiated its AChR clustering activity at subsaturating concentrations. Last, sialylated and nonsialylated variants of N-acetyllactosamine differentially modulated AChR clustering and agrin activity, and these changes correlated with the ability of MuSK, an agrin-stimulated kinase, to bind to these structures. These experiments demonstrate that the glycosylation state of agrin affects its activity and suggest a role for the CT antigen in modulating agrin function.
The Galpha and Gbetagamma components of heterotrimeric G proteins, typically associated with cell-surface receptor signaling, also partake in the macromolecular interactions that underlie cell polarity and cell division. Proteins with Galpha-binding GoLoco motifs, such as Drosophila melanogaster Pins (for Partner of Inscuteable) and its mammalian counterpart LGN, participate in multi-protein complexes that maintain cellular asymmetry and orderly segregation of chromosomal content and daughter cell bodies. The GoLoco motif was recently identified as a selective Galpha-binding partner: the GoLoco-Galpha interaction can displace Gbetagamma and inhibit guanine nucleotide release from the bound Galpha subunit. Recent x-ray crystallographic studies suggest ways in which GoLoco-motif peptides may modulate heterotrimeric G protein signaling. Such peptides could be exploited to help dissect the signals that underpin cell polarity and cell division processes.
Tracazolate, a pyrazolopyridine, is an anxiolytic known to interact with gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) receptors, adenosine receptors, and phosphodiesterases. Its anxiolytic effect is thought to be via its interaction with GABA(A) receptors. We now report the first detailed pharmacological study examining the effects of tracazolate on a range of recombinant GABA(A) receptors expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. Replacement of the gamma2s subunit within the alpha1beta3gamma2s receptor with the epsilon subunit caused a dramatic change in the functional response to tracazolate from potentiation to inhibition. The gamma2s subunit was not critical for potentiation because alpha1beta3 receptors were also potentiated by tracazolate. gamma2/epsilon chimeras revealed a critical N-terminal domain between amino acids 206 and 230 of gamma2, governing the nature of this response. Replacement of the beta3 subunit with the beta1 subunit within alpha1beta3gamma2s and alpha1beta3epsilon receptors also revealed selectivity of tracazolate for beta3-containing receptors, determined by asparagine at position 265 within transmembrane 2. Replacement of gamma2s with gamma1 or gamma3 revealed a profile intermediate to that of alpha1beta1epsilon and alpha1beta1gamma2s. alpha1beta1delta receptors were also potentiated by tracazolate; however, the maximum potentiation of the EC(20) was much greater than on alpha1beta1gamma2. Concentration-response curves to GABA in the presence of tracazolate for alpha1beta1epsilon and alpha1beta1gamma2s revealed a concentration-related decrease in maximum current amplitude, but a leftward shift in the EC(50) only on alpha1beta1gamma2. Like alpha1beta1gamma2s, GABA concentration-response curves on alpha1beta1delta receptors were shifted to the left with increased maximum responses. Tracazolate has a unique pharmacological profile on recombinant GABA(A) receptors: its potency (EC(50)) is influenced by the nature of the beta subunit; but more importantly, its intrinsic efficacy, potentiation, or inhibition is determined by the nature of the third subunit (gamma1-3, delta, or epsilon) within the receptor complex.
Growth factors, including nerve growth factor (NGF), have been hypothesized to play a role in resistance to chemotherapeutic agent-induced apoptosis. Induction by NGF of resistance to apoptosis is primarily thought to be the result of its binding to its high-affinity receptor, TrkA. The low-affinity NGF receptor, p75, has long been thought merely to facilitate NGF binding to TrkA. However, we have previously shown that the binding of NGF to its low-affinity receptor, p75, protects neuroblastoma cells that do not express TrkA against apoptosis induced by enediyne chemotherapeutic agents. In cells that express both receptors, it is not clear what determines which receptor is responsible for the protective effect of NGF. We now show that, in enediyne-treated SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma transfectants with native levels of p75 and a low TrkA/p75 ratio (1/100), the anti-apoptotic effect of NGF requires binding to p75. In contrast, in transfectants with native levels of p75 and a high TrkA/p75 ratio (100/100), NGF treatment prevents enediyne-induced apoptosis by a mechanism independent of p75 binding. Treatment of low TrkA/p75 ratio cells with NGF results in activation and nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB and tyrosine phosphorylation of TrkA. Analogous treatment of high TrkA/p75 ratio cells results only in phosphorylation of TrkA even though nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB signaling is not inactive and can be initiated by other ligands. The ratio of TrkA/p75 in cells that express both receptors probably contributes to the determination of which of the two known roles of p75 (i.e., TrkA independent or TrkA facilitatory) are responsible for NGF-mediated protection from enediyne-induced apoptosis.
Recombinant adeno-associated viruses (rAAVs) are among the most promising vectors for gene delivery into the CNS. However, a major hurdle for gene transfer to the mammalian brain is to achieve high transduction levels in target cells beyond the immediate injection site. Therefore, building upon the optimization of injection parameters on which we have recently reported, it is important to define additional methods to increase the volume of distribution. Here, we establish an optimal heparin concentration, and show that co-injection of heparin together with rAAV2 leads to a significantly higher and more homogeneous distribution of transduced cells. In contrast, the diffusion pattern of rAAV serotype 5 differs from that of rAAV2, in that its distribution is less homogeneous, more variable, and patchy. Furthermore, this study illustrates the influence of receptor binding on the expression pattern following injection of rAAV in the CNS. In addition to improvements in expression cassettes and viral titers and the use of very slow infusion rates, gene transfer studies in the CNS where the goal is to obtain widespread transduction should consider co-injecting the viral vector rAAV2 with heparin to maximize transduction efficiency and viral spread.
The aim of this study was to investigate changes of brain volume as measured by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS) patients under treatment with interferon beta-1a. Moreover, the relationship between brain volume changes and standard MR or clinical outcome variables was determined. After a 6-month pretreatment period, 52 patients with relapsing-remitting MS were assigned to receive interferon beta-1a (Rebif-Serono) during a 24-month treatment period MRI scans were performed monthly during the 6-month pretreatment period and for the first 9 months of the treatment period. A final MRI scan was also performed at the end of the 12- and 24-month treatment period. Over 24 months of IFNbeta-1a treatment, a significant decrease of hyperintense lesion volume was found (-18.0%; p&lt;0.0001) compared to the last pretreatment scan, while T1 hypointense volume showed a slight nonsignificant increase (+2.2%), and brain volume showed a significant decrease (-2.2%; p&lt;0.0001). The mean volume of enhancing lesions over the 6-month pretreatment period was significantly related to absolute (p=0.02; r=-0.32) and per cent change (p=0.03; r=-0.30) of brain volume during 24-month treatment period. No correlations between changes in brain volume and changes in T2 hyperintense volume or T1 hypointense volume were observed. Neither was there a relationship between brain volume and changes of Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) or frequency in clinical relapses. Of the group in whom was detected a significant decrease of brain volume, 13 out of 26 (50%) had a sustained change in EDSS while in the group that did not have a significant decrease of brain volume, only 3 out of 26 (11.5%) had a sustained EDSS change (p=0.02). In this study a decrease of brain volume was found in relapsing-remitting MS patients treated with IFNbeta-1a over 2 years. The only parameter that predicted brain volume decrease by 2 years of IFNbeta-1a treatment was the mean volume of enhancing lesions over the 6-month pretreatment period.
A T--&gt;G transversion at nt 8993 in mitochondrial DNA of MTATP6 (encoding ATPase 6 of complex V of the respiratory chain) causes impaired mitochondrial ATP synthesis in two related mitochondrial disorders: neuropathy, ataxia and retinitis pigmentosa and maternally inherited Leigh syndrome. To overcome the biochemical defect, we expressed wildtype ATPase 6 protein allotopically from nucleus-transfected constructs encoding an amino-terminal mitochondrial targeting signal appended to a recoded ATPase 6 gene (made compatible with the universal genetic code) that also contained a carboxy-terminal FLAG epitope tag. After transfection of human cells, the precursor polypeptide was expressed, imported into and processed within mitochondria, and incorporated into complex V. Allotopic expression of stably transfected constructs in cytoplasmic hybrids (cybrids) homoplasmic with respect to the 8993T--&gt;G mutation showed a significantly improved recovery after growth in selective medium as well as a significant increase in ATP synthesis. This is the first successful demonstration of allotopic expression of an mtDNA-encoded polypeptide in mammalian cells and could form the basis of a genetic approach to treat a number of human mitochondrial disorders.


Humans have the conscious experience of 'free will': we feel we can generate our actions, and thus affect our environment. Here we used the perceived time of intentional actions and of their sensory consequences as a means to study consciousness of action. These perceived times were attracted together in conscious awareness, so that subjects perceived voluntary movements as occurring later and their sensory consequences as occurring earlier than they actually did. Comparable involuntary movements caused by magnetic brain stimulation reversed this attraction effect. We conclude that the CNS applies a specific neural mechanism to produce intentional binding of actions and their effects in conscious awareness.




Self-organization is one of fundamental brain computations for forming efficient representations of information. Experimental support for this idea has been largely limited to the developmental and reorganizational formation of neural circuits in the sensory cortices. We now propose that self-organization may also play an important role in short-term synaptic changes in reward-driven voluntary behaviors. It has recently been shown that many neurons in the basal ganglia change their sensory responses flexibly in relation to rewards. Our computational model proposes that the rapid changes in striatal projection neurons depend on the subtle balance between the Hebb-type mechanisms of excitation and inhibition, which are modulated by reinforcement signals. Simulations based on the model are shown to produce various types of neural activity similar to those found in experiments.
The theta rhythm appears in the rat hippocampal electroencephalogram during exploration and shows phase locking to stimulus acquisition. Lesions that block theta rhythm impair performance in tasks requiring reversal of prior learning, including reversal in a T-maze, where associations between one arm location and food reward need to be extinguished in favor of associations between the opposite arm location and food reward. Here, a hippocampal model shows how theta rhythm could be important for reversal in this task by providing separate functional phases during each 100-300 msec cycle, consistent with physiological data. In the model, effective encoding of new associations occurs in the phase when synaptic input from entorhinal cortex is strong and long-term potentiation (LTP) of excitatory connections arising from hippocampal region CA3 is strong, but synaptic currents arising from region CA3 input are weak (to prevent interference from prior learned associations). Retrieval of old associations occurs in the phase when entorhinal input is weak and synaptic input from region CA3 is strong, but when depotentiation occurs at synapses from CA3 (to allow extinction of prior learned associations that do not match current input). These phasic changes require that LTP at synapses arising from region CA3 should be strongest at the phase when synaptic transmission at these synapses is weakest. Consistent with these requirements, our recent data show that synaptic transmission in stratum radiatum is weakest at the positive peak of local theta, which is when previous data show that induction of LTP is strongest in this layer.



Through an extremely complicated equilibrium called homeostasis, all living organisms maintain their survival in the face of both externally and internally generated &quot;stimuli&quot;. This apparent harmony is constantly challenged. Survival through successful adaptation is maintained as close to steady state as possible by adaptive responses, which may also be called perturbation responses since they have a constitutively defined dynamic capacity, i.e., an immediate limit, in a series of balancing and feedback activities reflecting an astounding array of biological, psychological and sociological behaviors. The broad spectrum of stimuli capable of engaging this protective response is remarkable. We define stress as a type of stimulation that is stronger and lasts for a longer duration, upsetting a typical perturbation response given its dynamic parameters. The stress response, which evolves out of the perturbation response, involves inducible signal molecules, i.e., cytokines. We surmise that the ability to exist in an ever-changing environment was a requirement for all life forms, including invertebrates and single celled organisms. It would be expected that these organisms exhibit both perturbation and stress responses. In this regard, we demonstrate that these organisms have mammalian-like signal molecule systems, i.e., opioid, and corresponding behaviors that are similar to those found in mammals with regard to both perturbation and stress responses. Thus, it would appear that these responses evolved first in simpler organisms and were then maintained and enhanced during evolution.
In adult medulloblastoma, postoperative radiotherapy is significantly effective in prolonging time to recurrence and survival time; however, the response of individual cases to radiotherapy, that is the total survival, is different. Apoptosis is an important cellular response to radiation. It can be hypothesized that the individual radiosensitivity of medulloblastomas depends on the individual capability to undergo apoptosis. p53 protein is involved in the apoptotic response to ionizing radiation; loss of function of p53 can be the consequence not only of TP53 mutations, but also of amplification and/or overexpression of the MDM2 gene. We have analyzed cerebellar medulloblastomas from 51 adults (&gt;16 years of age) for MDM2 gene amplification (by differential polymerase chain reaction assay), TP53 gene mutation (by polymerase chain reaction single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis of exons 5-8), and immunohistochemical expression of p53 (clone DO1) and MDM2 (clone IF2). The results have been evaluated in relation to age, tumor location, classic or desmoplastic type, MIB-1 labeling index, and total survival. No tumor had MDM2 amplification. Ten tumors had MDM2 positive tumor cells. One case had a mutated TP53 gene; 16/51 cases had intense p53 immunostaining. Only 2 MDM2 protein-positive tumors were also p53-positive. Both subgroups of MDM2 - and p53-positive tumors had a significantly shorter postoperative survival. In conclusion, the overexpression of MDM2 protein and the accumulation of wild-type p53 are unrelated in adult medulloblastoma; they may result in a reduced apoptotic response after radiotherapy and contribute to a shortened survival. Also, MDM2 amplification and TP53 gene mutation are rare events in medulloblastomas of adults.
We investigated the role of hippocampal amyloid pathology in spatial learning impairment of a new mouse line carrying mutated human amyloid precursor protein (APP) and presenilin-1 (PS1) transgenes. The APP + PS1 mice were tested in spatial navigation in the water maze and in position discrimination in the T-maze at ages of 3-4 and 11-12 months, before and after the appearance of first amyloid plaques. The APP + PS1 mice were impaired in water maze acquisition and retention only at the age of 11-12 months, but performed equally to controls in the T-maze task at both ages. In the impaired older age group, the levels of total Abeta1-42 in the hippocampus of APP + PS1 mice correlated negatively with the retention score. Here we show for the first time that the age-dependent impairment in memory retention in the traditional water maze of APP + PS1 mice correlates with the amount of total Abeta in hippocampus even at a stage when the amyloid deposits cover less than 1% of the hippocampal volume.
The serine-threonine kinase, Akt, is involved in the survival signaling pathways in many cell systems. The present study examined phosphorylation of Akt at serine-473 and DNA fragmentation after traumatic brain injury (TBI) in mice. Immunohistochemistry showed phospho-Akt was decreased in the injured cortex 1 h after TBI, whereas it was temporally increased at 4 h in the perifocal damaged cortex. In the CA1 region of the hippocampus, phospho-Akt was increased after TBI. Western blot analysis showed that Akt was significantly decreased as early as 1 h after trauma; however, the phosphorylation was accelerated at 4 h. Double staining with phospho-Akt and phospho-BAD or phospho-GSK-3beta revealed the colocalization of phospho-Akt and downstream elements. Double staining with phospho-Akt and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated uridine 5'-triphosphate-biotin nick end-labeling showed different cellular distributions after TBI. The present study implicates Akt phosphorylation in the signaling pathways that are involved in cell survival after TBI.
This work describes a novel epilepsy model, combining pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) kindling with the senescence-accelerated mouse P8 (SAMP8) a model for aging. The 2- and 8-month-old SAMP8 mice were treated with PTZ, phenobarbital plus PTZ or saline every 48 h during a period of 40 days. Both 2- and 8-month-old PTZ-kindled mice showed a behavioral pattern that was very similar to severe chronic epilepsy with secondary generalized seizures. Two out of six 8-month-old animals died in the PTZ group. Interestingly, atypical absence seizures were limited to the 8-month-old PTZ group. Furthermore, 8-month-old mice were more sensitive to the sedative effect of phenobarbital. The concentrations of several amino acids were examined by HPLC. Lower levels of amino acids were found in the 8-month-old compared to the 2-month-old control animals. No biochemical changes were observed between the groups of 2-month-old animals, while in the 8-month-old animals both treatment groups showed significantly higher concentrations of GABA, glutamine and glutathione. Thus, it could be shown that cerebral metabolism of 8-month-old SAMP8 mice was more sensitive to PTZ and phenobarbital than metabolism of 2-month-old mice. Furthermore, it is suggested that glutamate metabolism in brains of 8-month-old SAMP8 mice is altered and that excessive glutamate is transformed, in considerable amounts, into glutamate related metabolites, possibly in astrocytes.
A new anticonvulsant drug lamotrigine (LTG) has recently been reported to be effective in treating patients with bipolar affective disorder, depression and schizoaffective disorder, suggesting that it is a mood stabilizer. However, the mechanism of action underlying its efficacy in mood disorders is not understood. This study examined the in vivo effect of LTG on 5-HT(1A) receptor-mediated adenylyl cyclase (AC) response in regions of rat brain, as this pathway has been implicated in the therapeutic action of various classes of mood stabilizers. The density of 5-HT(1A) receptors was measured by radioligand binding assay using [(3)H]8-OH-DPAT (0.05-0.8nM) in frontal cortex and hippocampus of rats treated orally with LTG (5mg/kg) for 7 days. AC activity was assayed using [(3)H]ATP. The oral administration of LTG significantly decreased the density of cortical (50%, P&lt;0.001) but not hippocampal 5-HT(1A) receptors, without significant change in the affinity of [(3)H]8-OH-DPAT to 5-HT(1A) receptor in these regions. There was no significant alteration in basal or forskolin-stimulated AC activity in either of regions. However, a significant decrease (P&lt;0.01) in the inhibition of forskolin-stimulated AC activity by 8-OH-DPAT was observed only in cortical membranes of LTG treated rats when compared to control. These results suggest that one mode of action of LTG may be by the downregulation of cortical 5-HT(1A) receptor-mediated AC response.
Leptin, primarily secreted by adipocytes, is a peripheral hormonal signal involved in the hypothalamic integration of energy homeostasis. We report that plasma leptin levels fluctuated in a pulsatile fashion in gonad-intact adult female and male rats. Whereas in male rats leptin was secreted in the form of low-amplitude, high-frequency pulses, in female rats high-amplitude pulses were secreted at only a slightly lower frequency. Consequently, plasma leptin concentrations were higher in female than in male rats. Gonadectomy decreased leptin secretion but the sexually dimorphic leptin pulsatility pattern persisted. These results show that there is a distinct female-type and male-type leptin pulsatility pattern and each is amenable to augmentation by gonadal steroids either involving mechanisms that impart leptin pulsatility patterns directly at the level of adipocytes and/or at hypothalamic target sites.
Interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC) form networks that intercalate between the enteric nervous system and smooth muscle cells and play a fundamental role in the control of gastrointestinal motility by initiating rhythmic electrical activity. In this report, we used a method to examine the physiological and morphological properties of ICC in living, intact tissues. ACK2, an anti-Kit antibody, was conjugated to a fluorescent probe and used to identify individual ICC for intracellular electrical recordings, to record changes in intracellular calcium concentration using fluorescent dyes and for confocal microscopy. Cyclic changes in intracellular calcium concentration were recorded in ICC with a frequency similar to the electrical slow wave. In addition, injection of a fluorescent dye into single ICC enabled the three-dimensional reconstruction of single myenteric plexus ICC within the intact network. The data show that ICC in intact networks from the myenteric plexus region in living tissues in the guinea-pig antrum exhibit an electrical slow wave, and that intracellular calcium oscillates at a frequency similar to the slow wave.
Pramlintide delays gastric emptying, possibly by a centrally mediated mechanism. Our aim was to determine whether the effects of pramlintide on gastric emptying differ in people with type 1 or type 2 diabetes who had no history of complications. Using a randomized, three-period, two-dose, crossover design, we studied the effects of 0, 30, or 60 microg t.i.d. pramlintide subcutaneously for 5 days each in six type 1 and six type 2 diabetic subjects. Gastric emptying of solids was measured by 13C-Spirulina breath test. Plasma pancreatic polypeptide (HPP) response to the test meal was also measured. Relative to placebo [t 50% 91 +/- 6 min (means +/- SEM)], pramlintide equally delayed gastric emptying following 30 or 60 microg t.i.d. (268 +/- 37 min, 329 +/- 49 min, respectively; P &lt; 0.01]. Postprandial HPP levels were lower in response to 30 and 60 microg pramlintide compared to placebo. There were no significant differences in the effects on gastric emptying or HPP levels between type 1 and type 2 diabetic subjects. Pramlintide delays gastric emptying in diabetes unassociated with clinically detected complications. Further studies are needed in diabetic patients with impaired gastric motor function.
This study investigated the neuronal basis of evaluative judgment. Judgments can be defined as the assessment of an external or internal stimulus on an internal scale and they are fundamental for decision-making and other cognitive processes. Evaluative judgments (I like George W. Bush: yes/no) are a special type of judgment, in which the internal scale is related to the person's value system (preferences, norms, aesthetic values, etc.). We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to examine brain activation during the performance of evaluative judgments as opposed to episodic and semantic memory retrieval. Evaluative judgment produced significant activation in the anterior frontomedian cortex (BA 10/9), the inferior precuneus (BA 23/31), and the left inferior prefrontal cortex (BA 45/47). The results show a functional dissociation between the activations in the anterior frontomedian cortex and in the inferior precuneus. The latter was mainly activated by episodic retrieval processes, supporting its function as a multimodal association area that integrates the different aspects of retrieved and newly presented information. In contrast, the anterior frontomedian cortex was mainly involved in evaluative judgments, supporting its role in self-referential processes and in the self-initiation of cognitive processes.
Finding objective and effective thresholds for voxelwise statistics derived from neuroimaging data has been a long-standing problem. With at least one test performed for every voxel in an image, some correction of the thresholds is needed to control the error rates, but standard procedures for multiple hypothesis testing (e.g., Bonferroni) tend to not be sensitive enough to be useful in this context. This paper introduces to the neuroscience literature statistical procedures for controlling the false discovery rate (FDR). Recent theoretical work in statistics suggests that FDR-controlling procedures will be effective for the analysis of neuroimaging data. These procedures operate simultaneously on all voxelwise test statistics to determine which tests should be considered statistically significant. The innovation of the procedures is that they control the expected proportion of the rejected hypotheses that are falsely rejected. We demonstrate this approach using both simulations and functional magnetic resonance imaging data from two simple experiments.
The ability to recognize sequential patterns of external events enables us to predict their future course and thus to plan and execute actions based on current perceptions and previous experiences. Here we show with functional magnetic resonance imaging that even in the absence of movement the prediction of sequential patterns activates brain areas involved in the representation of specific motor schemas. Particularly, the prediction of size engages premotor areas involved in hand movements (superior part of the ventrolateral premotor cortex), whereas the prediction of pitch engages premotor areas involved in articulation (inferior most ventrolateral premotor cortex). The findings indicate that events are mapped onto somatotopically corresponding motor schemes whenever we predict sequential perceptions.
A review of the pathological basis of multiple sclerosis is presented to see whether the many immunological effects if IVIg may exert some benefit and at what level. This is probably due to the wide spectrum of interactions between IVIg and the immune system, which are analyzed in this review. Macrophage Fc receptor saturation and block, anti-idiotypic effect, reduction of endothelial cell activation and superantigen-neutralizing antibodies are probably involved in the action of IVIg in dysimmune demyelinating diseases. Furthermore, IVIg promote remyelination in virus-induced experimental encephalomyelitis. Trials on IVIg in MS demonstrated a reduction of relapse rate (RR) and appearance of gadolinium-enhancing lesions on magnetic resonance imaging. Furthermore IvIg are regarded as a promising treatment to reduce RR in post-partum period. However, studies on secondary-progressive MS failed to demonstrate an IVIg effect on disability and IVIg failed to improve stabilized visual and motor deficits in two large trials.
The introduction of L-Dopa has been a landmark in Neuroscience. Before the use of L-Dopa, Parkinson's disease (PD) was considered a disabling disease with no effective treatment. The development of L-Dopa followed a rationale approach: first, the discovery of dopamine deficiency in the striatum of patients with PD; and then the use of precursor of dopamine. Overall, the whole process took less than 12 years; this is a remarkable short time taking into account that the development of a similar crucial drug such as insulin took 50 years. In addition, the success of L-Dopa stimulated the neurochemistry research for all neurodegenerative diseases.
We describe a technique for the safe and aesthetically pleasing implantation of the Synergy pulse generator in the posterior iliac region for spinal cord stimulation. The technique can be applied to both thin and obese patients.
An 8-year-old boy was referred for recent onset of easy fatigue. He showed hyperCKemia and mild scapular winging. Muscle biopsy on the quadriceps muscle demonstrated slight fibre size variability. Dystrophin was normally distributed, carnitine palmitoyl transferase and glycolytic enzymes had normal activities. In the following years the patient developed exercise intolerance and myoglobinuria. Immunohistochemistry showed marked reduction of alpha-sarcoglycan, confirmed by Western blotting. Molecular analysis revealed compound heterozygosity with Arg284Cys and Glu137Lys substitutions, corresponding to nucleotide changes C850 T and G409 A in the gene. At present the patient, 20 years old, shows mild proximal weakness with prominent involvement of the paraspinal muscles, dorsal kyphosis and lumbar hyperlordosis. Exercise intolerance and myoglobinuria, already described in Becker muscular dystrophy, should be also considered among the possible presentations of sarcoglycan deficiencies.
Numerous studies have implicated oxytocin (OT) and oxytocin receptors in the central mediation of social cognition and social behavior. Much of our understanding of OT's central effects depends on pharmacological studies with OT agonists and antagonists. Recently, our knowledge of OT's effects has been extended by the development of oxytocin knockout (OTKO) mice. Mice with a null mutation of the OT gene manifest several interesting cognitive and behavioral changes, only some of which were predicted by pharmacological studies. Contrary to studies in rats, mice do not appear to require OT for normal sexual or maternal behavior, though OT is necessary for the milk ejection reflex during lactation. OTKO pups thrive if raised by a lactating female, but OTKO pups emit fewer ultrasonic vocalizations with maternal separation and OTKO adults are more aggressive than WT mice. Remarkably, OTKO mice fail to recognize familiar conspecifics after repeated social encounters, though olfactory and non-social memory functions appear to be intact. Central OT administration into the amygdala restores social recognition. The development of transgenic mice with specific deficits in social memory represents a promising approach to examine the cellular and neural systems of social cognition. These studies may provide valuable new perspectives on diseases characterized by social deficits, such as autism or reactive attachment disorder.
The therapeutic effects of ABR-215062, which is a new immunoregulator derived from Linomide, have been evaluated in experimental autoimmune neuritis (EAN), a CD4(+) T cell-mediated animal model of Guillain-Barr syndrome in man. In previous studies, we reported that Linomide suppressed the clinical EAN and myelin antigen-reactive T and B cell responses. Here EAN induced in Lewis rats by inoculation with peripheral nerve myelin P0 protein peptide 180-199 and Freund's complete adjuvant was strongly suppressed by ABR-215062 administered daily subcutaneously from the day of inoculation. ABR-215062 dose-dependently reduced the incidence of EAN, ameliorated clinical signs and inhibited P0 peptide 180-199-specific T cell responses as well as also the decreased inflammation and demyelination in the peripheral nerves. The suppression of clinical EAN was associated with inhibition of the inflammatory cytokines IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha, as well as the enhancement of anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-4 in lymph node cells and periphery nerve tissues, respectively, in a dose-dependent manner. These effects indicate that ABR-215062 may mediate its effects by regulation of Th1/Th2 cytokine balance and suggest that ABR-215062 is potentially a new chemical entity for effective treatment of autoimmune diseases.
Drugs that alter the function of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurotransmission seem to reduce cocaine reinforcement, and as such may be useful in pharmacologically treating cocaine addiction. In the present experiment, the anti-cocaine effects of CGP 44532, a phosphinic acid analogue of GABA, and a highly selective GABA(B) receptor agonist were examined in male Sprague-Dawley rats using brain stimulation reward (BSR) paradigm. In this method, the relationship between the rate of bar pressing and the frequency of stimulation pulses was analyzed in two measures: the maximum rate of responding (MAX) and the frequency necessary to sustain half maximal rate of responding known as the locus of rise (LOR). CGP 44532 was found to be hedonically neutral without producing any measurable effects on performance (MAX). It also dose-dependently reduced cocaine-induced BSR enhancement, in the order of 15-31%, as shown by progressive shifts in LOR towards baseline. Thus, in theory, administration of CGP 44532 might reduce cocaine's hedonic effects, while also maintaining patient compliance. Whether this agent would also be effective at curbing craving, a long-term consequence of drug abuse, remains to be determined.
Research indicates that glucocorticoids affect hippocampal function and the form of cognition that the hippocampus is thought to subserve, explicit memory. However, some studies suggest that glucocorticoids affect the frontal lobe, attention and working memory. Thus, it is not clear whether glucocorticoids specifically target the hippocampus and explicit memory or if the effects are more ubiquitous. By simultaneously measuring event-related potentials and behavioral performance in tasks designed to tap particular cognitive and neural processes, the present study examined the effects of hydrocortisone on 24 healthy humans. In an intentional face recognition memory task where the stimuli were presented again after a brief delay (6-18 s) and a long delay (30 min), hydrocortisone altered the P600 component (an electrophysiological index of recognition memory and hippocampal activity) following the brief delay and impaired behavioral performance after the long delay. ERPs and behavioral performance were not affected in the attention and working memory tasks. These findings are consistent with reports indicating that glucocorticoids affect explicit memory and hippocampal function.
To study the mechanism of action of the novel anticonvulsant and mood stabilizer lamotrigine, we used cDNA array to generate an expression profile of lamotrigine-regulated genes in primary cultured rat hippocampus cells. Gene expression was analyzed using Atlas Rat 1.2 Arrays of approximately 1200 genes. Total RNA was isolated from control and cells treated with lamotrigine at 0.1 mM for one week and reverse-transcribed to cDNA labeled with 32P-dATP. The cDNA probes were hybridized with two identical cDNA array membranes. After comparing hybridized signals between these two membranes, we found that chronic treatment with lamotrigine increased the expression of eight genes and decreased the expression of six genes. One of the upregulated genes is GABA-A receptor beta subunit. This increase in GABA-A receptor beta3 subunit expression was further confirmed by Northern blotting analysis. In situ hybridization revealed that chronic treatment with lamotrigine increased GABA-A receptor beta3 subunit gene expression in CA1, CA3 and dentate gyrus of rat hippocampus. Our findings indicate that lamotrigine may effect GABA-A receptor regulated functions in the central nervous system.
Patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) frequently develop neurological abnormalities, and atrophy has been reported in neuropathological studies of brains from patients with AIDS. Our aim was to see whether increased ventricular volume, indicating central cerebral atrophy develops at an early stage of HIV-infection, before patients are severely immunodeficient. We also wished to follow ventricular size over time and to investigate whether enlargement would be more marked in patients, who became clinically demented. We studied 32 HIV-seropositive men who had several CT studies. At the time of the first CT the patients were divided into two groups, an immunocompetent group (IC) with CD4 cell count &gt;400 and an immunodeficient group (ID) with CD4 cell count &lt;400. These were compared with a control group of 44 seronegative men. Subsequent CT studies were used to measure changes in ventricular size with time. Ventricular volume was estimated with an unbiased stereological method previously applied to CT. Mean (geometric) ventricular volume was 15 ml (6-54 ml) in the controls, 23 ml (10-72 ml) in the IC group and 27 ml (8-80 ml) in the ID group. The increase in size in both patient groups was statistically significant compared with controls: P=0.005 (IC) and 9 x 10(-5)(ID). Regression analysis of the follow-up CT studies showed a significant increase in volume in the HIV group (r=0.74, P=0.002), but not in the AIDS group (r=0.41, P&lt;0.1).
On the basis of a hypothesis that proteins encoded by the mRNAs that are transported to and translated at the dendrites/synapses may play key roles in synaptic plasticity, this study reports on attempts to isolate mRNAs which are localizing at the dendrites/synapses from mouse cerebellar synaptosomal fractions. Among 100 pieces of dendritic mRNA candidates, 10 pieces of mRNAs were found to contain the cytoplasmic polyadenylation element (CPE)-like sequences which were contained in certain mRNAs translated in dendrites. We next examined the issue of whether the CPE-like sequence-containing mRNAs (CPERs) were localized in the synapses/dendrites by means of in situ hybridization. The findings indicate that CPER9 was actually localized at the apical dendrites of a portion of cerebral cortex layer V pyramidal cells, as well as at the proximal dendrites of some of the cerebellar Purkinje cells. CPER9 was found to encode a mouse homolog of MRG15, a nuclear protein which contains a chromodomain identified in several proteins that act as regulators of transcription. Immunohistochemistry with anti-MRG15 antibodies revealed that MRG15 was localized in dendrites as well as in the nuclei of Purkinje cells. These results suggest that MRG15 may serve as a link between synaptic activity and gene expression.


We report a case of a 29-year-old female patient with atypical magnetic resonance image appearance of multiple sclerosis simulating brain tumor on magnetic resonance images, that proved to be a demyelinating disease on brain biopsy. Steroid pulse therapy produced regression of the lesions on magnetic resonance images.
This report describes a recent case of neuroleptic malignant syndrome, a rare adverse effect of antipsychotic medications. Assessment of the neuroleptic malignant syndrome was carried out by using the Naranjo Algorithm Probability Scale which resulted in a highly probable reaction to haloperidol. The difficulties in establishing the diagnosis in this patient lead to late intervention resulting in a slow recovery and prolonged hospitalization. Our objective in this presentation is to highlight the importance of early recognition of this potentially fatal adverse drug reaction.
Brain abscess due to listeria monocytogenes mainly involves the cerebral hemispheres. Cerebellar abscess is an infrequent event, which could lead to rapid neurological deterioration if unrecognized. We present a case of multiple brain stem and cerebellar abscesses in a previously healthy individual exposed to unpasteurized milk. This is the 2nd case of cerebellar abscess due to listeria monocytogenes reported in the English literature. The diagnosis of listeria monocytogenes was made in the surgical specimen. Our case illustrates the difficulty of early diagnosis of cerebellar listeria monocytogenes abscesses and the importance of prompt neurosurgical intervention.
The pathoanatomical explanation of lumbar disc herniation causing the rare cauda equina syndrome with sacral 2- sacral 4 roots sparing is not well described. A case report of bladder sparing cauda equina syndrome due to a large posteriorly sequestered lumbar disc fragment is presented. Magnetic resonance imaging of the lumbosacral spine showed herniation of a large disc fragment at lumbar 3-lumbar 4 deforming the thecal sac posteriorly, with the left side more affected than the right. Bladder sparing cauda equina syndrome can be explained by the anatomical organization of the nerve roots within the thecal sac. The medial sacral roots are not as stretched and strained by the herniating disc as the laterally placed lumbar roots. Early laminectomy and decompression of the thecal sac may relieve this stretch and strain on the nerve roots and therefore preserve bladder function.
Neuromyelitis optica disease is characterized by simultaneous or successive attacks involving both the optics nerves and spinal cord without any evidence of the disease elsewhere. We report a 22-year-old Saudi woman with relapsing neuromyelitis optica disease. She had all the clinical, cerebrospinal fluid, and radiological features that differ from primary demyelinating disease. However, our patient responded well to long-term corticosteroid therapy and azathioprine with improvement in her expanded disability status scale, and ambulation. In addition, no acute relapses occurred with significant improvement on magnetic resonance imaging lesions and favorable outcome.








Meningococcal disease occurs as both endemic and epidemic disease in most parts of the world with significant morbidity and mortality. Among the different serogroups of Neisseria meningitidis, serogroups A, B, C account for 90% of the disease. In the last few years there has been a change in the epidemiology of the disease with an increase in the prevalence of serogroup C in Europe and North America, serogroup Y in the United States of America and Sweden, and W135 in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The emergence of Neisseria meningitidis serogroup W135 in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia has lead to 2 major outbreaks mainly among Pilgrims during the Hajj season of 2000 and 2001. This has lead the health officials in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to change their vaccine requirements for the Umra and Hajj to include the quadrivalent meningococcal vaccine (A, C, Y, W135) instead of the bivalent one (A, C). Despite all the advances in prevention, diagnosis and treatment, the disease continues to have high mortality (5-10%). Prompt empirical treatment for suspected cases should include penicillin or a 3rd generation cephalosporin. A new conjugate vaccine against Neisseria meningitidis serogroup C has been recently licensed, while quadrivalent conjugate vaccine against serogroup A, C, Y and W135 is in early development. Meanwhile targeted vaccination with the available vaccines according to the epidemiology of the disease and rapid chemoprophylaxis for the close contacts of active cases are the most effective preventive strategies.
What does the public know about the developments offered by brain research? What factors influence public neuroscience literacy? What issues need to be emphasized to the public? To address these questions, a survey was conducted using a questionnaire with 95 assertions, answered by indicating yes, no, or I don't know. The opinions of 35 senior neuroscientists and 2158 members of the public of Rio de Janeiro were heard on issues such as the mind-brain relationship, the senses, learning, and memory. The incidence of &quot;correct&quot; answers among the public improved the most with schooling, followed by reading of popular science magazines and of newspapers. An analysis of the responses to each assertion revealed which themes are well- or poorly known to the public. The results attest for the importance of popular scientific communication and indicate issues on which communication efforts should be concentrated in order to increase public awareness about the brain.
Electrodermal activity (EDA) is now the preferred term for changes in electrical conductance of the skin, including phasic changes that have been referred to as galvanic skin responses (GSR), that result from sympathetic neuronal activity. EDA is a sensitive psychophysiological index of changes in autonomic sympathetic arousal that are integrated with emotional and cognitive states. Until recently there was little direct knowledge of brain mechanisms governing generation and control of EDA in humans. However, studies of patients with discrete brain lesions and, more recently, functional imaging techniques have clarified the contribution of brain regions implicated in emotion, attention, and cognition to peripheral EDA responses. Moreover, such studies enable an understanding of mechanisms by which states of bodily arousal, indexed by EDA, influence cognition and bias motivational behavior.
One of the most intriguing and intensely studied questions facing contemporary neuroscientists involves the elucidation of the physiological mechanisms that underlie learning and memory. Recent advances have given us a much more detailed understanding of the signal transduction mechanisms subserving learning in the intact animal. One fact that has become clear is that activation of protein kinases and phosphorylation of their downstream effectors play a critical role. Four protein kinase cascades have garnered considerable attention in the study of information storage at both the synaptic and behavioral levels: Ca++/phospholipid-dependent protein kinase (PKC), Ca++/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII), cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA), and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). This review will concentrate on studies of two behavioral tasks, conditioned fear and conditioned taste aversion, that provide evidence for the involvement of these kinase systems in associative learning. The authors will also examine a number of potential kinase substrates and how each could participate in the formation of long-term memories.
There have been three main ideas about the basic law of psychophysics. In 1860, Fechner used Weber's law to infer that the subjective sense of intensity is related to the physical intensity of a stimulus by a logarithmic function (the Weber-Fechner law). A hundred years later, Stevens refuted Fechner's law by showing that direct reports of subjective intensity are related to the physical intensity of stimuli by a power law. MacKay soon showed, however, that the logarithmic and power laws are indistinguishable without examining the underlying neural mechanisms. Mountcastle and his colleagues did so, and, on the basis of transducer functions obeying power laws, inferred that subjective intensity must be related linearly to the neural coding measure on which it is based. In this review, we discuss these issues and we review a series of studies aimed at the neural mechanisms of a very complex form of subjective experience-the experience of roughness produced by a textured surface. The results, which are independent of any assumptions about the form of the psychophysical law, support the idea that the basic law of psychophysics is linearity between subjective experience and the neural activity on which it is based.


























Diffusion tensor analysis represents a versatile yet powerful application of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Early applications of diffusion weighted imaging(DWI), especially those related to ischemic brain disease were quickly overshadowed by more advanced applications of DTA, namely, those dealing with anisotropy analysis. Considering the array of possibilities, from neuronal tract tracing to neuronal density imaging, DTA is rapidly becoming an indispensable tool not only in neuroscience but also in clinical investigations of the brain.
Rats raised on n-3 essential fatty acid deficient diets demonstrate spatial memory deficits. To investigate neuroanatomical correlates of these deficits, morphological analysis of the hippocampus were carried out. Adult, female rats were raised for three generations on n-3 deficient or n-3 supplemented diets. Two n-3 deficient diets contained adequate linoleic acid (LA), or high linoleic acid (high LA), and two supplemented diets contained LA supplemented with alpha-linolenic acid (+LNA), or linoleic supplementation with alpha-linolenic and docosahexaenoic acids (+LNA/DHA). The total fatty acid composition of the hippocampus revealed a profound loss (90%) in docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) in the hippocampi of LA and high LA animals compared to those on +LNA and +LNA/DHA diets with a reciprocal increase in docosapentaenoic acid (DPAn-6) in all phospholipid species. The volume, density, total number, and cell body size of neurons in CA1-3, granular and hilar layers of the hippocampus were measured at septal and temporal locations using unbiased stereology. No differences were detected in any of these measures except for in cell body size; CA1 pyramidal neurons in the LA group were significantly (p &lt; 0.04) smaller than neurons in the +LNA/DHA group at the septal location.
The complex anatomy of the region necessitates thorough study if transpetrosal surgery is to be performed with minimal patient morbidity. Furthermore, by using flexibility, a team approach, and preoperative planning, the surgical procedure can be tailored to the patient, rather than fitting the patient to a fixed surgical procedure. Finally, minimizing patient morbidity is equivalent to preservation of cranial nerves and crucial vascular structures. Close surveillance and judicious postoperative radiotherapy following cytoreductive surgery provides improved patient outcomes compared with radical surgery that results in cranial nerve deficits.
Sensitivity to pain is widely variable, and much of this variability is genetic in origin. The specific genes responsible have begun to be identified, but only for thermal nociception. In order to facilitate the identification of polymorphic, pain-related genes with more clinical relevance, we performed quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping studies of the most common assay of inflammatory nociception, the formalin test. QTL mapping is a technique that exploits naturally occurring variability among inbred strains for the identification of genomic locations containing genes contributing to that variability. An F2 intercross was constructed using inbred A/J and C57BL/6J mice as progenitors, strains previously shown to display resistance and sensitivity, respectively, to formalin-induced nociception. Following phenotypic testing (5% formalin, 25 microl intraplantar injection), mice were genotyped at 90 microsatellite markers spanning the genome. We provide evidence for two statistically significant formalin test QTLs - chromosomal regions whose inheritance is associated with trait variability - on distal mouse chromosomes 9 and 10. Identification of the genes underlying these QTLs may illuminate the basis of individual differences in inflammatory pain, and lead to novel analgesic treatment strategies.
The spinothalamic tract (STT) is a major ascending nociceptive pathway, interruption of which by cordotomy is used for pain relief, whereas the dorsal column (DC) pathway is usually not considered to be involved in pain transmission. However, recent clinical studies showed good relief of visceral pain in cancer patients after a DC lesion. Electrophysiological recordings in animals suggest that the analgesic effect is due to interruption of axons ascending from postsynaptic dorsal column (PSDC) neurons located in the vicinity of the central canal. In this behavioral study, we used a decrease in exploratory activity in rats after a noxious stimulus as an indicator of perceived pain, independent of withdrawal reflexes. Intradermal capsaicin injection almost abolished exploratory activity in nave animals or in rats after a DC lesion, but did not change it in rats after ipsilateral dorsal rhizotomy or a lesion of the lateral funiculus on the side opposite to the injection. In contrast, a bilateral DC lesion counteracted the decrease in exploratory activity induced by noxious visceral stimuli for at least 180 days after the surgery. Although neurons projecting in both the STT and the PSDC path can be activated by noxious stimuli of cutaneous or visceral origin, our results suggest that the STT plays a crucial role in the perception of acute cutaneous pain and that the DC pathway is important for transmission of visceral pain.
This article reviews some of the technological devices and ideas which have been used over the years to answer the question, how does the brain work? It describes some of the early technology-based analogies and models of nerve fibers, and then discusses other analogies and models of the brain based on mechanical and electrical technologies. There are also short sections on cybernetics, telephone exchanges, and computers. Although all of these ideas are flawed to some extent, this article offers a brief argument on the usefulness of analogy and abstraction in brain science.
This review focuses on nicotinic--serotonergic interactions in the central nervous system (CNS). Nicotine increases 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) release in the cortex, striatum, hippocampus, dorsal raph nucleus (DRN), hypothalamus, and spinal cord. As yet, there is little firm evidence for nicotinic receptors on serotonergic terminals and thus nicotine's effects on 5-HT may not necessarily be directly mediated, but there is strong evidence that the 5-HT tone plays a permissive role in nicotine's effects. The effects in the cortex, hippocampus, and DRN involve stimulation of 5-HT(1A) receptors, and in the striatum, 5-HT(3) receptors. The 5-HT(1A) receptors in the DRN play a role in mediating the anxiolytic effects of nicotine and the 5-HT(1A) receptors in the dorsal hippocampus and lateral septum mediate its anxiogenic effects. The increased startle and anxiety during nicotine withdrawal is mediated by 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(3) receptors. The locomotor stimulant effect of acute nicotine is mediated by 5-HT(1A) receptors and 5-HT(2) receptors may play a role in the expression of a sensitised response after chronic nicotine treatment. Unfortunately, the role of 5-HT(1A) receptors in mediating nicotine seeking has not yet been investigated and would seem an important area for future research. There is also evidence for nicotinic--serotonergic interactions in the acquisition of the water maze, passive avoidance, and impulsivity in the five-choice serial reaction task.
The 5-HT2C antagonist SB-242084 was examined in various anxiety tests at doses based on reversal of mCPP-induced hypoactivity (0.1--3 mg/kg ip). In the elevated plus-maze task, SB-242084 exhibited signs of anxiolysis (time spent, distance travelled, and entries into open arms), but this was potentially confounded by its general increase of locomotion; alprazolam selectively affected open-arm parameters. In a Geller--Seifter conflict test, SB-242084 produced a modest, nonsignificant increase in punished responding compared to the significant effect produced by diazepam. None of the treatments significantly affected unpunished responding. In the conditioned emotional response (CER) test, SB-242084 produced an increase in the suppression ratio (SR, smaller than diazepam). Since this 5-HT2C antagonist also increased lever pressing, an additional test was conducted with amphetamine that stimulated lever pressing but, nonetheless, failed to produce any change in SR. In the fear-potentiated startle task, SB-242084 was inactive in comparison to a significant effect of diazepam. The previously described reduction of schedule-induced polydipsia by fluoxetine and 5-HT2C receptor agonist Ro60-0175 was attenuated by SB-242084 pretreatment, however, the latter compound exhibited a potent increase in polydipsia when given alone. The present results demonstrate an anxiolytic potential of SB-242084, as well as an intrinsic response-enhancing property, however, both of these effects are task dependent.
The effects of systemic administration of the serotonin (5-HT)(1A/1B) agonist 5-methoxy-3-(1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridin-4-yl)1H-indole (RU 24969) on locomotor and investigatory behavior in rats have been well characterized using the behavioral pattern monitor (BPM). To elucidate the neural circuitry underlying this behavioral profile, intracerebral dose--response studies were conducted at two sites with high densities of 5-HT(1B) receptors, the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and substantia nigra. Infusion of RU 24969 into the STN produced systemic RU 24969-like changes in locomotor activity and patterns but an uncharacteristic increase in investigatory holepokes. Intra-STN administration of the selective 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-N-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) produced RU 24969-like changes in locomotor patterns only, while the 5-HT(1B) receptor agonist 3(1,2,5,6-tetrahydropyrid-4-yl)pyrrolo[3,2-b]pyrid-5-one dihydrochloride (CP-93,129) increased locomotor activity, produced no change in locomotor patterns and nonsignificantly increased holepokes. Intranigral infusion of RU 24969 produced systemic and intra-STN RU 24969-like increases in locomotor activity. Intranigral RU 24969, however, failed to produce any changes in locomotor patterns or investigatory holepokes. Intranigral infusions of CP-93,129 or 8-OH-DPAT had no effects on locomotor activity, locomotor patterns or investigatory holepokes. These results provide evidence for multiple-site mediation of the locomotor-activating effects of RU 24969 and for a dissociation of the neural substrates underlying locomotor and investigatory components of the RU 24969-induced behavioral profile.
Relapse to alcohol use after prolonged withdrawal periods is the major problem in the treatment of alcohol dependence in humans. However, until recently, relatively few preclinical studies concentrated on the elucidation of the neurochemical events underlying relapse to alcohol. In this article we will review recent data from studies in which alcohol-deprivation and reinstatement models were used to determine the mechanisms underlying relapse to alcohol in rats. In the alcohol-deprivation model, the intake of alcohol is determined after prolonged periods of forced abstinence in drug-experienced rats. In the reinstatement model, the ability of acute non-contingent exposure to drug or non-drug stimuli to reinstate drug seeking is determined following training for drug self-administration and subsequent extinction of the drug-reinforced behavior. We will review studies, which used these preclinical models, on the effect of specific pharmacological agents on relapse to alcohol seeking induced by re-exposure to alcohol and to alcohol-associated cues and by exposure to stress. Subsequently, we will describe potential neuronal circuits that may underlie relapse to alcohol. Finally, future directions and clinical implications of the study of relapse to alcohol in laboratory animals will be discussed briefly.
Drugs intended to increase wellness or quality of life (&quot;lifestyle drugs&quot;) have gained popularity and/or importance over recent years. Biogenic substances like nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH) are supposed to increase the physical and intellectual performance without side-effects. NADH is an energy-delivering co-substrate in the respiratory chain. Clinical studies showed positive effects of peripherally given NADH in Morbus Parkinson and major depression. NADH can be measured by its fluorescence. In this study a pulsed N2-laser combined with a fibre-optic probe and photomultipliers was used to induce and measure NADH fluorescence in the rat cortex. The aims of the study were to assess the suitability of the laser-induced spectroscopy for in vivo and on-line measurement of NADH in neuroscience and the assessment of the central availability of NADH after peripheral administration. NADH (50 mg/kg) but not the precursor nicotinamide caused a significant rise of the NADH fluorescence intensity indicating an increase of the NADH concentration in the rat cortex. In conclusion, the results suggest that NADH given orally or intraperitoneally increases the amounts of NADH in the brain. The results may thus help to explain the clinical effects reported.
The effects of carbamazepine on synaptic transmission in rat hippocampal slices were compared with those of two novel analogues (BIA2-093 and BIA2-024) with equivalent anticonvulsant efficacy but with fewer side effects. Carbamazepine (10-1000 microM) inhibited in a concentration-dependent manner the field excitatory postsynaptic potential (fPSP) response, with an EC50 of 263 microM, and also attenuated the presynaptic volley with a similar EC50 value. Carbamazepine was more potent to inhibit the NMDA receptor component of the fPSP (fPSPNMDA), with an EC50 of 160 microM. BIA2-093 and BIA2-024 were nearly equipotent with carbamazepine to inhibit synaptic transmission, and displayed similar potency to inhibit the fPSP (EC50 of 145 microM and 205 microM) and fPSPNMDA responses (EC50 of 198 microM and 206 microM). As with carbamazepine, BIA2-093 and BIA2-024 also attenuated the presynaptic volley with EC50 values ranging from 142 to 322 microM. These results indicate that carbamazepine and its analogues mostly inhibit synaptic transmission through inhibition of conduction, although carbamazepine, but not BIA2-093 and BIA2-024, may also depress NMDA receptor-mediated responses.
We have developed a curved isochron clock (CIC) by modifying the radial isochron clock to provide a clean example of the acceleration (deceleration) effect. By analyzing a two-body system of coupled CICs, we determined that an unbalanced mutual interaction caused by curved isochron sets is the minimum mechanism needed for generating the acceleration (deceleration) effect in coupled oscillator systems. From this we can see that the Sakaguchi and Kuramoto (SK) model, which is a class of nonfrustrated mean field model, has an acceleration (deceleration) effect mechanism. To study frustrated coupled oscillator systems, we extended the SK model to two oscillator associative memory models, one with symmetric and the other with asymmetric dilution of coupling, which also have the minimum mechanism of the acceleration (deceleration) effect. We theoretically found that the Onsager reaction term (ORT), which is unique to frustrated systems, plays an important role in the acceleration (deceleration) effect. These two models are ideal for evaluating the effect of the ORT because, with the exception of the ORT, they have the same order parameter equations. We found that the two models have identical macroscopic properties, except for the acceleration effect caused by the ORT. By comparing the results of the two models, we can extract the effect of the ORT from only the rotation speeds of the oscillators.
Spatiotemporal patterns emerging through coupling of identical relaxation oscillatory electrode pairs are studied. Each pair, consisting of an iron anode and a copper cathode, oscillates periodically under fixed applied potential difference conditions. It is shown that the system synchronizes rapidly (within few oscillatory cycles) and differences of natural frequencies as well as boundary effects are compensated. The effect of the geometrical configuration on the dynamic modes is investigated for relatively large assemblies of such oscillatory pairs. When oscillators are coupled through neighboring electrodes, the response is synchronized by a simultaneous formation of groups. The formation of groups due to enhancement or inhibition of the oscillations depends on the relative position of interacting anodes and cathodes. The behavior of the system is compared with the response of coupled relaxation cells of neurophysiological interest.
In a previous paper we have evaluated analytically the mutual information between the firing rates of N independent units and a set of multidimensional continuous and discrete stimuli, for a finite population size and in the limit of large noise. Here, we extend the analysis to the case of two interconnected populations, where input units activate output ones via Gaussian weights and a threshold linear transfer function. We evaluate the information carried by a population of M output units, again about continuous and discrete correlates. The mutual information is evaluated solving saddle-point equations under the assumption of replica symmetry, a method that, by taking into account only the term linear in N of the input information, is equivalent to assuming the noise to be large. Within this limitation, we analyze the dependence of the information on the ratio M/N, on the selectivity of the input units and on the level of the output noise. We show analytically, and confirm numerically, that in the limit of a linear transfer function and of a small ratio between output and input noise, the output information approaches asymptotically the information carried in input. Finally, we show that the information loss in output does not depend much on the structure of the stimulus, whether purely continuous, purely discrete or mixed, but only on the position of the threshold nonlinearity, and on the ratio between input and output noise.
In many cell types rises in cytosolic calcium, either due to influx from the extracellular space, or by release from an intracellular store activates calcium dependent potassium currents on the plasmalemma. In neurons, these currents are largely activated following calcium influx via voltage gated calcium channels active during the action potentials. Three types of these currents are known: I(c), I(AHP) and I(sAHP). These currents can be distinguished by clear differences in their pharmacology and kinetics. Activation of these potassium currents modulates action potential time course and the repetitive firing properties of neurons. Single channel studies have identified two types of calcium-activated potassium channel which can also be separated on biophysical and pharmacological grounds and have been named BK and SK channels. It is now clear that BK channels underlie I(c) whereas SK channels underlie I(AHP). The identity of the channels underlying I(sAHP) are not known. In this review, we discuss the properties of the different types of calcium-activated potassium channels and the relationship between these channels and the macroscopic currents present in neurons.

Recent evidence suggests that aberrant transglutaminase activity is associated with a wide variety of diseases. Tissue transglutaminase is the most widely distributed of the six well-characterized transglutaminases in humans. We describe a method for expressing hexahistidine-tagged human tissue transglutaminase in Escherichia coli BL21(DE3) using the pET-30 Ek/LIC expression vector. Purification of the expressed enzyme from suspensions of E. coli cells treated with CelLytic B Bacterial Cell Lysis/Extraction Reagent was accomplished by immobilized metal (Ni2+) affinity column chromatography. The procedure typically yields highly purified and highly active recombinant human tissue transglutaminase in about 1 day (about 0.6 mg/from a 1-liter culture).
Exposure to stressors often alters the subsequent responsiveness of many systems. The present study tested whether prior exposure to inescapable tailshock (IS) alters the corticosterone (CORT) or adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH) response to either an injection of bacterial endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide; LPS) or subsequent placement on a pedestal. Rats were exposed to IS or remained as home cage controls (HCC). 1, 4, 10, or 21 days later animals were injected i.p. with either 10 microg/kg LPS or equivolume sterile saline. Prior IS significantly increased plasma CORT 1 h, but not 2 or 5 h after LPS, compared to controls 1, 4, and 10 days, but not 21 days after IS. Exposure to IS 24 h earlier also significantly increased plasma ACTH 1 h after LPS. Additional animals were placed on a pedestal 24 h after IS, and plasma CORT was measured 15, 30, and 60 min later. IS significantly increased plasma CORT 15 min after pedestal exposure, but not after 30 or 60 min. These results suggest that exposure to IS sensitizes the CORT and ACTH response to subsequent HPA activation.
Recent developments in the clinical capabilities of magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) have provided researchers with considerable insight into potential neurochemical alterations associated with the pathology and treatment of affective disorders. This review focuses on the clinical application of MRS to the study of affective disorders, discusses the major MRS visible neurochemicals, and addresses some essential principles of MRS methodology, such as pulse sequences and neurochemical quantitation. Additionally, some of the more recent key findings in the area of mood disorders and their treatment are highlighted, including pharmacological effects and mechanisms. For example, several independent groups have reported alterations in levels of choline, myoinositol, N-acetylaspartate, and gamma-aminobutyric acid in the central nervous systems of patients with major depression, bipolar disorder, panic disorder, or obsessive-compulsive disorder. Finally, the current direction of advances and areas of further investigation are discussed. This review will afford the reader a fundamental foundation in the applications of MRS in mood disorders and an update on some of the current findings in this rapidly developing discipline.







The role of prolactin in the regulation of mammary gland development and function during pregnancy and lactation is well established. However, in addition, prolactin appears to have a much wider role in the physiology of lactation. There is widespread expression of prolactin receptors in the hypothalamus during lactation, indicative of a multi-faceted role for prolactin in regulating hypothalamic function. During pregnancy and lactation, the maternal brain undergoes structural and functional modification, allowing the establishment of appropriate behaviour to feed and nurture the offspring, to adjust to the nutritional and metabolic demands of milk production, and to maintain appropriate hormone secretion to allow milk synthesis, secretion and ejection. The coordination of such a range of neurobiological and neuroendocrine adaptations requires an endocrine signalling mechanism, capable of communicating the reproductive state to the brain. Evidence indicates that prolactin is part of this mechanism.
The ventilatory response to brief, severe hypoxia is biphasic consisting of an initial facilitation followed by a slowing of breathing frequency (fR). After the hypoxic stimulus is removed, fR drops below baseline levels. This phenomenon is called the post-hypoxic frequency decline (phfd). These fR changes are due to reciprocal changes in expiratory time (TE), mediated by the ventrolateral pontine A5 region (J. Physiol. (London) 497 (1996) 79; Am. J. Physiol. 274 (1998) R1546). The purpose of this study was to determine if carotid body input is required for full manifestation of phfd by quantifying ventilation in intact and carotid sinus denervated rats in response to hypoxic, and contrasted with hypercapnic stimuli. Following carotid denervation the initial facilitation of fR was eliminated in response to hypoxia, but the phfd remained. In contrast the pattern in response to increased CO2 remained constant before and after carotid denervation. These results suggest that phfd is not dependent upon carotid body stimulation, but is mediated centrally.

Besides transmitting and processing, neurons may also store information for prolonged periods of time (e.g. by use-dependent change in synaptic strength). In 1966 long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic transmission was discovered in the hippocampus, an area implicated in learning and memory. Recent studies show that similar mechanisms apply to pain pathways, at least in the spinal cord, and may account for some forms of clinical problems like hyperalgesia, allodynia, and deafferentation pain states, such as phantom pain. In this review, we briefly summarize key aspects of synaptic plasticity known from the brain and in the spinal cord. Then we describe and discuss related changes in spinal nociceptive neurons based on results from our own laboratory.

We review here those malformations of the cerebral cortex which are most often observed in epilepsy patients, for which a genetic basis has been elucidated or is suspected and give indications for genetic testing. There are three forms of lissencephaly (agyria-pachygyria) resulting from mutations of known genes, which can be distinguished because of their distinctive imaging features. They account for about 85% of all licence-phalies. Lissencephaly with posteriorly predominant gyral abnormality is caused by mutations of the LIS1 gene on chromosome 17. Anteriorly predominant lissencephaly in hemizygous males and subcortical band heterotopia (SBH) in heterozygous females are caused by mutations of the XLIS (or DCX) gene. Mutations of the coding region of XLIS were found in all reported pedigrees, and in most sporadic female patients with SBH. Missense mutations of both LIS1 and XLIS genes have been observed in some of the rare male patients with SBH. Autosomal recessive lissencephaly with cerebellar hypoplasia has been associated with mutations of the reelin gene. With few exceptions, children with lissencephaly have severe developmental delay and infantile spasms early in life. Patients with SBH have a mild to severe mental retardation with epilepsy of variable severity and type. X-linked bilateral periventricular nodular heterotopia (BPNH) consists of typical BPNH with focal epilepsy in females and prenatal lethality in males. About 88% of patients have focal epilepsy. Filamin A (FLNA) mutations have been reported in some families and in sporadic patients. Additional, possibly autosomal recessive gene(s) are likely to be involved in causing BPNH non-linked to FLN1. Tuberous sclerosis (TS) is a dominant disorder caused by mutations in at lest two genes, TSC1 and TSC2. 75% of cases are sporadic. Most patients with TS have epilepsy. Infantile spasms are a frequent early manifestation of TS. Schizencephaly (cleft brain) has a wide anatomo-clinical spectrum, including focal epilepsy in most patients. Familial occurrence is rare. Heterozygous mutations in the EMX2 gene have been reported in some patients. However, at present, there is no clear indication on the possible pattern of inheritance and on the practical usefulness that mutation detection in an individual with schizencephaly would carry in terms of genetic counselling. Amongst several syndromes featuring polymicrogyria, bilateral perisylvian polymicrogyria had familial occurrence on several occasions. Genetic heterogeneity is likely, including autosomal recessive, X-linked dominant, X-linked recessive inheritance and association to 22q11.2 deletions. FISH analysis for 22q11.2 is advisable in all patients with perisylvian polymicrogyria. Parents of an affected child with normal karyotype should be given up to a 25% recurrence risk.
In bacteria, coordinate expression of genes involved in lactose metabolism is regulated by the lac repressor and its DNA binding sequence, the lac operator. The lac operator-repressor complex can also be used to regulate gene expression in the laboratory mouse. In this review, I discuss the current state of murine trans-operons, and suggest ways this lac-based system might be used to build more advanced models of human diseases in the mouse.
The SNARE complex is the core machinery required for vesicle fusion events. Numerous structural, functional, and genetic studies have led to a better understanding of mechanisms that regulate vesicle fusion events during neural development. Studies using the mammalian retina as a model system have increased our understanding of the dynamic patterns of expression of SNARE proteins. In particular, the SNARE complex protein SNAP-25 is expressed in a dynamic fashion during the development of cholinergic amacrine cells in a number of mammalian species. SNAP-25 is also likely to play a crucial role during the development of vertebrate photoreceptors. The integration of comparative studies examining SNARE proteins, such as SNAP-25, provides a powerful approach for the study of CNS development.
Basic and clinical research documents associations between stress and a set of related psychobiologic perturbations, including dysfunction of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, alterations in the structure and function of the medial temporal lobe, and impairments in explicit memory. Although these associations are thought to emerge developmentally, insufficient clinical research elucidates the manner in which early trauma relates to these abnormalities. To gain a better understanding of relevant processes, we propose the use of a developmental and neurobiological approach, where data in animal models are used to inform studies in traumatized children who will be followed longitudinally. This approach will help clarify how early traumatic events have the capacity to lead to psychopathology or a healthy outcome.





Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by a progressive degeneration of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons. More than half of these neurons are lost in a presymptomatic phase of an estimated 4-6 years duration. It is obvious that any type of treatment aimed at slowing down the disease process should preferably be applied in this presymptomatic phase. Presymptomatic detection of PD has therefore become an important goal. In a recent study in a population of 361 asymptomatic first degree relatives of PD patients, we were able to demonstrate that presymptomatic detection is possible by means of a combination of three olfactory processing tasks and [123l] beta-CIT single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) scanning of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system. These results are a first step towards the development of a screening strategy that may be applied in the general population. Impairments of olfactory function, however, are not specific to PD but are also associated with other neurodegenerative disorders (e.g. Alzheimer's disease) and certain lifestyle characteristics (e.g. smoking). In the next few years our research efforts will focus on two different approaches to develop a more specific screening strategy. First, olfactory processing tasks will be combined with tasks aimed at detecting subtle (visuo)motor disturbances and early cognitive impairments. In parallel, an effort will be made to define disease-specific patterns of olfactory dysfunction in neurodegenerative disorders.
In epithelial cells, soluble cargo proteins destined for basolateral or apical secretion are packaged into distinct trans-Golgi network-derived transport carriers. Similar carriers, termed basolateral- and apical-like, have been observed in nonepithelial cells using ectopically expressed membrane marker proteins. Whether these cells are capable of selectively packaging secretory proteins into distinct carriers is still an open question. Here, we have addressed this issue by analyzing the packaging and transport of secretory human chromogranin B fusion proteins using a green fluorescent protein-based high-resolution, dual-color imaging technique. We were able to show that these secretory markers were selectively packaged at the Golgi into tubular/vesicular-like transport carriers containing basolateral membrane markers, resulting in extensive cotransport. In contrast, deletion mutants of the human chromogranin B fusion proteins lacking an N-terminal loop structure were efficiently transported in both basolateral- and apical-like carriers, the latter displaying a spherical morphology. Similarly, in polarized epithelial cells, the human chromogranin B fusion protein was secreted basolaterally and the loop-deleted analogue into both the basolateral and apical medium. These findings suggest that nonepithelial cells, like their epithelial counterparts, possess a sorting machinery capable of selective packaging of secretory cargo into distinct types of carriers.

Leonardo da Vinci (1452-1519) made far-reaching contributions to many areas of science, technology and art. Leonardo's pioneering research into the brain led him to discoveries in neuroanatomy (such as those of the frontal sinus and meningeal vessels) and neurophysiology (he was the first to pith a frog). His injection of hot wax into the brain of an ox provided a cast of the ventricles, and represents the first known use of a solidifying medium to define the shape and size of an internal body structure. Leonardo developed an original, mechanistic model of sensory physiology. He undertook his research with the broad goal of providing physical explanations of how the brain processes visual and other sensory input, and integrates that information via the soul.
Life span is determined by both environmental and genetic influences. The importance of genes is illustrated by the fact that single gene mutations extend life span in nematodes, fruit flies and mice. Recent reports reveal that the life span of Caenorhabditis elegans is controlled by insulin-like signals from the nervous system. Hormones that control life span have recently been identified in fruit flies and mice. These findings suggest that neuroendocrine pathways could constitute an important determinant of life span across phylogeny. This review examines the evidence for nervous system control of longevity and discusses the implications for popular models for aging.
For several decades, it has been known that mental retardation (MR) is associated with abnormalities in dendrites and dendritic spines. The recent cloning of seven genes that cause nonspecific MR when mutated provides important insights in the cellular mechanisms that result in the dendritic abnormalities associated with MR. Three of the encoded proteins, oligophrenin 1, PAK3 and alpha PIX, interact directly with Rho GTPases. Rho GTPases are key signaling proteins that integrate extracellular and intracellular signals to orchestrate coordinated changes in the actin cytoskeleton essential for directed neurite outgrowth and the regulation of synaptic connectivity. Although many details of the cell biology of Rho signaling in the CNS are still unclear, a picture is unfolding showing how mutations that alter Rho signaling result in abnormal neuronal connectivity and deficient cognitive functioning in humans. Conversely, these findings illuminate the cellular mechanisms underlying normal cognitive function.
Recent physiological evidence shows that in response to stimuli and preceding motor activity, large fields of the upper layers of the cerebral cortex depolarize. It is argued that this finding is a general one and that these dynamic depolarization fields represent the computational elements of the cerebral cortex. Each depolarization field engages many more neurons than do columns and hyper-columns. These fields can be explained by cooperative neuronal computing in layers I-III of the cortex. In these layers, the computing modes might be general for all parts of the cerebral cortex and be sufficiently flexible to handle all sorts of cortical computations, including perception, memory storage, memory retrieval, thought and the production of behavior.
Widespread myelination by oligodendrocytes is essential for the normal functioning of the vertebrate CNS. Oligodendrocyte precursors initially arise in restricted regions of the neuroepithelium and migrate relatively long distances to their final destinations. The signals that guide this migration have remained poorly understood, but recent studies suggest that glial precursors use similar molecular cues to those that guide axons through the complex terrain of the developing CNS. For example, in the developing optic nerve, glial-precursor migration from the brain towards the retina is guided by netrin-1 and semaphorin 3a. These studies suggest a novel mechanism governing glial precursor migration and provide new insights into development and the potential to direct CNS injury repair.
Foley [J. Opt. Soc. Am. A 11 (1994) 1710] has proposed an influential psychophysical model of masking in which mask components in a contrast gain pool are raised to an exponent before summation and divisive inhibition. We tested this summation rule in experiments in which contrast detection thresholds were measured for a vertical 1 c/deg (or 2 c/deg) sine-wave component in the presence of a 3 c/deg (or 6 c/deg) mask that had either a single component oriented at -45 degrees or a pair of components oriented at +/-45 degrees. Contrary to the predictions of Foley's model 3, we found that for masks of moderate contrast and above, threshold elevation was predicted by linear summation of the mask components in the inhibitory stage of the contrast gain pool. We built this feature into two new models, referred to as the early adaptation model and the hybrid model. In the early adaptation model, contrast adaptation controls a threshold-like nonlinearity on the output of otherwise linear pathways that provide the excitatory and inhibitory inputs to a gain control stage. The hybrid model involves nonlinear and nonadaptable routes to excitatory and inhibitory stages as well as an adaptable linear route. With only six free parameters, both models provide excellent fits to the masking and adaptation data of Foley and Chen [Vision Res. 37 (1997) 2779] but unlike Foley and Chen's model, are able to do so with only one adaptation parameter. However, only the hybrid model is able to capture the features of Foley's (1994) pedestal plus orthogonal fixed mask data. We conclude that (1) linear summation of inhibitory components is a feature of contrast masking, and (2) that the main aftereffect of spatial adaptation on contrast increment thresholds can be assigned to a single site.
Stimuli from one family of complex motions are defined by their spiral pitch, where cardinal axes represent signed expansion and rotation. Intermediate spirals are represented by intermediate pitches. It is well established that vision contains mechanisms that sum over space and direction to detect these stimuli (Morrone et al., Nature 376 (1995) 507) and one possibility is that four cardinal mechanisms encode the entire family. We extended earlier work (Meese &amp; Harris, Vision Research 41 (2001) 1901) using subthreshold summation of random dot kinematograms and a two-interval forced choice technique to investigate this possibility. In our main experiments, the spiral pitch of one component was fixed and that of another was varied in steps of 15 degrees relative to the first. Regardless of whether the fixed component was aligned with cardinal axes or an intermediate spiral, summation to-coherence-threshold between the two components declined as a function of their difference in spiral pitch. Similar experiments showed that none of the following were critical design features or stimulus parameters for our results: superposition of signal dots, limited life-time dots, the presence of speed gradients, stimulus size or the number of dots. A simplex algorithm was used to fit models containing mechanisms spaced at a pitch of either 90 degrees (cardinal model) or 45 degrees (cardinal+model) and combined using a fourth-root summation rule. For both models, direction half-bandwidth was equated for all mechanisms and was the only free parameter. Only the cardinal+model could account for the full set of results. We conclude that the detection of complex motion in human vision requires both cardinal and spiral mechanisms with a half-bandwidth of approximately 46 degrees.
In their pioneering studies of primary visual cortex, Hubel and Wiesel described the existence of two classes of cells, which they termed &quot;simple&quot; and &quot;complex&quot;. The original classification scheme was based on a number of partly subjective tests of linear spatial summation. Later, investigators adopted an objective classification method based on the ratio between the amplitude of the first harmonic of the response and the mean spike rate (or the F(1)/F(0) ratio) when the neuron is stimulated with drifting sinusoidal gratings. This measure is bimodally distributed over the population and divides neurons into two classes that correspond closely to the classical definition by Hubel and Wiesel. Here we show that a simple rectification model can predict the observed bimodal distribution of F(1)/F(0) in primary visual cortex when the distributions of the intracellular response modulation and mean are unimodal. Thus, contrary to common belief, the bimodality of F(1)/F(0) does not necessarily imply the existence of two discrete cell classes. Furthermore, in reviewing the literature, we find no independent support for a simple/complex dichotomy. These results suggest that the existence of two distinct neural populations in primary visual cortex, and the associated hierarchical model of receptive field organization, need to be re-evaluated.
We present psychophysical experiments designed to reveal the role of facilitative contour interactions (the so-called 'association field') in apparent motion. We use the Ternus display (a trio of horizontally aligned elements oscillating in apparent motion). This display is perceived in 'element' motion when interframe intervals (IFIs) are short, and in 'group' motion when IFIs are long. Using Gabor elements arranged collinearly or in parallel, IFI is varied to find group motion thresholds. Consistent with a role for collinearity in perceptual grouping, thresholds are lower for collinear displays. The collinear vs. parallel comparison is made while manipulating contrast, spatial frequency, eccentricity, phase, orientation jitter and element separation. Results show a clear effect of contrast not observed in lateral masking paradigms or in 'pathfinder' stimuli, with higher contrast promoting within-frame grouping, and evidence of facilitatory interactions among parallel elements (although over a smaller scale). The tendency for collinear displays to group more than parallel displays declined with eccentricity with no clear difference evident at 12 deg. These changes in group motion thresholds indicate changing association strengths among the elements and is accounted for in terms of an association field. Alternative accounts in terms of second-order collector units or visible persistence are considered but are not supported by the data.
We have examined long-term growth-factor expanded human neural progenitors following transplantation into the adult rat brain. Cells, obtained from the forebrain of a 9-week old fetus, propagated in the presence of epidermal growth factor, basic fibroblast growth factor, and leukemia inhibitory factor were transplanted into the striatum, subventricular zone (SVZ), and hippocampus. At 14 weeks, implanted cells were identified using antisera recognizing human nuclei and the reporter gene green fluorescent protein. Different migration patterns of the grafted cells were observed: (i) target-directed migration of doublecortin (DCX, a marker for migrating neuroblasts)-positive cells along the rostral migratory stream to the olfactory bulb and into the granular cell layer following transplantation into the SVZ and hippocampus, respectively; (ii) non-directed migration of DCX-positive cells in the grey matter in striatum and hippocampus, and (iii) extensive migration of above all nestin-positive/DCX-negative cells within white matter tracts. At the striatal implantation site, neuronal differentiation was most pronounced at the graft core with axonal projections extending along the internal capsule bundles. In the hippocampus, cells differentiated primarily into interneurons both in the dentate gyrus and in the CA1-3 regions as well as into granule-like neurons. In the striatum and hippocampus, a significant proportion of the grafted cells differentiated into glial cells, some with long processes extending along white matter tracts. Although the survival time was over 3 months in the present study a large fraction of the grafted cells remained undifferentiated in a stem or progenitor cell stage as revealed by the expression of nestin and/or GFAP.
In most brain regions of highly developed mammals, the majority of neurogenesis is terminated soon after birth. However, new neurons are continually generated throughout life in the subventricular zone and the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. Insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) is a polypeptide hormone that has demonstrated effects on these progenitor cells. IGF-I induces proliferation of isolated progenitors in culture, as well as affecting various aspects of neuronal induction and maturation. Moreover, systemic infusion of IGF-I increases both proliferation and neurogenesis in the adult rat hippocampus, and uptake of serum IGF-I by the brain parenchyma mediates the increase in neurogenesis induced by exercise. Neurogenesis in the adult brain is regulated by many factors including aging, chronic stress, depression and brain injury. Aging is associated with reductions in both hippocampal neurogenesis and IGF-I levels, and administration of IGF-I to old rats increases neurogenesis and reverses cognitive impairments. Similarly, stress and depression also inhibit neurogenesis, possibly via the associated reductions in serotonin or increases in circulating glucocorticoids. As both of these changes have the potential to down regulate IGF-I production by neural cells, stress may inhibit neurogenesis indirectly via downregulation of IGF-I. In contrast, brain injury stimulates neurogenesis, and is associated with upregulation of IGF-I in the brain. Thus, there is a tight correlation between IGF-I and neurogenesis in the adult brain under different conditions. Further studies are needed to clarify whether IGF-I does indeed mediate neurogenesis in these situations.
Nestin expression in the developing human brain was examined with the use of unique human specific anti-nestin antibodies. Double immunostaining of cell cultures and tissue sections derived from first and second trimester human fetal brain (HFB) examined the co-expression of nestin with other cell type specific phenotypic markers. The immunocytochemical analysis shows that from first to second trimester, the majority of developing glial cells exhibited a transitional state marked by co-expression of nestin and GFAP. However, the corresponding transitional state for developing neuronal cells, co-expressing nestin and MAP-2, was rarely detected. These results imply different temporal patterns of nestin expression in cells of glial and neuronal lineages. Confocal microscopy of HFB tissue section staining also revealed a similar pattern of nestin co-expression with glial and neuronal markers. Our results suggest that nestin expression alone may not identify an undifferentiated stem cell, and that progenitor cells in glial and neuronal lineages express nestin in different temporal patterns.
The output potential of proliferating populations in either the developing or the adult nervous system is critically dependent on the length of the cell cycle (T(c)) and the size of the proliferating population. We developed a new approach for analyzing the cell cycle, the 'Saturate and Survive Method' (SSM), that also reveals the dynamic behaviors in the proliferative population and estimates of the size of the proliferating population. We used this method to analyze the proliferating population of the adult dentate gyrus in 60 day old mice of two inbred strains, C57BL/6J and BALB/cByJ. The results show that the number of cells labeled by exposure to BUdR changes dramatically with time as a function of the number of proliferating cells in the population, the length of the S-phase, cell division, the length of the cell cycle, dilution of the S-phase label, and cell death. The major difference between C57BL/6J and BALB/cByJ mice is the size of the proliferating population, which differs by a factor of two; the lengths of the cell cycle and the S-phase and the probability that a newly produced cell will die within the first 10 days do not differ in these two strains. This indicates that genetic regulation of the size of the proliferating population is independent of the genetic regulation of cell death among those newly produced cells. The dynamic changes in the number of labeled cells as revealed by the SSM protocol also indicate that neither single nor repeated daily injections of BUdR accurately measure 'proliferation.'
Over the past 3 decades, research exploring potential neuronal replacement therapies have focused on replacing lost neurons by transplanting cells or grafting tissue into diseased regions of the brain [Nat. Neurosci. 3 (2000) 67-78]. Over most of the past century of modern neuroscience, it was thought that the adult brain was completely incapable of generating new neurons. However, in the last decade, the development of new techniques has resulted in an explosion of new research showing that neurogenesis, the birth of new neurons, normally occurs in two limited and specific regions of the adult mammalian brain, and that there are significant numbers of multipotent neural precursors in many parts of the adult mammalian brain [Mol. Cell. Neurosci. 19 (1999) 474-486]. Recent findings from our laboratory demonstrate that it is possible to induce neurogenesis de novo in the adult mammalian brain, particularly in the neocortex where it does not normally occur, and that it may become possible to manipulate endogenous multipotent precursors in situ to replace lost or damaged neurons [Nature 405 (2000) 951-955; Neuron 25 (2000) 481-492]. Recruitment of new neurons can be induced in a region-specific, layer-specific, and neuronal type-specific manner, and newly recruited neurons can form long-distance connections to appropriate targets. Elucidation of the relevant molecular controls may both allow control over transplanted precursor cells and potentially allow the development of neuronal replacement therapies for neurodegenerative disease and other central nervous system injuries that do not require transplantation of exogenous cells.
Following 5 or 10 min of global ischemia in the adult gerbil there is a tenfold increase in the birth of new cells in the subgranular zone of dentate gyrus of the hippocampus as assessed using BrdU incorporation. This begins at 7 days, peaks at 11 days, and decreases thereafter. Over the next month approximately 25% of the newborn cells disappear. Of the remaining cells, 60% migrate into the granule cell layer where two-thirds become NeuN, calbindin and MAP-2 immunostained neurons. The remaining 40% of the cells migrate into the dentate hilus where 25% of these become GFAP labeled astrocytes. It is proposed that ischemia-induced neurogenesis contributes to the recovery of function, and specifically may serve to improve anterograde and retrograde recent memory function that is lost following global ischemia in animals and man.

Previous studies assessing the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) correlates of cognitive dysfunction in multiple sclerosis (MS) achieved conflicting results. Diffusion tensor (DT)-MRI provides metrics that are sensitive to the macro- and microscopic MS lesion load with increased specificity to the more destructive aspects of MS pathology than conventional imaging. We performed an exploratory study to assess the magnitude of the correlation between quantities derived from DT-MRI and measures of cognitive impairment in patients with relapsing-remitting (RR) MS.T2, T1, DT-MRI scans of the brain and an extensive battery of neuropsychological tests (exploring language, complex reasoning, attention and memory) were obtained from 34 RRMS patients. We measured T2 and T1 lesion volumes (LV) and brain volume. Average lesion mean diffusivity (D) and fractional anisotropy (FA) were calculated. D and FA histograms from the brain tissue (BT), the normal-appearing brain tissue (NABT), the normal-appearing white matter (NAWM) and the normal-appearing gray matter (NAGM) were also obtained. Nine patients (26.5%) were found to be cognitively impaired. Moderate correlations were found between symbol digit modalities test, verbal fluency test and 10/36 spatial recall test scores and T2 LV, T1 LV and average lesion, WBT, NABT, NAWM and NAGM values (r values ranging from -0.30 to -0.53). No correlations were found between any of the neuropsychological test scores and brain volume, average lesion FA and WBT FA.DT-MRI provides quantitative metrics that seem to reflect the severity of language, attention and memory deficits in patients with RRMS. This study also suggests that the extent and the intrinsic nature of the macroscopic lesions as well as the damage of the NAWM and NAGM all contribute to the neuropsychological deficits of RRMS patients.
When behavioral pharmacologists/toxicologists study conditioned taste aversions (CTAs), or other conditioned responses, as a means to investigate the effects of various drugs or toxins on a learned response, failure to discover a CTA is frequently attributed to the treatment's influence on the associative process. This kind of analysis may fail to identify drug-induced sensory changes that may influence conditioned stimulus (CS) or unconditioned stimulus (US) saliency. The current paper outlines a simple method by which a drug's influence on CS or US sensation may be determined. Further, illustrative data are provided regarding how N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor blockade modulates taste and the sensation of malaise. Ketamine (an NMDA receptor antagonist) has been reported to block CTAs in both neonatal and adult rats. The current experiments evaluated ketamine's ability to modulate the taste of a frequently employed CS (saccharin HCl=SAC) or the aversive aspects of a common US (Lithium Chloride=LiCl). Rats normally exhibit a preference for 0.3% SAC over 0.6% SAC and will suppress consumption of these liquids following an injection of LiCl. We report that ketamine did not markedly antagonize these consummatory patterns nor did it disrupt spontaneous locomotor movements. Taken together, these findings point to ketamine's limited ability to change the sensory capacities required for CTA formation. Investigators interested in determining the underlying causes of drug-induced CTA blockade may choose to employ paradigms similar to the one used here.
Recordings of spike trains made with microwires or silicon electrodes include more noise from various sources that contaminate the observed spike shapes compared with recordings using sharp microelectrodes. This is a particularly serious problem if spike shape sorting is required to separate the several trains that might be observed on a particular electrode. However, if recordings are made with an array of such electrodes, there are several mathematical methods to improve the effective signal (spikes) to noise ratio, thus considerably reducing inaccuracy in spike detection and shape sorting. We compare the theoretical basis of three such methods and evaluate their performance with simulated and real data.
This paper describes an improved spike triggered averaging technique for the assessment of control properties and conduction velocity (CV) of single motor units (MUs) of the tibialis anterior muscle during voluntary muscle contractions. The method is based on the detection of multi-channel surface EMG signals (with linear electrode arrays) and intramuscularly recorded single MU action potentials (MUAPs). Intramuscular electrodes were inserted in the muscle taking into account the MU structural properties (innervation zone, tendon locations, length of the fibers), assessed by the linear array surface EMG detection technique. An algorithm for intramuscular EMG signal decomposition is used to identify single MUAP trains. The MUAPs detected by the intramuscular EMG decomposition algorithm were used to trigger and average the multi-channel EMG signals. CV of single averaged surface MUAPs was estimated by the use of advanced signal processing methods based on multi-channel recordings which allow to consistently reduce the variance of CV estimates compared with traditional two channel delay estimators. The number of averaged potentials can thus be limited, resulting in high temporal resolution CV estimates. The developed technique was tested on recordings from the tibialis anterior muscle in 11 volunteers during fatigue. It was shown that the method allows the assessment of single MU CV changes (fatigue) as small as 0.1 m/s with less than 2 s data epochs. The method allows reliable assessment of firing rate and conduction properties of single MUs with applications for the investigation of central and peripheral fatigue mechanisms.
The soluble receptor-resistant (srr) mutants, srr7 and srr11, isolated from a murine coronavirus, mouse hepatitis virus (MHV) JHMV, have an amino acid mutation at positions 1114 (Leu to Phe) and 65 (Leu to His), respectively, in the spike (S) protein. These mutants failed to efficiently infect BHK cells expressing CEACAM1b (BHK-R2), due to their low entry into this cell line, although they infected cells expressing CEACAM1a (BHK-R1) in a manner similar to that of wild-type (wt) JHMV cl-2 (Matsuyama and Taguchi, Virology 273, 80-89, 2000). Following the repeated passage of these mutants through BHK-R2 cells, viruses were no longer isolated from srr11-infected cells, while two distinct mutants, srr7A and srr7B, were obtained from srr7-infected cells. Srr7A and srr7B grew 2 log10 higher than srr7 and induced fusion in BHK-R2 cells, being similar to wt virus. In addition to the amino acid change at position 1114 that stemmed from parental srr7, srr7A and srr7B had mutations around position 280, corresponding to the third region of the S1N330 receptor-binding site (S1N330-III) common to all MHV strains examined thus far. Srr7A and srr7B S proteins showed high fusogenicity in both BHK-R1 and BHK-R2 cells, like the wt virus, while srr7Aa and srr7Ba S proteins, which had mutations in S1N330-III but not at amino acid 1114, exhibited profoundly reduced fusion activity in these cell lines. These findings suggest that communication between S1N330-III and the amino acid at position 1114 is important for efficient fusion activity in BHK-R2 cells. S1N330-III is a possible region in the S1 involved in viral entry into cells.
Accumulating data suggest a central role for mitochondria and oxidative stress in neurodegenerative apoptosis. We previously demonstrated that amyloid-beta peptide 25-35 (Abeta 25-35) toxicity in cultured cells is mediated by its effects on functioning mitochondria. In this study, we further explored the hypothesis that Abeta 25-35 might induce apoptotic cell death by altering mitochondrial physiology. Mitochondria in Ntera2 (NT2 rho+) human teratocarcinoma cells exposed to either staurosporine (STS) or Abeta 25-35 were found to release cytochrome c, with subsequent activation of caspases 9 and 3. However, NT2 cells depleted of mitochondrial DNA (rho0 cells), which maintain a normal mitochondrial membrane potential (Deltapsi(m)) despite the absence of a functional electron transport chain (ETC), demonstrated cytochrome c release and caspase activation only with STS. We further observed increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and decreased reduced glutathione (GSH) levels in rho+ and rho0 cells treated with STS, but only in rho+ cells treated with Abeta 25-35. We conclude that under in vitro conditions, Abeta can induce oxidative stress and apoptosis only when a functional mitochondrial ETC is present.
The expression of alpha-synuclein, a synaptic molecule implicated in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease and Lewy body disease is increased upon injury to the nervous system, indicating that it might play a role in regeneration and plasticity; however, the mechanisms are unclear. Because c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), a member of the mitogen-activated protein kinase family, plays an important role in stress response, the main objective of the present study was to better understand the involvement of this pathway in the signaling responses associated with resistance to injury in cells expressing alpha-synuclein. For this purpose, the JNK-signaling pathway was investigated in alpha-synuclein-transfected neuronal cell line glucose transporter (GT) 1-7 under oxidative stress conditions. Although hydrogen peroxide challenge resulted in JNK activation and cell death in cells transfected with vector control or beta-synuclein, alpha-synuclein-transfected cells were resistant to hydrogen peroxide, and JNK was not activated. The inactivation of JNK in the alpha-synuclein-transfected cells was associated with increased expression and activity of JNK-interacting protein (JIP)-1b/islet-brain (IB)1, the scaffold protein for the JNK pathway. Similarly, cells transfected with JIP-1b/IB1 were resistant to hydrogen peroxide associated with inactivation of the JNK pathway. In these cells, expression of endogenous alpha-synuclein was significantly increased at the protein level. Furthermore, alpha-synuclein was co-localized with JIP-1b/IB1 in the growth cones. Taken together, these results suggest that increased alpha-synuclein expression might protect cells from oxidative stress by inactivation of JNK via increased expression of JIP-1b/IB1. Furthermore, interactions between alpha-synuclein and JIP-1b/IB1 may play a mutual role in the neuronal response to injury and neurodegeneration.
Cells cultured from Alzheimer disease leptomeninges or skin were grafted into the cortex of adult thymectomized rats. At 3 days post-implant, plaque-like aggregates were found in the cortex, corpus callosum, septum and caudate nucleus. These structures were immunopositive for human amyloid precursor protein (APP), human amyloid beta peptide (Abeta), cathepsin D, apolipoprotein E and ubiquitin. Aberrant tau+ neurites, reactive astrocytes and microglia were associated with many aggregates. Although birefringent amyloid occupied the central area of most aggregates, these structures had disappeared by l month post-implant. Abeta and APP produced by grafted non-neural human cells can penetrate rat brain and form plaque-like structures, which can be effectively cleared by the rat.
Substance P is known to exert various pro-inflammatory effects that are mediated by neurokinin-1 (NK-1) receptor in peripheral tissues. This study examined the effect of the NK-1 receptor antagonist cis-2-[diphenylmethyl]-N-[(2-iodophenyl)-1-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octan-3-amine] (L-703,606) on nociceptive response following carrageenan injection (2%, 50 microl) into the knee joint cavity of the right hind leg. L-703,606 injection (0.1 or 1 mM, 50 microl) into the same joint cavity immediately before the carrageenan injection significantly reduced the nociceptive response. However, antagonist treatment at 5 h after carrageenan injection was ineffective in alleviating nociception. Neither intraperitoneal injection of the antagonist (1 mM, 50 microl) immediately before the carrageenan injection was effective. These results suggest that local NK-1 receptor contributes to the induction, but not maintenance, of arthritic pain.


The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) ionotropic glutamate receptors were studied in retina cells developing in chick embryos and in retina cells cultured as retinospheroids, at the same stages of development. In the retinospheroids, the activity of the NMDA receptors was followed by monitoring the changes in the intracellular free calcium concentration ([Ca2+](i)), in response to NMDA or to L-glutamate. The expression of the subunits NMDAR1, NMDAR2A/B and NMDAR2C in the retinospheroids and in chick retinas were determined by Western blot analyses. The changes in [Ca2+](i) in response to 400 microM NMDA increased from 5 h in vitro to 3 days in vitro (DIV) and remained constant until 14 DIV, whereas the [Ca2+](i) response to 500 microM L-glutamate increased from 5 h in vitro to 3 DIV and decreased slightly until 14 DIV. In the retinospheroids, the expression of the NMDAR1 and NMDAR2A/B subunits increased from 5 h in vitro until 14 DIV, whereas the NMDAR2C subunit increased from 5 h in vitro until 10 DIV and remained constant until 14 DIV. In the retinas, the expression of NMDAR1 increased from embryonic day 8 (E8) until E15, decreased until E18, and increased again until day 22 (post-hatched 1, PH1). The NMDAR2A/B increased from E8 until E18 and decreased slightly until PH1, whereas the NMDAR2C subunit increased from E8 until E15, remained constant until E18, and increased again until PH1. The results suggest that NMDA receptors are expressed and functionally active at early embryonic stages in the retina and in retinospheroids, before synapse formation (E12). However, the calcium responses to NMDA were relatively constant from 3 DIV until 14 DIV, showing no correlation with the increase in the expression of the studied NMDA receptor subunit during the same period. Also, the patterns of NMDA receptor subunits expressed in chick embryo retina cells cultured in vitro and in retina cells developing in vivo were similar.
We assessed the human brain network for sound-motion processing using the same virtual stimulus in three independent functional imaging experiments. All experiments show a bilateral posterior network of activation, including planum temporale (PT) and parieto-temporal operculum (PTO). This was demonstrated in contrasts between sound movement and two control conditions: externalized stationary stimuli (in the midline or to the side of the head) and midline sounds within the head with similar spectro-temporal structure. We suggest specific computational mechanisms in PT for disambiguation of the intrinsic spectro-temporal features of a sound and the spectro-temporal effect of sound movement. The results support the existence of a posteriorly directed temporo-parietal pathway for obligatory perceptual processing of sound-source motion.
Kainate receptors (KARs) on CA1 pyramidal cells make no detectable contribution to EPSCs. We report that these receptors have a metabotropic function, as shown previously for CA1 interneurons. Brief kainate exposure caused long-lasting inhibition of a postspike potassium current (I(sAHP)) in CA1 pyramidal cells. The pharmacological profile was independent of AMPA receptors or the GluR5 subunit, indicating a possible role for the GluR6 subunit. KAR inhibition of I(sAHP) did not require ionotropic action or network activity, but was blocked by the inhibitor of pertussis toxin-sensitive G proteins, N-ethylmaleimide (NEM), or the PKC inhibitor calphostin C. These data suggest how KARs, putatively containing GluR6, directly increase excitability of CA1 pyramidal cells and help explain the propensity for seizure activity following KAR activation.
Here, we examine the synaptic function of the receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase (RPTP), Dlar, and an associated intracellular protein, Dliprin-alpha, at the Drosophila larval neuromuscular junction. We show that Dliprin-alpha and Dlar are required for normal synaptic morphology. We also find that synapse complexity is proportional to the amount of Dlar gene product, suggesting that Dlar activity determines synapse size. Ultrastructural analysis reveals that Dliprin-alpha and Dlar are required to define the size and shape of the presynaptic active zone. Accordingly, there is a concomitant decrease in synaptic transmission in both mutants. Finally, epistasis analysis indicates that Dliprin-alpha is required for Dlar's action at the synapse. These data suggest a model where Dliprin-alpha and Dlar cooperate to regulate the formation and/or maintenance of a network of presynaptic proteins.
Current treatments for depression are inadequate for many individuals, and progress in understanding the neurobiology of depression is slow. Several promising hypotheses of depression and antidepressant action have been formulated recently. These hypotheses are based largely on dysregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and hippocampus and implicate corticotropin-releasing factor, glucocorticoids, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, and CREB. Recent work has looked beyond hippocampus to other brain areas that are also likely involved. For example, nucleus accumbens, amygdala, and certain hypothalamic nuclei are critical in regulating motivation, eating, sleeping, energy level, circadian rhythm, and responses to rewarding and aversive stimuli, which are all abnormal in depressed patients. A neurobiologic understanding of depression also requires identification of the genes that make individuals vulnerable or resistant to the syndrome. These advances will fundamentally improve the treatment and prevention of depression.

The authors report a large series of patients with Huntington disease (HD)-like phenotype without CAG repeat expansions in the IT15 gene that were screened for the newly identified CAG/CTG expansion in the gene encoding junctophilin-3. Normal alleles in controls had from 8 to 28 repeats. A single patient of North African origin with typical HD carried an allele with 50 uninterrupted repeats, representing approximately 2% of the non-IT15 HD patients tested. Therefore, further genetic heterogeneity is expected in HD.


It has been reported that inosine has no direct neuroprotection against respiratory inhibitors due to the absence of purine nucleoside phosphorylase in neurons. Recent evidence, however, has shown that inosine has direct neurotrophic effects. Thus, lack of direct neuroprotection, as reported before, may not be a general conclusion, but is related to special types of injury. We used PC12 cells to explore direct neuroprotection of inosine against high concentration of zinc sulfate, an injury different from the previous one and found that inosine reduced the mortality of PC12 cells significantly in a dose dependent manner. The results indicate that inosine can directly protect neurons from zinc-induced injury, and such effect might be mediated via mechanism(s) other than purine nucleoside phosphorylase.
In order to determine the physiological effect of melatonin on glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), which is reportedly up-regulated by high doses of this hormone, concentration-dependent studies were carried out in cultured cells. RT-PCR studies indicated that, in addition to GDNF, rat C6 glioma cells express both of the G protein-coupled melatonin receptor subtypes, MT1 and MT2. When C6 cells were treated with physiological (0.05-1 nM) or higher (10 and 100 nM) concentrations of melatonin for 24 h, a significant induction of relative GDNF mRNA levels (n = 4) was detected by semi-quantitative RT-PCR. These findings suggest that induction of GDNF is involved in physiological neuroprotection by melatonin. Given the potency of GDNF in maintaining nigrostriatal dopaminergic integrity, understanding the mechanisms of its induction by melatonin could provide novel therapies for Parkinson's disease.
Mutations in human Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD1) cause approximately 20% of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS) cases. The mechanism of late-onset disease manifestation despite the innate mutation has no clear explanation. The relationship between homocysteine (HC) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) has not been investigated, in spite of the similarity in their pathogenesis. We investigated the effect of HC on the motor neuronal cell-line transfected with SOD1 of either wild-type or one of two mutant forms (G93A and A4V). In the MTT assay, HC induced significant cytotoxicity in A4V, but not in G93A, as compared with wild-type, even at the physiological concentration of 10 microM. This HC-induced cytotoxicity was inhibited by the antioxidant trolox and the Cu (I) chelator bathocuproinedisulfonate. Here we show that the vulnerability of the A4 V mutant involves the cytotoxic copper-mediated pathway, and that HC may be a lifelong precipitating factor in some forms of FALS, suggesting the possible treatment modality with vitamin supplements.
Stem cells in adult tissues have attracted a great deal of interest. These cells are self-renewing and can give rise to diverse progeny. An extraordinary finding was the presence of stem cells in the mature human brain. This tissue was previously believed incapable of generating new neurons, but neuropoiesis is now an established phenomenon in the adult brains of mammals, including human beings. This persistent neurogenesis has potential therapeutic applications for various neurological disorders as a source for tissue engraftment and as self-repair by a person's own indigenous population of pluripotent cells or biogenic by-products of their proliferation and differentiation.
We undertook an extensive antigenic characterization of the SCN 2.2 cell line in order to further evaluate whether the line expresses components of circadian regulatory pathways common to the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the central circadian clock in mammals. We found that differentiated SCN 2.2 cultures expressed a broad range of putative clock genes, as well as components of daytime, nighttime, and crepuscular circadian regulatory pathways found within the SCN in vivo. The line also exhibits several antigens that are highly expressed in a circadian pattern and/or differentially localized in the SCN relative to other hypothalamic regions. Expression of a broad complement of circadian regulatory proteins and putative clock genes further support growing evidence in recent reports that the SCN 2.2 cell line is an appropriate model for investigating the regulation of central mammalian pacemaker.
Opioid receptors have been localized to a number of brain regions in rats as well as in other species. In situ hybridization has demonstrated the presence of mRNA for the delta receptor subtype in adult rat cerebellar cortex and in several deep nuclei, but there are no reports on localization of the delta receptor protein in cerebellar regions. In the present study, both quantitative immunohistochemistry and Western blots reveal the presence of delta receptors in the adult rat cerebellum, using a specific affinity-purified antibody. Purkinje cells and processes, as well as cells in the granule cell layer, were positively stained with the antibody. Quantitation of confocal microscopy images illustrated a lower relative level of delta receptor immunoreactivity in cerebellar cortical neurons as compared to neurons in hippocampal regions, striatum and cerebral cortex. Stimulation of delta receptors with a selective agonist, DPDPE, in frozen sections of rat brain, induced a significant increase in binding of [35S]-GTPgammaS in the cerebellar cortex as compared to basal binding levels, thereby demonstrating coupling of the receptor subtype to G-protein. Functional implications for the delta receptor in the cerebellum are discussed, particularly in light of evidence for the presence of a cerebellar opioid receptor for the endogenous opioid methionine enkephalin during early postnatal life.
Autoregulation maintains cerebral blood flow near basal levels as blood pressure increases, but vasodilation, breakthrough, occurs when hypertension exceeds the autoregulatory range. Loss of breakthrough after transection of baroreceptor nerves suggests that breakthrough is neurally mediated. We hypothesize that central baroreflex interruption will likewise prevent breakthrough. In treated rats, injections of lidocaine into the nucleus tractus solitarii blocked breakthrough and the baroreflex. Therefore, central, like peripheral, baroreflex interruption extends autoregulation during hypertension.
Calcitonin-gene related peptide is among a group of peptides whose expressions are down-regulated following peripheral nerve damage. It is known that this is probably due to deprivation of some target-derived neurotrophic factors, mainly of nerve growth factor though positive effect of other factors, for example that of leukemia inhibitory factor on galanin has also been demonstrated. In this study, the effects of leukemia inhibitory factor and nerve growth factor on calcitonin gene related peptide expression in cultured dorsal root ganglion explants and in their outgrowing axons were examined. Lumbar dorsal root ganglia with short pieces of peripheral nerves were removed from adult mice and explanted into collagen gels. They were covered with RPMI 1640 culture medium and left in an incubator for 2 days after which they were fixed. These whole mount preparations with outgrowing axons were stained with an antibody against calcitonin gene related peptide. Following microscopic examination and imaging, sections were cut from the cultured ganglia as well as from some freshly taken normal ones and they were also stained to determine calcitonin gene related peptide immunoreactivity in the primary sensory neurons. The results demonstrated that besides the positive effect of nerve growth factor on the expression of this peptide in outgrowing axons, leukemia inhibitory factor also supported the expression of calcitonin gene related peptide in the primary sensory neurons of adult mouse lumbar dorsal root ganglia and in their outgrowing axons in vitro. When the time course of changes in calcitonin gene related peptide expression in dorsal root ganglia and the up-regulation of leukemia inhibitory factor at the site of a peripheral nerve injury in vivo are considered together, this novel finding may lead to new explanations for the changes in neuropeptide expression following axotomy.
The effect of intrastriatal administration of LY306740, a specific NK-1 receptor antagonist, on the behavior and changes in gene expression elicited by the psychomotor stimulant, amphetamine, was studied. Acute administration of amphetamine (2.5 mg/kg, i.p.) caused an increase in behavioral activity and preproenkephalin, preprodynorphin and substance P mRNA expression in the striatum. When amphetamine-treated rats were pretreated with LY306740 (35 and 20 nmoles per side, intrastriatally), there was a significant decrease in amphetamine-induced behavioral activity. Quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry revealed that both concentrations of LY306740 significantly decreased amphetamine-induced mRNA expression of all three neuropeptides. These data indicate that striatal NK-1 receptors modulate amphetamine-induced behavior and mRNA expression of neuropeptides in the rat striatum.
The present study investigated whether 3-nitrotyrosine is an early marker for neurodegenerative processes involving oxidative stress. We characterized the 3-nitrotyrosine formation after 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP) exposure in the whole brain spheroid culture model and in a rat model, using Lewis and Wistar rats. Increased 3-nitrotyrosine concentration in spheroid cultures from Lewis rats was observed at lower dose of and shorter exposure time to 3-NP as compared to alterations in glial fibrillary acidic protein concentration, decrease in glutamine synthetase activity or cell loss. Five days of exposure to 3-NP (5 mM) resulted in decreased staining of GABAergic processes, while neuronal nitric oxide synthase staining was preserved. In addition, staining of EAAC1, anti-2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphohydrolase and ED1 was diminished after treatment of spheroid cultures with 3-nitropropionic acid (5 mM), while isolectin B4 staining was increased. Dithiothreitol and vitamin E inhibited the increased formation of 3-nitrotyrosine. Interestingly, N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester increased the 3-nitrotyrosine formation. No increased 3-nitrotyrosine concentration was shown after exposure to 3-nitropropionic acid during 5 days in spheroid cultures obtained from Wistar rats. In the striatum of 3-NP-exposed Lewis and Wistar rats, no change in 3-nitrotyrosine concentration was observed, whereas only in Wistar rats the glial fibrillary acidic protein concentration was increased in addition to activation of microglial cells. It is concluded that 3-nitrotyrosine was a more sensitive marker for oxidative stress-induced neurodegeneration than glial fibrillary acidic protein and glutamine synthase in spheroid cell cultures of Lewis rats. Finally, the similarities between the 3-NP spheroid model and the vivo model indicate that the spheroid cultures provide a good alternative for chronic exposure of animals to neurotoxins.
Wnt regulation of beta-catenin degradation is essential for development and carcinogenesis. beta-catenin degradation is initiated upon amino-terminal serine/threonine phosphorylation, which is believed to be performed by glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) in complex with tumor suppressor proteins Axin and adnomatous polyposis coli (APC). Here we describe another Axin-associated kinase, whose phosphorylation of beta-catenin precedes and is required for subsequent GSK-3 phosphorylation of beta-catenin. This &quot;priming&quot; kinase is casein kinase Ialpha (CKIalpha). Depletion of CKIalpha inhibits beta-catenin phosphorylation and degradation and causes abnormal embryogenesis associated with excessive Wnt/beta-catenin signaling. Our study uncovers distinct roles and steps of beta-catenin phosphorylation, identifies CKIalpha as a component in Wnt/beta-catenin signaling, and has implications to pathogenesis/therapeutics of human cancers and diabetes.
The auxiliary beta4 subunit of the human slowpoke calciumdependent potassium (slo) channel is expressed predominantly in the brain. Co-expression of beta4 subunit with the slo channel alpha subunit in HEK293 and Chinese hamster ovary cells slows channel activation and deactivation and also shifts the voltage dependence of the channel to more depolarized potentials. We show here that the functional interaction between the hbeta4 subunit and the slo channel is influenced by the phosphorylation state of hbeta4. Treatment of cells with okadaic acid (OA) reduces the effect of hbeta4 on slo channel activation kinetics and voltage dependence but not on slo channel deactivation kinetics. The effect of OA can be blocked by mutating three putative serine/threonine phosphorylation sites in hbeta4 (Thr-11/Ser-17/Ser-210) to alanines, suggesting that OA potentiates phosphorylation of hbeta4 and thereby suppresses its functional coupling to the slo channel. Mutation of Ser-17 alone to a negatively charged residue (S17E) can mimic the effect of OA. Mutating all three phosphorylation sites in hbeta4 to negatively charged residues (T11D/S17E/S210E) not only suppresses the effect of hbeta4 on slo channel activation kinetics and voltage dependence, it also suppresses its effect on slo channel deactivation kinetics. Co-immunoprecipitation/Western blot experiments indicate that all of these hbeta4 mutants, as well as the wild-type hbeta4, bind to the slo channel. Taken together, these data suggest that phosphorylation of the beta4 subunit dynamically regulates the functional coupling between the beta4 subunit and the pore-forming alpha subunit of the slo channel. In addition, phosphorylation of different residues in hbeta4 differentially influences its effects on slo channel activation kinetics, deactivation kinetics, and voltage dependence.
Spatial and temporal regulation of Ca(2+) signaling require the assembly of multiprotein complexes linking molecules involved in Ca(2+) influx, sensing, buffering, and extrusion. Recent evidence indicates that plasma membrane Ca(2+) ATPases (PMCAs) participate in the control of local Ca(2+) fluxes, but the mechanism of multiprotein complex formation of specific PMCAs is poorly understood. Using the PMCA2b COOH-terminal tail as bait in a yeast two-hybrid screen, we identified the PSD-95, Dlg, ZO-1 (PDZ) domain-containing Na(+)/H(+) exchanger regulatory factor-2 (NHERF2) as an interacting partner. Protein pull-down and coimmunoprecipitation experiments using recombinant PMCA2b and PMCA4b as well as NHERF1 and NHERF2 showed that the interaction of PMCA2b with NHERF2 was specific and selective. PMCA4b did not interact with either of the NHERFs, and PMCA2b selectively preferred NHERF2 over NHERF1. Green fluorescent protein-tagged PMCA2b was expressed at the apical membrane in Madin-Darby canine kidney epithelial cells, where it colocalized with apically targeted NHERF2. Our study identifies NHERF2 as the first specific PDZ partner for PMCA2b not shared with PMCA4b, and demonstrates that PMCA splice forms differing only minimally in their COOH-terminal residues interact with unique PDZ proteins. NHERFs have been implicated in the targeting, retention and regulation of membrane proteins including the beta(2)-adrenergic receptor, cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator, and Trp4 Ca(2+) channel, and NHERF2 is now shown to also interact with PMCA2b. This interaction may allow the functional assembly of PMCA2b in a multiprotein Ca(2+) signaling complex, facilitating integrated cross-talk between local Ca(2+) influx and efflux.
Sodium and potassium-exchanging adenosine triphosphatase (Na,K-ATPase) in the kidney is associated with the gamma subunit (gamma, FXYD2), a single-span membrane protein that modulates ATPase properties. Rat and human gamma occur in two splice variants, gamma(a) and gamma(b), with different N termini. Here we investigated their structural heterogeneity and functional effects on Na,K-ATPase properties. Both forms were post-translationally modified during in vitro translation with microsomes, indicating that there are four possible forms of gamma. Site-directed mutagenesis revealed Thr(2) and Ser(5) as potential sites for post-translational modification. Similar modification can occur in cells, with consequences for Na,K-ATPase properties. We showed previously that stable transfection of gamma(a) into NRK-52E cells resulted in reduction of apparent affinities for Na(+) and K(+). Individual clones differed in gamma post-translational modification, however, and the effect on Na(+) affinity was absent in clones with full modification. Here, transfection of gamma(b) also resulted in clones with or without post-translational modification. Both groups showed a reduction in Na(+) affinity, but modification was required for the effect on K(+) affinity. There were minor increases in ATP affinity. The physiological importance of the reduction in Na(+) affinity was shown by the slower growth of gamma(a), gamma(b), and gamma(b') transfectants in culture. The differential influence of the four structural variants of gamma on affinities of the Na,K-ATPase for Na(+) and K(+), together with our previous finding of different distributions of gamma(a) and gamma(b) along the rat nephron, suggests a highly specific mode of regulation of sodium pump properties in kidney.

The signaling transduction mechanism mediated by tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) in the alveolar epithelium is not well characterized. It was subsequently hypothesized that recombinant murine TNF-alpha (rmTNF-alpha) selectively regulates the inhibitory kappa B (I kappa B-alpha)/nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappa B) pathway and interferes with the endogenous biosynthesis of pro-inflammatory (stimulatory) and anti-inflammatory (inhibitory) cytokines. The cytokine rmTNF-alpha induced, in a time- and dose-dependent manner, the degradation of I kappa B-alpha within the cytosolic compartment, an effect associated with up-regulating its phosphorylation. This allowed the biphasic regulation of selective NF-kappa B subunit nuclear translocation, thereby mediating a dual excitatory mechanism on NF-kappa B activation. The immunoregulatory effect of rmTNF-alpha was associated with a time-dependent induction of pro-inflammatory [interleukin (IL)-1 beta, IL-6 and TNF-alpha] and anti-inflammatory (IL-10) cytokine biosynthesis. These results indicate a novel involvement of an I kappa B-alpha/NF-kappa B-sensitive pathway mediating the effect of TNF-alpha, which is associated with an autocrine, endogenous mechanism mediating the regulation of cytokine signaling.
We describe an &quot;inverting basket&quot; model for transport in the erythrocyte anion exchanger, AE1. The inverting basket is formed by the side chains of three putative key residues, two positively (Lys 826 and Arg 730) and one negatively (Glu 681) charged residue. We have tentatively chosen seven transmembrane helices, TM1, TM2, TM4, TM8, TM10, TM12 and TM13 to form a conical channel using the well-established Glu 681 of TM8 and candidates Lys 826 and Arg 730 of TM12-13 and TM10, respectively, to form the inverting basket. We assume that these residues bind to an anion and shift from outward facing (C(o)) to inward facing (C(i)) conformation without significant backbone movements to transport an anion across the membrane. The transition of the complex (residues and ion) from outward facing (C(o)) to inward facing (C(i)) constitutes one &quot;basket&quot; inversion. The barrier to inversion is composed of two major components: that of the anhydrous complex, which we refer to as a steric energy barrier and a dehydration effect due to the removal of charges in the complex from water in the channel. The steric barrier is dependent on the side chain charge and configuration and on the ion charge and size. The dehydration effect, for our model, ameliorates the steric barrier, in the case of the empty complex but less so for the monovalent and divalent ions. We conclude, that it is possible for a seven-helix bundle to have a steric barrier to basket inversion, but that hydration effects in thin hydrophobic barrier models may be more complex than usually envisioned.
The central biological clock of the mammalian brain is located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. This hypothalamic region contains neurons that generate a circadian rhythm on a single-cell basis. Clock cells transmit their circadian timing signals to other brain areas by diurnal modulation of their spontaneous firing rate. The intracellular mechanism underlying rhythm generation is thought to consist of one or more self-regulating molecular loops, but it is unknown how these loops interact with the plasma membrane to modulate the ionic conductances that regulate firing behaviour. Here we demonstrate a diurnal modulation of Ca2+ current in suprachiasmatic neurons. This current strongly contributes to the generation of spontaneous oscillations in membrane potential, which occur selectively during daytime and are tightly coupled to spike generation. Thus, day-night modulation of Ca2+ current is a central step in transducing the intracellular cycling of molecular clocks to the rhythm in spontaneous firing rate.

Gene therapy for the nervous system is a newly emerging field with special issues related to modes of delivery, potential toxicity, and realistic expectations for treatment of this vital and highly complex tissue. This review focuses on the potential for gene delivery to the brain, as well as possible risks and benefits of these procedures. This includes discussion of appropriate vectors, such as adeno-associated virus, lentivirus, gutless adenovirus, and herpes simplex virus hybrid amplicons, and cell vehicles, such as neuroprogenitor cells. Routes of delivery for focal and global diseases are enumerated, including use of migratory cells, facilitation of vascular delivery across the blood-brain barrier, cerebrospinal fluid delivery, and convection injection. Attention is given to examples of diseases falling into different etiologic types: metabolic deficiency states, including Canavan disease and lysosomal storage disorders; and degenerative conditions, including Parkinson's disease and other neurodegenerative conditions.
There are infinitely many different combinations of arm postures which will place the hand at the same point in space. Given this abundance, how is one configuration chosen over another? Two main hypotheses have been proposed to solve this problem. Postural models suggest that the posture adopted is purely determined by the desired hand position (known as Donders' law). Transport models suggest that the adopted posture depends on where the hand has moved from. A specific transport model, the minimum work model, has been proposed in which the adopted posture is the one that minimizes the amount of work required to move the hand to the new location. The postural model predicts that the posture will be independent of where the hand has moved from, whereas the transport models predict that the posture will depend on the previous posture. We have devised a simple redundant task-touching a target bar using a hand-held virtual stick-to examine these models. The results show that neither model alone can account for the data. We propose a control planning strategy in which there is a combined cost function that has both a postural term as well as a transport term.
Synesthesia is a remarkable, rare condition where an individual has multimodal perceptual experiences from a unimodal sensory event. We have studied such an individual, an adult male for whom achromatic words and alphanumeric characters are seen in vivid, reliable colors. We used a variety of perceptual tasks to document the perceptual reality of synesthetic colors and to begin to localize the stage of visual processing where this anomalous binding of externally specified form and internally generated color may take place. Synesthetic colors were elicited by forms defined solely by binocular cues or solely by motion cues, which implies a central locus of visual processing for synesthetic binding of form and color. Also included among our measurements was a difficult visual search task on which non-synesthetic subjects required an effortful search through the visual display. Our subject, in contrast to non-synesthetic subjects, accomplished the task with relative ease because the target of the search had a different synesthetic color from the distractors. Thus, synesthetic experiences appear to originate from a binding of color and form that takes place within central stages of visual processing.
Multisensory integration is a powerful mechanism for increasing adaptive responses, as illustrated by binding of fear expressed in a face with fear present in a voice. To understand the role of awareness in intersensory integration of affective information we studied multisensory integration under conditions of conscious and nonconscious processing of the visual component of an audiovisual stimulus pair. Auditory-event-related potentials were measured in two patients (GY and DB) who were unable to perceive visual stimuli consciously because of striate cortex damage. To explore the role of conscious vision of audiovisual pairing, we also compared audiovisual integration in either naturalistic pairings (a facial expression paired with an emotional voice) or semantic pairings (an emotional picture paired with the same voice). We studied the hypothesis that semantic pairings, unlike naturalistic pairings, might require mediation by intact visual cortex and possibly by feedback to primary cortex from higher cognitive processes. Our results indicate that presenting incongruent visual affective information together with the voice translates as an amplitude decrease of auditory-event-related potentials. This effect obtains for both naturalistic and semantic pairings in the intact field, but is restricted to the naturalistic pairings in the blind field.
In the penis, nitric oxide (NO) can be formed by both neuronal NO synthase and endothelial NOS (eNOS). eNOS is activated by viscous drag/shear stress in blood vessels to produce NO continuously, a process mediated by the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3kinase)/Akt pathway. Here we show that PI3-kinase/Akt physiologically mediates erection. Both electrical stimulation of the cavernous nerve and direct intracavernosal injection of the vasorelaxant drug papaverine cause rapid increases in phosphorylated (activated) Akt and eNOS. Phosphorylation is diminished by wortmannin and LY294002, inhibitors of PI3-kinase, the upstream activator of Akt. The two drugs also reduce erection. Penile erection elicited by papaverine is reduced profoundly in mice with targeted deletion of eNOS. Our findings support a model in which rapid, brief activation of neuronal NOS initiates the erectile process, whereas PI3-kinase/Akt-dependent phosphorylation and activation of eNOS leads to sustained NO production and maximal erection.
Neurons in the lateral intraparietal area, frontal eye field, and superior colliculus exhibit a pattern of activity known as remapping. When a salient visual stimulus is presented shortly before a saccade, the representation of that stimulus is updated, or remapped, at the time of the eye movement. This updating is presumably based on a corollary discharge of the eye movement command. To investigate whether visual areas also exhibit remapping, we recorded from single neurons in extrastriate and striate cortex while monkeys performed a saccade task. Around the time of the saccade, a visual stimulus was flashed either at the location occupied by the neuron's receptive field (RF) before the saccade (old RF) or at the location occupied by it after the saccade (new RF). More than half (52%) of V3A neurons responded to a stimulus flashed in the new RF even though the stimulus had already disappeared before the saccade. These neurons responded to a trace of the flashed stimulus brought into the RF by the saccade. In 16% of V3A neurons, remapped activity began even before saccade onset. Remapping also was observed at earlier stages of the visual hierarchy, including in areas V3 and V2. At these earlier stages, the proportion of neurons that exhibited remapping decreased, and the latency of remapped activity increased relative to saccade onset. Remapping was very rare in striate cortex. These results indicate that extrastriate visual areas are involved in the process of remapping.
Myocyte enhancer factor-2 (MEF2) transcription factors are activated by p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase during neuronal and myogenic differentiation. Recent work has shown that stimulation of this pathway is antiapoptotic during development but proapoptotic in mature neurons exposed to excitotoxic or other stress. We now report that excitotoxic (N-methyl-D-aspartate) insults to mature cerebrocortical neurons activate caspase-3, -7, in turn cleaving MEF2A, C, and D isoforms. MEF2 cleavage fragments containing a truncated transactivation domain but preserved DNA-binding domain block MEF2 transcriptional activity via dominant interference. Transfection of constitutively active MEF2 (MEF2C-CA) rescues MEF2 transcriptional activity after N-methyl-D-aspartate insult and prevents neuronal apoptosis. Conversely, dominant-interfering MEF2 abrogates neuroprotection by MEF2C-CA. These results define a pathway to excitotoxic neuronal stress/apoptosis via caspase-catalyzed cleavage of MEF2. Additionally, we show that similar MEF2 cleavage fragments are generated in vivo during focal stroke damage. Hence, this pathway appears to have pathophysiological relevance in vivo.
The X-linked form of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMTX) is an inherited peripheral neuropathy that arises in patients with mutations in the gene encoding the gap junction protein connexin 32 (Cx32), which is expressed by Schwann cells. We recently showed that Cx32 containing the CMTX-associated mutation, Ser-85-Cys (S85C), forms functional cell-cell channels in paired Xenopus oocytes. Here, we describe that this mutant connexin also shows increased opening of hemichannels in nonjunctional surface membrane. Open hemichannels may damage the cells through loss of ionic gradients and small metabolites and increased influx of Ca(2+), and provide a mechanism by which this and other mutant forms of Cx32 may damage cells in which they are expressed. Evidence for open hemichannels includes: (i) oocytes expressing the Cx32(S85C) mutant show greatly increased conductance at inside positive potentials, significantly larger than in oocytes expressing wild-type Cx32 (Cx32WT); and (ii) the induced currents are similar to those previously described for several other connexin hemichannels, and exhibit slowly developing increases with increasing levels of positivity and reversible reduction when intracellular pH is decreased or extracellular Ca(2+) concentration is increased. Although increased currents are seen, oocytes expressing Cx32(S85C) have lower levels of the protein in the surface and in total homogenates than do oocytes expressing Cx32WT; thus, under the conditions examined here, hemichannels in the surface membrane formed of the Cx32(S85C) mutant have a higher open probability than hemichannels formed of Cx32WT. This increase in functional hemichannels may damage Schwann cells and ultimately lead to loss of function in peripheral nerves of patients harboring this mutation.
A diversity of sensilla has been described in crustaceans, both across species and within a given species. However, few homologous setal types have been identified in crustaceans. In this study we examined setae with features of the hooded sensillum, which is a class of bimodal chemomechanosensilla first identified on antennules of the Caribbean spiny lobster Panulirus argus. We examined the antennules of 13 species representing seven families of malacostracan crustaceans, and most body surfaces of P. argus, and compared the sensillar morphology from different species and from different body regions to identify interspecific and intraspecific homologues of hooded sensilla. Our results show that sensilla with morphological characteristics of antennular hooded sensilla are present and have a similar pattern of distribution on the antennules of reptantian species representing three families (Palinuridae and Scyllaridae of the Achelata and Nephropidae of the Homarida). Furthermore, hooded sensillar homologues are present on most body surfaces of P. argus. However, there are intraspecific and interspecific variations in the morphology of these sensilla. We present evidence that supports the idea that postembryonic changes in individual sensilla may be responsible for some of these morphological variations. Despite these variations, we conclude that the sensilla are homologues, because they have several common characteristics, similar positions on the body surface, similar substructures, a continuum to their morphological variations, and morphological variation that is correlated with phylogenetic similarity. Taken together these results support the idea that the hooded sensillum is a singular and biologically important sensillar type that has a broad distribution.


gamma-Secretase is an enzymatic activity responsible for the final cleavage of the amyloid precursor protein leading to the production of the amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta). gamma-Secretase is likely an aspartyl protease, since its activity can be inhibited by both pepstatin and active-site directed aspartyl protease inhibitors. Recent work has indicated that presenilins 1 and 2 may actually be the gamma-secretase enzymes. Presenilin (PS) mutations, which lead to an increase in the production of a longer form of Abeta, are also the most common cause of familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD). Therefore, in an attempt to better characterize the substrate preferences of gamma-secretase, we performed experiments to determine how FAD-linked mutations in PS1 would affect the generation of Abeta peptides from full length precursor substrates that we have previously demonstrated to be proteolytically cleaved at alternative sites and/or by enzymatic activities that are pharmacologically distinct. Presenilin mutations increased the production of Abeta peptides from sites distal to the primary cleavage site ('longer' peptides) and in several cases also decreased production of 'shorter' peptides. These results support a model in which the FAD-linked mutants subtly alter the conformation of the gamma-secretase complex to favor the production of long Abeta.
Congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDG) are a group of metabolic disorders with multisystemic involvement characterized by abnormalities in the synthesis of N-linked oligosaccharides. The most common form, CDG-Ia, resulting from mutations in the gene encoding the enzyme phosphomannomutase (PMM2), manifests with severe abnormalities in psychomotor development, dysmorphic features and visceral involvement. While this disorder is panethnic, we present the first cases of CDG-Ia identified in an African American family with two affected sisters. The proband had failure to thrive in infancy, hypotonia, ataxia, cerebellar hypoplasia and developmental delay. On examination, she also exhibited strabismus, inverted nipples and an atypical perineal fat distribution, all features characteristic of CDG-Ia. Direct sequencing demonstrated that the patient had a unique genotype, T237M/c.565-571 delAGAGAT insGTGGATTTCC. The novel deletion-insertion mutation, which was confirmed by subcloning and sequencing of each allele, introduces a stop codon 11 amino acids downstream from the site of the deletion. The presence of this deletion-insertion mutation at cDNA position 565 suggests that this site in the PMM2 gene may be a hotspot for chromosomal breakage.
The molecular mechanisms underlying the regulation of neurotransmission has been an open question for many years. Here, we have examined an interaction between caveolin1 and SNAREs (soluble N-ethylmalemide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor) which may contribute to the cellular mechanisms underlying changes in synaptic strength. Previously, we reported that application of 4-aminopyridine to hippocampal slices resulted in a persistent potentiation of synaptic transmission and the induction of a short-lasting and specific 40-kDa complex composed of synaptosomal associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP25) and caveolin1. We have characterized the binding properties of these proteins and observed that in vitro caveolin1 directly associates with both SNAP25 and syntaxin. Caveolin/SNARE interactions are enhanced in the presence of ATP by a mechanism that involves phosphorylation. While caveolin has been associated with cholesterol transport, signal transduction, and transcytosis, this study provides evidence that caveolin is also a SNARE accessory protein.

Temozolomide (TZM) is a DNA-methylating agent that has recently been introduced into various clinical trials for treatment of solid or hematologic neoplasias, including brain lymphomas. In the current study, we have investigated whether the antitumor activity of TZM could be selectively enhanced at the central nervous system (CNS) site by intracerebral injection of a poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor. Mice were injected intracranially with lymphoma cells. The PARP inhibitor NU1025 (1 mg/animal) was delivered intracerebrally, whereas TZM was given as a single or a fractionated dose of 200 mg/kg by intraperitoneal administration. Results indicated that this drug combination significantly enhanced the survival of tumor-bearing mice and that this fractionated modality of treatment was the most effective schedule. Increased survival time was related to a marked reduction of tumor growth, as evidenced by histologic studies. Treatment with TZM alone was ineffective. This is the first report exploring in vivo the combination of TZM with PARP inhibitor for intracerebral neoplasias.
Opioid compounds have powerful analgesic properties when administered to the spinal cord. These effects are exerted through mu and delta opioid receptors, and both pre- and postsynaptic mechanisms have been implicated. To specifically address the relative pre- and postsynaptic contribution to spinal opioid analgesia, we have quantitatively assessed the pre- vs. postsynaptic distribution of the mu-opioid (MOR-1, MOP(1)) and delta-opioid receptors (DOR-1, DOP(1)). We also examined the rostro-caudal arborization of MOR-1 and DOR-1 immunoreactive primary sensory neurons, using an isolated dorsal root preparation. These results were compared to those obtained by labeling for calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), a neuropeptide whose expression in the spinal cord is restricted to the terminals of small diameter primary sensory neurons. We estimate that approximately one half of MOR-1 and two thirds of DOR-1 immunoreactivity in the cervical spinal cord is located on primary afferent fibers. These fibers have a broad rostro-caudal distribution, extending at least three segments rostral and caudal to their segment of entry. Regardless of marker used, the rostral projection was greatest, however, the distribution of CGRP-immunoreactive fibers differed somewhat in that they had a much smaller projection to the most caudal segments examined. Our results suggest that presynaptic delta opioid actions predominate, but that there are mixed pre- and postsynaptic inhibitory effects exerted by opioid analgesics that act at the spinal cord mu opioid receptor.
The autosomal recessive juvenile parkinsonism is caused by the mutations of the gene encoding a novel protein called parkin. It has been reported that parkin is expressed in the central nervous system and functions as a ubiquitin-protein ligase (E3) which suppresses neuronal cell degeneration by ubiquitinating misfolded proteins. Thus far, however, it remains unknown if parkin is expressed and functions in the peripheral nervous system. In order to begin to address to this question, we investigated the expression of parkin in bovine peripheral nerve. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction analysis demonstrated the presence of parkin transcript in bovine peripheral nerve. The obtained bovine parkin cDNA sequence was identical to that of human except a single nucleotide. Immunoblot analysis demonstrated the expression of parkin protein in bovine peripheral nerve. Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated the localization of parkin in the axoplasm of myelinated nerve fibers, the Schwann cell cytoplasm and the Schwann cell outer membrane. Furthermore, fractionation analysis indicated the presence of two fractions of parkin in bovine peripheral nerve, the cytosolic fraction and the cell membrane-bound fraction. All together, these results point to diverse roles of parkin in not only the central but also the peripheral nervous system.
The ability of amphetamine or cocaine to induce the expression of c-fos mRNA in a number of brain regions is greatly enhanced when these drugs are administered in a distinct and relatively novel environment, relative to when they are given in the home cage. The purpose of this study was to determine if environmental context has a similar effect on the ability of amphetamine to induce the expression of arc (also known as Arg 3.1), an &quot;effector&quot; immediate early gene (IEG) thought to play a direct role in cellular plasticity. Rats were administered either saline or amphetamine (0.5 mg/kg, i.v.), in their home cage or in a distinct test environment. Fifty minutes later, they were decapitated and their brains processed for in situ hybridization histochemistry. In the prefrontal cortex, caudate-putamen and core of the nucleus accumbens, amphetamine significantly increased arc mRNA expression under both conditions, but the level of expression was significantly enhanced when amphetamine was given in a distinct environment. In the shell of the nucleus accumbens amphetamine significantly increased the expression of arc mRNA only when it was administered in the distinct environment. Thus, the ability of amphetamine to induce the expression of arc varies as a function of the environmental context in which it is administered. This could contribute to the ability of environmental context to modulate forms of drug experience-dependent neuroplasticity, including behavioral sensitization.
The specificity of the orphaninFQ (OFQ)/nociceptin (N)-induced prolactin increase was determined in male and female rats by pretreating animals with different doses of [Phe(1)Psi(CH(2)-NH)Gly(2)]NC(1-13)NH(2), a compound originally reported to be a specific OFQ/N antagonist. In addition, the effect of naloxone pretreatment on OFQ/N-induced prolactin release was examined to determine if OFQ/N's effects were mediated by opiate receptors. Furthermore, dose response studies using [Phe(1)Psi(CH(2)-NH)Gly(2)]NC(1-13)NH(2) only were performed to determine potential agonist activity of this drug. Finally, growth hormone (GH) levels were determined as an index of specificity of the prolactin response. Our results confirm previous findings that OFQ/N potently stimulates prolactin release and that a gender difference exists in the magnitude of the response, with females showing a much greater response than male rats. The endocrine response is specific because OFQ/N potently stimulated prolactin, but not GH secretion. The prolactin response is not mediated by actions at opiate receptors because naloxone did not inhibit OFQ/N's effects on prolactin release. However, [Phe(1)Psi(CH(2)-NH) Gly2]NC(1-13) NH(2) did not antagonize OFQ/N's effects on prolactin release. Indeed, this drug acted as a potent agonist. Demonstrating pharmacological specificity of OFQ/N's effects on prolactin release awaits the development of more selective, specific antagonists.
Rough and tumble (R&amp;T) play is an intrinsic behavior in most mammals. However, unlike sex and aggression, play has not been well characterized in terms of neuronal circuitry. We employed in situ hybridization to explore the differences of c-fos mRNA activation in juvenile rats that had been allowed R&amp;T play for a total of 30 min before sacrifice contrasted to animals with comparable histories that had received no play. Densitometric estimates of c-fos gene activation revealed that the deep and dorsolateral tectum, inferior colliculus, dorsal periaquaductal gray, ventromedial hypothalamus, dorsal and ventral striatum, and somatosensory cortex were significantly more activated in animals that had played than those that had not. Prior play dominance and amount of social experience had no clear effects on the levels of c-fos gene expression. This provides a variety of new hypotheses concerning the role of various brain areas in the elaboration of R&amp;T play behavior, but the important role of other types of motor arousal in the differential effects were not evaluated in this study.
We have examined the effects of the presence of the mutated human presenilin 1 gene (M146L; hps1*) on lesion-induced sprouting in the hippocampus of the mouse (C57/CBA). The entorhinal cortex was unilaterally lesioned with ibotenic acid in adult, male mice. Four weeks later the subsequent axonal sprouting in the dentate gyrus was analysed, by measuring the density of the synaptophysin immunocytochemical staining in the termination area of the entorhinal cortex axons. The data demonstrate that mice expressing either the human presenilin 1 gene (hps1) or the hps1* gene display a significantly increased density of immunocytochemical staining for synaptophysin, indicative of axonal sprouting, compared to the control mice. No (or a very small) sprouting response is observed in mice expressing the normal mouse ps1 gene. Taken together, these data indicate that the presence of a human ps1 gene, normal or with an Alzheimer's disease mutation, leads to enhanced plasticity in the mouse brain.
Following transection of peripheral nerve, rats exhibit autotomy, which is considered to be the animal model of postdenervation pain syndrome. It has been suggested that phantom limb pain is a result of peripheral denervation leading to reorganization of somatosensory pathways, particularly in the cerebral cortex, which is shown to depend upon central noradrenergic activity. In this study, sciatic and saphenous nerves were sectioned in the left hindpaw of 30 adult rats resulting in complete loss of pain sensation in the hindpaw. A group of rats received normal saline, compared to another group which received N-(2-) Chloroethyl-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine (DSP4) injection 24 h prior to transection. The latter group was also compared to a third group whose central noradrenergic system were also blocked by bilateral injection of 6-OHDA into the ascending noradrenergic bundle 1 week prior to transection. A fourth group received contralateral cortical ablation in addition to peripheral nerve transection and was compared to the first group whose cortex remained intact. The animals were observed daily for 60 days and autotomy was scored in accordance to the system of Wall et al. After 1 week, control animals began to exhibit autotomy. In contrast, autotomy was absent in rats treated with DSP4, similar to rats which received 6-OHDA. Rats which had contralateral cortical ablation showed a considerably delayed onset of autotomy and a reduction in final autotomy scores. We conclude that autotomy, as a model of postdenervation pain syndrome, can be prevented by blockade of noradrenergically mediated cortical reorganization. The clinical implications of this finding are discussed.
We recently showed that Mts1 is expressed in white matter astrocytes in the rat brain and spinal cord from the first postnatal day. Its expression level declined in the adult CNS, but its topographical localization was maintained. Only white matter astrocytes in the cerebellum did not express Mts1. After dorsal root or sciatic nerve injury, we observed a marked upregulation of Mts1 in the area of the dorsal funiculus undergoing Wallerian degeneration. Here we show that upregulation of Mts1 is a consistent feature of astrocytes in white matter undergoing Wallerian degeneration. In addition, Mts1 is upregulated in astrocytes outlining the lesion site of a penetrating injury to the forebrain, or cerebellum. Gray matter astrocytes did not express Mts1, even after direct injury. In injured brain, we consistently noted a close relationship between Mts1-expressing astrocytes and ED1-positive microglia/macrophages, which are known to be highly motile cells. Mts1 was expressed in the periventricular area and the rostral migratory stream, i.e., sites of ongoing neuroplasticity in adulthood, and was upregulated in these areas after injury. These data suggest that Mts1-expressing astrocytes play a significant role in degenerative events in the mature white matter, interact with phagocytic microglia/macrophages and regulate cell migration and differentiation in areas of the adult brain with a high degree of plasticity.
In transfected cells and non-neuronal tissues many G-protein-coupled receptors activate p44/42 MAP kinase (ERK), a kinase involved in both hippocampal synaptic plasticity and learning and memory. However, it is not clear to what degree these receptors couple to ERK in brain. G(s)-coupled beta-adrenergic receptor activation of ERK in neurons is critical in the regulation of synaptic plasticity in area CA1 of the hippocampus. In addition, alpha(1)- and alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors, present in CA1, could potentially activate ERK. We find that, like the beta-adrenergic receptor, the G(q)-coupled alpha(1)AR activates ERK in adult mouse CA1. However, activation of the G(i/o)-coupled alpha(2)AR does not activate ERK, nor does activation of a homologous G(i/o)-coupled receptor enriched in adult mouse CA1, the 5HT(1A) receptor. In contrast, the nonhomologous G(i/o)-coupled gamma-aminobutyric acid type B receptor does activate ERK in adult mouse CA1. Surprisingly, activation of alpha(2)ARs in CA1 from immature animals where basal phospho-ERK is low induces ERK phosphorylation. These data suggest that although most G-protein-coupled receptor subtypes activate ERK in non-neuronal cells, the coupling of G(i/o) to ERK is tightly regulated in brain.
The K(+) channels encoded by the human Ether-a-gogo Related Gene-1 (hERG1) are crucially involved in controlling heart and brain excitability and are selectively influenced by reactive oxygen species (ROS). To localize the molecular regions involved in ROS-induced modulation of hERG1, segmental exchanges between the ROS-sensitive hERG1 and the ROS-insensitive bovine ether-a-gogo gene (bEAG) K(+) channels were generated, and the sensitivity of these chimeric channels to ROS was studied with the two-microelectrode voltage-clamp technique upon their expression in Xenopus oocytes. Substitution of the S(5)-S(6) linker of hERG1 with the corresponding bEAG region removed channel sensitivity to ROS, whereas the reverse chimeric exchange introduced ROS sensitivity into bEAG. Mutation of each of the two hERG1 histidines at positions 578 and 587 within the S(5)-S(6) linker generated K(+) channels insensitive to modulation by ROS. In addition, the two iron chelators desferrioxamine (1 mm) and o-phenanthroline (0.2 mm) significantly inhibited hERG1 outward K(+) currents and prevented hERG1 inhibition induced by the ROS-scavenging enzyme catalase (1000 units/ml). Finally, the hERG1-inhibitory effect exerted by the iron chelators was prevented by the hERG1 H578D/H587Y double mutation. Collectively, the results obtained suggest that histidines at positions 578 and 587 in the S(5)-S(6) linker region of hERG1 K(+) channels are crucial players in ROS-induced modulation of hERG1 K(+) channels.
The central nervous system convulsant picrotoxin (PTX) inhibits GABA(A) and glutamate-gated Cl(minus sign) channels in a use-facilitated fashion, whereas PTX inhibition of glycine and GABA(C) receptors displays little or no use-facilitated block. We have identified a residue in the extracellular aspect of the second transmembrane domain that converted picrotoxin inhibition of glycine alpha1 receptors from non-use-facilitated to use-facilitated. In wild type alpha1 receptors, PTX inhibited glycine-gated Cl(minus sign) current in a competitive manner and had equivalent effects on peak and steady-state currents, confirming a lack of use-facilitated block. Mutation of the second transmembrane domain 15'-serine to glutamine (alpha1(S15'Q) receptors) converted the mechanism of PTX blockade from competitive to non-competitive. However, more notable was the fact that in alpha1(S15'Q) receptors, PTX had insignificant effects on peak current amplitude and dramatically enhanced current decay kinetics. Similar results were found in alpha1(S15'N) receptors. The reciprocal mutation in the beta2 subunit of alpha1beta2 GABA(A) receptors (alpha1beta2(N15'S) receptors) decreased the magnitude of use-facilitated PTX inhibition. Our results implicate a specific amino acid at the extracellular aspect of the ion channel in determining use-facilitated characteristics of picrotoxin blockade. Moreover, the data are consistent with the suggestion that picrotoxin may interact with two domains in ligand-gated anion channels.
The secreted phosphoprotein osteopontin (OPN), when immobilized on a surface, supports cell adhesion, prevents apoptosis of endothelial cells, and is a ligand for the alpha(v)beta(3) integrin, which is important in endothelial cell biology and neovascularization. OPN synthesized by tumor cells stimulates tumor growth, but the mechanism by which the protein acts remains unclear. One possibility, therefore, is that OPN may exert its effects on tumor growth by enhancing angiogenesis. While OPN is found at high levels in bone, where it is a component of the mineralized matrix, we have asked here whether OPN present in tumors is similarly extracellular matrix associated. We have shown that OPN is detectable in tumor extracts and in serum of tumor-bearing mice, and that the protein in tumors and in serum can be synthesized by both tumor and the host cells. Biochemical fractionation of tumor tissue confirmed that there is little if any association of OPN with the insoluble fraction. Immunochemical analysis of murine mammary tumors shows no co-localization of OPN with the extracellular matrix, identified by laminin staining. Ras-transformed cells in culture produce abundant OPN, however, the protein was found to be associated with the cell fraction but not with the matrix fraction. An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was used to demonstrate that OPN in conditioned medium from these cells fails to associate with extracellular matrix components, including laminin and fibronectin, in vitro. Recombinant OPN (GST-OPN) when coated onto a plastic surface can support human umbilical vein endothelial cell adhesion, suppressing apoptosis and allowing cell cycle progression, at concentrations from 1 to 50 microg/ml. Soluble GST-OPN in the same concentration range has no effect on HUVECs held in suspension. Thus, we conclude that OPN associated with tumors is primarily soluble, and that soluble OPN can neither support endothelial cell proliferation nor prevent apoptosis of these cells in the absence of adhesion.
Castleman's disease (CD) is a rare lymphoproliferative disorder that may be associated with a neuropathy. In a recent report, the presence of human herpesvirus type 8 (HHV-8) DNA sequences were detected in an HIV-negative patient with polyneuropathy, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, M-protein and skin changes (POEMS) associated with the multicentric hyaline vascular variant of CD. It was proposed that the presence of these sequences may have a role in the pathophysiology of the neuropathy. We describe an HIV-negative woman with the multicentric plasma cell form of CD who presented with a disabling neuropathy. In addition to a severe demyelinating polyneuropathy, she had some of the other features of POEMS including an IgA lambda gammopathy and lymphadenopathy. We were unable to detect the presence of either HHV-8 DNA or proteins in this patient. The significance of our results and the relationship between CD, POEMS and neuropathy are discussed.
The ovarian hormone estradiol (E(2)) and insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) interact in the CNS to regulate neuroendocrine function and synaptic remodeling. Previously, our laboratory showed that 2 d E(2) treatment induces alpha(1B)-adrenoceptor expression and promotes IGF-I enhancement of alpha(1)-adrenoceptor potentiation of cAMP accumulation in the preoptic area (POA) and hypothalamus (HYP). This study examined the hypothesis that E(2)-dependent aspects of female reproductive function, including alpha(1B)-adrenoceptor expression and function in the POA and HYP, are mediated by brain IGF-I receptors (IGF-IRs) in female rats. Ovariohysterectomized rats were implanted with a guide cannula aimed at the third ventricle and treated in vivo with vehicle or E(2) daily for 2 d before experimentation. Intracerebroventricular infusions of JB-1, a selective IGF-IR antagonist, were administered every 12 hr beginning 1 hr before the first E(2) injection. Administration of JB-1 during E(2) priming completely blocks hormone-induced luteinizing hormone release and partially inhibits hormone-dependent reproductive behavior. Reproductive behavior is restored by intracerebroventricular infusion of 8-bromo-cGMP, the second messenger implicated in alpha(1)-adrenergic facilitation of lordosis. In addition, blockade of IGF-IRs during E(2) priming prevents E(2)-induced increases in alpha(1B)-adenoceptor binding density and abolishes acute IGF-I enhancement of NE-stimulated cAMP accumulation in HYP and POA slices. These data document the existence of a novel mechanism by which IGF-I participates in the remodeling of noradrenergic receptor signaling in the HYP and POA after E(2) treatment. These events may help coordinate the timing of ovulation with the expression of sexual receptivity.
The prefrontal cortex is involved in acquiring and maintaining information about context, including the set of task instructions and/or the outcome of previous stimulus-response sequences. Most studies on context-dependent processing in the prefrontal cortex have been concerned with such executive functions, but the prefrontal cortex is also involved in motivational operations. We thus wished to determine whether primate prefrontal neurons show evidence of representing the motivational context learned by the monkey. We trained monkeys in a delayed reaction task in which an instruction cue indicated the presence or absence of reward. In random alternation with no reward, the same one of several different kinds of food and liquid rewards was delivered repeatedly in a block of approximately 50 trials, so that reward information would define the motivational context. In response to an instruction cue indicating absence of reward, we found that neurons in the lateral prefrontal cortex not only predicted the absence of reward but also represented more specifically which kind of reward would be omitted in a given trial. These neurons seem to code contextual information concerning which kind of reward may be delivered in following trials. We also found prefrontal neurons that showed tonic baseline activity that may be related to monitoring such motivational context. The different types of neurons were distributed differently along the dorsoventral extent of the lateral prefrontal cortex. Such operations in the prefrontal cortex may be important for the monkey to maximize reward or to modify behavioral strategies and thus may contribute to executive control.
The monocular deprivation model of amblyopia is characterized by a reduction in cortical responses to stimulation of the deprived eye. Although the effects of monocular deprivation on the primary visual cortex have been well characterized physiologically and anatomically, the molecular mechanisms underlying ocular dominance plasticity remain unknown. Previous studies have indicated that the transcription factor adenosine cAMP/Ca(2+) response element-binding protein (CREB) is activated during monocular deprivation. However, it remains unknown whether CREB function is required for the loss of cortical responses to the deprived eye. To address this issue, we used the herpes simplex virus (HSV) to express a dominant negative form of CREB (HSV-mCREB) containing a single point mutation that prevents its activation. Quantitative single-unit electrophysiology showed that cortical expression of this mutated form of CREB during monocular deprivation prevented the loss of responses to the deprived eye. This effect was specific and not related to viral toxicity, because overexpression of functional CREB or expression of beta-galactosidase using HSV injections did not prevent the ocular dominance shift during monocular deprivation. Additional evidence for specificity was provided by the finding that blockade of ocular dominance plasticity was reversible; animals treated with HSV-mCREB recovered ocular dominance plasticity when mCREB expression declined. Moreover, this effect did not result from a suppression of sensory responses caused by the viral infection because neurons in infected cortex responded normally to visual stimulation. These findings demonstrate that CREB function is essential for ocular dominance plasticity.
The importance of postmenopausal estrogen replacement therapy in affording protection against the selective and delayed neuronal death associated with cardiac arrest or cardiac surgery in women remains controversial. Here we report that exogenous estrogen at levels that are physiological for hormone replacement in postmenopausal women affords protection against global ischemia-induced neuronal death and prevents activation of apoptotic signaling cascades in the hippocampal CA1 of male gerbils. Global ischemia induced a marked increase in activated caspase-3 in CA1, evident at 6 hr after ischemia. Global ischemia induced a marked upregulation of the proapoptotic neurotrophin receptor p75(NTR) in CA1, evident at 48 hr. p75(NTR) expression was induced primarily in terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated UTP nick-end labeling-positive cells, indicating expression in neurons undergoing apoptosis. Global ischemia also induced a marked downregulation of mRNA encoding the AMPA receptor GluR2 subunit in CA1. Caspase-3, p75(NTR), and GluR2 were not significantly changed in CA3 and dentate gyrus, indicating that the ischemia-induced changes in gene expression were cell specific. Exogenous estrogen attenuated the ischemia-induced increases in activated caspase-3 and blocked the increase in p75(NTR) in post-ischemic CA1 neurons but did not prevent ischemia-induced downregulation of GluR2. These findings demonstrate that long-term estrogen at physiological levels ameliorates ischemia-induced hippocampal injury and indicate that estrogen intervenes at the level of apoptotic signaling cascades to prevent onset of death in neurons otherwise &quot;destined to die.&quot;
Protein kinase cascades likely play a critical role in the signaling events that underlie synaptic plasticity and memory. The extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) cascade is suited well for such a role because its targets include regulators of gene expression. Here we report that the ERK cascade is recruited during long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic strength in area CA1 of the adult hippocampus in vivo and selectively impacts on phosphorylation of the nuclear transcription factor Elk-1. Using a combination of in vivo electrophysiology, biochemistry, pharmacology, and immunohistochemistry, we found the following: (1) ERK phosphorylation, including phosphorylation of nuclear ERK, and ERK phosphotransferase activity are increased markedly, albeit transiently, after the induction of NMDA receptor-dependent LTD at the commissural input to area CA1 pyramidal cells in the hippocampus of anesthetized adult rats; (2) LTD-inducing paired-pulse stimulation fails to produce lasting LTD in the presence of the ERK kinase inhibitor SL327, which suggests that ERK activation is necessary for the persistence of LTD; and (3) ERK activation during LTD results in increased phosphorylation of Elk-1 but not of the transcription factor cAMP response element-binding protein. Our findings indicate that the ERK cascade transduces signals from the synapse to the nucleus during LTD in hippocampal area CA1 in vivo, as it does during long-term potentiation in area CA1, but that the pattern of coupling of the ERK cascade to transcriptional regulators differs between the two forms of synaptic plasticity.
We present a transparent silicone dural substitute, which we have been using for the last 7 years for imaging cortical dynamics in awake behaving monkeys. This substitute enabled us to record optically for more than a year intrinsic or voltage sensitive dye signals. It is thin and elastic enough to allow microelectrode to pass through without any damage, using full visual control to target the electrode to the desirable recording site. This implant has proved crucial for maintaining the cortex in a good physiological condition and for preserving its optical characteristics that are necessary for optical imaging. We describe the details of the surgical implantation of the silicone dural substitute, the maintenance of the exposed cortex over long periods of time, the cortical reaction to this implant and its possible clinical implications in humans, and the rehabilitation procedure in monkeys.
Few diseases in clinical medicine cause as much diagnostic consternation as central nervous system (CNS) vasculitis because of its varying modes of presentation and frequently overlapping clinical and pathological features. There are no pathognomonic clinical or laboratory findings. The purpose of the present retrospective study was to validate the use of the light subunit of neurofilament triplet protein (NFL) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) as markers of CNS tissue damage for patients with systemic or isolated CNS vasculitis. Levels of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) NFL and GFAP were measured using ELISAs. Both CSF NFL and CSF GFAP concentrations were significantly higher in a patient group diagnosed with CNS vasculitis (P &lt; 0.01 and P &lt; 0.05, respectively) than in a patient group for whom CNS vasculitis was excluded. In the future, analysis of CSF NFL in particular, but also GFAP, may be a useful complement in the difficult clinical task of diagnosing CNS vasculitis.
The cysteine protease calpain is activated by calcium and has a wide range of substrates. Calpain-mediated cellular damage is associated with many neuropathologies, and calpain also plays a role in signal transduction events that are essential for cell maintenance, including the activation of important kinases and transcription factors. In the present study, the hippocampal slice culture was used as a model of excitotoxicity to test whether the neuroprotection elicited by selective calpain inhibition is associated with changes in cell signaling. Peptidyl alpha-keto amide and alpha-keto acid inhibitors reduced both calpain-mediated cytoskeletal damage and the concomitant synaptic deterioration resulting from an N-methyl-D-aspartate exposure. The alpha-keto amide CX295 was protective when infused into slice cultures before or after the excitotoxic episode. The slices protected with CX295 exhibited normal activation levels of mitogen-activated protein kinase and the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB. Thus, selective inhibition of calpain provides neuroprotection without influencing critical signaling pathways.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) Y1 receptor (Y1-R) agonists influence cardiovascular regulation. These actions may involve NPY- and catecholamine-containing neurons in the medial nucleus of the solitary tract (mNTS), at the level of the area postrema. The cellular sites through which Y1-R agonists may interact with NPY and catecholamines in the mNTS, however, are not known. To determine potential sites of action for Y1-R agonists, and their relationship to NPY or catecholamines in the mNTS, we used electron microscopic immunocytochemistry for the detection of sequence-specific antipeptide antisera against Y1-R alone or in combination with antisera against NPY or the catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Analyses were conducted in the rat mNTS, at the level of the area postrema. Y1-R was found mainly in small unmyelinated axons and axon terminals but also in some somata and dendrites as well as a small number of glia. Within axon terminals, labeling for Y1-R was often present on dense core vesicles and small synaptic vesicles as well as extrasynaptic areas of the plasmalemma. Some Y1-R-labeled terminals also contained NPY or TH, suggesting that agonists of Y1-R may influence the release of NPY or catecholamines in the mNTS. In addition, Y1-R was found in dendrites that received asymmetric excitatory-type synapses from unlabeled axon terminals. Some of these dendrites contained NPY or TH, which indicates that Y1-R may be targeted for functional activation within NPY- or catecholamine-expressing neurons in the mNTS. These results demonstrate that Y1-R is a presynaptic receptor in NPY- or catecholamine-containing axon terminals within the mNTS as well as a postsynaptic receptor on NPY- or catecholamine-containing neurons that are contacted by axon terminals that likely contain excitatory amino acid transmitters. Agonists of Y1-R in the mNTS may thus affect cardiovascular regulation by modulating NPY, catecholamine, and excitatory amino acid transmission.
The RT-PCR approach was used to estimate the expression of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) rho receptor subunits in the hippocampus of neonatal and adult rats. All three rho subunits were detected at postnatal day (P) 2, the rho3 subunit being expressed at an extremely low level. The rho1 and rho2 products appeared to be developmentally regulated; they were found to be more pronounced in adulthood. In another set of experiments, to correlate gene expression with receptor function, GABA(A) rho subunit mRNAs were detected with single-cell RT-PCR in CA3 pyramidal cells (from P3-P4 hippocampal slices), previously characterized with electrophysiological experiments for their bicuculline-sensitive or -insensitive responses to GABA. In 6 of 19 cells (31%), pressure application of GABA evoked at -70 mV inward currents that persisted in the presence of 100 microM bicuculline (314 plus minus 129 pA). RT-PCR performed in two of these neurons revealed the presence of rho1 and rho2 subunits, the latter being present with the alpha2 subunit. A rho2 subunit was also found in 1 neuron (among 9) exhibiting a response to GABA, which was completely abolished by bicuculline. This might be due to the lack of putative accessory GABA(A) subunits that can coassemble with rho2 to make functional receptors. Similar experiments from 10 P15 CA3 pyramidal cells failed to reveal any rho1-3 transcripts. However, these neurons abundantly express alpha3 subunits. It is likely that in CA3 pyramidal cells of neonatal and adult hippocampus GABA(A) rho subunits are present but at very low levels of expression.
Auditory nerve fibres make large excitatory synaptic contacts, the endbulbs of Held, with bushy cells in the anteroventral cochlear nucleus (AVCN). We have used serial-section electron microscopy to reconstruct seven endbulbs of Held in contact with three different AVCN bushy cells from a 25-day-old rat, as a basis for interpreting our previous physiological results at this connection. Four endbulbs of Held contacting the same bushy cell were completely reconstructed. The number of separate synaptic specializations within these endbulbs varied from 85 to 217, with a mean of 155. Detailed measurements were obtained from high magnification segments of four endbulbs contacting three different bushy cells. Large variability was found in the size of synaptic specializations within an individual endbulb. The size of postsynaptic densities (PSDs) varied between endbulbs (mean PSD area 0.03, 0.07, 0.07 and 0.18 microm(2); n = 4 endbulbs). The number of morphologically docked vesicles at individual specializations within the same endbulb varied considerably (between 1 and 102). The mean number of morphologically docked vesicles per specialization differed between endbulbs (mean numbers of docked vesicles per specialization = 2.1, 3.7, 5.3, 14.8; n = 4 endbulbs). Despite these large differences, the density of docked vesicles per square micron of PSD was similar between endbulbs (54, 80, 81, 83 docked vesicles per microm(2); n = 4 endbulbs). Within an endbulb, a linear relationship was found between the number of docked vesicles and PSD area, and between PSD area and the number of undocked vesicles within 150 nm of the active zone. The ratio of undocked vesicles (&lt; 150 nm) to docked vesicles ranged from 2 to 5 in different endbulbs (n = 4 endbulbs). These structural observations are discussed in relation to the functional properties of synaptic transmission between endbulbs of Held and bushy cells in the AVCN.
We have employed in vitro physiological methods to investigate dopaminergic modulation of excitatory synaptic transmission in monkey prefrontal cortex (PFC) circuits. We show that combined activation of D1-like and D2-like dopamine receptors results in the reduction of extracellular stimulation-evoked isolated EPSCs in layer 3 pyramidal neurons. Using paired recordings from synaptically connected pyramidal neurons we have determined the basic properties of unitary synaptic connections between layer 3 pyramids in the primate PFC and, interestingly, we found that dopamine does not reduce synaptic transmission between nearby pairs of synaptically coupled PFC pyramidal neurons. This input specificity may be a critical aspect of the dopaminergic regulation of recurrent excitatory circuits in the PFC.
The aim of the present study is to determine the effect of the atypical antipsychotic drug, risperidone on sleep measures in patients with schizophrenia by polysomnography. Sleep measures were compared in five schizophrenic patients who were receiving risperidone alone and five schizophrenic patients who were receiving haloperidol alone. There were no differences between these two groups in their demographic characteristics or doses of antipsychotic medication. The slow wave sleep period was significantly longer in the risperidone-treated group than in the haloperidol-treated group. There were, however, no other significant differences in sleep variables between these groups. This difference in the effect on sleep between risperidone and haloperidol may be due to their differential actions on serotonin (5-HT2) receptors. Risperidone, which is known to be a serotonin-dopamine antagonist, has the potential to improve the quality of sleep in schizophrenic patients.



Nonselective inverse agonists at the benzodiazepine binding site on the GABA-A chloride ion channel enhance cognitive performance in animals but cannot be used in the treatment of cognitive disorders because of anxiogenic and convulsant side effects. We have identified a novel series of GABA-A alpha5 receptor ligands during our search for alpha5 receptor inverse agonists as potential cognition enhancers. In particular, 6,6-dimethyl-3-(2-hydroxyethyl)thio-1-(thiazol-2-yl)-6,7-dihydro-2-benzothiophen-4(5H)-one (26) has been identified as a functionally selective GABA-A alpha5 inverse agonist.
The sense of taste provides animals with valuable information about the nature and quality of food. Mammals can recognize and respond to a diverse repertoire of chemical entities, including sugars, salts, acids and a wide range of toxic substances. Several amino acids taste sweet or delicious (umami) to humans, and are attractive to rodents and other animals. This is noteworthy because L-amino acids function as the building blocks of proteins, as biosynthetic precursors of many biologically relevant small molecules, and as metabolic fuel. Thus, having a taste pathway dedicated to their detection probably had significant evolutionary implications. Here we identify and characterize a mammalian amino-acid taste receptor. This receptor, T1R1+3, is a heteromer of the taste-specific T1R1 and T1R3 G-protein-coupled receptors. We demonstrate that T1R1 and T1R3 combine to function as a broadly tuned L-amino-acid sensor responding to most of the 20 standard amino acids, but not to their D-enantiomers or other compounds. We also show that sequence differences in T1R receptors within and between species (human and mouse) can significantly influence the selectivity and specificity of taste responses.
The activity of motor cortex (MI) neurons conveys movement intent sufficiently well to be used as a control signal to operate artificial devices, but until now this has called for extensive training or has been confined to a limited movement repertoire. Here we show how activity from a few (7-30) MI neurons can be decoded into a signal that a monkey is able to use immediately to move a computer cursor to any new position in its workspace (14 degrees x 14 degrees visual angle). Our results, which are based on recordings made by an electrode array that is suitable for human use, indicate that neurally based control of movement may eventually be feasible in paralysed humans.
The mechanisms that underlie axonal pathfinding of vomeronasal neurons from the vomeronasal organ (VNO) in the periphery to select glomeruli in the accessory olfactory bulb (AOB) are not well understood. Neuropilin-2, a receptor for secreted semaphorins, is expressed in V1R- and V3R-expressing, but not V2R-expressing, postnatal vomeronasal neurons. Analysis of the vomeronasal nerve in neuropilin-2 (npn-2) mutant mice reveals pathfinding defects at multiple choice points. Vomeronasal sensory axons are severely defasciculated and a subset innervates the main olfactory bulb (MOB). While most axons of V1R-expressing neurons reach the AOB and converge into distinct glomeruli in stereotypic locations, they are no longer restricted to their normal anterior AOB target zone. Thus, Npn-2 and candidate pheromone receptors play distinct and complementary roles in promoting the wiring and patterning of sensory neurons in the accessory olfactory system.
Recent studies into human mental retardation syndromes have given new insights into the molecular underpinnings of human cognitive processing, in particular into mechanisms likely to contribute to learning and memory. In this minireview, we present an overview of one signal transduction cascade that has garnered attention of late in this context, the ras/ERK/CREB pathway. We focus on this cascade because of recent exciting discoveries concerning the basis of neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) mental retardation, which link cognitive defects in this syndrome to disruptions of ras and its intracellular targets.
How and where the brain forms associations between sensation and action are crucial questions in the field of cognitive neuroscience. In this issue of Neuron, add to an already impressive body of work elucidating the neural mechanisms responsible for forming categorical decisions about vibrotactile stimuli that guide behavior. Here they show that single neurons in premotor cortex represent, remarkably, what appears to be the entire temporal evolution of the decision process-from representation of the sensory stimulus, to formation of the discrimination, to the choice of behavioral output.



Since the pioneering work of Bernard Katz and his colleagues decades ago, neurotransmitter quantal size (defined as the number of neurotransmitter molecules released by a single synaptic vesicle during exocytosis) is often modeled as invariant. This assumption had tremendous implications for basic research on synaptic plasticity. For instance, it focused attention on the postsynaptic rather than the presynaptic component in studies of learning and memory (the field of long-term potentiation comes to mind as the best example). Furthermore, this assumption somehow 'spilled over' onto studies of monoamine neurotransmitters, which apparently use diffusion and slow action to exert their modulatory effects, in contrast to the fast acting neurotransmitters studied by Katz. Consequently, research on dopamine-related diseases (e.g. psychotic and movement disorders) did not pay as much attention to presynaptic mechanisms that regulate dopamine release, as to postsynaptic receptor action. Part of the problem, of course, has been the lack of technology to directly measure quanta from presynaptic sites and the obligatory reliance on measurements of miniature postsynaptic potentials (minis) for reaching conclusions about presynaptic quantal events. Due to the introduction of the carbon fiber amperometric microelectrode in tissue electrophysiology, initially by Francois Gonon (University of Bordeaux) and then by Mark Wightman (University of North Carolina), we were able to directly measure dopamine quanta from neurites of cultured midbrain dopamine neurons by amperometry. This was the first approach to provide direct measurement of the number of molecules and kinetics of presynaptic quantal release from CNS neuronal terminals. The interventions altering dopamine quantal size are so far the following. (1) Alteration of neurotransmitter synthesis--an increase of cytosolic dopamine availability (e.g. by exposure to L-DOPA) increases quantal size and a decrease of cytosolic dopamine by D2 autoreceptor activation (by quinpirole) decreases quantal size. (2) Modulation of vesicle transmitter transporter activity--overexpression of the neuronal vesicular monoamine transporter VMAT2 increases dopamine quantal size. The reduction or elimination of VMAT2 protein in mice significantly hampers or eliminates monoamine release. (3) Reuptake blockade--cocaine and amfonelic acid are dopamine reuptake blockers which reduce quantal size independently of D2-related effects. (4) Changes in transvesicular pH gradient-neuronal stimulation apparently leads to vesicular acidification via the activation of chloride channels on the vesicular membrane and increased quantal size. (5) Fusion pore kinetics--a vesicle undergoing exocytosis may discharge only part of its neurotransmitter content before recycling. Plasticity of the fusion pore shape may, therefore, be a crucial determinant of quantal size. Other possible sources of variability in quantal size are altered transmitter degranulation and changes in synaptic vesicle volume. We suggest that plasticity in dopamine quantal seems likely to be involved in both normal synaptic modification and disease states.
There is strong evidence that the catecholamines dopamine and norepinephrine are both important in the pathophysiology of ADHD, as well as in the mechanism of therapeutic action of stimulant drugs. Due to the known effects of stimulants in blocking reuptake of catecholamines and (in the case of D-amphetamine) facilitating their release, it has traditionally been believed that the stimulants compensate for catecholamine deficiency in ADHD. More recently, however, alternate hypotheses of a hyperdopaminergic and/or hyper-noradrenergic state in ADHD have been suggested. This paper will be limited to a review of the evidence for involvement of dopamine in mediating behavioral and cognitive symptoms and response to stimulants in ADHD, with implications for possible mechanisms.
The tight junction constitutes the major barrier to solute and water flow through the paracellular space of epithelia and endothelia. It is formed by transmembrane proteins and submembranous molecules such as the MAGUKs ZOs. We have previously found that several MAGUKs, including those of the tight (ZO-1, ZO-2, and ZO-3) and septate junction (tamou and Dlg), contain one or two nuclear sorting signals located at their first PDZ and GK domains. Now we show that these proteins also contain a nuclear export signal and focus our study on the nuclear membrane shuttling of ZO-2. In sparse cultures this molecule concentrates at the nucleus in clusters, where it partially colocalizes with splicing factor SC35. Nuclear staining diminishes as the monolayer acquires confluence through a process sensitive to the nuclear export inhibitor leptomycin B. Nuclear localization can be induced by impairing cell-cell contacts, by mechanical injury. ZO-2 that shuttles from the cell periphery into the nucleus is not newly synthesized but originates from a preexistent pool. The movement of this protein is mediated by the actin cytoskeleton.
Autism is a complex genetic disorder. Chromosome 15 is of particular interest in this disorder, because of previous reports of individuals with autism with chromosomal abnormalities in the 15q11-q13 region. Transmission disequilibrium between polymorphisms in this region and autism has been also been reported in some, but not all studies. Recently, a novel maternally expressed gene, ATP10C, was characterized and mapped to the chromosome 15q11-q13 region, 200 kb distal to UBE3A. It encodes a putative aminophospholipid translocase likely to be involved in the asymmetric distribution of proteins in the cell membrane. Preferential maternal expression has been demonstrated in fibroblasts and brain. Because of its physical location and imprinting pattern, ATP10C was considered to be a candidate gene for chromosome 15-associated autism. In an effort to find the genes responsible for autism in this chromosomal region, 1.5 kb of the 5' flanking region, as well as the coding and splicing regions of ATP10C, were screened for sequence variants. Several polymorphic markers including five nonsynonymous SNPs were identified. To investigate transmission disequilibrium between ATP10C and autism, a family-based association study was conducted for 14 markers in 115 autism trios. No significant transmission disequilibrium was found, suggesting ATP10C is unlikely to contribute strongly to susceptibility to autism in these families. However, due to limited power to detect genes of modest effect, the possible functional role of the nonsynonymous SNPs and the functional implications of the SNPs identified from 5' flanking region and intron 2 splicing region may be evaluated in further studies.
Exocytosis is regulated by exocytotic proteins, which are present in insulin-secreting beta-cells and play regulatory roles in insulin secretion. Non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (type 2 diabetes) is a disease characterized by impaired insulin secretion and insulin resistance. Exocytotic protein immunoreactivities were studied in pancreatic islets of type 2 diabetic Goto-Kakizaki (GK) rats using immunofluorescence histochemistry. The immunoreactivities for vesicle-associated membrane protein-2 (VAMP-2), synaptotagmin III, cysteine string protein (CSP), mammalian homologue of the unc-18 gene (Munc-18), alpha-soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive attachment protein (alpha-SNAP), N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor (NSF) and synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa (SNAP-25) exhibited weaker immunofluorescence intensity in islets of GK rats as compared to control Wistar rats. Insulin immunoreactivity was also decreased in GK rat beta-cells, whereas no detectable alterations in the expression of actin immunoreactivity could be detected. The data suggest that reduced expression of exocytotic proteins and decreased insulin content may contribute to the diabetic syndrome in the GK rat.
We have studied ligand-independent signaling by the nerve growth factor receptor TrkA in PC12 clones, under conditions of receptor overexpression. Our results indicate that TrkA-overexpressing PC12 clones display constitutive receptor activation, involving both the mature, 140-kDa form and the immature, intracellular 110-kDa form of the receptor. Phosphorylation of Tyr 674/675, located in the activation loop domain and reflecting TrkA kinase activity, appears particularly prominent in the immature form of the receptor. Constitutive receptor activation is able to chronically stimulate the PI-3 kinase/Akt as well as the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathways, leading to ligand-independent neurite extension. Under conditions of overexpression, a significant fraction of the receptor is retained intracellularly by thiol-mediated mechanisms. Exposure of the cells to reducing agents promotes translocation of the intracellular pool of the receptor to the plasma membrane and suppresses ligand-independent neurite outgrowth. Our results suggest that the levels of expression of TrkA, both intracellularly and at the cell surface, may act to modulate its kinase activity and generate ligand-independent downstream signaling.
Immunohistochemistry for three calcium-binding proteins calbindin D-28k, calretinin, and parvalbumin revealed neuronal heterogeneity within the GP. Each neurone appeared to express either a single type of calcium binding protein or none at all. The co-localisation of calcium binding proteins was not observed. Combined immunohistochemistry and retrograde tract tracing using colloidal gold particles injected into the projection fields, the substantia nigra or subthalamic nucleus, revealed that projection neurones could be labelled with either calbindin or parvalbumin. These cells were of medium size (22 x 12 microm), multipolar and moderate varicose dendritic trees. In contrast, calretinin-positive neurones were never retrogradely labelled, even in regions where neuronal colloidal gold deposits were numerous. This, combined with their rarity (&lt;1%) and small size (11 x 9 microm), suggests that calretinin may be a neurochemical marker for putative rat globus pallidus interneurones. Calcium-binding proteins are known to have unique buffering characteristics that may confer specific functional properties upon pallidal neurones. Indeed, differential calcium binding protein expression may underlie the electrophysiological heterogeneity observed in the rat globus pallidus.
The common IL-2/15 receptor-beta (IL-2/15Rbeta) is an essential signaling subunit that is shared exclusively by IL-2 and IL-15, and is enriched in the hippocampal formation and related limbic regions. We have previously shown that mice lacking IL-2 exhibit alterations in hippocampal-dependent learning, sensorimotor gating and accompanying reductions in hippocampal infrapyramidal mossy neuronal fiber length. Although the effects of exogenous IL-2 on various aspects of forebrain neuronal function are well documented, it is unclear whether IL-15 has neuromodulatory actions. Here we sought to test the hypothesis that the combined loss of the ability of IL-2 and IL-15 to signal through IL-2/15Rbeta in the brain would influence neurobehavioral performance, in particular spatial learning and memory performance. To test this hypothesis, we compared several different domains of behavior in mice that had one or both IL-2/15Rbeta gene alleles deleted. Compared with C57BL/6-IL-2/15Rbeta+/+ wild-type and C57BL/6-IL-2/15Rbeta+/- heterozygote littermates, C57BL/6-IL-2/15Rbeta-/- knockout mice exhibited a deficit in prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle reflex (PPI). The IL-2/15Rbeta knockout mice also showed significant reductions in acoustic startle reactivity, and modest differences in behavior in the elevated plus-maze test indicative of reduced levels of fearfulness in response to novelty. The IL-2/15Rbeta knockout mice did not differ in locomotor activity in either the plus-maze or the Morris water-maze, and contrary to our working hypothesis, they did not differ in spatial learning or memory performance in the water-maze. Further studies are required to determine if these behavioral alterations may be attributable to factors such as the loss of the ability of IL-15 and/or IL-2 to modulate limbic neurons, autoimmunity or genetic factors associated with IL-2/15Rbeta gene deletion.
When outbred Sprague--Dawley rats are placed on a diet relatively high in fat and calories (HE diet), half develop diet-induced obesity (DIO), while the rest are diet-resistant (DR). When fed a low fat chow diet from weaning, DIO- and DR-prone rats weigh the same, but DIO-prone rats have a number of abnormalities of neural function, many of which are normalized when they become obese after chronic exposure to a HE diet. Because of its important role in the regulation of energy homeostasis in the hypothalamus, we examined the ratio of serotonin (5-HT) to its metabolite, 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid (5HIAA), as an index of transmitter turnover in micropunches from various brain areas in these rats. While still on chow, both DIO- and DR-prone rats showed lower 5-HT turnover in most brain areas sampled during the last hour of the light phase, when animals become active and begin foraging for food, as compared to the first hour of the light phase, when animals are generally quiescent and not eating. However, unlike DR-prone rats, DIO-prone rats did not show a significant time-dependent difference in 5-HT turnover in either the arcuate or paraventricular hypothalamic nuclei. When fasted for 48 h, both DIO- and DR-prone rats showed a generalized 16--46% decrease in 5-HT turnover in the dorsomedial nucleus, perifornical lateral hypothalamus, dentate gyrus and motor cortex as compared to their free-fed counterparts. However, fasted DIO-prone rats showed a 53% greater reduction in the ventromedial nucleus turnover than fasted DR-prone rats. Finally, when DIO rats became obese after 14 weeks on the HE diet, their abnormalities in hypothalamic 5-HT turnover at the end of the light phase were normalized. Thus, DIO-prone rats show abnormalities of diurnal and fasting-induced alterations in brain 5-HT turnover which may predispose them to become obese when dietary fat and caloric density are increased. Once obesity develops, these abnormalities, like those of several other hypothalamic transmitters and peptides, are normalized. This may contribute to the persistence of obesity once it develops.
Caspase-3 is the major effector in apoptosis triggered by various stimuli. Previous studies demonstrated a significant increase in transcriptional activity of the caspase-3 gene during neuronal apoptosis. Recent findings suggest that differential expression of the caspase-3 gene may underlie the regulation of apoptotic susceptibility during brain development and after acute injury to the mature brain. We identified and cloned the rat caspase-3 gene promoter, determined its structure, and examined its regulation during a course of apoptosis in PC12 cells. Results demonstrate that this promoter lacks a TATA-box and contains a cluster of Sp1 elements and multiple transcription start sites. The first identified transcription start site is located 87-bp upstream from the first splicing site. A role of Sp1 elements in the regulation of caspase-3 promoter activity is demonstrated by the inhibition of Sp1 binding using mithramycin A. Results of deletion analysis show that an Ets-1-like element located between nucleotides -1646 and -1632 relative to the most extended transcription start site is necessary to achieve sustained transcriptional activity. Homology analysis revealed that the 5'-flanking region of the human caspase-3 gene exhibits significant similarity to a regulatory region of the rat gene.

In the November issue (2001) of Neuroscience Letters, Holmin et al. (Neurosci. Lett. 314 (2001) 151) reported that the synthesis of the intermediate filament protein nestin was upregulated by potassium-induced depolarization in the rat cortex. In this letter, we provide supplementary evidence that repeated cortical spreading depression elicited by potassium induces a delayed upregulation of nestin. However, we argue against the authors' conclusion, &quot;Nestin expression was N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-receptor dependent since dizocilpine (MK-801) treatment abolished the response&quot; because spreading depression itself is very sensitive to NMDA-receptor block, and the drug treatment was initiated prior to potassium application to the cortex in Holmin et al.'s study.
Incubation of rat hippocampal slices with a low concentration of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA; 20 microM; 3 min) elicits a form of long-term depression (LTD). We used this chemical protocol to study the involvement of pre- and postsynaptic protein kinase/phosphatase activity in NMDA receptor-dependent LTD. We determined the phosphorylation states of a pre- and a postsynaptic protein kinase C substrate, B-50/growth-associated protein 43 (GAP43) and RC3, respectively, using quantitative immunoprecipitation. NMDA incubation resulted in a 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate-sensitive long-lasting (&gt;60 min) decrease in synaptic efficacy and a concomitant reduction in RC3 phosphorylation. B-50/GAP43 phosphorylation was unaffected. This suggests that NMDA-LTD, in contrast to low frequency-LTD, is only associated with activation of postsynaptic protein phosphatases.
To assess the role of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in nociceptive processing after chronic lateral spinal cord hemisection injury (SCI) at T13, we studied the effects of BDNF on evoked activity of dorsal horn wide dynamic range (WDR) neurons. Evoked responses of WDR cells (n=34 total) at L3-L5 were characterized electrophysiologically after spinal administration of vehicle, or BDNF (10 microg). In hemisected animals, application of BDNF to the surface of the cord resulted in reductions in evoked activity in 24 of 32 cells (75%), and enhancement of evoked activity in eight of 32 (25%) cells. Phosphate-buffered saline-receiving animals demonstrated evoked response rates of between 75 and 93 Hz, while BDNF(-) cells had evoked rates from between 20 and 41 Hz, and BDNF(+) activities were between 80 and 119 Hz, significant changes of 76 and 124%, respectively. Effects were bilateral and differences in sidedness were not observed. These results further implicate BDNF in nociceptive processing, but suggest a complex role after chronic SCI.
Neurons receive thousands of synaptic inputs throughout elaborate dendritic trees. Here we determine the somatic impact of excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) generated at known dendritic sites in neocortical pyramidal neurons. As inputs became more distal, somatic EPSP amplitude decreased, whereas use-dependent depression increased. Despite marked attenuation (&gt;40-fold), when coactivated within a narrow time window (approximately 10 milliseconds), distal EPSPs could directly influence action potential output following dendritic spike generation. These findings reveal that distal EPSPs are ineffective sources of background somatic excitation, but through coincidence detection have a powerful transient signaling role.

Building on the view of massive modularity, a number of generalized assumptions lead to an entirely new concept of functional brain modules. In contrast to the nerve centers usually considered to be active in the brain, these modules, called symbions, are non-localized, non-hierarchical, and based on subcellular molecular mechanisms rather than on neurons. They act according to local rules that may be fundamentally nonlinear, potentially leading to strong interdependencies between parallel inputs, and they interact by information, not by force. The existence of inner states, feedback loops, internal models, and information encoding provide the basis for a higher complexity than is usually assumed in neuroscience. A map of the symbion world, showing functional rather than physical localization, can be used to illustrate symbion interaction patterns. Perceptual constancy, sensory illusions, visual cognition, and eye-hand coordination are used as examples of what can be explained by using the new theory.
The neural response to a stimulus presented as part of a rapid sequence is often quite different from the response to the same stimulus presented in isolation. In primary auditory cortex (A1), although the most common effect of preceding stimuli is inhibitory, most neurons can also exhibit response facilitation if the appropriate spectral and temporal separation of sequence elements is presented. In this study, we investigated whether A1 neurons in adult animals can develop context-dependent facilitation to a novel acoustic sequence. After repeatedly pairing electrical stimulation of the basal forebrain with a three-element sequence (high frequency tone--low frequency tone-- noise burst), 25% of A1 neurons exhibited facilitation to the low tone when preceded by the high tone, compared with only 5% in controls. In contrast, there was no increase in the percent of sites that showed facilitation for the reversed tone order (low preceding high). Nearly 60% of sites exhibited a facilitated response to the noise burst when preceded by the two tones. Although facilitation was greatest in response to the paired sequence, facilitation also generalized to related sequences that were either temporally distorted or missing one of the tones. Pairing basal forebrain stimulation with the acoustic sequence also caused a decrease in the time to peak response and an increase in population discharge synchrony, which was not seen after pairing simple tones, tone trains, or broadband stimuli. These results indicate that context-dependent facilitation and response synchronization can be substantially altered in an experience-dependent fashion and provide a potential mechanism for learning spectrotemporal patterns.
Serotonin is implicated in the regulation of complex sensory, motor, affective, and cognitive functions. However, the biochemical mechanisms whereby this neurotransmitter exerts its actions remain largely unknown. DARPP-32 (dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of molecular weight 32,000) is a phosphoprotein that has primarily been characterized in relation to dopaminergic neurotransmission. Here we report that serotonin regulates DARPP-32 phosphorylation both in vitro and in vivo. Stimulation of 5-hydroxy-tryptamine (5-HT4 and 5-HT6 receptors causes an increased phosphorylation state at Thr34-DARPP-32, the protein kinase A site, and a decreased phosphorylation state at Thr75-DARPP-32, the cyclin-dependent kinase 5 site. Furthermore, stimulation of 5-HT2 receptors increases the phosphorylation state of Ser137-DARPP-32, the casein kinase-1 site. Behavioral and gene transcriptional effects induced by compounds that selectively release serotonin were greatly reduced in DARPP-32 knockout mice. Our data indicate that DARPP-32 is essential not only for dopaminergic but also for serotonergic neurotransmission.
Fluoxetine (Prozac) is the most widely prescribed medication for the treatment of depression. Nevertheless, little is known about the molecular basis of its clinical efficacy, apart from the fact that fluoxetine increases the synaptic availability of serotonin. Here we show that, in vivo, fluoxetine, given either acutely or chronically, regulates the phosphorylation state of dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of M(r) 32,000 (DARPP-32) at multiple sites in prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, and striatum. Acute administration of fluoxetine increases phosphorylation of DARPP-32 at the protein kinase A site, Thr-34, and at the casein kinase-1 site, Ser-137, and decreases phosphorylation at the cyclin-dependent kinase 5 site, Thr-75. Each of these changes contributes, through distinct signaling pathways, to increased inhibition of protein phosphatase-1, a major serine/threonine protein phosphatase in the brain. Fluoxetine also increases phosphorylation of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor subunit GluR1 at Ser-831 and Ser-845. Both the fluoxetine-mediated increase in AMPA receptor phosphorylation at Ser-845-GluR1 and the beneficial responsiveness to fluoxetine in an animal test of antidepressant efficacy were strongly reduced in DARPP-32 knockout mice, indicating a critical role for this phosphoprotein in the antidepressant actions of fluoxetine. Mice chronically treated with fluoxetine had increased levels of DARPP-32 mRNA and protein and a decreased ability to increase phospho-Ser-137-DARPP-32 and phospho-Ser-831-GluR1. These chronic changes may be relevant to the delayed onset of therapeutic efficacy of fluoxetine.
As a step toward the elucidation of mechanisms in vesicle budding, a cell-free assay that measures cytosol-induced vesicle generation from liposomes was established. This assay then was used to explore the role of phosphoinositides in vesicle formation. Liposomes incubated with brain cytosol in the presence of ATP and GTP massively generated small vesicles, as assessed both quantitatively and qualitatively by a dynamic light-scattering assay. Both ATP and GTP were required. Vesicle formation was inhibited greatly by the immunodepletion of dynamin 1 from the cytosol, indicating a major contribution of this GTPase in this reaction and suggesting that it mimics endocytic vesicle fission. Increasing the concentration of l-alpha-phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate [PtdIns(4,5)P2] but not of l-alpha-phosphatidylinositol 4-monophosphate or l-alpha-phosphatidylinositol in the lipid membranes enhanced vesicle formation. Lipid analysis revealed rapid degradation of PtdIns(4,5)P2 to l-alpha-phosphatidylinositol during the incubation with the reaction reaching a maximum within 5 sec, whereas vesicle formation proceeded with a longer time course. PtdIns(4,5)P2 degradation was independent of vesicle formation and occurred also in the presence of guanosine 5'-O-(thiotriphosphate), where few vesicle formations occurred. These results suggest that PtdIns(4,5)P2 plays a critical role in the early step of vesicle formation, possibly in the recruitment of coats and fission factors to membranes.
The specificity of the reactions of nitric oxide (NO) with its neuronal targets is determined in part by the precise localizations of neuronal NO synthase (nNOS) within the cell. The targeting of nNOS is mediated by adapter proteins that interact with its PDZ domain. Here, we show that the nNOS adapter protein, CAPON, interacts with synapsins I, II, and III through an N-terminal phosphotyrosine-binding domain interaction, which leads to a ternary complex comprising nNOS, CAPON, and synapsin I. The significance of this ternary complex is demonstrated by changes in subcellular localization of nNOS in mice harboring genomic deletions of both synapsin I and synapsin II. These results suggest a mechanism for specific actions of NO at presynaptic sites.
Presenilin heterodimers apparently contain the active site of gamma-secretase, a polytopic aspartyl protease involved in the transmembrane processing of both the Notch receptor and the amyloid-beta precursor protein. Although critical to embryonic development and the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, this protease is difficult to characterize, primarily because it is a multicomponent complex of integral membrane proteins. Here the functional gamma-secretase complex was isolated by using an immobilized active site-directed inhibitor of the protease. Presenilin heterodimers and nicastrin bound specifically to this inhibitor under conditions tightly correlating with protease activity, whereas several other presenilin-interacting proteins (beta-catenin, calsenilin, and presenilin-associated protein) did not bind. Moreover, anti-nicastrin antibodies immunoprecipitated gamma-secretase activity from detergent-solubilized microsomes. Unexpectedly, C83, the major endogenous amyloid-beta precursor protein substrate of gamma-secretase, was also quantitatively associated with the complex. These results provide direct biochemical evidence that nicastrin is a member of the active gamma-secretase complex, indicate that beta-catenin, calsenilin, and presenilin-associated protein are not required for gamma activity, and suggest an unprecedented mechanism of substrate-protease interaction.
Longitudinally oriented axon collaterals of CA3 pyramidal cells may be critical for integrating distributed information in the hippocampus. To investigate the possible role of this pathway in the retention of spatial memory, we made a single transversely oriented cut through the dorsal CA3 region of each hippocampus. Although the lesion involved &lt;3% of the hippocampal volume, it nonetheless disrupted memory retention in a water maze in preoperatively trained rats. New learning in a different water maze was attenuated. No significant impairment occurred in rats with longitudinally oriented cuts, or in animals with ibotenic acid-induced lesions of similar magnitude. To characterize the effect of a focal lesion on the integrity of longitudinally projecting axons, we stained degenerating cells and fibers in rats with unilateral CA3 transections by using FluoroJade-B. Degenerating terminals were seen across a wide region posterior to the cut, and were present in the strata of areas CA3 and CA1 that are innervated by CA3 pyramidal cells. These results suggest that the integrity of longitudinally oriented, translamellar axons of CA3 pyramidal cells may be necessary for efficient acquisition and retention of spatial memory.
The serine protease prohormone convertase 2 (PC2), principally involved in the processing of polypeptide hormone precursors in neuroendocrine tissues, requires interaction with the neuroendocrine protein 7B2 to generate an enzymatically active form. 7B2 null mice express no PC2 activity and release large quantities of uncleaved ACTH, resulting in a lethal endocrine condition that resembles pituitary Cushing's (Westphal, C. H., Muller, L., Zhou, A., Bonner-Weir, S., Schambelan, M., Steiner, D. F., Lindberg, I. &amp; Leder, P. (1999) Cell 96, 689). Here, we have compared the 7B2 and PC2 null mouse models to determine why the 7B2 null, but not the PC2 null, exhibits a lethal disease state. Both 7B2 and PC2 nulls contained highly elevated pituitary adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH); the neurointermediate lobe content of ACTH in 7B2 nulls was 13-fold higher than in WT mice; that of the PC2 null was 65-fold higher. However, circulating ACTH levels were much higher in the 7B2 null than in the PC2 null. Because hypothalamic inhibitory dopaminergic control represents the major influence on intermediate lobe proopiomelanocortin-derived peptide secretion, dopamine levels were measured, and they revealed that 7B2 null pituitaries contained only one-fourth of WT pituitary dopamine. Adrenalectomized 7B2 null animals survived past the usual time of death at 5 weeks; a month after adrenalectomy, they exhibited normal levels of pituitary dopamine, circulating ACTH, and corticosterone. Elevated corticosterone, therefore, seems to play a central role in the lethal phenotype of the 7B2 null, whereas a 7B2-mediated dopaminergic deficiency state may be involved in the actual ACTH hypersecretion phenomenon. Interestingly, adrenalectomized 7B2 nulls also developed unexpectedly severe obesity.
Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1, EC ), a nuclear enzyme activated by DNA strand breaks, physiologically participates in DNA repair. Excessive activation of PARP-1 by cellular insults depletes its substrate beta-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide and ATP, leading to cell death. PARP-1-deficient (PARP-1-/-) mice are protected from several forms of inflammation. In the present study, we demonstrate in PARP-1-/- glial cells a loss of several stress-activated transcription factors as well as decreased expression of genes for cytokines and cellular adhesion molecules. We also show that augmented expression of some of these genes is independent of PARP-1 catalytic activity. These findings indicate that PARP-1 plays a pivotal role in the initial inflammatory response by modulating transcription of inflammation-linked genes.
Mouse models have provided significant insights into the molecular mechanisms of tumor suppressor gene function. Here we use mouse models of prostate carcinogenesis to demonstrate that the Nkx3.1 homeobox gene undergoes epigenetic inactivation through loss of protein expression. Loss of function of Nkx3.1 in mice cooperates with loss of function of the Pten tumor suppressor gene in cancer progression. This cooperativity results in the synergistic activation of Akt (protein kinase B), a key modulator of cell growth and survival. Our findings underscore the significance of interactions between tissue-specific regulators such as Nkx3.1 and broad-spectrum tumor suppressors such as Pten in contributing to the distinct phenotypes of different cancers.
On the basis of an experiment using event-related brain potentials (EPRs), we argue that a characterisation of language-related positivities as necessarily syntax-related is too restrictive. Our data show that, in verb-final German clauses, the processing of a verb which disconfirms the expectations with regard to the hierarchical thematic structure of a sentence (who is doing what to whom) gives rise to an early (200-600 ms) parietal positivity. Thus, positive ERP components elicited during language processing appear to be related to operations (most often revisions) applying to hierarchically structured linguistic information in general, rather than to syntactic structure in particular.
Speech perception is conventionally thought to be an auditory function, but humans often use their eyes to perceive speech. We investigated whether visual speech perception depends on processing by the primary auditory cortex in hearing adults. In a functional magnetic resonance imaging experiment, a pulse-tone was presented contrasted with gradient noise. During the same session, a silent video of a talker saying isolated words was presented contrasted with a still face. Visual speech activated the superior temporal gyrus anterior, posterior, and lateral to the primary auditory cortex, but not the region of the primary auditory cortex. These results suggest that visual speech perception is not critically dependent on the region of primary auditory cortex.
Auditory language comprehension involves physical as well as syntactic processing. The present study examined whether early physical and syntactic processes in spoken sentence comprehension can be segregated using event-related brain potentials (ERPs). In the physical manipulation condition, the terminal word of the sentence was presented either from the same or from a different location to the preceding sentence fragment. In the syntactic manipulation condition, the terminal word was either a syntactically correct continuation of the preceding sentence fragment or violated syntactic constraints. These two factors were completely crossed. Physical deviances elicited the mismatch negativity (MMN) and syntactic deviances the early syntax-related negativity, both deviance-related components of the ERP. Sentences which violated physical as well as syntactic constraints elicited a negativity which was larger than that elicited by only a physical or only a syntactic deviance. The elicitation of the MMN in connected speech demonstrates that this component can be used as a probe for auditory change-detection even in ecologically highly valid situations. The increase of deviance-related effects with double deviants suggests that the early physical and syntactic processing systems act, to a high degree, in parallel and independently of each other.
Damage to primary visual cortex results in a scotoma, or region of blindness, which can nevertheless be accompanied by residual visual abilities in the affected field. This dissociation of visual processing and visual experience is often described as blindsight. We investigated the role of visual attention in blindsight and the application of limited visual resources between the blind and sighted fields in a well-studied case. Contrary to expectations based on normal capacity limits, processing a target in the sighted field improved rather than interfered with processing of targets in the blind field. The benefit from the sighted field was greater when blind and sighted targets were in symmetric locations about the vertical meridian.
Proliferation, cell death and differentiation occur simultaneously in developing retina and are precisely orchestrated. We have studied the effects of biotin (vitamin H) on early retinal development. In vivo administration of biotin to early embryonic chick eyes at moderately elevated levels induced malformations, affecting retina and lens structures. The effects were strictly age dependent and were only found in embryos treated between Hamburger and Hamilton stage 14-17. Biocytin, a biotin analogue, mimicked biotin effects, while avidin could block the effects. At the cellular level, biotin did not affect proliferation but reduced apoptosis. These results suggest that an adequate content of biotin and a precise regulation of retinal cell death are required for the correct morphogenesis of the eye.
The authors review the literature relevant to the position of Psychiatry Clerkship Director (PCD) and propose standards regarding the expectations for this position. The standards address qualifications, duties, and competencies in the areas of leadership, administration, education, mentoring, and scholarship, as well as the resources of time, administrative assistance, budget, and compensation required to carry out these duties. This paper has been endorsed by the Council of the Association of Directors of Medical Student Education in Psychiatry (ADMSEP), by the American Psychiatric Association's Committee on Medical Student Education, and by the Executive Committee of the American Association of Chairmen of Departments of Psychiatry.
The vanilloid receptor VR1 and the vanilloid receptor-like protein VRL-1 are associated with polymodal nociceptors, and may be important for pain processing in normal and injured teeth. Using immunohistochemistry, we have studied the distribution of these receptors in rat pulpal or gingival trigeminal ganglion neurons that were identified through retrograde labeling with fluoro-gold. Twenty-one percent to 34% of tooth pulp-innervating neurons were VRl-positive, while 32%-51% were VRL-1-immunoreactive. However, double-labeling experiments revealed that VR1 and VRL-1 rarely co-existed in the same cells, but rather seemed to be confined to separate subpopulations. Among the gingival neurons, about 25% were VR1-positive and about 41% were VRL-1-immunoreactive. A lesion of the inferior alveolar nerve, which supplies mandibular teeth and gingiva, resulted in a marked down-regulation of VR1 in the affected trigeminal ganglion cells. A down-regulation of VRL-l was also indicated. The results suggest that both VR1 and VRL-1 could have significant roles in pulpal and gingival nociceptive transduction.


- The effects of acute alcohol intoxication (AAI) on the pituitary-gonadal axis hormones, and the possible contribution of pituitary-adrenal axis hormones, beta-endorphin and prolactin to alcohol-induced dysfunction of pituitary-gonadal axis hormones were studied in adult men and women. Blood samples were drawn from adults of both sexes who arrived at the emergency department with evident behavioural symptoms of drunkenness (AAI) or from adult volunteers with nil consumption of alcohol (controls). Our results demonstrated that AAI produces a high increase in plasma prolactin, corticotropin (adrenocorticotropic hormone, ACTH), and cortisol in adults of both sexes, a decrease in luteinizing hormone levels only in men, an increase in dehydroepiandrosterone-sulphate (DHEAS) and a contradictory behaviour of testosterone according to gender, with increased plasma testosterone in women and a decrease in men. ACTH and prolactin correlated positively with cortisol, DHEAS and testosterone in women, which suggests that prolactin and ACTH could contribute to stimulated adrenal androgen production. In contrast, the decrease in testosterone and increase in beta-endorphin in men suggests that AAI could have an inhibitory effect on testicular testosterone, perhaps mediated by beta-endorphin. Our results suggest that the effect of alcohol on pituitary-gonadal axis hormones in humans could depend on the gender and degree of sexual maturity of the individual.

The hereditary spastic ataxias (HSA) are a group of clinically heterogeneous neurodegenerative disorders characterized by lower-limb spasticity and generalized ataxia. HSA was diagnosed in three unrelated autosomal dominant families from Newfoundland, who presented mainly with severe leg spasticity, dysarthria, dysphagia, and ocular-movement abnormalities. A genomewide scan was performed on one family, and linkage to a novel locus for HSA on chromosome 12p13, which contains the as-yet-unidentified gene locus SAX1, was identified. Fine mapping confirmed linkage in the two large families, and the third, smaller family showed LOD scores suggestive of linkage. Haplotype construction by use of 13 polymorphic markers revealed that all three families share a disease haplotype, which key recombinants and overlapping haplotypes refine to about 5 cM, flanked by markers D12S93 and GATA151H05. SAX1 is the first locus mapped for autosomal dominant HSA.
Norepinephrine (NE), a key neurotransmitter of the central and peripheral nervous systems, is synthesized by dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH) that catalyzes oxidation of dopamine (DA) to NE. NE deficiency is a congenital disorder of unknown etiology, in which affected patients suffer profound autonomic failure. Biochemical features of the syndrome include undetectable tissue and circulating levels of NE and epinephrine, elevated levels of DA, and undetectable levels of DBH. Here, we report identification of seven novel variants including four potentially pathogenic mutations in the human DBH gene (OMIM 223360) from analysis of two unrelated patients and their families. Both patients are compound heterozygotes for variants affecting expression of DBH protein. Each carries one copy of a T--&gt;C transversion in the splice donor site of DBH intron 1, creating a premature stop codon. In patient 1, there is a missense mutation in DBH exon 2. Patient 2 carries missense mutations in exons 1 and 6 residing in cis. We propose that NE deficiency is an autosomal recessive disorder resulting from heterogeneous molecular lesions at DBH.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) relaxes the stomach during fasting but decreases hunger and food consumption and retards gastric emptying. The interrelationships between volume, emptying, and postprandial symptoms in response to GLP-1 are unclear. We performed, in healthy human volunteers, a placebo-controlled study of the effects of intravenous GLP-1 on gastric volume using (99m)Tc-single photon emission computed tomography imaging, gastric emptying of a nutrient liquid meal (Ensure) using scintigraphy, maximum tolerated volume (MTV) of Ensure, and postprandial symptoms 30 min after MTV. The role of vagal cholinergic function in the effects of GLP-1 was assessed by human pancreatic polypeptide (HPP) response to the Ensure meal. GLP-1 increased fasting and postprandial gastric volumes and retarded gastric emptying; MTV and postprandial symptoms were not different compared with controls. Effects on postprandial gastric function were associated with reduced postprandial HPP levels. GLP-1 does not induce postprandial symptoms despite significant inhibition of gastric emptying and vagal function; this may be partly explained by the increase in postprandial gastric volume.
Mild food restriction for 48 h inhibits mating behavior in female musk shrews (Suncus murinus). However, mating behavior is restored after a 90-min feeding bout. In this series of experiments, we examined the role of metabolic fuels in this behavioral restoration. First, drugs reported to block glycolysis or fatty acid oxidation were given 2 h before mating. Both treatments inhibited mating in food-restricted females that were refed after treatment. Blood glucose levels were assessed in females that were fed ad libitum, food restricted, or food restricted and refed for 90 min. Food restriction significantly lowered blood glucose compared with ad libitum feeding or food restriction in combination with 90 min of refeeding. However, neither glucose nor fat alone could substitute for food and promote mating behavior in food-restricted females. In addition, analysis of ketone bodies and body composition in females demonstrated low or undetectable levels of these energy substrates. Our data suggest that musk shrews have relatively little stored energy. Therefore, female musk shrews rely on continuous food intake and monitor multiple cues acutely, including glucose availability and fatty acid oxidation. This ensures that mating does not occur when adequate energy is unavailable.
The mechanism by which lactating rats increase fluid consumption to meet the demands of milk production is unknown. Because ANG II is the most potent dipsogenic stimulus known, this study examined whether angiotensinergic signaling plays a role in enhanced drinking in lactating rats. ANG II administered intracerebroventricularly caused a significantly greater dipsogenic response in lactating rats than in control rats, suggesting that dipsogenic responsivity to ANG II is enhanced in the brains of lactating rats. The angiotensin type 1 (AT1) ANG II receptor subtype antagonist SKF-108566, also given intracerebroventricularly, caused a significant reduction in water consumption in lactating rats, whereas it did not significantly affect water intake in control rats. In contrast, stimulation of drinking by the muscarinic agonist carbachol, also administered intracerebroventricularly, did not differ between lactating and control rats. Inhibition of drinking by the muscarinic antagonist atropine also did not differ significantly between lactating and control rats. These results suggest that the increased drinking in lactating rats involves an increased responsivity to ANG II in neurons that mediate dipsogenesis, as well as an enhancement in the amount of angiotensinergic input to these ANG II-responsive neurons.
The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of the semicircular canals and otolith organs on respiration in humans. On the basis of animal studies, we hypothesized that vestibular activation would elicit a vestibulorespiratory reflex. To test this hypothesis, respiratory measures, arterial blood pressure, and heart rate were measured during engagement of semicircular canals and/or otolith organs. Dynamic upright pitch and roll (15 cycles/min), which activate the otolith organs and semicircular canals, increased respiratory rate (Delta2 +/- 1 and Delta3 +/- 1 breaths/min, respectively; P &lt; 0.05). Dynamic yaw and lateral pitch (15 cycles/min), which activate the semicircular canals, increased respiration similarly (Delta3 +/- 1 and Delta2 +/- 1, respectively; P &lt; 0.05). Dynamic chair rotation (15 cycles/min), which mimics dynamic yaw but eliminates neck muscle afferent, increased respiration (Delta3 +/- 1; P &lt; 0.05) comparable to dynamic yaw (15 cycles/min). Increases in respiratory rate were graded as greater responses occurred during upright (Delta5 +/- 2 breaths/min) and lateral pitch (Delta4 +/- 1) and roll (Delta5 +/- 1) performed at 30 cycles/min. Increases in breathing frequency resulted in increases in minute ventilation during most interventions. Static head-down rotation, which activates otolith organs, did not alter respiratory rate (Delta1 +/- 1 breaths/min). Collectively, these data indicate that semicircular canals, but not otolith organs or neck muscle afferents, mediate increased ventilation in humans and support the concept that vestibular activation alters respiration in humans.
Renal Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase is associated with the gamma-subunit (FXYD2), a single-span membrane protein that modifies ATPase properties. There are two splice variants with different amino termini, gamma(a) and gamma(b). Both were found in the inner stripe of the outer medulla in the thick ascending limb. Coimmunoprecipitation with each other and the alpha-subunit indicated that they were associated in macromolecular complexes. Association was controlled by ligands that affect Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase conformation. In the cortex, the proportion of the gamma(b)-subunit was markedly lower, and the gamma(a)-subunit predominated in isolated proximal tubule cells. By immunofluorescence, the gamma(b)-subunit was detected in the superficial cortex only in the distal convoluted tubule and connecting tubule, which are rich in Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase but comprise a minor fraction of cortex mass. In the outer stripe of the outer medulla and for a short distance in the deep cortex, the thick ascending limb predominantly expressed the gamma(b)-subunit. Because different mechanisms maintain and regulate Na(+) homeostasis in different nephron segments, the splice forms of the gamma-subunit may have evolved to control the renal Na(+) pump through pump properties, gene expression, or both.



In multiple sclerosis, the mechanisms underlying the accumulation of disability are poorly understood. Recently, it has been suggested that adaptive cortical changes may limit the clinical impact of multiple sclerosis injury. In this study, functional magnetic resonance imaging and a general search method were used to assess patterns of brain activation associated with a simple motor task in 14 right-handed, nondisabled relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis patients that were compared to those from 15 right-handed, sex- and age-matched healthy volunteers. Also investigated were the extent to which the functional magnetic resonance imaging changes correlated with T2 lesion volume and severity of multiple sclerosis pathology in lesions and normal-appearing brain tissue, measured using magnetisation transfer and diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging. Compared to controls, multiple sclerosis patients showed increased activation in the contralateral primary sensorimotor cortex, bilaterally in the supplementary motor area, bilaterally in the cingulate motor area, in the contralateral ascending bank of the sylvian fissure, and in the contralateral intraparietal sulcus. T2 lesion volume was correlated with relative activation in the ipsilateral supplementary motor area, and in the ipsilateral and contralateral cingulate motor area. Average lesion magnetisaiton transfer ratio and average lesion water diffusivity were correlated with relative activation in the contralateral sensorimotor cortex. Average lesion magnetisation transfer ratio was also correlated with relative activation in the ipsilateral cingulate motor area. Average water diffusivity and peak height of the normal-appearing brain tissue diffusivity histogram were both correlated with relative activation in the contralateral intraparietal sulcus. This study shows that cortical activation occurs over a rather distributed sensorimotor network in nondisabled relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis patients. It also suggests that increased recruitment of this cortical network contributes to the limitation of the functional impact of white matter multiple sclerosis injury.

The current double tracing-double confocal laser-scanning method was developed to reconstruct identified nerve fibers and their contacts with identified target neurons in the rat brain in three dimensions. It intends to fill the gap between conventional light microscopic and electron microscopic neuroanatomic tracing. The steps involved are as follows: (1) injection of two neuroanatomic tracers--Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) to label fibers innervating a particular brain area and Neurobiotin to label prospective target neurons in that area; (2) immunofluorescence detection of the labeled fibers (fluorophore Cy5, infrared emission), together with fluorochromated avidin detection of the taken-up Neurobiotin (Cy2 or Alexa 488; green emission); (3) acquisition of Z-series of confocal images at high magnification with a laser-scanning microscope using the laser lines 488 nm and 647 nm; and (4) computer-processing and three-dimensional reconstruction of the labeled fibers and the presumed target dendrites. Rotation on the computer of the three-dimensional reconstructed fibers and dendrites along all three spatial axes enabled the authors to determine whether &quot;true&quot; or &quot;false&quot; contacts occur. In a true contact no space was present between the apposing structures, whereas a false contact consisted of two differently stained structures close to each other but separated by a narrow, optically empty space. One important phenomenon in the three-dimensional reconstruction of double-stained structures that needed correction was &quot;twin image mismatch&quot;--i.e., the observation that a three-dimensional reconstruction of a small test object (double-stained on purpose) produced two slightly shifted objects, each associated with its particular fluorochrome. To measure the actual twin image mismatch of the confocal instrument and to obtain accurate correction factors the authors took in each session in which they obtained image series of the real experiments, with both laser wavelengths Z-series of images of multifluorescent microspheres (500-nm diameter) and of thin, double-stained fibers. Given the small dimensions of the structures of interest, i.e., synaptic contacts, it is necessary in this type of research that the optical characteristics of the imaging system--e.g., the alignment errors and chromatic aberration that produce twin image mismatch--be precisely known.
Ten healthy, non-smoking subjects without atopic constitution, (eight males and two females, mean age 67.3 +/- 2.5 years), participated in a study of vascular reactivity. The subjects were tested with respect to apolipoprotein E alleles. Three vasodilating substances were iontophoresed into the skin, acetylcholine chloride (ACh); isoprenaline sulfate (isoprenaline); and sodium nitroprusside (SNP). ACh and isoprenaline were delivered to the anode, while SNP was delivered to the cathode. Also, 0.9% sodium chloride (NaCl) was delivered to the cathode in order to assess the effect of the iontophoretic current itself. The resultant vasodilation was mapped by a newly developed laser Doppler perfusion imager (LDPI) and correlated with fasting concentrations of serum lipids and lipoproteins. Skin vessel reactivity test to ACh, isoprenaline and SNP, but not NaCl, showed statistically significant negative correlations to the ratio LDL cholesterol/HDL cholesterol (P&lt;0.05). The skin vessel responses to endothelium-dependent and possibly also to endothelium-independent substances are correlated with serum lipids and lipoproteins. It might be feasible to follow the effect of lipid-lowering strategies non-invasively with the aid of iontophoresis and laser Doppler perfusion imaging. The response to NaCl at the cathode might be due to a direct depolarizating effect on perivascular nerves and might thus be of interest when evaluating small nerve fiber dysfunction, for instance in diabetes mellitus.
Evidence for the role of purinergic signaling (via P1 and P2Y receptors) in the proliferation of vascular smooth muscle and endothelial cells is reviewed. The involvement of the mitogen-activated protein kinase second-messenger cascade in this action is clearly implicated, although details of the precise intracellular pathways involved still remain to be determined. Synergistic actions of purines and pyrimidines with growth factors occur in promoting cell proliferation. Interaction between purinergic signaling for vascular cell proliferation and cell death mediated by P2X7 receptors is discussed. There is evidence of the release of ATP from endothelial cells, platelets, and sympathetic nerves as well as from damaged cells in atherosclerosis, hypertension, restenosis, and ischemia; furthermore, there is evidence that vascular smooth muscle and endothelial cells proliferate in these pathological conditions. Thus, the involvement of ATP and its breakdown product, adenosine, is implicated; it is hoped that with the development of selective P1 (A2) and P2Y receptor agonists and antagonists, new therapeutic strategies will be explored.
Although known, histologically proven pulmonary metastasis from a benign intracranial meningioma is exceedingly rare. We report a case of meningiothelial meningioma producing a solitary pulmonary deposit.
According to Epilepsy Canada (2001), one to two per cent of Canadians have epilepsy and 75 to 80 per cent of these people develop it before the age of 18. Despite the fact that many famous and successful people throughout history have had epilepsy, misunderstanding and prejudice about this common neurological disorder remain prevalent. In our experience, some people diagnosed with epilepsy do not tell others about their medical condition because of their fear of being stigmatized and shunned.
Oxidative stress in mammalian cells is an inevitable consequence of their aerobic metabolism. The production of reactive oxygen and nitric oxide species causes oxidative modifications of proteins often combined with a loss of their biological function. Like most partially denatured proteins, moderately oxidized proteins are more sensitive to proteolytic attack by proteases. The diverse cellular proteolytic systems are an important secondary defense against oxidative stress by degrading oxidized and damaged proteins, thereby preventing their intracellular accumulation. In mammalian cells, a range of proteases exists which are distributed throughout the cell. In this review we summarize the function of the cytosolic (proteasome and calpains), the lysosomal, the mitochondrial and the nuclear proteolytic pathways in response to oxidative stress. Particular emphasis is given to the proteasomal system, since this pathway appears to be the most important proteolytic system involved in the removal of oxidatively modified or damaged proteins.


The cDNA for the full-length porcine estrogen receptor beta (ER beta) and an alternatively spliced transcript with a deletion of exon 5 (ER beta delta 5) was cloned from pig ovary. RNase protection assays revealed that ER beta mRNA was expressed in the preovulatory follicles and early, midluteal, and regressing corpora lutea (CL) of eCG +/- hCG-primed gilts. ER beta and ER beta delta 5 transcripts were shown by semiquantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction to be expressed at a ratio of approximately 2:1 in granulosa cells, small, medium, and large antral follicles, and midluteal phase corpora lutea of unprimed animals. Immunoreactive ER beta proteins corresponding to the size of in vitro translated ER beta and ER beta delta 5 were detected by immunoblot. Full-length ER beta was detected in granulosa, small, medium, and large antral follicles, and midluteal phase CL of unprimed animals. Putative ER beta delta 5 immunoreactive bands were abundant only in granulosa cell extracts. In COS-1 cells, transfected ER beta delta 5 had no effect on basal transcription of an estrogen-responsive reporter construct but did repress wild-type ER beta transactivation when cotransfected at 10-fold excess plasmid. No repression of ER alpha transactivation was observed. In primary granulosa cell cultures, transfected ER beta delta 5 plasmid did not inhibit basal reporter activation. ER beta delta 5 was shown by immunofluorescence to localize to the nucleus in transfected COS-1 cells. In vitro translated ER beta delta 5 proteins bound estrogen response elements in DNA in electrophoretic mobility shift assays, as indicated by supershift analysis. ER beta is abundant in porcine ovary, and a naturally occurring splice variant missing exon 5 may have biological function.
In this work, a method is presented for the transformation of MEG recordings to a standard sensor position. For the case of an 148 channel magnetometer array, the algorithm was evaluated using simulations as well as phantom head recordings. It turned out that the method is very robust and yields accurate results regardless of the position of the field generator, even with large differences between original and standard (target) sensor positions and high noise. The method can be applied as a prerequisite for comparing or averaging recordings of different subjects or sessions.


1. The aim of this study was to provide a pharmacological characterization of the Y receptor types responsible for neuropeptide Y (NPY), peptide YY (PYY) and pancreatic polypeptide (PP) effects upon electrogenic ion transport in isolated human colonic mucosa. 2. Preparations of descending colon were voltage-clamped at 0 mV in Ussing chambers and changes in short-circuit current (I(sc)) continuously recorded. Basolateral PYY, NPY, human PP (hPP), PYY(3 - 36), [Leu(31), Pro(34)]PYY (Pro(34)PYY) and [Leu(31), Pro(34)]-NPY (Pro(34)NPY) all reduced basal I(sc) in untreated colon. Of all the Y agonists tested PYY(3 - 36) responses were most sensitive to tetrodotoxin (TTX) pretreatment, indicating that Y(2)-receptors are located on intrinsic neurones as well as epithelia in this tissue. 3. The EC(50) values for Pro(34)PYY, PYY(3 - 36) and hPP were 9.7 nM (4.0 - 23.5), 11.4 nM (7.6 - 17.0) and 14.5 nM (10.2 - 20.5) and response curves exhibited similar efficacies. The novel Y(5) agonist [Ala(31), Aib(32)]-NPY had no effect at 100 nM. 4. Y(1) receptor antagonists, BIBP3226 and BIBO3304 both increased basal I(sc) levels per se and inhibited subsequent PYY and Pro(34)PYY but not hPP or PYY(3 - 36) responses. The Y(2) antagonist, BIIE0246 also raised basal I(sc) levels and attenuated subsequent PYY(3 - 36) but not Pro(34)PYY or hPP responses. 5. We conclude that Y(1) and Y(2) receptor-mediated inhibitory tone exists in human colon mucosa. PYY and NPY exert their effects via both Y(1) and Y(2) receptors, but the insensitivity of hPP responses to either Y(1) or Y(2) antagonism, or to TTX, indicates that Y(4) receptors are involved and that they are predominantly post-junctional in human colon.
1. We have studied the effects of prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) on action potential propagation in the isolated, desheathed vagus and saphenous nerves of rats using an extracellular grease gap recording method. 2. PGE(2) evoked a small depolarization of vagus nerves but had no effect on the stimulation threshold, size or latency of either the A wave (corresponding to conduction in A fibres) or the C wave (corresponding to conduction in C fibres) of the compound action potential (CAP) recorded from either vagus or saphenous nerves. 3. Lidocaine (0.01 - 10 mM) reduced all components of the CAP of both vagus and saphenous nerves. PGE(2) had no significant effect on the sensitivity of any component of the CAP to lidocaine. 4. Tetrodotoxin (TTX, 10 microM) blocked completely both the A wave and the C wave of the CAP in either vagus or saphenous nerves. 5. In saphenous nerve preparations the A wave was blocked by lower concentrations of TTX than the C wave or any component of the CAP in vagus nerve preparations which suggests that somatosensory A fibres express a different sub-type of TTX-sensitive voltage-gated sodium channel (VGSC) than somatosensory C-fibres or visceral sensory fibres. 6. Chemical activation of VGSCs with veratridine (10 or 50 microM) induced a depolarization in either nerve. The depolarization induced by 50 microM veratridine was blocked by 10 microM TTX. 7. Although TTX-insensitive VGSCs are expressed by some vagal and some somatosensory neurones they do not appear to be expressed functionally in the axons.
1. Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs) are thought to have a delay in therapeutic efficacy because of the need to overcome the inhibitory influence of raphe 5-HT(1A) autoreceptors. Prolonged SSRI administration has been reported to desensitize these autoreceptors. We have used [(35)S]-GTP gamma S autoradiography to determine whether this desensitization occurs at the level of receptor/G protein coupling. 2. Male mice were injected intraperitoneally once a day with saline or 20 mg kg(-1) fluoxetine for either 2 days or 14 days. 5-HT(1A) receptor binding and coupling to G proteins were assessed using [(3)H]-8-OH-DPAT and [(35)S]-GTP gamma S autoradiography, respectively. 3. The 5-HT receptor agonist 5-carboxamidotryptamine (5-CT) stimulated [(35)S]-GTP gamma S binding in the substantia nigra, as well as in hippocampus and dorsal raphe nucleus. The 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist p-MPPF (4-fluoro-N-(2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)1-piperazinyl]ethyl)-N-(2-pyridinyl)benzamide) blocked this effect in the latter regions, whereas the 5-HT(1B/D) antagonist GR-127,935 (2'-methyl-4'-(5-methyl-[1,2,4]oxadiazol-3-yl)-biphenyl-4-carboxylic acid [4-methoxy-3-(4-methyl-piperazin-l-yl)-phenyl]-amide) only decreased labelling in substantia nigra. 4. Fourteen-day fluoxetine treatment decreased 5-CT-stimulated [(35)S]-GTP gamma S binding in dorsal raphe (saline: 112 +/- 12% stimulation; fluoxetine: 66 +/- 13%), but not in substantia nigra (99 +/- 14% vs 103 +/- 7%) or hippocampus (157 +/- 3% vs 148 +/- 18%). Two-day fluoxetine treatment did not alter 5-CT-stimulated [(35)S]-GTP gamma S binding in any of the brain areas investigated. 5. Decreased [(35)S]-GTP gamma S binding was not due to receptor down-regulation, since the density of raphe [(3)H]-8-OH-DPAT binding sites was unaffected by fluoxetine treatment. 6. These results suggest that the desensitization of presynaptic 5-HT(1A) receptor function occurs at the level of receptor-G protein interaction on dorsal raphe neurons, and may underlie the therapeutic efficacy of long-term SSRI treatment.
The transition of brain activity towards an epileptic seizure is still a poorly understood phenomenon. Dynamic changes in brain activity have been detected several minutes before seizure emergence in populations of patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE), using non-linear analysis of intracranial EEG recordings. Similar detection of a pre-ictal state has been obtained with standard scalp EEG recordings using a modified non-linear method. Here we applied this strategy to the seizures of patients with neocortical partial epilepsy. Results obtained by non-linear similarity analysis of 41 seizures from 11 patients with refractory partial epilepsy originating from various sites of the neocortex showed that (i) a pre-ictal state was detected in 90% of the patients and in 83% of the seizures whatever their location, with a mean anticipation time of 7.5 min; (ii) similar pre-ictal dynamic changes were detected when non-linear analysis methods were applied to either intracranial or scalp EEG recordings; (iii) the recording sites exhibiting these pre-ictal changes were distributed both within the epileptogenic focus and at remote locations; (iv) most pre-ictal dynamic changes were not correlated with linear changes in the frequency spectrum or with changes in the visually inspected EEG and the patients' behaviour. Hypotheses on the neuronal mechanisms underlying the pre-ictal period are discussed. The present results, together with those recently obtained in an MTLE population, suggest that changes in pre-ictal dynamics are a general phenomenon associated with seizure emergence in a wide population of patients with partial epilepsy, wherever the epileptogenic focus is located. The possibility of anticipating the onset of seizures has considerable therapeutic implications.
Analyses of brain structure in genetic speech and language disorders provide an opportunity to identify neurobiological phenotypes and further elucidate the neural bases of language and its development. Here we report such investigations in a large family, known as the KE family, half the members of which are affected by a severe disorder of speech and language, which is transmitted as an autosomal-dominant monogenic trait. The structural brain abnormalities associated with this disorder were investigated using two morphometric methods of MRI analysis. A voxel-based morphometric method was used to compare the amounts of grey matter in the brains of three groups of subjects: the affected members of the KE family, the unaffected members and a group of age-matched controls. This method revealed a number of mainly motor- and speech-related brain regions in which the affected family members had significantly different amounts of grey matter compared with the unaffected and control groups, who did not differ from each other. Several of these regions were abnormal bilaterally, including the caudate nucleus, which was of particular interest because this structure was also found to show functional abnormality in a related PET study. We performed a more detailed volumetric analysis of this structure. The results confirmed that the volume of this nucleus was reduced bilaterally in the affected family members compared with both the unaffected members and the group of age-matched controls. This reduction in volume was most evident in the superior portion of the nucleus. The volume of the caudate nucleus was significantly correlated with the performance of affected family members on a test of oral praxis, a test of non-word repetition and the coding subtest of the Wechsler Intelligence Scale. These results thus provide further evidence of a relationship between the abnormal development of this nucleus and the impairments in oromotor control and articulation reported in the KE family.
Genetic speech and language disorders provide the opportunity to investigate the biological bases of language and its development. Critical to these investigations are the definition of behavioural phenotypes and an understanding of their interaction with epigenetic factors. Here, we report our investigations of the KE family, half the members of which are affected by a severe disorder of speech and language, which is transmitted as an autosomal-dominant monogenic trait. The cognitive manifestations of this disorder were investigated using a number of linguistic and non-linguistic tests. The aims of these investigations were to establish the existence of a 'core' deficit, or behavioural phenotype, and to explain how such a deficit during development might give rise to the range of other impairments demonstrated by affected family members. The affected family members were compared both with the unaffected members and with a group of adult patients with aphasia resulting from a stroke. The score on a test of repetition of non-words with complex articulation patterns successfully discriminated the affected and unaffected family members. The affected family members and the patients with aphasia had remarkably similar profiles of impairment on the tests administered. Pre-morbidly, however, the patients with aphasia had enjoyed a normal course of cognitive development and language experience. This benefit was reflected on a number of tests in which the patients with aphasia performed significantly better than the affected family members and, in the case of some tests, at normal levels. We suggest that, in the affected family members, the verbal and non-verbal deficits arise from a common impairment in the ability to sequence movement or in procedural learning. Alternatively, the articulation deficit, which itself might give rise to a host of other language deficits, is separate from a more general verbal and non-verbal developmental delay.
Unilateral stroke results in hemiplegia or hemiparesis of the contralateral side of the body. The ipsilateral side of the body, the so-called &quot;good&quot; side, is often assumed to have no deficit. However, there is increasing evidence that the function of the unaffected limbs, especially the upper extremities, is different from that of normal age-matched controls. In the present study, we examined the motor control of both hands of chronic stroke subjects, 6 with left hemisphere brain damage (LHBD) and 5 with right hemisphere brain damage (RHBD). The control group consisted of 5 normal age-matched subjects. The task of the subject was to move a handle by flexing his/her fingers until the target position was reached. The target position was set as 33% of the range of each subject. No time constraints were imposed. The movements of the normal subjects were basically smooth, with few hesitations. In contrast to this, the movements of both hands in the two stroke groups were segmented and characterized by multiple starts and stops. As compared to normals, the time to reach the target, the number of pauses during the movement, and the percent of time spent in pauses, were significantly greater for both hands of the LHBD group. In the RHBD group, the percent of time spent in pauses was significantly greater than the control group for the ipsilesional hand. The increased segmentation seen in the movements of the ipsilesional, as well as the contralesional. hands of the hemiplegic subjects suggests that the motor deficits in stroke patients may be due to a global inability to correctly plan and carry out movements.
The ability to judge the passage of time is critical to behavioral regulation and planning and can be impaired among individuals with attention deficit. Time estimation was tested in young adults screened for attention deficit, based on scores of a self-report questionnaire for attention problems (CAARS), using a prospective reproduction paradigm. Four time intervals (3, 6, 12, and 24 s) were tested in two conditions: (1) reproduction of the duration of a visual stimulus and (2) reproduction of an empty time interval. A significant interaction between gender and group was found suggesting that males, but not females, with attention deficits made larger errors than controls. Males with attention deficits and both groups of females made larger underestimations of time judgement than control males.
The aim of this research was to study strategic sequence planning and prospective memory in activities of daily living (ADL) in 10 patients with frontal lobe lesions after a mild to moderate closed head injury (CHI). The lesions were documented radiologically. The CHI patients were compared to 12 normal controls with a neuropsychological test battery and a realistic simulation of complex multitask ADL (planning and preparing a meal). Though the CHI patients were significantly slow on one test and subject to interference on an attention test, they manifested no basic executive or memory deficit on the paper-pencil tests. However, the CHI patients manifested marked anomalies in the organization of behavior in the meal preparation task. While small sequences of actions were easily produced, large action sets could not be correctly executed. An outstanding difficulty in strategic planning and prospective memory, particularly time-based more than event-based, appears to be an important underpinning of the impairment of ADL observed in the CHI patients with frontal lobe lesions.
The goal of this study was to investigate recovery of intellectual function as a function of age at the time of a brain lesion. Participants with unilateral cortical lesions were selected from an initial data base of 685 patients. Ninety-six participants formed a longitudinal cohort for a first study and 314 participants formed a cross-sectional cohort for a second study. Participants of each study were split into two age groups according to the age at the time of the lesion: (1) before 7 years, (2) 7 years or more. Results showed a significantly different recovery profile as a function of age in the longitudinal study. Older participants manifested recovery on VIQ and PIQ, while younger participants presented stable profiles. The longitudinal and cross-sectional studies revealed differing recovery profiles as a function of age. Results are discussed in the context of the Kennard principle and with regard to the methodological approaches.
When a line is flashed instantaneously between two markers it can appear to propagate from one marker to the other. This illusion is known as the line motion effect. We investigated this effect in the two hemispheres of a callosotomy (&quot;split-brain&quot;) patient. We found that both hemispheres perceived the line motion effect, and that flashing one of the markers biased the direction of motion away from that marker regardless of which hemisphere received the stimulus. In contrast, matching the width of the line to the width of one of the markers biased the direction of motion away from the marker only when it appeared in the left visual hemifield. This suggests that multiple mechanisms can contribute to the line motion effect, and that some of these mechanisms rely on different neural structures.
There have been consistent findings of hemispheric asymmetry in global/local processing, in both neurological patients and the neurologically normal. However, with one exception, these studies have used purely linguistic stimuli (letters made up of letters). The present study investigates lateral asymmetry for processing of global/local objects with less &quot;linguistic&quot; properties (e.g., letters made up of shapes, and shapes made up of letters) using a change detection paradigm. In each case the classic pattern of hemispheric asymmetry was found. These results are discussed in the context of the relative importance of hemispheric asymmetry for both global/local and linguistic information.
Gap junctions represent an important mode of intercellular communication. Connexin 45 (Cx45) is a member of the connexin family that forms gap junctions between adjacent cells. In this study, we demonstrate the expression of Cx45 in the olfactory epithelium and olfactory bulb in adult mice. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction amplification of total RNA from mouse turbinates and olfactory bulb yielded cDNA fragments partially encoding for Cx45. In situ hybridization using Cx45 cRNA probes revealed that hybridization products were more abundant in the olfactory epithelial layer than in the lamina propria underneath the epithelium. In the olfactory epithelial layer, hybridization signals were relatively intense in a band spreading from the basal cell layer to 4/5 of the distance from the basal cell layer to the apical process. The distribution of cells positive for Cx45 mRNA is largely overlapping with that of cells expressing olfactory marker protein mRNA, indicating that a substantial number of mature olfactory neurons express Cx45 mRNA. In the olfactory bulb, cells with large nuclei in the mitral cell layer, presumably mitral cells, express Cx45 mRNA. Immunoblotting with an antibody recognizing Cx45 revealed a band at approximately 46 kDa in homogenates of mouse turbinates and olfactory bulb. Immunohistochemical studies showed fine immunoreactive puncta in the olfactory epithelium. Immunoreactivity was observed surrounding cell bodies and the proximal processes of mitral cells in the olfactory bulb. The data suggest that Cx45 is a neuronal connexin that is expressed in mature neurons in adult mice. Our study implicates a functional role for Cx45 in the olfactory system deserving future study.


We have previously demonstrated that Mytilus edulis pedal ganglia contain opiate alkaloids, i.e., morphine and morphine 6 glucuronide (M6G), as well as mu opiate receptor subtype fragments exhibiting high sequence similarity to those found in mammals. Now we demonstrate that M6G stimulates pedal ganglia constitutive nitric oxide (NO) synthase (cNOS)-derived NO release at identical concentrations and to similar peak levels as morphine. However, the classic opiate antagonist, naloxone, only blocked the ability of morphine to stimulate cNOS-derived NO release and not that of M6G. CTOP, a mu-specific antagonist, blocked the ability of M6G to induce cNOS-derived NO release as well as that of morphine, suggesting that a novel mu opiate receptor was present and selective toward M6G. In examining a receptor displacement analysis, both opiate alkaloids displaced [3H]-dihydromorphine binding to the mu opiate receptor subtype. However, morphine exhibited a twofold higher affinity, again suggesting that a novel mu opiate receptor may be present.
Melatonin is a pineal hormone involved in neuroendocrine processes in mammals. It has been shown that melatonin inhibits the enzymatic activities of adenylyl cyclases and the transcriptional activities of CREB. In this report, we demonstrate that 2-iodomelatonin (2IMT) treatment on COS-7 cells transfected with melatonin receptors (mt1 and MT2) induces c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) activation, which is pertussis toxin (PTX)-sensitive, Ras/Rac-dependent and may involve Src-family protein tyrosine kinases. Moreover, PTX-insensitive Gs, Gz and G16 are capable of linking activated melatonin receptors to the stimulation of JNK. Agonist stimulation on PTX-pretreated COS-7 cells overexpressing mt1 receptor, Galpha(s) and adenylyl cyclase VI led to increased cAMP accumulation. Stimulation of endogenous mt1 receptors in MCF-7 cells was associated with the activation of both JNK and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). This report demonstrates the stimulatory effect of melatonin receptors on JNK, and provides experimental evidence for a functional coupling between the G(i)-coupled melatonin receptor and Gs, in terms of adenylyl cyclase activation.
Detection of courtship-activating female pheromones by contact chemoreceptors on the front legs of male Drosophila melanogaster is thought to play an important role in triggering courtship behavior. However, the chemosensory organs, cells, and molecules responsible are not known. We have isolated two genes, CheA29a and CheB42a, expressed in nonneuronal auxiliary cells within two nested subsets of chemosensory sensilla on the front legs of sexually mature, adult males. The proteins encoded by the CheA29a and CheB42a genes have no sequence similarity to each other or any other known protein, but they belong to two novel families of proteins encoded by the D. melanogaster genome. Members of the two families are predicted to have a single transmembrane domain at their amino terminus, probably to serve as a signal peptide, suggesting that they are soluble and secreted. Finally, in addition to CheA29a and CheB42a, other genes within each family are expressed preferentially in appendages where chemosensory organs are concentrated, in several cases in a male-specific manner. Our data suggest that CheA29a and CheB42a and other members of these two protein families are involved in male-specific chemical senses, perhaps pheromone response.
The revolution in our knowledge about the genomes of organisms gives rise to the question, what do we do with this information? The development of techniques allowing high throughput analysis of RNA and protein expression, such as cDNA microarrays, provide for genome-wide analysis of gene expression. These analyses will help bridge the gap between systems and molecular neuroscience. This review discusses the advantages of using a subtractive hybridization technique, such as a representational difference analysis, to generate a custom cDNA microarray enriched for genes relevant to investigating complex, heterogeneous tissues such as those involved in the chemical senses. Real and hypothetical examples of these experiments are discussed. Benefits of this approach over traditional microarray techniques include having a more relevant clone set, the potential for gene discovery and the creation of a new tool to investigate similar systems. Potential pitfalls may include PCR artifacts and the need for sequencing. However, these disadvantages can be overcome so that the coupling of subtraction techniques to microarray screening can be a fruitful approach to a variety of experimental systems.
We have designed an approach for modeling olfactory pathways by which one can explore how the properties of individual receptors affect the information coding capacity of an entire system. The effect of receptor tuning breadth on system performance was explored explicitly. We presented model sensory arrays with sets of stimuli randomly and uniformly distributed in an &quot;olfactory space&quot;. Arrays of uniformly sized model receptors responding to 25-35% of the stimuli gave the best performance as measured by the ability to capture the most information about the stimulus set. Arrays of variably sized model receptors that were both more broadly and more narrowly tuned than this optimum could, however, perform better than uniform arrays. This method and the results obtained using it suggest a framework for considering the growing body of evidence on the functional properties of individual olfactory receptor and relay neurons from a systems coding perspective.
1. The central administration of the endogenous opioid-like peptide nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) produces marked cardiovascular depressor and renal sympathoinhibitory responses in conscious animals. These findings are evidence that central N/OFQ may modulate the cardiovascular and renal responses to acute environmental stress. 2. The changes in cardiovascular and renal function produced by intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) N/OFQ were measured in conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) under basal conditions and during the acute environmental stimulus of air jet stress. 3. In SHR, central N/OFQ produced profound hypotensive, bradycardic, renal sympathoinhibitory (delayed) and water-diuretic effects by a pathway that does not involve activation of central alpha2-adrenoceptors or classical opioid receptors. 4. Intracerebroventricular injection of N/OFQ prevented the pressor response and blunted the tachycardia to air jet stress. A similar renal sympathoexcitatory and antinatriuretic response was observed in conscious SHR during air stress, before and after i.c.v. N/OFQ. 5. These findings are evidence that, in conscious SHR, i.c.v. N/OFQ selectively inhibited the neural responses to air jet stress by attenuating sympathetic outflow to the heart and, potentially, vasculature, but not to the kidneys. Central endogenous N/OFQ systems may be activated and contribute to regional changes in sympathetic outflow during acute stress.
1. Nociceptin/orphanin FQ (NC) and its receptor (OP4) represent a novel peptide/receptor system pharmacologically distinct from classical opioid systems. 2. Via OP4 receptor activation, NC regulates several biological functions, both at peripheral and central levels; therefore, the OP4 receptor may be viewed as a novel target for drug development. However, the pharmacology of this receptor is still in its infancy, with few molecules interacting selectively with this receptor. 3. In the present article, we review the findings of studies that have investigated the pharmacological profile of ligands selective for the OP4 receptor, these being two antagonists, the peptide [Nphe1]NC(1-13)NH2 and the non-peptide J-113397, and two agonists, the peptide [Arg14,Lys15]NC, and the non- peptide Ro 64-6198. 4. The results of these studies indicate that agents that selectively activate or block the OP4 receptor may represent new potential drugs for the treatment of human diseases.
Four members of a family were found to carry the A3243G mtDNA mutation. Clinical features varied from typical MELAS to myoclonic epilepsy to simple deafness without neurological signs. Several other members of the family had symptoms consistent with a mitochondrial disease. Muscle biopsy in 3 of the 4 patients showed the most prominent mitochondrial alterations with partial deficiency of cytochrome c oxidase in the case with the mildest phenotype. Mitochondrial DNA analysis detected a variable percentage of A3243G mutation, roughly correlating with the phenotype. The interesting feature of the family lies in the great intrafamilial variability of the severity of clinical expression, encompassing MELAS and MERRF features, associated with the A3243G mtDNA mutation. A search for the most common mtDNA mutations is recommended in all patients featuring incomplete MELAS or MERRF syndromes and in all familial cases presenting minimal clinical signs.
The authors studied the motor response to apomorphine before and 1 year after levodopa therapy in 12 patients with Parkinson's disease. At the 1-year evaluation, the basal tapping score, recorded after a 12-hour levodopa withdrawal, was higher compared with the test performed while patients were de novo, indicating the presence of a long-duration response to levodopa. The amplitude (net increase) of the motor response to apomorphine was similar before and during levodopa therapy. However, because of the better baseline, the maximal tapping score was higher during levodopa therapy. The duration and the latency of the motor response to apomorphine did not change. The presence of a short-duration response to apomorphine, in the presence of a long-duration response to levodopa, may imply that either different compartment (i.e., postsynaptic versus presynaptic) or transduction pathways are involved in such responses.
Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of levodopa were evaluated at a high-resolution level in a heterogeneous group of 10 patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease during their normal daily activity. A physician and a nurse spent 10 hours with each patient from the first morning dose of levodopa during daily activities at home and at work. Plasma samples were obtained every 20 minutes for analysis of levodopa and 3-O-methyldopa by high-performance liquid chromatography. To assess clinical response, mobility was rated on every test occasion by patients and by investigators. Food and fluid intake and physical activity were also monitored. There was a large intra- and interindividual variability in the pharmacokinetics of levodopa regardless of the different drug combinations used. Mean plasma levodopa concentration ranged between 0.45 to 7.07 microg/mL and peak concentrations between 0.95 to 13.75 microg/mL. In 44 of 58 dosing events, an oral dose of levodopa was related to a peak in plasma concentration. Assessment of the clinical effects was more sensitive when given by patients than when given by the investigators. The fluctuations of the levodopa concentration in plasma had a clear effect on the clinical parameters assessed, even during early disease stages. Variation in levodopa concentration is the determining factor for motor fluctuations also in patients on clinically optimized combinations with dopamine agonists and enzyme inhibitors.
Tardive dystonia represents a complication of long-term use of neuroleptics and its treatment is often unsatisfactory. Atypical neuroleptics appear to improve tardive dystonia, and cases of tardive dystonia successfully managed with clozapine have been reported. The aim of this open-label video-blinded study was to evaluate the antidystonic efficacy of olanzapine, a new atypical neuroleptic with a low risk of agranulocytosis, in a group of four patients (one man and three women) with tardive cervical dystonia. They developed severe dystonia after several years of neuroleptic treatment. Extensive laboratory evaluations, as well as neurophysiologic and neuroradiologic investigations, were negative. Olanzapine was started at a dose of 5 mg/d and increased up to 7.5 mg/d. All patients were evaluated at baseline and after 2, 4, 8, and 12 weeks of treatment, using the Toronto Western Spasmodic Torticollis Rating Scale, and videotaped. At the end of the trial, the videotapes were reviewed and scored by a blind observer. A self-rating visual analog scale completed the disability evaluation.A moderate to marked improvement in dystonia was observed in all patients, and significant differences were observed in Toronto Western Spasmodic Torticollis Rating Scale scores and videotape ratings after 8 and 12 weeks of treatment compared with the basal values (p &lt; 0.05). The average percentage of improvement in Toronto Western Spasmodic Torticollis Rating Scale score and visual analog scale was 26.4% and 42.6%, respectively. No serious side effects were reported at the maximum dosage reached (7.5 mg/d). This study warrants a larger controlled study to conclusively demonstrate the efficacy of olanzapine in tardive dystonia.


In a visual-tactile interference paradigm, subjects judged whether tactile vibrations arose on a finger or thumb (upper vs. lower locations), while ignoring distant visual distractor lights that also appeared in upper or lower locations. Incongruent visual distractors (e.g. a lower light combined with upper touch) disrupt such tactile judgements, particularly when appearing near the tactile stimulus (e.g. on the same side of space as the stimulated hand). Here we show that actively wielding tools can change this pattern of crossmodal interference. When such tools were held in crossed positions (connecting the left hand to the right visual field, and vice-versa), the spatial constraints on crossmodal interference reversed, so that visual distractors in the other visual field now disrupted tactile judgements most for a particular hand. This phenomenon depended on active tool-use, developing with increased experience in using the tool. We relate these results to recent physiological and neuropsychological findings.
Modern psychobiologic research conceptualizes personality as a complex adaptive system involving a bidirectional interaction between heritable neurobiologic dispositions (temperament) and social learning (character). In this study, we evaluated temperament and character traits of patients with anorexia nervosa and their mothers and fathers, and we analyzed the correlation of temperament and character traits among family members in anorectic families. Finally, we tested the ability of the Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI) to discriminate between normal controls and anorectic subjects, their parents, and their families. Temperament and character features of 50 restricter anorectic patients and their parents (23 fathers and 25 mothers) were analyzed and then compared with a control group of 60 women and their 20 fathers and 20 mothers using the TCI. Data suggest that both temperament and character factors are involved in anorexia nervosa (AN). Anorectic individuals were high in harm avoidance (HA), low in novelty seeking (NS), and high in persistence (P) (&quot;obsessive temperament type&quot;). Their character was remarkable for low self-directedness (SD). Their mothers were distinguished by low SD. The fathers were high in HA, but also low in P, and high in reward dependence (RD). Again, they were low in SD. The anorectic family had low SD as a common denominator observed in all family members. This finding indicates that the psychopathology of AN extends beyond obsessiveness, but combines obsessiveness with low character development. None of the above temperament and character profiles is pathognomic of restricter anorectics. The observation that both temperament and character have an important role in the etiopathogenesis of AN has important treatment ramifications. The TCI was useful in discriminating between normal controls and anorectic subjects, their parents, and the whole anorectic family.
New drugs are continuously being developed to enhance care in the neuro ICU. Newer drugs with special implications for the neurologically impaired population include fosphenytoin, tissue plasminogen activator, and propofol. Nurses are challenged to use these drugs in a safe and effective manner.
Sec1/munc18-like proteins (SM proteins) and SNARE complexes are probably universally required for membrane fusion. However, the molecular mechanism by which they interact has only been defined for synaptic vesicle fusion where munc18 binds to syntaxin in a closed conformation that is incompatible with SNARE complex assembly. We now show that Sly1, an SM protein involved in Golgi and ER fusion, binds to a short, evolutionarily conserved N-terminal peptide of Sed5p and Ufe1p in yeast and of syntaxins 5 and 18 in vertebrates. In these syntaxins, the Sly1 binding peptide is upstream of a separate, autonomously folded N-terminal domain. These data suggest a potentially general mechanism by which SM proteins could interact with peptides in target proteins independent of core complex assembly and suggest that munc18 binding to syntaxin is an exception.
The small genome size and gene number of ascidians makes them an ideal model system in which to screen for conserved genes that regulate the development of chordates. Expression cloning has proven to be an effective strategy for isolating genes that play a role in embryogenesis. We have taken advantage of the large size and ease of manipulation of Xenopus embryos for use as an assay system to screen for developmental regulatory genes from the ascidian Ciona intestinalis. Many invertebrate genes have been shown to function in vertebrates, providing us with precedent for our cross-species analysis. The first clone isolated from this screen is an astacin class metalloprotease. This ascidian astacin, named no va, causes a gastrulation defect in Xenopus. In C. intestinalis, no va is expressed both maternally and zygotically. The zygotic expression is seen in the mesenchyme of gastrula and neurula staged embryos.
The ability to move two fingers at the same time was measured in young and older adults. This study measured the accuracy with which 45 normally developing children (23 boys, 22 girls; mean ages 8.4 and 8.3 years respectively) and 49 young adults (25 males, 24 females; mean ages 19.8 and 20.5 years respectively) could synchronize movements of two fingers when making or breaking contact with circular metal discs. A portable electronic instrument displayed the timings. To measure 'in-phase' skills, attempts were made to contact both discs simultaneously with the two index fingers or to break both contacts; asynchrony was only a few milliseconds and differences between children and adults were insignificant. To measure 'antiphase' skills, attempts were made with the index and middle fingers to make contact simultaneously with one disc while breaking contact with the other; asynchrony was larger. Usually one contact was made and later the other was broken; for a while both fingers touched (overlap). Rarely one contact was broken before the other was made; for a while neither finger touched (gap). Boys' periods of overlap were longer than those of men and women; on both sides these differences were highly significant statistically (p&lt;0.0001). Boys' errors on the right side were also significantly greater than those of girls. On both sides, mean errors of girls were higher than those of men and women: three of the four sets of data reached statistical significance. While boys' performance improved with age, that of girls was static. Children achieved an essentially adult level of control for in-phase skills but with antiphase skills the children, and especially the boys, had clearly poorer performances.
Rats received lesions of the posterior cingulate cortex or both the anterior and posterior cingulate cortex (total cingulate), or sham procedures, on postnatal Day 10. As adults, animals were trained in the Morris water task. Both the cingulate lesion groups showed substantial functional recovery relative to our previous studies of adult operates or animals with perinatal cingulate lesions. A Golgi analyis of layer III pyramidal cells in parietal cortex showed an increase in dendritic length in the lesion animals relative to sham controls, which is similar to previous findings for rats with anterior cingulate but not motor or parietal lesions. In addition, there was a partial regeneration of the anterior tissue in the total cingulates, which in some cases extended into the posterior region. This is consistent with earlier findings that anterior cingulate lesions around Day 10 stimulate neurogenesis. It appears that there is something special about the reparative processes and subsequent functional recovery that follow midline neocortical lesions.
Cells in vascular and other tubular networks require apical polarity in order to contact each other properly and to form lumen. As tracheal branches join together in Drosophila melanogaster embryos, specialized cells at the junction form a new E-cadherin-based contact and assemble an associated track of F-actin and the plakin Short Stop (shot). In these fusion cells, the apical surface determinant Discs Lost (Dlt) is subsequently deposited and new lumen forms along the track. In shot mutant embryos, the fusion cells fail to remodel the initial E-cadherin contact, to make an associated F-actin structure and to form lumenal connections between tracheal branches. Shot binding to F-actin and microtubules is required to rescue these defects. This finding has led us to investigate whether other regulators of the F-actin cytoskeleton similarly affect apical cell surface remodeling and lumen formation. Expression of constitutively active RhoA in all tracheal cells mimics the shot phenotype and affects Shot localization in fusion cells. The dominant negative RhoA phenotype suggests that RhoA controls apical surface formation throughout the trachea. We therefore propose that in fusion cells, Shot may function downstream of RhoA to form E-cadherin-associated cytoskeletal structures that are necessary for apical determinant localization.
Coordination of F-actin and microtubule dynamics is important for cellular motility and morphogenesis, but little is known about underlying mechanisms. short stop (shot) encodes an evolutionarily conserved, neuronally expressed family of rod-like proteins required for sensory and motor axon extension in Drosophila melanogaster. We identify Shot isoforms that contain N-terminal F-actin and C-terminal microtubule-binding domains, and that crosslink F-actin and microtubules in cultured cells. The F-actin- and microtubule-binding domains of Shot are required in the same molecule for axon extension, though the length of the connecting rod domain can be dramatically reduced without affecting activity. Shot therefore functions as a cytoskeletal crosslinker in axon extension, rather than mediating independent interactions with F-actin and microtubules. A Ca(2+)-binding motif located adjacent to the microtubule-binding domain is also required for axon extension, suggesting that intracellular Ca(2+) release may regulate Shot activity. These results suggest that Shot coordinates regulated interactions between F-actin and microtubules that are crucial for neuronal morphogenesis.

Major depression is a serious disorder of enormous sociological and clinical relevance. The discovery of antidepressant drugs in the 1950s led to the first biochemical hypothesis of depression, which suggested that an impairment in central monoaminergic function was the major lesion underlying the disorder. Basic research in all fields of neuroscience (including genetics) and the discovery of new antidepressant drugs have revolutionized our understanding of the mechanisms underlying depression and drug action. There is no doubt that the monoaminergic system is one of the cornerstones of these mechanisms, but multiple interactions with other brain systems and the regulation of central nervous system function must also be taken into account In spite of all the progress achieved so far, we must be aware that many open questions remain to be resolved in the future.
Vigabatrin is known to induce visual field defects in approximately one third of patients treated with the drug. It is apparent from electrophysiological studies that the cause of this defect is at retinal level probably as a result of the build up of GABA. Studies of electrophysiological retinal parameters such as the EOG and photopic, scotopic and 30-Hz flicker ERG have revealed changes in Arden Index, photopic a and b wave latency and amplitude, changes in oscillatory potentials, and changes in latency and amplitude of the 30Hz response. However, many of these changes such as the Arden Index, oscillatory potentials, latency and amplitude of photopic b wave appear to be related to current anti-epileptic drug treatment rather than visual field defects. Certain parameters, particularly the amplitude of the 30-Hz flicker response, do appear to correlate with the severity of the field defect. Paediatric patients treated with the drug at age 9 years or below cannot reliably perform visual field perimetry. To identify these patients a special VEP H-Stimulus has been developed to produce separate responses from central and peripheral field stimulation by alternating at slightly separate rates. Forty-five healthy children between ages 3 and 10 years have been used to develop a normal database. This technique has a sensitivity of 75% and a specificity of 87.5% in identifying the field defect and may be used in children with epilepsy from age 3 upwards.
Stem cells undergo self-renewal and differentiate into multiple lineages of mature cells. The identification of stem cells in diverse adult tissues and the findings that human embryonic stem cells can be proliferated and differentiated has kindled the imagination of both scientists and the public regarding future stem cell technology. These cells could constitute an unlimited supply of diverse cell types that can be used for cell transplantation or drug discovery. The new options raise several fundamental ethical issues. This review gives an overview of the scientific basis underlying the hope generated by stem cell research and discusses current ethical and funding regulations.
The present study investigated the effects of brief (20 min), acute (2 hr) and chronic restraint stress (2 hr/day for five days) at the time of dark onset on macronutrient selection in female Wistar rats. The role of 5-HT1A receptors in nutrient intake was also examined in a dose-response study (100-700 microg/kg body weight) of 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino) tetralin (DPAT) in an acute restraint model. A total of 200 rats aged 6-12 months were tested. In all cases, the restraint stress took the form of confinement within tight-fitting cylinder tubes. In the brief and acute paradigms, the intake of pure carbohydrate (CHO), protein (PRO), and fat was measured for 40 min after a single exposure to stress; in the chronic model, nutrient intake was assessed for 40 min only after the final restraint stress session on day 5. In the DPAT paradigm, intraperitoneal injections of the 5-HT1A agonist were given prior to acute restraint and a 40 min session of nutrient self-selection. Statistical analysis using the t-test for independent samples revealed that neither PRO nor total intake was significantly altered by restraint in the brief, acute or chronic restraint experiments, whereas CHO consumption was suppressed by acute (p=0.02) and chronic restraint (p=0.021), and fat intake was suppressed by brief (p=0.010), acute (p=0.002) and chronic restraint (p=0.001). In the DPAT paradigm, acute restraint stress suppressed CHO (p=0.0001), fat (p=0.000001) and total intake (p=0.003). These effects were not reversed by DPAT, and the administration of 300 pg/kg actually further reduced fat intake. In conclusion, fat intake is more sensitive to the suppressive effects of restraint stress than CHO intake, whereas protein intake is unaffected. Furthermore, 5-HT1A receptors do not seem to play a role in the effects of acute restraint on CHO and fat intake.
The aetiopathogenesis of schizophrenia constitutes nowadays one of the major points of interest for researchers on this cosmopolitan disorder which involves about 1% of the world population and which significantly alters the social functioning of the individual. Numerous studies have focused on the role played by genome, environmental factors and biology in the development of symptoms. The neurodevelopmental theory is an illustration with the perinatal period considered as the main provider of environmental factors (hypertension, infections, bleedings during pregnancy, acute and chronic fetal distress.). Many authors found significant associations between such factors, the occurrence of brain lesions and finally schizophrenic symptoms. Although no convincing genetic model had been established to date for schizophrenia, nevertheless it appears that a predisposition not inheritable under the mendelian mode exists and authors showed that disease gets more and more severe over schizophrenic descendants. The risk to be schizophrenic being a first degree relative of the schizophrenic person is about ten time superior than in general population. Indeed, this risk is also about ten time superior in biological parents of schizophrenic adoptees than in biological parents of healthy adoptees. Studies done in monozygotic comparing to dizygotic twins are in favour of an important role played by genetic factors more than socioeducational or psychological factors. Concerning biology, the dopaminergic hypothesis remains shared by numerous authors although direct links with incriminated factors are not well established. Now is suspected the glutamate excitotoxicity with implication of free radicals in schizophrenia. These free radicals are products of various enzymatic activations led by overstimulation of post synaptic receptors (NMDA and AMPA) by the excess glutamate. Therefore, according to that concept, some amino acids as glutamate and derivatives could have through free radicals a noxious effect on neuronal synapses. This could be due to a failing of their recapture at the presynaptic level in addition to a dysfunctioning of the antioxidizing system (glutathion, carnosine, superoxide dismutase, aspartate) to which dopamine and other monoamines might participate. The question is whether or not this theory contributes to shed light on links between: genome, environmental factors and biology in schizophrenia. Through the review and discussion of genetical aspects of schizophrenia, environmental factors and the biological aspect, we intend to revive debate on that question. The articles and authors were selected with regard to the aptness of their publications on that subject, their evolving ideas and finally the interest of their works for neurosciences. This new approach perhaps is opening the way to new therapeutic perspectives in the treatment of schizophrenia based on the antioxidizing substances as shown for some neurological diseases (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Parkinson's disease and Huntington's chorea) for which experiments are going on.
CRH produced by human endometrial cells exerts decidualizing activity via an autocrine mechanism mediated via CRH-R1 receptors. We postulated that such activity exerted by CRH on normal endometrial cells might translate into an antiproliferative action on endometrial-derived malignancies, provided that neoplastic cells maintain the expression of CRH receptors. In this light, here we investigated the possible antiproliferative effects of CRH in an adenocarcinoma cell line derived from human endometrium. CRH induces time- and concentration-dependent inhibition of Ishikawa cell growth, the maximal effect (50% inhibition) being achieved after 3 d of treatment with 10(-7) M CRH. A decrease in telomerase activity, which paralleled tumor growth inhibition, was also observed in CRH-treated samples. The antiproliferative effect was confirmed by colony-formation assay for long-term survival. This effect was counteracted in a concentration-dependent manner by both alpha-helical CRH and astressin; the former also showed intrinsic inhibitory activity. These findings suggested the involvement of CRH-R1 receptor subtype; this hypothesis was confirmed by RNase protection analysis showing the expression of human CRH-R1 mRNA. Experiments with the PKA inhibitor 14-22 amide and forskolin, as well as the measurement of intracellular cAMP, suggested the downstream involvement of cAMP-PKA pathway in CRH-induced inhibition of Ishikawa cell growth.
Dark cells (DCs) of mammalian and non-mammalian species help to maintain the homeostasis of the inner ear fluids in vivo. Although the avian cochlea is straight and the mammalian cochlea is coiled, no significant difference in the morphology and/or function of mammalian and avian DCs has been reported. The mammalian equivalent of avian DCs are marginal cells and are located in the stria vascularis along a bony sheet. Avian DCs hang free from the tegmentum vasculosum (TV) of the avian lagena between the perilymph and endolymph. Frame averaging was used to image the fluorescence emitted by several fluorochromes applied to freshly isolated dark cells (iDCs) from chickens (Gallus domesticus) inner ears. The viability of iDCs was monitored via trypan blue exclusion at each isolation step. Sodium Green, BCECF-AM, Rhodamine 123 and 9-anthroyl ouabain molecules were used to test iDC function. These fluorochromes label iDCs ionic transmembrane trafficking function, membrane electrogenic potentials and Na+/K+ ATPase pump's activity. Na+/K+ ATPase pump sites, were also evaluated by the p-nitrophenyl phosphatase reaction. These results suggest that iDCs remain viable for several hours after isolation without special culturing requirements and that the number and functional activity of Na+/K+ ATPase pumps in the iDCs were indistinguishable from in vivo DCs. Primary cultures of freshly iDCs were successfully maintained for 28 days in plastic dishes with RPMI 1640 culture medium. The preparation of iDCs overcomes the difficulty of DCs accessability in vivo and the unavoidable contamination that rupturing the inner ear microenvironments induces.
Among a number of human tumor antigens identified using the serological analysis of recombinant cDNA expression libraries (SEREX), only MAGE-1, tyrosinase, and NY-ESO-1 have been reported to be immunogenic tumor antigens that have the potential to elicit both humoral and cellular immunity. In this study, we determined whether our SEREX-defined pancreatic cancer antigens could be recognized by CTL, and report that one SEREX-defined antigen, coactosin-like protein (CLP), encoded cellular epitopes recognized by HLA-A2-restricted and tumor-reactive CTL. Three CLP peptides at positions 15-24, 57-65, and 10-113 possessed the ability to induce HLA-A2-restricted and tumor-reactive CTL from the PBMC of cancer patients. Subsequently, humoral responses to these peptides were investigated. IgG antibodies specific to the CLP 15-24, 57-65, and 104-113 peptides were detected in sera from 12, 0, and 12 of 12 cancer patients tested, and were also found in 5, 0, and 0 of 9 healthy donors, respectively. IgE antibodies specific to these peptides were also detected in sera from certain cancer patients and healthy donors. Since peptide-specific IgE was detected, type-I allergy to these peptides was tested. Unexpectedly the CLP 57-65 peptide, to which IgE was found in only 2 healthy donors, but not the other two peptides, was found to elicit an immediate-type hypersensitivity in all 10 healthy volunteers tested. These results indicate that identical antigenic peptides can be recognized by both cellular and humoral immune systems to a tumor-associated antigen. The CLP 15-24 and 104-113 peptides might be appropriate vaccine candidates for peptide-based immunotherapy of HLA-A2(+) cancer patients.
Systemic administration of murine tumour necrosis factor-alpha (mTNF-alpha; 0.1-2.0 microg, i.p.) dose-dependently increased plasma corticosterone and augmented monoamine utilization within the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), locus coeruleus, medial prefrontal cortex (PFC), central and medial amygdala. A time-dependent sensitization was induced in mice, wherein reexposure to mTNF-alpha 28 days (but not 1 day) following the initial cytokine treatment provoked marked signs of illness (diminished activity, ptosis, piloerection) and increased plasma corticosterone levels. Serotonin (5-HT) activity was augmented upon mTNF-alpha reexposure at the 1- or 28-day intervals in the PFC and medial amygdala, respectively. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.; 1-500 ng) mTNF-alpha did not promote illness, but modestly increased plasma corticosterone levels. Neither the illness nor the corticosterone changes were subject to a sensitization upon i.c.v. cytokine reexposure. Acute i.c.v. mTNF-alpha increased norepinephrine (NE), 5-HT and dopamine (DA) activity within the PVN and median eminence/arcuate nucleus complex (ME/ARC), and NE utilization within the central amygdala. Subsequent i.c.v. mTNF-alpha further enhanced the hypothalamic monoamine variations. Finally, systemic (i.p.) mTNF-alpha pretreatment did not proactively influence sickness or corticosterone responses upon later i.c.v. cytokine challenge, but augmented locus coeruleus NE activity and 5-HT and DA utilization within the ME/ARC. It is suggested that the sensitization with respect to sickness and corticosterone activity in response to mTNF-alpha reflect the involvement of peripheral mechanisms. Moreover, it appears that mTNF-alpha promotes central neurochemical plasticity through independent central and peripheral mechanisms.
Deficits in cholinergic systems innervating cerebral cortex are associated with cognitive impairment during senescence and in age-related neurodegenerative pathologies. However, little is known about the role of cholinergic pathways in modulating cortical plasticity. Basal forebrain cholinergic neurons are a major target for nerve-growth factor (NGF). In order to investigate the relationship between cholinergic innervation and cortical synaptic plasticity, we exploited a transgenic mouse model in which the activity of NGF in the adult nervous system is neutralized by the expression of blocking antibodies to NGF itself (anti-NGF mice) [Ruberti, F. et al. (2000). J. Neurosci. 20, 2589-2601]. In 6-month-old anti-NGF mice, we show that the reduction in cholinergic innervation of the cortex is associated with different forms of synaptic plasticity impairment. A local, acute increase in the availability of acetylcholine rescues these synaptic plasticity deficits, thus indicating that a cholinergic system mediates the impairment of cortical plasticity at this early stage of the neurodegenerative process triggered by NGF neutralization. Our results represent an important step in unveiling the pivotal role of cholinergic transmission in modulating adult cortical plasticity.
Heat shock protein (HSP70), a member of the 70 kDa HSP superfamily, has been widely implicated in the cellular stress response to numerous insults. HSP70 may be a significant factor in cell survival following stresses such as cerebral ischaemia. The precise mechanisms by which HSP70 facilitates cell survival remain unclear. The aim of this study was to ascertain whether any differences in local cerebral glucose utilization (LCGU) existed between transgenic mice overexpressing HSP70 (HSP70 Tg) and wild- type littermate (WT) mice. LCGU was assessed using (14)C-2-deoxyglucose in HSP70 Tg and WT mice under basal conditions (intraperitoneal injection of saline) and during metabolic activation produced by NMDA receptor blockade (intraperitoneal injection of dizocilpine, 1 mg/kg). No significant alterations in LCGU were observed between saline injected HSP70 Tg and WT mice in any of the 35 brain regions analyzed. Dizocilpine injection produced significant heterogeneous alterations in LCGU in HSP70 Tg mice (24 of 35 brain regions) and in WT mice (22 of 35 brain regions) compared with saline injected mice. The distribution of altered LCGU produced by dizocilpine was similar in HSP70 Tg and WT mice. However in five brain regions, dizocilpine injected HSP70 Tg mice displayed significantly altered LCGU compared to dizocilpine injected WT mice (anterior thalamic nucleus +27%, dorsal CA1 stratum lacunosum molecularae +22%, dorsal CA1 stratum oriens + 14%, superior olivary body -26%, and the nucleus of the lateral lemniscus -16%). These data highlight that while overexpression of HSP70 transgene does not significantly alter LCGU in the basal state, mice overexpressing the HSP70 transgene respond differently to metabolic stress produced by NMDA receptor blockade in some important brain regions.
The effect of muscimol, a GABAA receptor agonist, injected into the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus on drug-induced (apomorphine, oxytocin and NMDA) yawning and penile erection, and on the increase in the concentration of NO2- and NO3- occurring in the paraventricular dialysate in these experimental conditions, was studied in male rats. Muscimol (50, 100 and 200 ng) reduced, in a dose-dependent manner, penile erection and yawning induced by apomorphine (50 ng), oxytocin (30 ng) and NMDA (50 ng) delivered into the PVN. The reduction of penile erection and yawning was parallel to a reduction of the concomitant NO2- and NO3- increase that occurs in the paraventricular dialysate in this experimental condition. In contrast, baclofen (200 ng), a GABAB receptor agonist, was ineffective. The muscimol effects on drug-induced penile erection, yawning and NO2- increase were prevented by the prior administration of bicuculline (250 ng into the paraventricular nucleus). Muscimol (200 ng) but not baclofen (200 ng), injected into the PVN, reduced both noncontact erections in male rats placed in the presence of an inaccessible receptive female, and also the NO2- increase that occurs in the paraventricular dialysate in this experimental condition. As found with drug-induced penile erection, the muscimol reduction of noncontact erections and of NO2- increase was prevented by bicuculline. The present results show that the activation of GABAA receptors in the PVN reduces yawning and penile erection induced by drugs or physiological stimuli by reducing the increase in NO activity that occurs in this hypothalamic nucleus in these experimental conditions.
The human cardiac nervous system consists of a sympathetic and a parasympathetic branch with (-)-norepinephrine and acetylcholine as the respective endogenous neurotransmitters. Dysfunction of the cardiac nervous system is implicated in various types of cardiac disease, such as heart failure, myocardial infarction and diabetic autonomic neuropathy. In vivo assessment of the distribution and function of cardiac sympathetic and parasympathetic neurones with positron emission tomography (PET) and single-photon emission tomography (SPET) can be achieved by means of a number of carbon-11-, fluorine-18-, bromine-76- and iodine-123-labelled tracer molecules. Available tracers for mapping sympathetic neurones can be divided into radiolabelled catecholamines, such as 6-[18F]fluorodopamine, (-)-6-[18F]fluoronorepinephrine and (-)-[11C]epinephrine, and radiolabelled catecholamine analogues, such as [123I]meta-iodobenzylguanidine, [11C]meta-hydroxyephedrine, [18F]fluorometaraminol, [11C]phenylephrine and meta-[76Br]bromobenzylguanidine. Resistance to metabolism by monoamine oxidase and catechol-O-methyl transferase simplifies the myocardial kinetics of the second group. Both groups of compounds are excellent agents for an overall assessment of sympathetic innervation. Biomathematical modelling of tracer kinetics is complicated by the complexity of the steps governing neuronal uptake, retention and release of these agents as well as by their high neuronal affinity, which leads to partial flow dependence of uptake. Mapping of cardiac parasympathetic neurones is limited by a low density and focal distribution pattern of these neurones in myocardium. Available tracers are derivatives of vesamicol, a molecule that binds to a receptor associated with the vesicular acetylcholine transporter. Compounds like (-)-[18F]fluoroethoxybenzovesamicol display a high degree of non-specific binding in myocardium which restricts their utility for cardiac neuronal imaging.
We have previously shown that coupling bath application of dopamine with 50 Hz tetani induces long-term depression in rat prefrontal slices [Neuroscience 85 (1998) 669]. Here, we report a reliable protocol for inducing long-term potentiation in the same preparation. Long-term potentiation was induced by the same dopamine-tetani coupling protocol when the coupling was preceded (approximately 30 min) by a single bath application of dopamine. We suggest that metaplastic processes triggered by the first application of dopamine might underlie the LTP induction.
The iboga alkaloid ibogaine and the novel iboga alkaloid congener 18-methoxycoronaridine are putative anti-addictive agents. Using patch-clamp methodology, the actions of ibogaine and 18-methoxycoronaridine at various neurotransmitter receptor ion-channel subtypes were determined. Both ibogaine and 18-methoxycoronaridine were antagonists at alpha 3 beta 4 nicotinic receptors and both agents were more potent at this site than at alpha 4 beta 2 nicotinic receptors or at NMDA or 5-HT(3) receptors; 18-methoxycoronaridine was more selective in this regard than ibogaine. In studies of morphine and methamphetamine self-administration, the effects of low dose combinations of 18-methoxycoronaridine with mecamylamine or dextromethorphan and of mecamylamine with dextromethorphan were assessed. Mecamylamine and dextromethorphan have also been shown to be antagonists at alpha 3 beta 4 nicotinic receptors. All three drug combinations decreased both morphine and methamphetamine self-administration at doses that were ineffective if administered alone. The data are consistent with the hypothesis that antagonism at alpha 3 beta 4 receptors is a potential mechanism to modulate drug seeking behavior. 18-Methoxycoronaridine apparently has greater selectivity for this site than other agents and may be the first of a new class of synthetic agents acting via this novel mechanism to produce a broad spectrum of anti-addictive activity.

One hundred and thirteen long-term mentally ill clients receiving case management were investigated with regard to psychosocial and clinical predictors of changes in subjective quality of life during an 18-month follow-up. Better psychosocial functioning and fewer psychiatric symptoms at baseline predicted a greater improvement in quality of life. A larger decrease in symptom severity and a greater improvement in the social network during the follow-up were identified as the most important predictors of a greater improvement in subjective quality of life. The results of the study suggest that an emphasis should be put on effective symptom management, a reduction of needs for care and social support in order to fulfill the aims of improving subjective quality of life in patients receiving case management.
Stretch reflexes were evoked in the submaximally activated ankle extensors during sinusoidal length perturbations. A mean stretch reflex (SR) amplitude ((-)SRA), i.e., SR area/SR duration was quantified for the soleus muscle and for the gastrocnemii muscles. (-)SRA was also expressed in relative values ((-)SRA(rel)), i.e., SRA was related to the corresponding background electromyogram (EMG). Sinusoidal length perturbations were applied in two ways: (1) at a fixed frequency (16 Hz) and at different levels of voluntary contraction [10% to 70% maximal voluntary contraction (MVC)] and (2) at a constant activation level (50% MVC) and at frequencies ranging from 6 to 16 Hz. Then, new parameters are proposed to characterize muscle reflex excitability. The first parameter, SR(index), consisting in the slope of the (-)SRA-EMG relationship, was considered to be more representative of central influences on the reflex pathway. Secondly, the frequency distribution of the stretch reflex was analyzed and the area under the (-)SRA(rel)-frequency curve gave the second parameter (FD-(-)SRA(rel)). This parameter should account for both central and peripheral mechanisms on the reflex pathway. These parameters were found to be higher for the highly excitable soleus than for the less excitable gastrocnemii muscles. SR(index) and FD-(-)SRA(rel) can be proposed as a tool to analyze changes in reflex excitability, which can accompany a process of neuromuscular plasticity. In order to validate the procedure, the proposed parameters were quantified in a case study before and after a period of plyometric training.
The aim of this investigation was to determine the factors that influence the variability in the load force during a precision grip. Subjects grasped an object with three coarse contact surfaces using a tripod grasp of the thumb, index and middle fingers. The orientations of the contact surfaces and their locations relative to the object's center of mass were varied. Forces and torques exerted by each of the three digits were measured or computed from the equilibrium conditions and analyzed during the static hold phase. The static load force depends on the object's weight, but also on the precise location of the center of pressure of each digit, as well as on the magnitude of the tangential torque and horizontal grip force. Variations in these parameters caused deviations in the load forces by as much as 20% or more from their nominal values. For the thumb, the largest source of variability was the vertical location of the center of pressure. For the two fingers, variations in the locations of the centers of pressure (along the horizontal and vertical) and in the magnitudes of the tangential torques had effects that were about equal in magnitude. Since many of the sources of variability in load force are unpredictable, these results point to the importance of online feedback regulation of grip force.
Objects in natural scenes are rarely seen in isolation, but are usually overlapping or partially occluding other objects. To recognize individual objects, the visual system must be able to segregate overlapping objects from one another. Evidence from lesions in humans and monkeys suggest that perceptual segregation of occluded or overlapping objects involves extrastriate visual cortex. In monkeys, area V4 has been shown to play an important role in recognizing occluded or poorly salient shapes. In humans, a retinotopic homologue of ventral V4 (V4v) has been described, but it is not known whether this area is also functionally homologous to area V4 in monkeys. In this study, we tried to localize the visual cortical regions involved in perceptual segregation of overlapping shapes using positron emission tomography (PET). Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was measured in seven subjects while they discriminated the relative areas of simultaneously presented rectangular shapes. In the control condition, the shapes were displayed without overlaps; in a second condition, the shapes overlapped each other partially. In a third condition, the shapes did not overlap but had been reduced in salience by adding random noise to the stimuli. Contrasting the overlapping shape condition with the control condition identified a single region in the left posterior lateral occipital cortex. The rCBF in this region also increased, though more weakly, during discrimination of shapes embedded in noise, relative to the control condition. The region activated by segregation of overlapping shapes was located in the posterior occipital cortex close to the anterior border of area V2, near the average location of human V4v as determined by retinotopic mapping studies. The activation of this region of extrastriate visual cortex by a task that involved segregation of overlapping shapes is consistent with monkey V4 and human V4v being functionally homologous. We conclude that discrimination of overlapping shapes involves in particular a region of extrastriate visual cortex located in the left lateral occipital cortex and that this region may correspond to human V4v.
In order to fully understand how vision is used to guide locomotion it is necessary to know what people look at as they move through the environment. This study provides information, hitherto lacking, regarding gaze behaviour associated with both maintaining and changing the direction of locomotion: activities that are essential for efficient navigation through our cluttered environment. Participants' spatiotemporal gaze patterns were recorded whilst they performed a task requiring that they either maintained a straight walking trajectory or changed their direction of walking by 30 degrees or 60 degrees, left or right, at the midpoint of a 9-m path. Participants were either visually cued to turn when they stepped on a trigger mat placed one step before the mid-point of the walkway (cued trials) or given verbal instruction about the required route prior to the start of each trial (advance knowledge trials). Our clear finding was that for the large majority of the time participants' gaze was aligned with environmental features lying in their current plane of progression both prior to and following the onset of the transition stride during which the direction change was implemented. This gaze behaviour was observed both during cued trials (78% of total fixation time prior to the transition stride onset and 89% following the transition stride onset) and advance knowledge trials (67% prior to transition stride onset, 92% following transition stride onset). When not aligned with the plane of progression, gaze was normally fixated on environmental features related to either known or potential future routes. Prior to changing the direction of walking, individuals invariably made saccadic eye movements in order to align gaze with the end-point of the required travel path. This gaze realignment was invariably accompanied by head reorientation, which was initiated, on average, at the same time as the saccade. On average, participants fixated gaze on their goal (represented by the cue light at the travel path end-point) until after head realignment with the new path was achieved. Additionally, the head was consistently aligned with participants' current walking direction prior to and following the transition stride even on the minority of occasions when they were looking elsewhere. These findings challenge the ecological validity of existing theories of how visual information is used to determine heading direction and are consistent with the proposal that aligning the head with the desired travel direction through coordinated eye and head movements provides the CNS with an allocentric frame of reference that is used to control the movement of the body in space.
We investigated what information subjects use when trying to hit moving targets. In particular, whether only visual information about the target's position is used to guide the hand to the place of interception or also information about its speed. Subjects hit targets that moved at different constant speeds and disappeared from view after varying amounts of time. This prevented the subjects from updating position information during the time that the target was invisible. Subjects hit further ahead of the disappearing point when the target moved faster, but not as much as they should have on the basis of the target's speed. This could be because more time is needed to perceive and use the correct speed than was available before the target disappeared. It could also be due to a speed-related misperception of the target's final position. The results of a second experiment were more consistent with the latter hypothesis. In a third experiment we moved the background to manipulate the perceived speed. This did not affect the hitting positions. We conclude that subjects respond only to the changing target position. Target speed influences the direction in which the hand moves indirectly, possibly via a speed-related misperception of position.
Previous studies in the laboratory have shown that platelet-activating factor (PAF), a potent inflammatory mediator that accumulates rapidly in the cornea after an injury, stimulates the expression of urokinase (uPA) and matrix metalloproteinase-1 (MMP-1) and -9 (MMP-9). Tissue inhibitors of MMPs (TIMPs) and plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1) are produced in conjunction with these enzymes and are important regulators of their activity. Here, the authors investigated how PAF affects the expression of PAI-1, TIMP-1 and -2 relative to that of uPA, MMP-1, and -9 in rabbit corneal epithelial cells. Rabbit corneas were incubated in MEM medium containing 100 nM cPAF. To block the effects of PAF in some studies, corneas were preincubated for 1 hr in the presence of the PAF antagonist BN50730 (10 microM). At several time intervals, mRNA was extracted from epithelial cells and the levels of gene expression for the enzymes and their inhibitors were determined by real-time PCR. All quantitations were normalized to the 18s rRNA values (endogenous control) and changes in gene expression were reported as fold increase relative to untreated controls. PAF produced a 20-fold increase in the gene expression of PAI-1 at 8 hr, while similar fold increases in uPA mRNA expression occurred at 2 hr. PAF treatment also stimulated the expression of TIMP-1 and -2 genes, with a six-fold increase in TIMP-1 expression occurring at 36 hr and a four-fold increase in TIMP-2 expression at 24 hr. Maximal induction of MMP-1 and -9 mRNA, on the other hand, occurred at 4 and 8 hr, respectively. Induction of MMP-1 gene expression was similar to that of its inhibitors TIMP-1 and -2, while MMP-9 mRNA induction exceeded that of these inhibitors by 100-fold. The PAF-induced expression of PAI-1, TIMP-1 and -2 mRNAs was abolished by pre-treatment with BN50730. These data indicate that PAF activates the gene expression of TIMP-1, -2, and PAI-1 in corneal epithelium by a receptor-mediated mechanism. Furthermore, PAF induced overexpression of MMP-9 mRNA relative to that of TIMP-1 and -2, suggesting an imbalance between the expression of this proteolytic enzyme and its inhibitors, which may contribute to changes in the wound-healing process and ultimately lead to corneal ulcer development.
The dopamine hypothesis of schizophrenia postulates hyperactivity of dopaminergic neurotransmission in the mesolimbic system. However, the possible underlying causes for this dopaminergic overfunction are not well understood. Therefore, the main aim of this study was to examine the effect of central cholinergic denervation on dopamine-mediated functions. We also examined the effect of neonatal cholinergic denervation upon adult brain function. The immunotoxin 192 IgG-saporin causes severe lesions of the basal forebrain cholinergic system when infused into the lateral ventricles by targeting neurons expressing the p75 neurotrophin receptor. The toxin may also damage p75-expressing Purkinje neurons in the cerebellum. We have compared the behavioral effects of intracerebroventricular injections of 192 IgG-saporin to adult rats with that of injections to neonate rats. As expected, adult treated rats displayed an almost complete cholinergic denervation of forebrain corticohippocampal areas concomitant with a marked impairment in the Morris water maze. When tested as adults, neonatally treated animals had a less complete cholinergic denervation and showed lesser impairments in water maze behaviors. Interestingly, adult treated rats showed increased spontaneous horizontal activity and a remarkable increase in locomotor response to d-amphetamine as evidenced by increased horizontal and vertical activity. There were no marked changes of spontaneous or drug-induced locomotor activity in adult rats treated with 192 IgG-saporin as neonates. These results suggest that cholinergic denervation of the forebrain causes a marked enhancement of behavioral responses related to dopaminergic activity, probably mainly mediated presynaptically. However, it cannot be fully excluded that damage to noncholinergic systems, e.g., Purkinje cells, might contribute to the effects. The striking overreaction to dopaminergic stimuli, presumably caused by the cholinergic deficit, is discussed in relation to the suggested role of cholinergic malfunctioning in schizophrenia.
In this study we examined the effects of prolonged l-trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate (PDC)-induced glutamate reuptake blockade on the viability of glial cells in cerebellar granule cell cultures. Immunofluorescence staining for the glial-specific intermediate filament protein, GFAP, revealed that the PDC- induced increase of extracellular glutamate concentration was accompanied by increased astrocyte death, while neurons and oligodendrocytes remained intact and viable. Astrocytic cell death was manifested as fragmentation of processes and cell bodies. The selective astrocyte death was completely prevented by the competitive alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA)/kainate receptor antagonist, NBQX (10 microM), whereas MK-801 (10 microM), a noncompetitive blocker of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, gave only partial protection. Double staining for GFAP and the AMPA receptor subunits GluR2/3 showed that astrocytes had much higher immunoreactivity for GluR2/3 than neurons or oligodendrocytes, suggesting that the number of AMPA receptors is likely to be higher on astrocytes. Furthermore, we employed real-time RT-PCR to measure GluR1-4 subunit mRNA expression in control and PDC-exposed cultures. Following treatment with PDC, GluR1 and GluR4 mRNAs were reduced by 40% and GluR3 was reduced by 70% relative to control levels. In contrast, GluR2 expression was not affected by the PDC treatment, indicating that GluR3 was the dominant type of AMPA receptor subunit expressed on astrocytes. Our results show that astrocytes appear to be more vulnerable than neurons or oligodendrocytes to a gradual increase in the extracellular glutamate concentration, suggesting that astrocytes may be critically involved in the pathophysiology of slowly developing chronic neurodegenerative disorders.
In the brain, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) receptors mediate glutamatergic neurotransmission and, when intensely activated, can induce excitotoxic cell death. In addition to their ionotropic properties, however, AMPA receptors have been functionally coupled to a variety of signal transduction events involving Src-family kinases, G-proteins, and the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). In the present study, we tested whether AMPA receptors are linked to appropriate signaling events in order to prevent neuronal injury and/or enhance recovery. AMPA stimulation in hippocampal slice cultures caused the selective activation of MAPK through the upstream activator MAPK kinase (MEK). Inhibition of either component of the AMPA receptor--MAPK pathway potentiated cellular damage due to serum deprivation, suggesting that this pathway facilitates compensatory signals in response to injury. Correspondingly, positive modulation of AMPA receptors with the Ampakine 1-(quinoxalin-6-ylcarbonyl)piperidine (CX516) enhanced MAPK activation and reduced the extent of synaptic and neuronal degeneration resulting from excitotoxic episodes. CX516 was neuroprotective when infused into slices either before or after the insult. The Ampakine derivative also elicited neuroprotection in an in vivo model of excitotoxicity as evidenced by reduction in lesion size and preservation of two different types of neurons. Interestingly, the AMPA receptor--MAPK pathway selectively protects against excitotoxicity since enhancing the pathway did not protect against the nonexcitotoxic, slow pathology initiated by lysosomal dysfunction. The results indicate that glutamatergic communication is important for cellular maintenance and that AMPA receptors activate survival signals to counterpoise their own excitotoxic potential.
Using a sensitive immunohistochemical method, the localization of the neuropeptide Y (NPY) Y1 receptor (Y1R) was studied in contralateral and ipsilateral dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons of rats subjected to different unilateral manipulations with focus on their axonal processes and projection areas. Y1R-like immunoreactivity (LI) was observed in the contralateral sciatic nerve and dorsal roots of lesioned rats, and double staining revealed colocalization with calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). Y1R-LI was also seen in fibers close to and even within the epidermis. A fairly small number of nerve endings double-labeled for Y1R and CGRP were present in the dorsal horn. After unilateral crush of the sciatic nerve Y1R- and CGRP-LI accumulated in the same axons proximal to the lesion. After dorsal rhizotomy CGRP-LI was strongly reduced in the ipsilateral dorsal horn. No certain change was observed for Y1R- or NPY-LI, but Y1R/CGRP double-labeled nerve endings disappeared after the lesion. These results strongly suggest centrifugal transport of Y1Rs in DRG neurons, mainly to the peripheral sensory branches. To what extent these Y1Rs are functional has not been analyzed here, but a recent study on Y1R null mice provides evidence for involvement of prejunctional Y1Rs in peripheral sensory functions


A new strategy for visualizing neuronal cell morphology of mouse brain based on Cre/loxP recombination-activated gene expression is described. A &quot;reporter&quot; transgenic line was generated which expressed a fusion gene encoding a dendrite-targeted green fluorescent protein (MAP2-GFP) upon deletion of a transcription/translation STOP (transcription and translation stop signal) cassette. Cre transgenic &quot;deleter&quot; lines were established that activated reporter gene expression at various frequencies in pyramidal neurons in the forebrain. A deleter line was identified which activated a MAP2-GFP reporter gene at very low frequency (less than 0.1% of pyramidal neurons) and allowed the visualization of dendritic structures of individual neocortical and hippocampal pyramidal neurons. In addition, vertical &quot;columns&quot; of pyramidal neurons in the neocortex were labeled in these mice. In a second deleter line, a MAP2-GFP reporter gene was selectively activated in pyramidal neurons of the CA-1 subregion of the hippocampus in young mice. With its combinatorial property, this binary recombination-activated neuronal marker system should facilitate the study of detailed morphology, connectivity, and plasticity of defined classes of live neurons in vitro and in vivo.

Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) plays a central role in the regulation of Schwann cell (SC) proliferation and differentiation and is essential for the neurotrophic effects of several neurotrophic factors (reviewed by Unsicker and Krieglstein, 2000; Unsicker and Strelau, 2000). However, its role in peripheral nerve regeneration in vivo is not yet understood. Our studies were carried out to characterize (1) the effects of duration of regeneration, and chronic SC denervation on the number of tibial (TIB) motor neurons that regenerated axons over a fixed distance (25 mm into distal common peroneal [CP] nerve stumps), and (2) the effect of in vitro incubation of 6-month chronically denervated sciatic nerve explants with TGF-beta and forskolin on their capacity to support axonal regeneration in vivo. TIB--CP cross-suture in Silastic tubing was used, and regeneration into 0-24-week chronically denervated CP stumps was allowed for either 1.5 or 3 months. Chronically denervated rat sciatic nerve explants (3 x 3 mm(2)) were incubated in vitro with either DMEM and 15% fetal calf serum (D-15) plus TGF-beta/forskolin or D-15 alone for 48 h and placed into a 10-mm Silastic tube that bridged the proximal and distal nerve stumps of a freshly cut TIB nerve. The number of tibial motor neurons that regenerated axons through the explants and 25 mm into the distal nerve stump after 6 months, and TIB regeneration into the CP nerve stumps, were assessed using retrograde tracers, fluorogold, or fluororuby. We found that all tibial motor neurons regenerate their axons 25 mm into 0-4-week denervated CP nerve stumps after a regeneration period of 3 months. Reducing regeneration time to 1.5 months and chronic denervation, reduced the number of motor neurons that regenerated axons over 25 mm. Exposure of 6-month denervated nerve explants to TGF-beta/forskolin increased the number of motor neurons that regenerated through them from 258 +/-13; mean +/- SE to 442 +/- 22. Hence, acute treatment of atrophic SC with TGF-beta can reactivate the growth-permissive SC phenotype to support axonal regeneration.
The deficits in attention and executive function characteristic of major depressive disorder (MDD) are reviewed. The networks underlying attention and executive function, the neuropsychological tests commonly used to evaluate these domains, and the neuroanatomy of MDD are also discussed. A neural network approach to the attentional and executive function deficits of MDD has ramifications for hypothesis-guided research, the cognitive model of depression, and application of the medical disease model to psychiatric disorders.
It is now well established that the adult central nervous system can reorganize following various environmental changes. In particular, it has been hypothesized that auditory rehabilitation of sensorineural hearing-impaired adults may involve functional plasticity. The present study sought to compare intensity-related performance between two groups of subjects paired for age, gender and absolute thresholds in both ears. One group comprised long-term binaural hearing aid (HA) users and the other non-HA users. The effect of HA use was measured in two intensity tasks, a discrimination-limen-for-intensity task (DLI) and a loudness-scaling task. Results indicated that significant differences exist in loudness perception between long-term HA users and non-HA users, the latter rating intensity as louder than the former. Concerning intensity discrimination performance, a statistical tendency to lower, i.e. better, DLIs in long-term than in non-HA users was revealed. Moreover, significant differences between ears were observed in the loudness-scaling task, with the right ear showing greater inter-group difference than the left ear. This additional result points to a lateralization of the acclimatization effect. Finally, this study suggests significant perceptual modification and thus a possible functional plasticity entailed by HA use.
The co-localisation of neuronal nitric oxide synthase and endothelin-1 was studied in the rat supraoptic nucleus at the electron microscopy level. Double pre-embedding immunocytochemistry was performed using ExtrAvidin-horseradish peroxidase and immunogold-silver techniques. Immunoreactivities to neuronal nitric oxide synthase and endothelin-1 were co-localised in sub-populations of endocrine neurones (cell bodies) and dendrites. Double-labelled axon terminals making asymmetrical synapses on unlabelled dendrites were also observed. The findings are discussed in terms of the possible role and significance of nitric oxide and endothlin-1 in the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system.
Resveratrol is a phytoestrogen naturally found in grapes and is a major constituent of wine thought to exert both cardioprotective and chemopreventive activities. Recent studies show that this bioflavonoid binds to and activates gene transcription via the estrogen receptor (ER) subtypes ERalpha and ERbeta. Previous studies have focused primarily on the in vitro effects of resveratrol (RES) in estrogen-sensitive tissues or in carcinogenic cell lines, while frequently neglecting to document its potential effects in animal models with intact neuroendocrine systems. However, the present studies were designed to systematically characterize the in vivo effects of RES on reproductive physiology and behavior in adult female rats. In gonadally intact females, RES consumption reduced body weight, disrupted estrous cyclicity, and induced ovarian hypertrophy. However, in ovariectomized females RES (10-1000 microg) injections did not appear to mimic 17 beta-estradiol benzoate (EB)-induced behavioral responses and had no lasting effects on subsequent estrogen sensitivity or sociosexual behavior. The present studies support recent in vitro findings that RES differs from other phytoestrogens by acting as a possible mixed agonist/antagonist, depending on the availability of specific ER isoforms localized in the reproductive tract and brain of the female rat.
Small neurotoxin lesions in the medial preoptic area (MPOA) block maternal behavior (MB) in adults but large lesions are required to produce the same effect in juvenile rats (23-27 days of age). To study the maturation of MPOA control of MB, in Experiment I, we compared the effects of small versus large neurotoxin MPOA lesions at midpuberty (38 days of age) on MB. Midpubertal females with large MPOA lesions showed severe impairment in MB affecting retrieving, crouching, and nest building, but 85% of females with small MPOA lesions exhibited all components of MB and performed like control females without MPOA lesions. To study the role of ovarian hormones during puberty on the maturation of MPOA mediation of MB (Experiment IIA), females were ovariectomized either before or after puberty and small MPOA cytotoxic lesions were made at 53 days of age. At 60 days of age both groups showed similar deficits in MB which indicated that the maturation of the MPOA mediation of MB is not dependent on pubertal ovarian hormones. In Experiment IIB, we administered estradiol benzoate (sc) and this overcame the deficit in MB after small MPOA lesions in females that had been deprived of estrogen for shorter periods (30 days) but had not been deprived for longer periods (60 days). In addition, ovary-intact females with circulating estrogen and small lesions in the MPOA at 53 days of age did not show deficits in MB.
We present a region template and a protocol for transforming that template to define anatomical volumes of interest (VOIs) in the human brain without operator intervention, based on software contained in the SPM99 package (Statistical Parametric Mapping, Wellcome Department of Cognitive Neurology, London, UK). We used an MRI of a reference brain to create an anatomical template of 41 VOIs, covering the entire brain, that can be spatially transformed to fit individual brain scans. Modified software allows for the reslicing and adaptation of the transformed template to any type of coregistered functional data. Individually defined VOIs can be added. We present an assessment of the necessary spatial transformations and compare results obtained for scans acquired in two different orientations. To evaluate the spatial transformations, 11 landmarks distributed throughout the brain were chosen. Euclidean distances between repeat samples at each landmark were averaged across all landmarks to give a mean difference of 1.3 plus minus 1.0 mm. Average Euclidean distances between landmarks (MRI:transformed template) were 8.1 plus minus 3.7 mm in anterior-posterior commissure (ACPC) and 7.6 plus minus 3.7 mm in temporal lobe (TL) orientation. In this study, we use [(11)C]-flumazenil-(FMZ-)PET as an example for the application of the region template. Thirty-four healthy volunteers were scanned, 21 in standard ACPC orientation, 13 in TL orientation. All had high resolution MRI and FMZ-PET. The average coefficient of variation (CV) of FMZ binding for cortical regions was 0.15, comparable with CVs from manually defined VOIs. FMZ binding was significantly different in 6/19 anatomical areas in the control groups obtained in the different orientations, probably due to anisotropic voxel dimensions. This new template allows for the reliable and fast definition of multiple VOIs. It can be used for different imaging modalities and in different orientations. It is necessary that imaging data for groups compared are acquired in the same orientation.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is an X-linked lethal disorder caused by a defect in the DMD gene, which encodes the cytoskeletal protein dystrophin. Utrophin is an autosomal homolog of the DMD gene product dystrophin, and augmented expression of endogenous utrophin is expected to provide an alternative therapeutic approach to DMD. We previously reported that an immune response against a beta-galactosidase-expressing adenovirus vector, AxCALacZ, resulted in an accumulation of endogenous utrophin on the extrasynaptic sarcolemma in dystrophin-deficient mdx mice. To determine which cytokine is involved in the regulation of utrophin expression, we directly injected several cytokines separately into neonatal mdx muscles and tested whether the expression of utrophin is increased on the sarcolemma. Importantly, among the cytokines tested, solely interleukin 6 (IL-6) successfully increased expression of utrophin. Moreover, the increase in utrophin mRNA was detected in recombinant IL-6-injected mdx muscles by quantitative real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Further, IL-6 expression was elevated in AxCALacZ-infected mdx muscle at an early stage, and anti-IL-6 receptor (IL-6R) antibody treatment blocked enhanced utrophin expression in AxCALacZ-infected mdx muscle. We should point out, however, that overexpression of utrophin due to recombinant IL-6 treatment lasted only 1 week. In addition, expression of utrophin was not evident in normal C57BL/10 neonatal muscles injected with IL-6. Taken together, these results suggest that IL-6 can induce overexpression of utrophin on the extrasynaptic sarcolemma but requires preexisting factors in neonatal mdx muscle to fully regulate utrophin expression.
Intraspinal microstimulation (ISMS) may provide a means for improving motor function in people suffering from spinal cord injuries, head trauma, or stroke. The goal of this study was to determine whether microstimulation of the mammalian spinal cord could generate locomotor-like stepping and feedback-controlled movements of the hindlimbs. Under pentobarbital anesthesia, 24 insulated microwires were implanted in the lumbosacral cord of three adult cats. The cats were placed in a sling leaving all limbs pendent. Bilateral alternating stepping of the hindlimbs was achieved by stimulating through as few as two electrodes in each side of the spinal cord. Typical stride lengths were 23.5 cm, and ample foot clearance was achieved during swing. Mean ground reaction force during stance was 36.4 N, sufficient for load-bearing. Feedback-controlled movements of the cat's foot were achieved by reciprocally modulating the amplitude of stimuli delivered through two intraspinal electrodes generating ankle flexion and extension such that the distance between a sensor on the cat's foot and a free sensor moved back and forth by the investigators was minimized. The foot tracked the displacements of the target sensor through its normal range of motion. Stimulation through electrodes with tips in or near lamina IX elicited movements most suitable for locomotion. In chronically implanted awake cats, stimulation through dorsally located electrodes generated paw shakes and flexion-withdrawals consistent with sensory perception but no weight-bearing extensor movements. These locations would not be suitable for ISMS in incomplete spinal cord injuries. Despite the complexity of the spinal neuronal networks, our results demonstrate that by stimulating through a few intraspinal microwires, near-normal bipedal locomotor-like stepping and feedback-controlled movements could be achieved.

Positron emission tomography (PET) studies have demonstrated low striatal D2 dopamine receptor occupancy in clozapine-treated schizophrenic patients. The aim of this pilot study was to explore if this low receptor occupancy indeed represents partial saturability of striatal D2 dopamine receptors by clozapine. Three anaesthetized Cynomolgus monkeys were examined during one day with PET and [11C]raclopride at baseline and after intravenous injections of clozapine 1.5 mg/kg followed by 18.5 mg/kg. The estimated corresponding human oral doses were approx. 210 mg/d and 2800 mg/d. D2 dopamine receptor occupancy was calculated using an equilibrium-ratio analysis and ranged from 54 to 58% after 1.5 mg/kg and 87 to 89% after the total dose 20 mg/kg. The calculated maximal occupancy was 93%. We conclude that PET-measured D2 dopamine receptor occupancy by clozapine can be described using a model based on the law of mass action, previously validated for conventional antipsychotics. Therefore, sufficiently high doses of clozapine are expected to produce complete striatal D2 dopamine receptor occupancy. The findings further support our previous findings of low D2 dopamine receptor occupancy in patients treated with standard doses of clozapine.
Admission of an older person to a care home is widely recognised as a very stressful period for the family and one which, despite community care policy, is likely to be an increasingly common experience. Although there is a growing research base in this area, there have been few studies on the role of adult children in supporting their parents during this difficult transition. This paper reports on the third stage of a grounded theory study conducted in Sweden which explored the part played by adult children in the placement process. Data were collected from 13 adult children using in-depth semi-structured interviews and the results are compared with themes previously derived from interviews with 26 spouse carers. The analysis reveals important overlaps and differences and suggests the need for further research exploring the dynamics of the placement process.
Henri Bergson (1859-1941) was probably the most influential French philosopher at the turn of the twentieth century. In 1927 he was awarded the Nobel Prize for literature. Far beyond the restricted academic philosophical milieu, the impact of his thinking reached personalities as diverse as Claude Debussy, Marcel Proust, George Bemard Shaw, and the impressionists. His essay The Laughter (Le Rire) is one of the most profound and original ever written on the sense of humor. Bergson's opinions, with their emphasis on life, instinct and intuition, represented a deviation from the rationalist mainstream of western philosophical tradition. In some circles he was received with skepticism and irony, as in Bertrand Russel's History of Western Philosophy. Today, unbiased by theoretical &quot;bergsonism,&quot; neurophysiologic research--as undertaken mainly by Antonio Damasio's team at Iowa University--confirms many of his hypotheses and elucidates their mechanisms. In this new light, intuition and &quot;recognition by the body&quot; should not be seen as the personal fantasy of an original thinker but as fundamental cognitive tools.
CD28 provides a co-stimulatory signal critical for optimal T cell activation. We and others have shown that the B7/CD28 co-stimulatory pathway is a major regulatory pathway for the control of immune responses. Experimentally induced models of autoimmunity have been shown to be prevented or reduced in intensity in mice deficient for CD28. Here, we show that EAE and accompanying neuroantigen-specific immune responses are drastically reduced in the absence of CD28. However, we go on to show that EAE can be induced in CD28-deficient mice following two immunizations. After re-immunization, CD28-deficient mice develop severe EAE with myelin-specific responses equal to those of wildtype controls, and extensive demyelination in the spinal cord. Treatment of CD28-deficient mice with anti-CD40L at the time of immunization significantly reduced DTH responses and prevented the development of EAE following two immunizations, indicating a critical role for CD40/CD40L signaling in the absence of CD28. Taken together, our results indicate that CD28-mediated co-stimulation does not regulate immunological anergy. Instead, CD28 appears to adjust the threshold for activation and expansion of autoreactive cells.
Serum response factor and the (CC(A/T)(6)GG) (CArG) box interact to promote the transcription of c-fos and muscle genes; this tissue-specific activity may require co-regulators for serum response factor. The alpha(1) integrin promoter contains two cis-elements besides the CArG box: a TAAT sequence, a consensus binding site for homeoproteins, and a GATA-binding box. As a candidate TAAT-binding factor, we cloned an NK family homeobox gene, Nkx-3.2, which is expressed mainly in smooth muscle tissues and skeletal structures. Nkx-3.2, serum response factor, and GATA-6 were co-expressed only in the medial smooth muscle layer of arteries. These three transcription factors formed a complex with their corresponding cis-elements and cooperatively transactivated smooth muscle genes, including alpha(1) integrin, SM22alpha, and caldesmon. Cardiac muscle-specific members of the NK and GATA families exist, and the triad of Nkx-2.5, serum response factor, and GATA-4 also transactivated the cardiac atrial natriuretic factor gene, which contains a CArG-like box, a GATA-binding box, and an NK-binding element. Our findings demonstrate that smooth and cardiac muscle have a shared transcriptional machinery and that the GATA and NK families confer muscle specificity on the serum response factor/CArG interaction.
We studied six types of errors that affect the experimental results obtained with the spotted cDNA technology, proposing a new experimental strategy and a four-step algorithm to improve data accuracy. In an experiment analyzed with this method, mRNA extracted from neuroblastoma (N2A) cells and a clone transfected with the neuronal gap junction protein Cx36 were hybridized on 10 chips, each spotted with 2512 known mouse cDNAs. We found 53 upregulated and 23 downregulated genes with expression ratios exceeding 1.5-fold. By contrast, the newly introduced standard gene expression score, which considers the normal variability of gene expression in the reference cells, revealed that Cx36 transfection (p &lt; 0.05) upregulated 161 genes and downregulated 61 genes. These results demonstrate the necessity to correct the raw data obtained from cDNA microarrays for systematic errors and indicate that use of the standard expression score significantly extends the identification of gene expression changes following experimental intervention.
The intent of the present study was to use chemical or electrical stimulation of cerebellar afferents to determine how different stimulation paradigms affect the pattern of activation of different populations of neurons in the cerebellar cortex. Specifically, we analyzed immediate changes in neuronal activity, identified neurons affected by different stimulation paradigms, and determined the time course over which neuronal activity is altered. In the present study, we used either systemic (harmaline) or electrical stimulation of the inferior cerebellar peduncle (10 and 40 Hz) to alter the firing rate of climbing and mossy fiber afferents to the rat cerebellum and an antibody made against the proto-oncogene, c-fos, as a marker to identify activated neurons and glia. In control animals, only a few scattered granule cells express nuclear Fos-like immunoreactivity. Although no other cells show Fos-like immunoreactivity in their nuclei, Purkinje cells express Fos-like immunoreactivity within their somatic and dendritic cytoplasm in control animals. Within 15 min of chemical or electrical stimulation, numerous granule and glial cells express Fos-like immunoreactivity in their nuclei. Cells in the molecular layer express Fos-like immunoreactivity following harmaline stimulation in a time and lobule specific manner; they do not appear to be activated in the electrical stimulation paradigm. Following harmaline injections, there is an initial loss of Fos-like immunoreactivity in the cytoplasm of Purkinje cells; 90 min later, nuclear staining is observed in a few scattered Purkinje cells. Following electrical stimulation, the cytoplasmic staining in Purkinje cells is enhanced; it is never present in the nucleus. Data derived from this study reveal cell-specific temporal and spatial patterns of c-Fos activation that is unique to each paradigm. Further, it reveals the presence of an activity dependent protein in the cytoplasm of Purkinje cell somata and dendrites.
A large sample of older participants of the Maastricht Aging Study (MAAS) were compared to drop-outs at the 3-year follow-up with respect to socio-demographic, health, and cognitive characteristics. In addition, the impact of selective drop-out on measures of cognitive change was examined. To this end, hypothetical scores were estimated for drop-outs by using single and multiple imputation methods. Of the initial sample of 539 subjects, aged 49 years and older at baseline, 116 (22 %) did not return for the follow-up (n = 32 had died, n = 84 refused participation). Drop-outs who refused to participate in the follow-up were more often women, had lower educational levels, and had lower baseline scores on neurocognitive tests. Follow-up drop-outs who had died were more often men, older, and had a poorer performance on cognitive tests than the follow-up participants. Although follow-up participants and drop-outs differed in terms of socio-demographic and cognitive characteristics, attrition appeared to have little effect on the estimates of cognitive change.


Analysis of the reproducibility of peer review of manuscripts by means of the kappa statistic is fatally flawed from the point of view of statistical theory. An alternative, simple, method of analysis is proposed. On this basis, agreement among reviewers for the Journal of Clinical Neuroscience is at least as good as that reported recently for other clinical neuroscience journals. Nevertheless, a broad review of peer review processes demonstrates that they are far from satisfactory. Might electronic publishing of scientific articles provide a solution?
1. A phenomenological-hermeneutic approach was used to illuminate carers' video-recorded interactions in connection with supervision for individualized nursing care. 2. In order to disclose any changes in the carers' interactions with patients suffering from severe dementia the video recordings were conducted before, during and after the intervention. 3. The content of the videos was transcribed as a text, mainly verbal communication. Due to the rich data the videos and text were kept together as a whole in every step of the analysis. 4. After an initial nave understanding, different subthemes emerged in the structural analyses: promoting competence, struggling for co-operation, deep communication for communion, showing respect for the unique person, skills in balancing power, distance in a negative point of view, and fragmentary nursing situations. 5. The overall theme was 'Carers' balancing in their interactions, verbal as well as non-verbal, to promote a sense of mutual togetherness with the patient'. 6. The supervision intervention contributed to an improvement in carers' skills in balancing in their interactions. In the caring process carers' and patients' shared experiences and, due to patients' disabilities, interactions depended mainly on carers' qualities and capabilities for this confirming nursing care.

The next generation of anxiolytics may be subtype-selective partial agonists at GABA-A receptors. By exploiting new psychopharmacologic principles, such as the targeting of receptor subtypes that have unique subunits and the partial activation of these subtypes with stabilizers, we may eventually have anxiolytics that are rapid acting, but without sedation, amnesia, or dependence.
The accessory optic system and pretectum are highly conserved brainstem visual pathways that process the visual consequences of self-motion (i.e. optic flow) and generate the optokinetic response. Neurons in these nuclei have very large receptive fields in the contalateral eye, and exhibit direction-selectivity to large-field moving stimuli. Previous research on visual motion pathways in the geniculostriate system has employed &quot;plaids&quot; composed of two non-parallel sine-wave gratings to investigate the visual system's ability to detect the global direction of pattern motion as opposed to the direction of motion of the components within the plaids. In this study, using standard extracellular techniques, we recorded the responses of 47 neurons in the nucleus of the basal optic root of the accessory optic system and 49 cells in the pretectal nucleus lentiformis mesencephali of pigeons to large-field gratings and plaids. We found that most neurons were classified as pattern-selective (41-49%) whereas fewer were classified as component-selective (8-17%). There were no striking differences between nucleus of the basal optic root and lentiformis mesencephali neurons in this regard. These data indicate that most of the input to the optokinetic system is orientation-insensitive but a small proportion is orientation-selective. The implications for the connectivity of the motion processing system are discussed.
An echolocating bat actively controls the spatial acoustic information that drives its behavior by directing its head and ears and by modulating the spectro-temporal structure of its outgoing sonar emissions. The superior colliculus may function in the coordination of these orienting components of the bat's echolocation system. To test this hypothesis, chemical and electrical microstimulation experiments were carried out in the superior colliculus of the echolocating bat, Eptesicus fuscus, a species that uses frequency modulated sonar signals. Microstimulation elicited pinna and head movements, similar to those reported in other vertebrate species, and the direction of the evoked behaviors corresponded to the site of stimulation, yielding a map of orienting movements in the superior colliculus. Microstimulation of the bat superior colliculus also elicited sonar vocalizations, a motor behavior specific to the bat's acoustic orientation by echolocation. Electrical stimulation of the adjacent periaqueductal gray, shown to be involved in vocal production in other mammalian species, elicited vocal signals resembling acoustic communication calls of E. fuscus. The control of vocal signals in the bat is an integral part of its acoustic orienting system, and our findings suggest that the superior colliculus supports diverse and species-relevant sensorimotor behaviors, including those used for echolocation.
The opening of voltage-gated sodium, potassium, and calcium ion channels has a steep relationship with voltage. In response to changes in the transmembrane voltage, structural movements of an ion channel that precede channel opening generate a capacitative gating current. The net gating charge displacement due to membrane depolarization is an index of the voltage sensitivity of the ion channel activation process. Understanding the molecular basis of voltage-dependent gating of ion channels requires the measurement and computation of the gating charge, Q. We derive a simple and accurate semianalytic approach to computing the voltage dependence of transient gating charge movement (Q-V relationship) of discrete Markov state models of ion channels using matrix methods. This approach allows rapid computation of Q-V curves for finite and infinite length step depolarizations and is consistent with experimentally measured transient gating charge. This computational approach was applied to Shaker potassium channel gating, including the impact of inactivating particles on potassium channel gating currents.
A generalized version of the integrate-and-fire model is presented that qualitatively reproduces firing rates and membrane trajectories of motoneurons. The description is based on the spike-response model and includes three different time constants: the passive membrane time constant, a recovery time of the input conductance after each spike, and a time constant of the spike afterpotential. The effect of stochastic background input on the peristimulus time histogram (PSTH) response to spike input is calculated analytically. Model results are compared with the experimental data of Poliakov et al. (1996). The linearized theory shows that the PSTH response to an input spike is proportional to a filtered version of the postsynaptic potential generated by the input spike. The shape of the filter depends on the background activity. The full nonlinear theory is in close agreement with simulated PSTH data.
A selected electroconvulsive therapy stimulus dose can result from different combinations of pulse amplitude, pulse width, pulse frequency, and stimulus duration; however, the roles of these stimulus variables in the effects of the overall stimulus dose are not clearly understood. A series of studies on Wistar rats was therefore conducted to assess the effects of different stimulus compositions at constant stimulus charge. In the first two studies, two differently composed 60 mC charge unidirectional electroconvulsive shock (ECS) stimuli were administered once daily for 3 days, while in the third study three differently composed 120 mC charge unidirectional ECS stimuli were administered on a single occasion. At constant charge, a markedly longer stimulus duration was associated with ear burns and an approximately 12.5% longer seizure duration. At constant charge, however, different stimulus compositions were not associated with different degrees of impairment in two passive avoidance models of ECS-induced retrograde amnesia. These preliminary findings have implications for the choice of stimulus settings during dose titration and dose selection procedures. While the findings encourage further investigation, it appears that variations in stimulus duration are biologically significant, but minor variations in other stimulus elements may not influence the effects of electrically induced seizures very much.
The regulation of the insulin-like growth factor-II gene (IGF2) is complex and involves the usage of four promoters resulting in different 5' untranslated regions, but with a common translated product. The IGF2 gene product is a mitogenic and survival factor that has been suggested to be important for a normal fetal development and cancer. In this paper we present evidence suggesting that the human IGF2 gene is regulated by GH, and that this regulation occurs in a promoter-specific way. Three lines of evidence support this finding. First, in vivo data from patients treated with GH (one injection or daily injections for 5 consecutive days) showed an increase in the IGF2 P2 promoter derived transcript after acute treatment, and of the P4 promoter transcript after short-term treatment while the P1 promoter derived transcript did not show any significant change. Secondly, isolated human liver cells treated with GH for 2 h displayed an upregulation of the P2 promoter derived transcript. Thirdly, employing transfection experiments in GH-receptor positive CHO cells with P2 and P4 promoter-luciferase constructs, an upregulation by GH was evident, while a P1 promoter construct was unresponsive. We suggest that GH may be a physiological regulator of IGF2 in humans.
Chemosensory neurons in the antennular flagella of lobsters mediate long-range responses to chemicals. These neurons are part of two parallel chemosensory pathways with different peripheral and central components. Aesthetasc sensilla on the lateral flagella are innervated by chemosensory neurons that project to the olfactory lobes. A diversity of other 'non-aesthetasc' sensilla on both lateral and medial flagella are innervated by mechano- and chemosensory neurons, and most of these non-aesthetasc neurons project to the lateral antennular neuropils. We investigated the roles of these two pathways in odor-associative learning and odor discrimination by selectively removing either aesthetasc or non-aesthetasc sensilla from the spiny lobster Panulirus argus. Lobsters lacking both aesthetasc and non-aesthetasc antennular sensilla show very reduced or no odor-mediated searching behavior. We associatively conditioned lobsters using two paradigms: aversive conditioning with generalization testing (which reveals the similarity in the lobsters' perception of odorants) and discrimination conditioning (which reveals the lobsters' ability to discriminate odorants). Sham-control intact lobsters performed these tasks well, as did lobsters lacking either aesthetascs or non-aesthetasc setae. There was a strong but statistically non-significant trend that lobsters lacking either aesthetascs or non-aesthetasc setae generalized more between complex odor mixtures than did intact lobsters. After aversive conditioning with generalization testing, aesthetasc-ablated lobsters had more difficulty discriminating among the most closely related complex mixtures than did intact or non-aesthetasc-ablated lobsters. However, after discrimination conditioning, aesthetasc-ablated lobsters were as proficient as intact animals in discriminating highly similar mixtures. These results indicate overlap and redundancy in the function of these two chemosensory pathways in odor-associative learning and odor discrimination, but these pathways also complement each other to enable better discrimination. This study presents the first evidence for a role of non-aesthetasc chemosensory neurons in complex odor-mediated behaviors such as learning and discrimination.
To investigate the role that &quot;nonlogical&quot; cues might play in transitive inference, 6- and 7-year-olds were given a three-term transitive task in which perceptual cues to differential absolute size were either present or absent. Relationships between the taught premises and the relational information that was physically present were manipulated using four basic conditions: &quot;congruent,&quot; &quot;inverse,&quot; &quot;pretended,&quot; or &quot;persuaded.&quot; Both age groups showed identical overall premise memory, but the younger group tended to reason more on the basis of the perceptual information rather than on the successfully encoded premise information. Contrasts between the various conditions showed that categorical effects can be circumvented in three-term problems with appropriate controls, that there may be qualitative as well as quantitative differences in transitive inference with age, and that transitive inference is not based solely on memory. The findings also indicate that, although 7-year-olds are competent in &quot;logic-based&quot; transitive inference, they experience great difficulty on tasks involving pretend information.
The ER is a central element in Ca(2+) signaling, both as a modulator of cytoplasmic Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) and as a locus of Ca(2+)-regulated events. During surface membrane depolarization in excitable cells, the ER may either accumulate or release net Ca(2+), but the conditions of stimulation that determine which form of net Ca(2+) transport occurs are not well understood. The direction of net ER Ca(2+) transport depends on the relative rates of Ca(2+) uptake and release via distinct pathways that are differentially regulated by Ca(2+), so we investigated these rates and their sensitivity to Ca(2+) using sympathetic neurons as model cells. The rate of Ca(2+) uptake by SERCAs (J(SERCA)), measured as the t-BuBHQ-sensitive component of the total cytoplasmic Ca(2+) flux, increased monotonically with [Ca(2+)](i). Measurement of the rate of Ca(2+) release (J(Release)) during t-BuBHQ-induced [Ca(2+)](i) transients made it possible to characterize the Ca(2+) permeability of the ER ((~)P(ER)), describing the activity of all Ca(2+)-permeable channels that contribute to passive ER Ca(2+) release, including ryanodine-sensitive Ca(2+) release channels (RyRs) that are responsible for CICR. Simulations based on experimentally determined descriptions of J(SERCA), and of Ca(2+) extrusion across the plasma membrane (J(pm)) accounted for our previous finding that during weak depolarization, the ER accumulates Ca(2+), but at a rate that is attenuated by activation of a CICR pathway operating in parallel with SERCAs to regulate net ER Ca(2+) transport. Caffeine greatly increased the [Ca(2+)] sensitivity of ((~)P(ER)), accounting for the effects of caffeine on depolarization-evoked [Ca(2+)](i) elevations and caffeine-induced [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations. Extending the rate descriptions of J(SERCA), ((~)P(ER)), and J(pm) to higher [Ca(2+)](i) levels shows how the interplay between Ca(2+) transport systems with different Ca(2+) sensitivities accounts for the different modes of CICR over different ranges of [Ca(2+)](i) during stimulation.
Since the closing decades of the nineteenth century, women have been contributing in a significant way to the neurosciences. This article looks at the contributions of some of the leading women pioneers in this field. It also deals with women who have written on the history of the neurosciences and the representation of women in the International Society for the History of the Neurosciences, the largest neuroscience history organization. Trends suggest that books and articles from and about women in the history of the neurosciences will increase markedly in the future.
Women in Neuroscience (WIN) is an international organization whose major goal is to promote the professional advancement of women neuroscientists. To this end, WIN facilitates contacts and communication among women working in neuroscience, and organizes appropriate activities at the annual Society for Neuroscience (SfN) meeting. WIN was created in 1980, when despite major changes and advances in 'equal opportunities', women were still not achieving a proportionate level of success in the subdiscipline of neurosciences. In 1980, women made up 40 to 50% of entering classes in medical schools or graduate programs, but often comprised only 5 to 15% of leadership in respective organizations. Although there had been women elected to serve as SfN presidents, council, and committee members, women were under-represented in other positions of the Society, such as symposium and session chairs. There was an even lesser degree of representation in leadership positions at universities and medical schools in terms of full professorships, chairs, and program directors, as well as on editorial boards, advisory boards, and councils. Over the years, WIN has worked with success toward increasing the participation of women in neuroscience.
The paper focuses on historiographical questions relevant to the historical study of the neurosciences. I attempt to illuminate these questions by looking at them from the perspective of general historiography of science. In the first section, I consider the disciplinary structure of the modern neurosciences and discuss some of the historiographical problems that are involved in the historical description of a highly multidisciplinary field. For example, how far back in time can one trace brain research as part of the construction that we call the neurosciences? The main part of the paper deals with recent trends in contextualist historiography in relation to the neurosciences. I suggest that one important source for the trend, as it emerged in the 1970s, was a renewed interest in the history of phrenology and its reception in Britain. By looking at the historiography of phrenology, some of the rival positions in modern historiography of science can be illuminated. In the last part of the paper, I comment on the advantages and disadvantages of contextualist historiography of science, including its relation to the producers of science, the scientists.
The purpose of this paper is to suggest that subtle and essential uncertainties in language determine the limits of science and history, and thereby define the boundaries of research in the history of science. Historical research, in the strict sense of history as opposed to prehistory, begins with the examination of written records. There is a host of problems in the interpretation of the historical record, but underlying all of these is the simply stated yet complex question of the meaning of words in historical documents. Since this is where the practice of history begins, this problem delimits the boundaries of historical knowledge. In this paper, I will examine structural ambiguities in the meaning of words, explain how they arise, and provide independent evidence for the validity of the analysis.
This essay surveys the present state of biographical writing in the history of neurology and neuroscience. Individual lives play a significant role in practitioner-historians' narratives, whereas academic historians tend to be more nonindividualistic and a-biographical. Autobiographies by neurologists and neuroscientists, and particularly autobiographical collections, are problematic as an historical genre. Neurobiographies proper are published with several aims in mind: some are written as literary entertainment, others as contributions to a cultural and social history of the neurosciences. Eulogy, panegyrics and commemoration play a great role in neurobiographical writing. Some biographies, finally, are written to provide role-models for young neuroscientists, thus reviving the classical, Plutarchian biographical tradition. Finally, a recent cooperative biography of Charcot is mentioned as an example of how the biographical genre can help overcome the alleged dichotomy between the historiographies of practitioner-historians and academic historians.
This introduction precedes the four papers given in October 2000 in Copenhagen on analysing problems in the history of the neurosciences. The term historiography can be defined in different ways but means the study, and not simply the writing, of history. Although it goes back two millennia, it is a rapidly developing field as illustrated by the subsequent contributions.
The current study sought to determine if discrepancies in quality of education could explain differences in cognitive test scores between African American and White elders matched on years of education. A comprehensive neuropsychological battery was administered to a sample of African American and non-Hispanic White participants in an epidemiological study of normal aging and dementia in the Northern Manhattan community. All participants were diagnosed as nondemented by a neurologist, and had no history of Parkinson's disease, stroke, mental illness, or head injury. The Reading Recognition subtest from the Wide Range Achievement Test-Version 3 was used as an estimate of quality of education. A MANOVA revealed that African American elders obtained significantly lower scores than Whites on measures of word list learning and memory, figure memory, abstract reasoning, fluency, and visuospatial skill even though the groups were matched on years of education. However, after adjusting the scores for WRAT-3 reading score, the overall effect of race was greatly reduced and racial differences on all tests (except category fluency and a drawing measure) became nonsignificant. These findings suggest that years of education is an inadequate measure of the educational experience among multicultural elders, and that adjusting for quality of education may improve the specificity of certain neuropsychological measures.


Leber hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) is a mitochondrial genetic disease that preferentially causes blindness in young adult males, affecting about 1 in 25 000 of the British population. It is characterised by bilateral subacute loss of central vision owing to focal degeneration of the retinal ganglion cell layer and optic nerve. Over 95% of LHON cases are primarily the result of one of three mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) point mutations, G3460A, G11778A, and T14484C, which all involve genes encoding complex I subunits of the respiratory chain. An intriguing feature of LHON is that only approximately 50% of males and approximately 10% of females who harbour a pathogenic mtDNA mutation actually develop the optic neuropathy. This marked incomplete penetrance and gender bias imply that additional mitochondrial and/or nuclear genetic factors must be modulating the phenotypic expression of LHON. It is also likely that environmental factors contribute to the onset of visual failure. However, these secondary precipitating factors remain poorly defined at present. In this review, we describe the natural history of this optic nerve disorder and highlight issues relating to clinical diagnosis, management, and genetic counselling. We also discuss the findings of recently published studies and the light they shed on the complex aetiology and pathophysiology of LHON.
A potential model for bipolar disorder, quinpirole-induced biphasic locomotion, was used for a preliminary evaluation of behavioral effects of oral anticonvulsant treatment. Quinpirole, a D2/D3 agonist, induces a biphasic locomotor response starting with inhibition and followed by excitation, resembling the oscillating nature of bipolar disorder. The present study developed a paradigm for oral administration of anticonvulsants that resulted in therapeutic blood levels and tested the effects of treatment on the quinpirole-induced response. Eleven days treatment with valproate (12 g/liter water), phenytoin (6 g/kg food), and carbamazepine (8 g/kg food) resulted in therapeutic blood levels and in a borderline significant reduction in quinpirole-induced hyperactivity without effects on the hypoactive phase. Valproate effects became more significant at the height of the hyperactivity response. Eleven days treatment with topiramate (30 mg/kg) resulted in a significant attenuation of quinpirole-induced hyperactivity, qualitatively similar to the effects of the other anticonvulsants. The results suggest that mood-stabilizing anticonvulsant drugs including topiramate may attenuate quinpirole-induced hyperactivity.
The present study evaluated effects of chronic treatment with tacrine and (-)-nicotine for 21 days on nicotinic and muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in the brains of old rats (24-25 months) by receptor autoradiography. The nicotinic receptor (nAChR) binding sites were measured by (-)-[3H]nicotine and [3H]epibatidine, and the muscarinic receptor (mAChR) binding sites by [3H]pirenzepine and [3H]AFDX 384. No change in (-)-[3H]nicotine binding was observed in all of the brain regions analysed following chroinic treatment with tacrine (10 mg/kg). Similarly, the [3H]epibatidine binding was not changed in most of the brain regions analysed except for a few brain regions where a decrease was observed in tacrine treated animals compared to control animals. Chronic treatment with (-)-nicotine (0.45 mg base/kg) significantly increased both (-)-[3H]nicotine and [3H]epibatidine bindings in every brain regions analysed except for the hippocampus when measured by (-)-[3H]nicotine. A significant decrease in [3H]AFDX 384 binding, but not in [3H]pirenzepine binding was observed in all of the brain regions analysed following the treatment with tacrine. These data suggest that chronic treatments with tacrine and (-)-nicotine differentially interfere and regulate the subtypes of nAChRs and mAChRs in the brain of aged rat. These data differ from what have been earlier observed in the brain of young adult rat following tacrine treatment, revealing some dynamic changes in receptor properties in the brain during aging.
The biogenic amine serotonin [5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)] has received considerable attention for its role in behavioral phenomena throughout a broad range of invertebrate and vertebrate taxa. Acute 5-HT infusion decreases the likelihood of crayfish to retreat from dominant opponents. The present study reports the biochemical and behavioral effects resulting from chronic treatment with 5-HT-modifying compounds delivered for up to 5 weeks via silastic tube implants. High performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection (HPLC-ED) confirmed that 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT) effectively reduced 5-HT in all central nervous system (CNS) areas, except brain, while a concurrent accumulation of the compound was observed in all tissues analyzed. Unexpectedly, two different rates of chronic 5-HT treatment did not increase levels of the amine in the CNS. Behaviorally, 5,7-DHT treated crayfish exhibited no significant differences in measures of aggression. Although treatment with 5-HT did not elevate 5-HT content in the CNS, infusion at a slow rate caused animals to escalate more quickly while 5-HT treatment at a faster rate resulted in slower escalation. 5,7-DHT is commonly used in behavioral pharmacology and the present findings suggest its biochemical properties should be more thoroughly examined. Moreover, the apparent presence of powerful compensatory mechanisms indicates our need to adopt an increasingly dynamic view of the serotonergic bases of behavior like crayfish aggression.
Cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART) peptides are regulated neuropeptides that play a role in a variety of physiological processes. CART mRNA is also highly regulated as its levels change in response to psychostimulant drugs and leptin. To understand the mechanisms involved in regulating CART mRNA levels, the mouse CART 5'-flanking regulatory region was studied. The sequence of 3.4 kb of the mouse CART 5'-flanking region revealed a proximal promoter that contains a cluster of transcription factor binding sites, including an overlapping STAT/CRE/AP1 site. In addition, the 5'-most 320 bp of the CART promoter shares 83% nucleotide identity between mouse and human. Three luciferase expressing constructs containing varying amounts of CART 5' upstream sequence were generated and tested for promoter activity. Transient transfection of GH3 cells with constructs containing 641 and 3451 bp of upstream sequence displayed strong promoter activity, producing 29-fold and 51-fold stimulation, respectively, while, a construct containing 102 bp of upstream sequence displayed a 5.4-fold increase in activity. A construct containing the composite STAT/CRE/AP1 site was responsive to cyclic AMP induction by forskolin in GH3 cells. Forskolin treatment also resulted in a 4.5-fold increase in CART mRNA levels after 6 h and the addition of H89, an inhibitor of protein kinase A, reduced the levels by 50%. These studies indicate that the CART proximal promoter lies within the 5'-most 641 bp and that in GH3 cells the CART gene is regulated via a cyclic AMP-dependent pathway.
The pineal neurohormone melatonin modulates a variety of physiological processes through different receptors. It has recently been reported that the cloned melatonin receptors (MT1, MT2 and Mel1c) exhibit differential abilities to stimulate phospholipase C (PLC) via G(16). Here we examined the molecular basis of such differences in melatonin receptor signaling. Coexpression of MT1 or MT2 with the alpha subunit of G(16) (Galpha(16) ) allowed COS-7 cells to accumulate inositol phosphates in response to 2-iodomelatonin. In contrast, Mel1c did not activate Galpha(16) even though its expression was demonstrated by radioligand binding and agonist-induced inhibition of adenylyl cyclase. As Mel1c possesses an exceptionally large C-terminal tail, we further asked if this structural feature prevented productive coupling to Galpha(16). Eleven chimeric melatonin or mutant receptors were constructed by swapping all or part of the C-terminal tail between MT1, MT2 and Mel1c. All chimeras were fully capable of binding 2-[(125) I]iodomelatonin and inhibiting adenylyl cyclase. Chimeras containing the full-length Mel1c tail were incapable of activating Galpha(16), while those that contained the complete C-terminal region of either MT1 or MT2 stimulated PLC. Incorporation of the extra portion of the C-terminal tail of Mel1c to either MT1 or MT2 completely abolished the chimeras' ability to stimulate PLC via Galpha(16). In contrast, truncation of the C-terminal tail of Mel1c allowed interaction with Galpha(16). Our results suggest that Galpha(16) can discern structural differences amid the three melatonin receptors and provide evidence for functional distinction of Mel1c from MT1 and MT2 receptors.

Neurons in the inferior temporal cortex (IT), an area crucially involved in visual object recognition in monkeys, show the visual response properties and anatomical/chemical nature which are distinct from those in the cortical areas that feed visual inputs to the IT. Earlier physiological studies showed that IT neurons have large receptive fields covering the center and contralateral (often bilateral) visual fields, stimulus selectivity for images of complex objects or shapes, and translation invariance of the stimulus selectivity. Recent studies have revealed new aspects of their properties such as invariant selectivity for shapes despite drastic changes in various physical attributes of stimuli, latent excitatory inputs masked by stimulus-specific GABAergic inhibition, selectivity for binocular disparity and 3-dimensional surface structures, profound effects of learning on the stimulus selectivity, and columnar clustering of neurons with similar stimulus selectivity for shapes and other object features. Another line of research using histological techniques have revealed that pyramidal neurons in the IT are larger in the size of dendritic arbors, in the number of dendritic branches and spines, and in the size and distribution of horizontal axonal arbors than those in the earlier areas, allowing them to integrate a larger population of afferents and process more diverse inputs. The concentration of several neurochemicals including those related to synaptic transmission or plasticity changes systematically towards the IT along the occipitotemporal pathway. Many of the characteristics of IT neurons parallel or explain certain aspects of visual object perception, although the behavioral relevance has yet to be addressed experimentally.
The appearance of the neocortex, its expansion, and its differentiation in mammals, represents one of the principal episodes in the evolution of the vertebrate brain. One of the fundamental questions in neuroscience is what is special about the neocortex of humans and how does it differ from that of other species? It is clear that distinct cortical areas show important differences within both the same and different species, and this has led to some researchers emphasizing the similarities whereas others focus on the differences. In general, despite of the large number of different elements that contribute to neocortical circuits, it is thought that neocortical neurons are organized into multiple, small repeating microcircuits, based around pyramidal cells and their input-output connections. These inputs originate from extrinsic afferent systems, excitatory glutamatergic spiny cells (which include other pyramidal cells and spiny stellate cells), and inhibitory GABAergic interneurons. The problem is that the neuronal elements that make up the basic microcircuit are differentiated into subtypes, some of which are lacking or highly modified in different cortical areas or species. Furthermore, the number of neurons contained in a discrete vertical cylinder of cortical tissue varies across species. Additionally, it has been shown that the neuropil in different cortical areas of the human, rat and mouse has a characteristic layer specific synaptology. These variations most likely reflect functional differences in the specific cortical circuits. The laminar specific similarities between cortical areas and between species, with respect to the percentage, length and density of excitatory and inhibitory synapses, and to the number of synapses per neuron, might be considered as the basic cortical building bricks. In turn, the differences probably indicate the evolutionary adaptation of excitatory and inhibitory circuits to particular functions.
This report traces the historical development of concepts regarding the specificity of synaptic connectivity in the cerebral cortex as viewed primarily from the perspective of electron microscopy. The occurrence of stereotypical patterns of connection (e.g., contrasting synaptic patterns on the surfaces of spiny vs. non-spiny neurons, the general consistency with which axonal pathways impinge on and originate within specific cortical areas and layers, triadic synaptic relationships) implies that cortical connectivity is highly structured. The high degree of order characterizing many aspects of cortical organization is mirrored by an equally ordered arrangement of synaptic connections between specific types of neurons. This observation is based on quantitative electron microscopic studies of synapses between identified neurons and from the results of correlative anatomical/electrophysiological investigations. The recognition of recurring synaptic patterns and responses between specific neurons has generated increased support for the notion of specificity of synaptic connections at the expense of randomness, but the role of specificity in cortical function is an unresolved question. At the core of cortical processing lie myriad possibilities for computation provided by the wealth of synaptic connections involving each cortical neuron. Specificity, by limiting possibilities for connection, can impose an order on synaptic interactions even as processes of dynamic selection or synaptic remodeling ensure the constant formation and dissolution of cortical circuits. These operations make maximal use of the richness of cortical synaptic connections to produce a highly flexible system, irrespective of the degree of randomness or specificity that obtains for cortical wiring at any particular time.
In recent years compelling evidence has been provided that cell-cell interactions involving non-neuronal cells, such as glial and endothelial cells, are important in regulating the secretion of GnRH, the neuropeptide that controls both sexual development and adult reproductive function. Modification of the anatomical relationship that exist between GnRH nerve endings and glial cell processes in the external zone of the median eminence modulates the access of GnRH nerve terminals to the portal vasculature during the oestrous cycle. The establishment of direct neuro-haemal junctions between GnRH neuroendocrine terminals and the portal vasculature on the day of pro-oestrus may be critical for the transfer of GnRH upon its release into the fenestrated capillaries of the median eminence. Notwithstanding the importance of these plastic rearrangements, glial and endothelial cells also regulate GnRH neuronal function via specific cell-cell signalling molecules. While endothelial cells of the median eminence use nitric oxide to effect this regulatory control, astrocytes employ several growth factors, and in particular those of the EGF family and their erbB receptors to facilitate GnRH release during sexual development. Loss of function of each of these erbB receptors involved in the astroglial control of GnRH secretion leads to delayed sexual development. It is clear that regulation of GnRH secretion by cell-cell communication mechanisms other than transsynaptic inputs is an important component of the central neuroendocrine process controlling mammalian reproduction.
We used in vivo brain microdialysis to determine the role of specific copulatory stimuli in mating-induced release of norepinephrine in the lateral ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH) of hormone-treated, sexually receptive female rats. Ovariectomized rats implanted with a unilateral guide cannula aimed at the ventrolateral VMH received systemic injections of estradiol benzoate daily for 2 days before and progesterone 4 h before the initiation of a 1-h behavioural test. Dialysis probes were lowered immediately after progesterone administration, and 20-min dialysis samples were collected until 1 h after the termination of behavioural testing. Norepinephrine content of dialysates was quantified by high performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. During mating tests with male rats, dialysate levels of norepinephrine increased significantly over baseline in sexually receptive females with probe placements in the anterior but not posterior VMH. Norepinephrine levels were unchanged if rats were nonreceptive, even if males mounted vigorously and probes were located in the anterior VMH. Hormone-treated females that were placed on male-soiled bedding for 1 h showed no changes in dialysate levels of norepinephrine. Similarly, females in which vaginocervical stimulation was prevented by a vaginal mask failed to show increased levels of norepinephrine in dialysates collected from the anterior VMH, even if they displayed high levels of lordosis behaviour. Thus, the release of norepinephrine is not a result of executing the lordosis posture. The findings suggest that mating-induced increases in norepinephrine release in hormone-treated, sexually receptive rats are confined to the anterior VMH and that somatosensory rather than chemosensory stimuli evoke norepinephrine release. Moreover, experiments with vaginal masks indicate that vaginocervical stimulation is necessary for mating-evoked norepinephrine release in the anterior VMH.
In this study, we examined chemokine receptor expression and function in rat cerebellar neurons. Calcium imaging experiments demonstrated that a wide variety of chemokines elicited [Ca(2+)](i) transients in acutely isolated and cultured cerebellar Purkinje and granule neurons. In many cases, these chemokine responses were pertussis toxin (PTX) insensitive. In addition, chemokines activated the Ca(2+) and cAMP-dependent transcription factor CREB and the extracellular response kinases ERK1/ERK2. Chemokines increased the survival of Purkinje neurons deprived of their trophic support. Thus, the presence of chemokine receptors and the signaling pathways they activate suggest that chemokines play a role in the control of cerebellar neuron survival and development and may mediate communication between the CNS and the immune system.
Following social disruption (SDR) stress in male mice, corticosterone resistance of splenocytes was accompanied by enhanced LPS-stimulated interleukin (IL)-6 secretion. The present study examined the role of IL-6 in the development of corticosterone resistance. Addition of IL-6 to control splenocyte cultures did not induce corticosterone resistance. SDR also elevated IL-6 in plasma and liver, but not in spleen. IL-6 deficient mice that were exposed to SDR developed glucocorticoid resistance despite the absence of systemic IL-6. These findings suggest that although SDR enhanced IL-6 responses, IL-6 was not essential for the development of stress-induced splenocyte corticosterone resistance.
Disease progression in multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN) was studied by comparing severity and duration of disease. We assessed disease severity by determining muscle weakness, disability, conduction block (CB), and distal and proximal compound muscle action potential (CMAP)-amplitude in 38 patients with MMN in whom disease duration ranged from 6 months to 34 years. As indicator for an ongoing immune-mediated process, the response to one course of IVIg treatment was measured in 34 patients and associated with disease severity. With increasing disease duration, weakness and disability became significantly more severe, and the distal and proximal CMAP-amplitude decreased significantly. The number of CBs was significantly higher in patients with a disease duration longer than 10 years than in those affected less than 10 years. Thirty of the 34 patients responded to IVIg treatment. Non-responsiveness to IVIg was not associated with any of the disease variables. Severe and widespread weakness was significantly associated with a response &gt; or = 2 on the MRC-sum-score. Our results provide evidence for a slowly progressive disease course of MMN. The good response to IVIg treatment in patients with severe and prolonged disease indicates that progression may be the result of an ongoing immune-mediated process. These findings imply that early treatment may prevent future progression of weakness and disability in patients with MMN.



Meningiomas show clinical characteristics that vary from very benign to clearly malignant with rapid invasive growth and metastases. This study was undertaken to analyze the expression of members in the insulin-like growth factor (IGF) system in meningiomas showing different degrees of brain invasion. Tissue samples from 16 meningiomas were analyzed for members in the IGF family by mRNA in situ hybridization. The meningiomas comprised three groups: I. Benign meningiomas that did not interfere with the arachnoid plane and showed no edema. II. Benign meningiomas that did not respect the arachnoid plane and tumors that caused edema. III. Aggressive and malignant meningiomas that caused edema and showed brain invasion. IGF-II mRNA was identified in all tumors analyzed, and with a clear increase in expression observed in group III tumors. IGFBP-2 mRNA was detected in equal levels in all tumors. IGFBP-5 mRNA levels were highest in the benign group without edema (I) of meningiomas whereas IGFBP-6 mRNA levels were highest in the group with brain invasion (III). Brain invasiveness in degrees from respect of the arachnoid membrane progressing to frank brain invasion correlated with increases in IGF-II and IGFBP-6 expression. High levels of IGFBP-6 may not inhibit IGF-II actions, which is known to be growth promoting in tumors. Instead, IGFBP-6 appears to have an importance for the characteristics of edema and brain invasion in meningiomas.
Axon sprouting and synaptic reorganization in the hippocampus are associated with the development of seizures in temporal lobe epilepsy. Synaptic interactions among CA1 pyramidal cells were examined in fragments of hippocampal slices containing only the CA1 area from saline- and kainate-treated rats. Glutamate microapplication to the pyramidal cell layer increased excitatory postsynaptic current (EPSC) frequency, but only in rats with kainate-induced epilepsy. In bicuculline, action potentials evoked in single pyramidal cells increased the frequency of network bursts only in slices from rats with kainate-induced epilepsy. These data further support the hypothesis that excitatory connections between CA1 pyramidal cells increase after kainate-induced status epilepticus.
Growing experimental and theoretical evidence suggests a functional synergy in the processing of otolith and semicircular canal signals for the generation of the vestibulo-ocular reflexes (VORs). In this study we have further tested this functional interaction by quantifying the adaptive changes in the otolith-ocular system during both rotational and translational movements after surgical inactivation of the semicircular canals. For 0.1-0.5 Hz (stimuli for which there is no recovery of responses from the plugged canals), pitch and roll VOR gains recovered during earth-horizontal (but not earth-vertical) axis rotations. Corresponding changes were also observed in eye movements elicited by translational motion (0.1-5 Hz). Specifically, torsional eye movements increased during lateral motion, whereas vertical eye movements increased during fore-aft motion. The findings indicate that otolith signals can be adapted according to a compromised strategy that leads to improved gaze stabilization during motion. Because canal-plugged animals permanently lose the ability to discriminate gravitoinertial accelerations, adapted animals can use the presence of gravity through otolith-driven tilt responses to assist gaze stabilization during earth-horizontal axis rotations.
The aim of this study was to produce a dynamic model of the spatiotemporal activation of ensembles of alpha motoneurons (MNs) in the cat lumbosacral spinal cord during the locomotor step cycle. The coordinates of MNs of 27 hindlimb muscles of the cat were digitized from transverse sections of spinal cord spanning the entire lumbosacral enlargement from the caudal part of L(4) to the rostral part of S(1) segments. Outlines of the spinal cord gray matter were also digitized. Models of the spinal cord were generated from these digitized data and displayed on a computer screen as three-dimensional (3-D) images. We compiled a chart of electromyographic (EMG) profiles of the same 27 muscles during the cat step cycle from previous studies and used these to modulate the number of active MNs in the 3-D images. The step cycle was divided into 100 equal intervals corresponding to about 7 ms each for gait of moderate speed. For each of these 100 intervals, the level of EMG of each muscle was used to scale the number of dots displayed randomly within the volume of the corresponding MN pool in the digital model. One hundred images of the spinal cord were thereby generated, and these could be played in sequence as a continuous-loop movie representing rhythmical stepping. A rostrocaudal oscillation of activity in hindlimb MN pools emerged. This was confirmed by computing the locus of the center of activation of the MNs in the 100 consecutive frames of the movie. The caudal third of the lumbosacral enlargement showed intense MN activity during the stance phase of locomotion. During the swing phase, the focus of activation shifted abruptly to the rostral part of the enlargement. At the stance-swing transition, a transient focus of activity formed in the most caudal part of the lumbosacral enlargement. This was associated with activation of gracilis, posterior biceps, posterior semimembranosus, and semitendinosus muscles. These muscles move the foot back and up to clear the ground during locomotion, a role that could be described as retraction. The spatiotemporal distribution of neuronal activity in the spinal cord during normal locomotion with descending control and sensory inputs intact has not been visualized before. The model can be used in the future to characterize spatiotemporal activity of spinal MNs in the absence of descending and sensory inputs and to compare these to spatiotemporal patterns in spinal MNs in normal locomotion.
In the pond turtle, Pseudemys scripta elegans, visually evoked cortical waves propagate at different velocities within the primary visual area compared with waves that pass into the secondary visual area. In an effort to separate intra- and intercortical wave motions, movies of visually evoked cortical waves recorded by high-speed voltage-sensitive dye (VSD) imaging were subjected to Karhunen-Love (KL) decomposition. This procedure decomposes the VSD movies into a series of basis images that capture different spatial patterns of coherent activity. Most of the energy of the compound wave motion (&gt;95%) was captured by the three largest basis images, M(1,1), M(1,2), and M(2,1). Based on visual comparison with maps of wave front latency, KL basis image M(1,2) appears to capture the spread of depolarization within the primary visual area, whereas KL basis image M(2,1) appears to capture the spread of depolarization from the primary into the secondary visual area. The contribution of different basis images to the intra- and intercortical wave motions was tested by reconstructing the response using different combinations of KL basis images. Only KL basis images M(1,1) and M(1,2) were needed to reconstruct intracortical wave motion, while basis images M(1,1) and M(2,1) were needed to reconstruct intercortical wave motion. It was also found that the direction and speed of wave propagation could be deduced by visual inspection of the basis image projections on to the original data set. The relative advantage of KL decomposition for the analysis of complex wave motions captured by VSD imaging is discussed.
Sub-threshold, motoneuron-evoked synaptic activity was observed in zebrafish embryonic red (ER) and white (EW) muscle fibers paralyzed with a dose of D-tubocurarine insufficient to abolish synaptic activity to determine whether muscle activation was coordinated to produce the undulating body movements required for locomotion. Paired whole-cell recordings revealed a synaptic drive that alternated between ipsilateral and contralateral myotomes and exhibited a rostral-caudal delay in timing appropriate for swimming. Both ER and EW muscle were activated during fictive swimming. However, at the fastest fictive swimming rates, ER fibers were de-recruited, whereas they could be active in isolation of EW fibers at the slowest fictive swimming rates. Prior to hatching, fictive swimming was preceded by a lower frequency, more robust and rhythmic synaptic drive resembling the &quot;coiling&quot; behavior of fish embryos. The motor activity observed in paralyzed zebrafish closely resembled the swimming and coiling behaviors observed in these developing fishes. At the early developmental stages examined in this study, myotomal muscle recruitment and coordination were similar to that observed in adult fishes during swimming. Our results indicate that the patterned activation of myotomal muscle is set from the onset of development.
Much data indicate that the perirhinal (PRH) cortex plays a critical role in declarative memory and that the amygdala facilitates this process under emotionally arousing conditions. However, assuming that the amygdala does so by promoting Hebbian interactions in the PRH cortex is hard to reconcile with the fact that variable distances separate amygdala neurons from their PRH projection sites. Indeed, to achieve a synchronized activation of distributed PRH sites, amygdala axons should display a uniform range of conduction times, irrespective of distance to target. To determine if amygdala axons meet this condition, we measured the antidromic response latencies of lateral amygdala (LA) neurons to electrical stimuli delivered at various rostrocaudal levels of the PRH cortex in cats anesthetized with isoflurane. Although large variations in antidromic response latencies were observed, they were unrelated to the distance between the PRH stimulation sites and LA neurons. To determine whether this result was an artifact due to current spread, two control experiments were performed. First, we examined the antidromic response latency of intrinsic PRH neurons. Although we used the same methods as in the first experiment, the antidromic response latency of PRH neurons to electrical stimuli applied in the PRH cortex increased linearly with the distance between the stimulating and recording sites. Second, we measured the antidromic response latency of PRH neurons projecting to the LA. In this pathway, we also found a statistically significant correlation between conduction times and distance to target. Thus these results support the intriguing possibility that the conduction velocity and/or trajectory of LA axons are adjusted to compensate for variations in distance between the LA and distinct rostrocaudal PRH sites. We hypothesize that because of their uniform range of conduction times to the PRH cortex, LA neurons can generate short time windows of depolarization facilitating Hebbian associations between coincident, but spatially distributed, activity patterns in the PRH cortex. In this context, the temporal scatter of conduction times in the LA to PRH pathway is conceived as a mechanism used to lengthen the period of depolarization to compensate for conduction delays within intrinsic PRH pathways. In part, this mechanism might explain how the amygdala promotes memory storage in emotionally arousing conditions.
Cyclical activity of GABAergic interneurons during theta rhythm could mediate phasic changes in strength of glutamatergic synaptic transmission in the hippocampal formation if presynaptic inhibition from activation of GABA(B) receptors is sufficiently rapid to change within a theta cycle. The experiments described here analyzed the time course of GABA(B) modulation using a heterosynaptic depression paradigm in anesthetized rats at physiological temperatures. Heterosynaptic depression of the slope of evoked potentials decayed with a time constant that would allow significant changes in transmission across different phases of the theta cycle. This heterosynaptic depression was significantly reduced by local infusion of the GABA(B) receptor antagonist CGP55845A.
Using intracellular recordings in an isolated (in vitro) rat brain stem preparation, we examined the synaptic responses of developing relay neurons in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN). In newborn rats, strong stimulation of the optic tract (OT) evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) that gave rise to a sustained (300-1,300 ms), slow-decaying (&lt;0.01 mV/s), depolarization (25-40 mV). Riding atop this response was a train of spikes of variable amplitude. We refer to this synaptically evoked event as a plateau potential. Pharmacology experiments indicate the plateau potential was mediated by the activation of high-threshold L-type Ca(2+) channels. Synaptic activation of the plateau potential relied on N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated activity and the spatial and/or temporal summation of retinally evoked EPSPs. Inhibitory postsynaptic responses (IPSPs) did not prevent the expression of the plateau potential. However, GABA(A) receptor activity modulated the intensity of optic tract stimulation needed to evoke the plateau potential, while GABA(B) receptor activity affected its duration. Expression of the plateau potential was developmentally regulated, showing a much higher incidence at P1-2 (90%) than at P19-20 (1%). This was in part due to the fact that developing relay cells show a greater degree of spatial summation than their mature counterparts, receiving input from as many as 7-12 retinal ganglion cells. Early spontaneous retinal activity is also likely to trigger the plateau potential. Repetitive stimulation of optic tract in a manner that approximated the high-frequency discharge of retinal ganglion cells led to a massive temporal summation of EPSPs and the activation of a sustained depolarization (&gt;1 min) that was blocked by L-type Ca(2+) channel antagonists. These age-related changes in Ca(2+) signaling may contribute to the activity-dependent refinement of retinogeniculate connections.
Neuronal activities in superficial (II and III) and deep (V and VI) layers of the entorhinal cortex (EC) are preferentially modulated by theta and sharp wave (SPW) EEG, respectively. We investigated the possibility that distinct EEG patterns represent optimal stimulus patterns for induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) in different layers of the EC. We examined effects of three different stimulation patterns on LTP induction in layers I, II-III, and V of medial EC slices of the rat. The stimulation patterns we used were a single, long high-frequency train (1 sec at 100 Hz, repeated 3x), theta burst stimulation [TBS; 10 bursts (four pulses, 100 Hz) at 5 Hz, repeated 3x], and SPW-like burst stimulation [ SPWBS; three bursts (20 pulses, 200 Hz) at 2 Hz, repeated 6x]. Similar degrees of LTP were induced by the three stimulation patterns in layer I. In layers II--III and layer V, however, the largest degrees of LTP were induced by TBS and SPWBS, respectively. These results suggest that burst stimulation constructed to mimic naturally occurring patterns of neuronal activity in the corresponding layer is optimal for LTP induction in layers II-III and layer V of the EC. The differences may play important roles in shaping hippocampal-neocortical interactions in encoding and retrieval of memory.
Although many studies have demonstrated that neuronal responses are modulated by attention, the significance of this modulation for behavior is poorly understood. We recorded from neurons in the middle temporal (MT) and ventral intraparietal (VIP) areas in the visual cortex of two macaque monkeys while they performed a motion detection task under two conditions of spatial attention. The ability of the animals to detect the motion was reduced when they withdrew attention from the stimulus. Withdrawing attention also reduced neuronal responses to the motion in both the MT and VIP areas. To compare the neuronal and behavioral effects of attention, the amount of attentional modulation was expressed in units of stimulus strength. On average, attention modulated neuronal responses in MT less than needed to account for the attentional effect on behavior. The opposite was observed in VIP, where the average effect of attention on neuronal responses was greater than that needed to account for behavior. Similar results were obtained when the effects of attention on neuronal response and behavioral performance were compared using a parametric function of stimulus strength. Across neurons in both areas, attentional modulation of neuronal responses was more variable than, and uncorrelated with, attentional modulation of behavioral performance. These findings suggest that attention can alter the average relationship between neuronal activity in visual cortex and behavioral performance. Where this relationship is preserved may indicate which cortical regions are most closely associated with the behavior in a given task.
Pyloric muscles of the stomatogastric neuromuscular system of the lobster Panulirus interruptus produce highly deterministic (range, less than +/- 6% of mean amplitude) contractions in response to motor nerve stimulation with unchanging spike bursts containing physiological (5-10) spike numbers. Intracellular recordings of extrajunctional potentials (EJPs) evoked in these muscles by motor nerve stimulation revealed a large, apparently stochastic amplitude variation (range, +/- 36% of mean amplitude). These observations raised the question of how do electrical responses with a large amplitude variation give rise to deterministic muscle output? We show here that this question is likely resolved by (1) combinatorial averaging within individual muscle fibers of the multiple EJPs that occur in motor neuron bursts, and (2) averaging across muscle fibers whose electrical responses are uncorrelated. Synapses with high inherent variability are also present in vertebrate CNSs. Combinatorial averaging in multispike inputs would also reduce variation in postsynaptic response at these synapses. The data reported here provide further support that bursting presynaptic activity could make such synapses functionally deterministic as well.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) act as modulators in the CNS of vertebrates, but their role in motor pattern generation in particular is primarily unknown. The intracellular signaling mechanisms of the group I mGluRs (mGluR1 and mGluR5), and their endogenous role in regulating locomotor pattern generation have been investigated in the spinal cord of the lamprey. Application of the group I mGluR agonist (R,S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) produced oscillations of the intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) in neurons. The oscillations were blocked by the mGluR5 antagonist 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine (MPEP) but not by the mGluR1 antagonist 7-(hydroxyimino)cyclopropa[b]chromen-1a-carboxylate ethyl ester. These [Ca2+]i oscillations were abolished by a phospholipase C blocker and after depletion of internal Ca2+ stores by thapsigargin but did not involve protein kinase C activation. Furthermore, they were dependent on Ca2+ influx, because no [Ca2+]i oscillations were produced by DHPG in a Ca2+-free solution or after blockade of L-type Ca2+ channels. The mGluR5 is activated by an endogenous release of glutamate during locomotion, and a receptor blockade by MPEP caused an increase in the burst frequency. Thus, our results show that mGluR5 induces [Ca2+]i oscillations and regulates the activity of locomotor networks through endogenous activation.
Corticospinal neurons support rapid growth of axons toward spinal cord targets in the perinatal period. Initial axon growth is accompanied by elevated expression of growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43), which then declines in postnatal development. To investigate whether expression of GAP-43 mRNA is regulated by retrograde signals, we injected colchicine into the corticospinal tract to block retrograde axonal transport during a time when GAP-43 is normally declining in corticospinal neurons. Colchicine caused a prolongation of high GAP-43 mRNA expression in neurons located in layer V (but not other layers) of sensorimotor cortex. We next used osmotic minipumps to infuse soluble adult spinal cord extract into the sensorimotor cortex. This resulted in a premature downregulation of GAP-43 mRNA in identified corticospinal neurons. GAP-43 repressive activity was found in extracts of the spinal cord tissue as young as postnatal day 8. The effect of spinal cord extract in vivo was not mimicked by adult cerebellar or muscle extracts. Cultures of postnatal cortical neurons also underwent downregulation of GAP-43 mRNA when treated with spinal cord extract. Activation of cAMP signaling also repressed GAP-43 mRNA in cortical cultures, and the repressive effect of spinal cord extract was diminished by an adenyl cyclase inhibitor. Thus, GAP-43 mRNA may be downregulated late in development by a target-derived retrograde repressive factor, and this effect may be mediated by cAMP second messenger signaling.
Recent epidemiological and clinical data suggest that persons with low folic acid levels and elevated homocysteine levels are at increased risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the underlying mechanism is unknown. We tested the hypothesis that impaired one-carbon metabolism resulting from folic acid deficiency and high homocysteine levels promotes accumulation of DNA damage and sensitizes neurons to amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) toxicity. Incubation of hippocampal cultures in folic acid-deficient medium or in the presence of methotrexate (an inhibitor of folic acid metabolism) or homocysteine induced cell death and rendered neurons vulnerable to death induced by Abeta. Methyl donor deficiency caused uracil misincorporation and DNA damage and greatly potentiated Abeta toxicity as the result of reduced repair of Abeta-induced oxidative modification of DNA bases. When maintained on a folic acid-deficient diet, amyloid precursor protein (APP) mutant transgenic mice, but not wild-type mice, exhibited increased cellular DNA damage and hippocampal neurodegeneration. Levels of Abeta were unchanged in the brains of folate-deficient APP mutant mice. Our data suggest that folic acid deficiency and homocysteine impair DNA repair in neurons, which sensitizes them to oxidative damage induced by Abeta.
Principal neurons in the lateral nucleus of the amygdala (LA) exhibit a continuum of firing properties in response to prolonged current injections ranging from those that accommodate fully to those that fire repetitively. In most cells, trains of action potentials are followed by a slow afterhyperpolarization (AHP) lasting several seconds. Reducing calcium influx either by lowering concentrations of extracellular calcium or by applying nickel abolished the AHP, confirming it is mediated by calcium influx. Blockade of large conductance calcium-activated potassium channel (BK) channels with paxilline, iberiotoxin, or TEA revealed that BK channels are involved in action potential repolarization but only make a small contribution to the fast AHP that follows action potentials. The fast AHP was, however, markedly reduced by low concentrations of 4-aminopyridine and alpha-dendrotoxin, indicating the involvement of voltage-gated potassium channels in the fast AHP. The medium AHP was blocked by apamin and UCL1848, indicating it was mediated by small conductance calcium-activated potassium channel (SK) channels. Blockade of these channels had no effect on instantaneous firing. However, enhancement of the SK-mediated current by 1-ethyl-2-benzimidazolinone or paxilline increased the early interspike interval, showing that under physiological conditions activation of SK channels is insufficient to control firing frequency. The slow AHP, mediated by non-SK BK channels, was apamin-insensitive but was modulated by carbachol and noradrenaline. Tetanic stimulation of cholinergic afferents to the LA depressed the slow AHP and led to an increase in firing. These results show that BK, SK, and non-BK SK-mediated calcium-activated potassium currents are present in principal LA neurons and play distinct physiological roles.
High-frequency induced short-term synaptic depression is a common feature of central synapses in which synaptic responses rapidly decrease to a sustained level. A limitation in the availability of release-ready vesicles is thought to be a major factor underlying this phenomenon. Here, we studied the kinetics of vesicle reavailability and reuse during synaptic depression at hippocampal synapses. High-intensity stimulation of neurotransmitter release was induced by hyperosmolarity, high potassium, or action potential firing at 30 Hz to produce synaptic depression. Under these conditions, synaptic transmission rapidly depressed to a plateau level that was typically 10-40% of the initial response and persisted at this level for at least 5 min regardless of the developmental stage of synapses. This nondeclining phase of transmission was partly sustained by fast recycling and reuse of synaptic vesicles even after minutes of stimulation. Simultaneous electrical recording of postsynaptic responses and styryl dye destaining showed that after an initial round of exocytosis, vesicles were available for reuse with a delay between 1 and 3 sec during 30 Hz action potential or hypertonicity-induced stimulation. During these stimulation paradigms, there was a limited mobilization of vesicles from the reserve pool. During 10 Hz stimulation, however, the extent of vesicle reuse was minimal during the first 20 sec. These results suggest a role for fast vesicle recycling as a functional homeostatic mechanism that prevents vesicle depletion and maintains synaptic responses in the face of intense stimulation.
Generation of distinct cell types and numbers in developing cerebral cortex is subject to regulation by extracellular factors that positively or negatively control precursor proliferation. Although signals stimulating proliferation are well described, factors halting cell cycle progression are less well defined. At the molecular level, production and association of cyclins, cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs), and CDK inhibitors (CKIs) regulate cycle progression. We now report that the endogenous peptide, pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (PACAP), negatively regulates the cell cycle by inhibiting p57Kip2-dependent CDK2 activity in embryonic cortex. Protein levels of CDK2 and members of the CIP/KIP family of CKIs (p27Kip1, p57Kip2) were detected in developing rat cortex from embryonic day 13.5 through postnatal day 2. With advancing development, CDK2 protein levels decreased, whereas CKI expression increased, suggesting that stimulatory and inhibitory cycle proteins control cell cycle exit. Using a well defined, nonsynchronized, 8 hr precursor culture, PACAP decreased the fraction of cells crossing the G1/S boundary, inhibiting DNA synthesis by 35%. CDK2 kinase activity was inhibited 75% by PACAP, whereas kinase protein and its regulatory cyclin E subunit were unaffected. Moreover, decreased kinase activity was accompanied by a twofold increase in levels of p57Kip2 protein, but not p21Cip1 or p27Kip1, suggesting that p57Kip2 mediates PACAP anti-mitogenic effects. Indeed, immunoprecipitation of CDK2 complex revealed increased p57Kip2 association with the kinase and concomitant reduction in free inhibitor after PACAP exposure, suggesting that p57Kip2 interactions directly regulate CDK2 activity. These observations establish a mechanism whereby anti-mitogenic signals actively induce cell cycle withdrawal in developing cortex.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is implicated in long-term synaptic plasticity in the adult hippocampus, but the cellular mechanisms are little understood. Here we used intrahippocampal microinfusion of BDNF to trigger long-term potentiation (BDNF-LTP) at medial perforant path--granule cell synapses in vivo. BDNF infusion led to rapid phosphorylation of the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases ERK (extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase) and p38 but not JNK (c-Jun N-terminal protein kinase). These effects were restricted to the infused dentate gyrus; no changes were observed in microdissected CA3 and CA1 regions. Local infusion of MEK (MAP kinase kinase) inhibitors (PD98059 and U0126) during BDNF delivery abolished BDNF-LTP and the associated ERK activation. Application of MEK inhibitor during established BDNF-LTP had no effect. Activation of MEK-ERK is therefore required for the induction, but not the maintenance, of BDNF-LTP. BDNF-LTP was further coupled to ERK-dependent phosphorylation of the transcription factor cAMP response element-binding protein. Finally, we investigated the expression of two immediate early genes, activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein (Arc) and Zif268, both of which are required for generation of late, mRNA synthesis-dependent LTP. BDNF infusion resulted in selective upregulation of mRNA and protein for Arc. In situ hybridization showed that Arc transcripts are rapidly and extensively delivered to granule cell dendrites. U0126 blocked Arc upregulation in parallel with BDNF-LTP. The results support a model in which BDNF triggers long-lasting synaptic strengthening through MEK-ERK and selective induction of the dendritic mRNA species Arc.
Striatal spiny projection neurons control basal ganglia outputs via action potential bursts conveyed to the globus pallidus and substantia nigra. Accordingly, burst activity in these neurons contributes importantly to basal ganglia function and dysfunction. These bursts are driven by multiple corticostriatal inputs that depolarize spiny projection neurons from their resting potential of approximately -85 mV, which is the down-state, to a subthreshold up-state of -55 mV. To understand dendritic processing of bursts during up-states, changes in intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) were measured in striatal spiny projection neurons from cortex-striatum-substantia nigra organotypic cultures grown for 5-6 weeks using somatic whole-cell patch recording and Fura-2. During up-states, [Ca2+]i transients at soma and primary, secondary, and tertiary dendrites were highly correlated with burst strength (i.e., the number of spontaneous action potentials). During down-states, the action potentials evoked by somatic current pulses elicited [Ca2+]i transients in higher-order dendrites that were also correlated with burst strength. Evoked bursts during up-states increased dendritic [Ca2+]i transients supralinearly by &gt;200% compared with the down-state. In the presence of tetrodotoxin, burst-like voltage commands failed to elicit [Ca2+]i transients at higher-order dendrites. Thus, dendritic [Ca2+]i transients in spiny projection neurons encode somatic bursts supralinearly during up-states through active propagation of action potentials along dendrites. We suggest that this conveys information about the contribution of a spiny projection neuron to a basal ganglia output specifically back to the corticostriatal synapses involved in generating these outputs.

Although there is substantial evidence concerning the influence of nicotine on nitric oxide (NO) synthesis in the vascular system, there are fewer studies concerning the central nervous system. Although NO metabolites (nitrates/nitrites) increase in several rat brain regions after chronic injection of nicotine, the cellular origin of this rise in NO levels is not known. The aim of the present work was to assess the effects of repetitive nicotine administration on nitric oxide synthase (NOS) expression and activity in male and female rat brains. To determine levels of nitrate/nitrite, the Griess reaction was carried out in tissue micropunched from the frontal cortex, striatum, and accumbens of both male and female rats untreated (nave) or injected with saline or nicotine (0.4 mg/kg for 15 days). In parallel, coronal sections of fixed brains from equally treated animals were immunostained for neuronal NOS or histochemically labelled for NADPH-diaphorase activity. Nicotine treatment increased NO metabolites significantly in all brain regions compared with nave or saline-treated rats. By contrast, analysis of the planimetric counting of NOS/NADPH-diaphorase-positive neurons failed to demonstrate any significant effect of the nicotine treatment. A significant decrease was observed with both techniques employed in saline-injected female rats compared with nave animals, suggesting a stress response. The mismatch between the biochemical and the histological data after chronic nicotine treatment is discussed. The up-regulation of NO sources other than neurons is proposed.
Secreted phospholipases A2 (sPLA2s) modulate neuronal survival and neurotransmitter release. Here we show that sPLA2 (group III) synergistically increases glutamate-induced cell death and intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i) in cultured primary cortical and hippocampal neurons. Whereas 1 microM glutamate elicited transient [Ca2+]i increases in all neurons that recovered 66% to baseline, 25 ng/ml sPLA2 pretreatment resulted in sustained [Ca2+]i increases, with only 5% recovery. At 250 nM glutamate, 25% of neurons failed to respond, and the average recovery time was 101 +/- 12 sec; sPLA2 increased recovery time to 158 +/- 6 sec, and only 2% of cells failed to respond. Both the noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist MK-801 and the calcium-channel blocker cobalt inhibited this effect. Experiments with the glutamate uptake inhibitor L-trans-pyrollidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid (2.5 microM) indicated that glutamate uptake sites are not a likely modulation point by sPLA2, whereas arachidonic acid (AA) potentiated calcium responses to glutamate. Thus the enhancement of glutamate-induced [Ca2+]i increases by sPLA2 may be due to modulation at NMDA receptors and/or calcium channels by AA. These results indicate that sPLA2 affects neuronal responses to both nontoxic (0.1-10 microM) and toxic (=25 microM) concentrations of glutamate, implicating this enzyme in neuronal functions in pathology.

Valid and reliable animal models are essential for mechanistic and therapeutic studies of traumatic brain injury (TBI). Therefore, model characterization is a continual and reciprocal process between the experimental laboratory and the clinic. Several excellent experimental models of TBI, including the lateral fluid percussion rat model, are currently in wide use in many neurotrauma laboratories. However, small differences in the position of lateral fluid percussion craniectomy are reported between labs. Additionally, differences in hippocampal cell death have also been reported. Therefore, we hypothesized that small changes in craniectomy position could affect commonly used outcome measures such as vestibulomotor function, Morris water maze (MWM) performance, hippocampal cell loss, and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunoreactivity. Four placements were systematically manipulated: rostral, caudal, medial, and lateral. The medial and caudal placements produced significantly greater impairments in the MWM acquisition task over the lateral and rostral placements. The rostral placement produced diffuse cortical damage but little hippocampal cell loss. In contrast, the medial, lateral, and caudal placements produced more mid-dorsally localized cortical damage and significant cell loss in the CA2/CA3 and hilus ipsilateral to the injury site. Furthermore, reactive astrocytosis was more pronounced in the medial, lateral, and caudal placements than in the rostral placement. All craniectomy position groups had similar durations of traumatic unconsciousness and similar impairment on motor tasks. We conclude that small alterations in craniectomy position produce differences in cognitive performance, hippocampal cell loss, and reactive astrocytosis but not in motor performance nor transient unconsciousness.


Opioid analgesia is influenced by many factors, including the sigma1 receptor system. Current studies show the importance of supraspinal mechanisms in these sigma1actions. Given supraspinally, the sigma1receptor agonist (+)pentazocine diminished systemic mu, delta, kappa1, and kappa3 opioid analgesia in CD-1 mice. There was a trend for the kappa drugs to be more sensitive to the fixed dose of (+)pentazocine, although the differences did not achieve statistical significance. In contrast to its actions supraspinally, (+)pentazocine was without effect against morphine when both were given spinally. These findings are consistent with a supraspinal site of anti-opioid action of (+)pentazocine. Down-regulating supraspinal sigma1binding sites using an antisense approach potentiated mu, delta, kappa1, and kappa3 analgesia in CD-1 mice. Although equally responsive to mu drugs, BALB-c mice are far less sensitive to kappa analgesics than CD-1 mice. Earlier studies reported that these different responses to kappa drugs between CD-1 and BALB-c were eliminated by the concurrent administration of haloperidol, a sigma1 antagonist. Antisense treatment of BALB-c mice markedly enhanced the response to kappa drugs, as well as morphine. This enhanced response following antisense treatment was similar to that seen with haloperidol. These observations confirm the importance of sigma1 receptors as a modulatory system influencing the analgesic activity of opioid drugs.
The insulinotropic hormone glucagon-like peptide-1 (7-36)-amide (GLP-1) has potent effects on glucose-dependent insulin secretion, insulin gene expression, and pancreatic islet cell formation and is presently in clinical trials as a therapy for type 2 diabetes mellitus. We report on the effects of GLP-1 and two of its long-acting analogs, exendin-4 and exendin-4 WOT, on neuronal proliferation and differentiation, and on the metabolism of two neuronal proteins in the rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cell line, which has been shown to express the GLP-1 receptor. We observed that GLP-1 and exendin-4 induced neurite outgrowth in a manner similar to nerve growth factor (NGF), which was reversed by coincubation with the selective GLP-1 receptor antagonist exendin (9-39). Furthermore, exendin-4 could promote NGF-initiated differentiation and may rescue degenerating cells after NGF-mediated withdrawal. These effects were induced in the absence of cellular dysfunction and toxicity as quantitatively measured by 3-(4,5-cimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide and lactate dehydrogenase assays, respectively. Our findings suggest that such peptides may be used in reversing or halting the neurodegenerative process observed in neurodegenerative diseases, such as the peripheral neuropathy associated with type 2 diabetes mellitus and Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Due to its novel twin action, GLP-1 and exendin-4 have therapeutic potential for the treatment of diabetic peripheral neuropathy and these central nervous system disorders.
Although it has been established that oxidative stress mediates cytotoxicity by familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD)-linked mutants of presenilin (PS)1 and that pertussis toxin inhibits cytotoxicity by FAD-linked N141I-PS2, it has not been determined whether oxidative stress is involved in cytotoxicity by N141I-PS2 or which pertussis toxin-sensitive proteins mediate the cytotoxicity. Here we report that low expression of N141I-PS2 caused neuronal cell death, whereas low expression of wild-type PS2 did not. Cytotoxicities by low and high expression of N141I-PS2 occurred through dissimilar mechanisms: the former cytotoxicity was blocked by a cell-permeable caspase inhibitor, and the latter was not. Since both mechanisms were sensitive to a cell-permeable antioxidant, we examined potential sources of reactive oxygen species in each mechanism, and found that the caspase inhibitor-sensitive neurotoxicity by N141I-PS2 was likely through NADPH oxidase and the caspase inhibitor-resistant neurotoxicity by N141I-PS2 through xanthine oxidase. Pertussis toxin greatly suppressed both toxic mechanisms by N141I-PS2, and only Galpha(o), a neuron-enriched pertussis toxin-sensitive G protein, was involved in both mechanisms. We therefore conclude that N141I-PS2 is capable of triggering multiple neurotoxic mechanisms, which can be inhibited by the combination of clinically usable inhibitors of NADPH oxidase and xanthine oxidase. This study thus provides a novel insight into the therapeutic intervention of PS2 mutant-associated FAD.
We investigated the role of the hyperpolarization-activated mixed cation current, I(H), in the control of spontaneous action potential firing of rat cerebellar Purkinje neurons in brain slices. Extracellular recordings revealed that the continual action potential firing of Purkinje neurons was disrupted by the pharmacological blockade of I(H). Blockade of I(H) revealed spontaneous transitions between periods of tonic action potential firing and quiescence, without effects on the frequency or variance of action potential generation. Whole-cell recordings revealed that blockade of I(H) unmasked a form of membrane potential bistability, where transitions between tonic firing and quiescent states (separated by approximately 20 mV) were evoked by excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials, or by the delivery of brief (20 ms) somatic or dendritic positive and negative current pulses. The stable upper state of tonic action potential firing was maintained by the recruitment of axo-somatic voltage-activated sodium, but not calcium, channels. Negative modulation of I(H) by serotonin unmasked bistability, indicating that bistability of Purkinje neurons is likely to occur under physiological conditions. These data indicate that I(H) acts as a 'safety net', maintaining the membrane potential of Purkinje neurons within the range necessary for the generation of tonic action potential firing. Following the downregulation of I(H), synaptic inhibition can generate long periods (seconds) of quiescence, the duration of which can be controlled by climbing fibre activation and by the underlying 'tone' of parallel fibre activity.
Ion channels from bovine neurohypophysial secretory granules (NSG) were incorporated into artificial lipid bilayers. Specific antibodies against identified synaptic vesicle proteins were tested on such incorporated channel activity and on peptide release from rat permeabilized neurohypophysial terminals. Both the NSG cation channel and Ca(2+)-dependent release were inhibited by only SY-38, a monoclonal antibody directed against the C-terminus of synaptophysin. SY-38 and Ca(2+) altered both the gating and conductance of the NSG cation channel, but in opposite ways. The close correlation between SY-38 effects on Ca(2+)-dependent channel activity and release leads us to conclude that this synaptophysin-like NSG channel is directly involved in peptide secretion from these central nervous system terminals.
Melatonin, a neuroendocrine transducer of photoperiod, influences a number of physiological functions and behaviors through specific seven transmembrane domains receptors. We report here the first full-length cloning and functional characterization of a melatonin receptor (P2.6) in a fish, the pike (Teleost). P2.6 encodes a protein that is approximately 80% identical to melatonin receptors previously isolated partially in non-mammals and classified as members of the Mel(1b) subtype; but, it shares only 61% identity with the full-length human Mel(1b) melatonin receptor (hMT2). Expression of P2.6 results in ligand binding characteristics similar to that described for endogenous melatonin receptors. Selective antagonists of the hMT2 (4-phenyl-2-propionamidotetraline and luzindole) were poor competitors of 2-[125I]iodomelatonin binding to the recombinant receptor. In Chinese hamster ovary cells expressing both the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator chloride channel and P2.6 receptor, melatonin counteracted the forskolin induced activation of the channel. The results are best explained by a selective inhibition of the adenylyl cyclase. By reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, P2.6 mRNA appeared expressed in the optic tectum and, to lesser extent, in the retina and pituitary. In conclusion, these results, together with those of a phylogenetic analysis, suggest that P2.6 might belong to a distinct subtype group within the vertebrate melatonin receptor family.
Genetically engineered mice with a specific deletion of targeted genes provide a novel and useful tool to study the endogenous mechanisms underlying aberrant behaviour. In this review we take the stress hormone (hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical) system as an example to demonstrate how refined molecular technologies have allowed to target individual genes involved in stress hormone regulation. We describe different gene targeting methods: the generation of &quot;conventional&quot; knock-out mice enables us to delete a gene of interest in every cell of the body. Equally important for the studies of gene function in the mouse is the use of tissue-specific regulatory systems that allow gene inactivation to be restricted to specific tissues and, in some cases, to specific time points during development, such as the &quot;conditional&quot; knock-out, or the application of antisense techniques. Importantly, deletion of individual genes is not providing animal models for certain psychiatric disorders as these are caused by a manifold of minor changes in a series of so-called susceptibility genes. However, these gene targeting methods have become valuable tools to dissect the functions of individual components of complex biological systems in behavioural neuroscience: genetically engineered animals help to unravel the complex interactions and correlations between individual genes, hormonal regulation and behaviour, the most complex form of biological organization.
Event-related potentials (ERPs) were used to investigate whether the processing of subject-verb dependencies is influenced by (1) the linear distance between the subject and the verb and (2) the presence of an intervening noun phrase with interfering number features. Linear distance did not affect integration and diagnosis or revision processes at the verb, as indexed by early negative and P600 components. This is in accordance with hierarchy-based models of reanalysis, but is problematic for distance-based integration models. However, tracking of the subject features is affected by linear factors: more judgment errors were made in the long compared to the short condition. Furthermore, the presence of a plural object between the singular subject and the verb led to more judgment errors, and an enhanced positivity around 250 ms for the grammatical verbs. This suggests that linear factors affect feature tracking, but not integration processes following feature retrieval or repair processes following the detection of a mismatch.
Conventional antipsychotic medication is commonly prescribed to patients with autistic spectrum disorder. However, a high incidence of severe adverse reactions highlights the need to find more favourable treatments. Atypical antipsychotics may combine efficacy in ameliorating some autistic symptoms with a lower incidence of some adverse reactions. This article reviews the use of atypical antipsychotics in autistic disorder, with particular focus on behaviour, cognition and physical well-being. Thirteen studies using risperidone, three using olanzapine, one using clozapine, one using amisulpride and one using quetiapine were identified. Few firm conclusions can be drawn due to the limitations of the studies; however, there is an indication that risperidone may be effective in reducing hyperactivity, aggression and repetitive behaviours, often without inducing severe adverse reactions. Olanzapine and clozapine may also be effective; however, there is little evidence for using amisulpride or quetiapine in this population. Randomized trials are required to clarify the effectiveness of these agents.
Muscle resistance was evaluated by measurement of movement-provoked torque performed during simultaneous thigh muscle EMG recordings in individuals with a motor complete spinal cord injury (SCI). Fifteen men with a motor complete (ASIA grade A or B) cervical injury participated in the study. The activity started at an average of 0.11 seconds after the start of the provoking movement as evidenced by EMG recordings. However, no activity at all was found before the end of the movement provocation for 0.3 seconds in &gt;60% of the test situations, whereas muscle torque was recorded in all cases. Significantly higher resistive muscle torque (p = 0.049) was provoked during extension movement compared with that of flexion. On the contrary, the maximum muscle activity was significantly higher (p = 0.009) during flexion movement compared with that during extension, with no differences between muscle groups. The resistive muscle torque seems to measure the passive viscoelastic component rather then the active spastic component of the movement-provoked muscle resistance in our group of motor complete SCI individuals.
In relapsing-remitting (RR) multiple sclerosis (MS), conventional magnetic resonance (MR) imaging (MRI) has proved to be a valuable tool to assess the lesion burden and activity over time. However, conventional MRI cannot characterize and quantify the tissue damage within and outside such lesions and only can provide some gross measures reflecting the presence of irreversible tissue damage, such as the load of T1 &quot;black holes&quot; and the severity of brain or cord atrophy. Other MR-based techniques, including cell-specific imaging, magnetization transfer (MT) MRI (MT-MRI), diffusion-weighted (DW) MRI (DW-MRI), proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H-MRS), and functional MRI (fMRI), have the potential to overcome this limitation and, consequently, to provide additional information about the nature and the extent of MS tissue damage, which would inevitably remain undetected when only a conventional MRI is obtained. Cell-specific imaging should result in a better definition of the cellular mechanisms associated with MS inflammation. Metrics derived from MT- and DW-MRI can quantify the structural changes occurring within and outside lesions visible on conventional MRI scans. 1H-MRS could add information on the biochemical nature of such changes. fMRI is a promising technique to assess the mechanisms of cortical reorganization, which may limit the consequences of an MS-related injury. The application of these MR techniques to the study of RRMS is likely to provide useful insights into the pathophysiology of this disease and to improve our ability to assess the efficacy of experimental treatments.
Sodium channels are expressed at high density in myelinated axons and play an obligatory role in conducting action potentials along axons within the mammalian brain and spinal cord. It is not surprising, therefore, that they are involved in several aspects of the pathophysiology of multiple sclerosis (MS). First, the deployment of additional sodium channels to demyelinated parts of the axon (which had expressed low densities of sodium channels when covered by the myelin) provides a molecular substrate for the restoration of action potential conduction, a process that contributes to remissions in patients with MS. Second, there is evidence for changes in the expression pattern of sodium channels within Purkinje cells, both in animal models of MS and in human MS. It has been hypothesized that dysregulated sodium channel expression may contribute to symptom production in MS. If this hypothesis is correct, subtype-specific channel blockade may be therapeutically effective as a symptomatic treatment for ataxia and other cerebellar symptoms in MS. Finally, a noninactivating sodium conductance can trigger calcium-mediated axonal injury via reverse sodium-calcium exchange. Identifying the underlying channel may permit the development of therapeutic strategies that will prevent or retard axonal degeneration in MS.

The release of neurotoxins by activated brain macrophages or microglia is one mechanism proposed to contribute to the development of neurological disease following infection by lentiviruses, including feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV). Since molecular diversity in the lentiviral envelope gene influences the expression of host molecules implicated in neuronal injury, the role of the envelope sequence in FIV neuropathogenesis was investigated by using the neurovirulent FIV strain V1CSF, the nonneurovirulent strain Petaluma, and a chimera (FIVCh) containing the V1CSF envelope gene in a Petaluma background. All three viruses replicated in primary feline macrophages with equal efficiency, but conditioned medium from V1CSF- or FIVCh-infected cells was significantly more neurotoxic than medium from Petaluma-infected cultures (P &lt; 0.001) and could be attenuated in a dose-dependent manner by treatment with either the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) inhibitor prinomastat (PMT) or function-blocking antibodies to MMP-2. Although FIV sequences were detectable by PCR in brain tissue from neonatal cats infected with each of the viral strains, immunohistochemistry revealed increased astrogliosis and macrophage activation in the brains of V1CSF- and FIVCh-infected cats relative to the other groups, together with elevated markers of neuronal stress that included morphological changes and increased c-fos immunoreactivity. Similarly, MMP-2, but not MMP-9, mRNA and protein expression was increased in brain tissues of V1CSF- and FIVCh-infected cats relative to Petaluma-infected animals (P &lt; 0.01). Infection with V1CSF or FIVCh was also associated with greater CD4(+) cell depletion (P &lt; 0.001) and neurodevelopmental delays (P &lt; 0.005), than in Petaluma-infected animals; these deficits improved following PMT therapy. These findings indicated that diversity in the envelope gene sequence influenced the neurovirulence exhibited by FIV both in vitro and in vivo, possibly through a mechanism involving the differential induction of MMP-2.
During the first 45 days after intracerebral infection with Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus (TMEV), the levels of mRNAs encoding chemokines MCP-1/CCL2, RANTES/CCL5, and IP-10/CXCL10 in the central nervous system (CNS) are closely related to the sites of virus gene expression and tissue inflammation. In the present study, these chemokines were monitored during the latter 135 days of a 6-month course of TMEV-induced disease in susceptible (PLJ) or resistant (C57BL/6) mice that possessed or lacked either CD4+ or CD8+ T cells. These data were additionally correlated to mouse genotype, virus persistence in the CNS, antiviral antibody titers, mortality, and the severity of neurological disease. Surprisingly, the major determinant of chemokine expression was virus persistence: the factors of susceptible or resistant genotype, severity of neuropathology, and presence or absence of regulatory T cells exerted minimal effects. Our observations indicated that chemokine expression in the CNS in this chronic viral disorder was intrinsic to the CNS innate immune response to infection and was not governed by elements of the adaptive immune system.
The feasibility of imaging a curved slice with a single-shot technique so that the reconstructed image shows an un-warping of the slice is examined. This could be of practical importance when the anatomical structures of interest can be more efficiently covered with curved slices than with a series of flat planes. One possible example of such a structure is the cortex of the human brain. Functional imaging would especially benefit from this technique because several planar images can be replaced by a few curved slice images. A method is introduced that is based on multidimensional pulses to excite the desired curved slice profile. A GRASE imaging sequence is then applied that is tailored to the k-space representation of the curved slice. This makes it possible to capture the in-plane information of the slice with a single-shot technique. The method presented is limited to slices that are straight along one axis and can be approximated by a polygon. Reconstruction is performed using a simple numeric Fourier integration along the curved slice. This leads to an image that shows the desired un-warped representation of the slice. Experimental results obtained with this method from healthy volunteers are presented and demonstrate the feasibility of the proposed technique.
The colour of tattooed skin has been predicted by a Monte Carlo method based on the optical coefficient spectra of the skin and tattoo dyes. Slices of pig skin, a tattoo phantom and skin phantoms with different thickness were prepared, and their reflectance and transmittance spectra were measured using an integrating sphere at wavelengths varying from 400nm to 700nm. The absorption and scattering coefficient spectra of skin phantoms, pig skins and the tattoo phantom were each calculated using the inverse Monte Carlo method. The skin phantoms and pig skins were overlaid on the tattoo phantom, and the reflectance spectra of the two-layered structures were measured. The reflectance spectra of the two-layered structures were calculated from the optical coefficient spectra using the Monte Carlo method. They agreed well with the measured spectra. The colour differences between the calculated and measured spectra were also evaluated by the L*a*b* colour space distances and showed good agreement, with 3.49 for the skin phantoms and 8.27 for the pig skins.
The general linear model provides the most widely applied statistical framework for analyzing functional MRI (fMRI) data. With the increasing temporal resolution of recent scanning protocols, and more elaborate data preprocessing schemes, data independency is no longer a valid assumption. In this paper, we revise the statistical background of the general linear model in the presence of temporal autocorrelations. First, when detecting the activation signal, we explicitly account for the temporal autocorrelation structure, which yields a generalized F-test and the associated corrected (or effective) degrees of freedom (DOF). The proposed approach is data driven and thus independent of any specific preprocessing method. Then, for event-related protocols, we propose a new model for the temporal autocorrelations (&quot;damped oscillator&quot; model) and compare this model to another, previously used in the field (first-order autoregressive model, or AR(1) model). In the case of long fMRI time series, an efficient approximation for the number of effective DOF is provided for both models. Finally, the validity of our approach is assessed using simulated and real fMRI data and is compared with more conventional methods.
Epidermoid cysts of the central nervous system are described as rare, benign, slow growing lesions with a history of high rate of recurrence even after surgical removal. This lesion is rarely located at the cerebellopontine angle and is found to be composed of solid and cystic components with close adherence to vital neurovascular structures that might complicate its removal. We present a rare case of a twenty-five year old housewife with signs and symptoms of increased intracranial pressure due to the above pathology after multiple episodes of intra-tumoral bleeding. Microneurosurgical techniques were used for tumour dissection and excision. The patient recovered well after a three-year follow-up. This is the fourth example in the index medicus of bleeding seen in a histopathologically proven cerebellopontine angle intraepidermoid cyst.
Increased binding sites for &quot;peripheral-type&quot; benzodiazepine receptor (PTBR) ligands have been described in a wide range of neurological disorders including both human and experimental epilepsy. This study was undertaken to assess PTBR expression in relation to the presence of hippocampal sclerosis in human temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). For this purpose, hippocampal CA1 subfields were dissected from surgical samples from patients with therapy-refractive TLE with (n = 5) or without (n = 2) hippocampal sclerosis and from age-matched nonepileptic postmortem controls (n = 5). PTBR expression was assessed by immunohistochemistry and reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction. Receptor sites were evaluated using an in vitro binding assay and the selective PTBR ligand [3H]PK11195. Epileptic patients with hippocampal sclerosis showed increases in PTBR binding sites, immunoreactivity, and mRNA expression compared to both nonsclerotic TLE patients and postmortem nonepileptic controls. Induction of PTBR expression and binding sites were directly correlated with the presence of hippocampal sclerosis and the accompanying reactive gliosis.
AIDS patients frequently exhibit neurological disorders due to the neurotoxic events that result from HIV-1 and/or opportunistic infections in the brain. This review examines recent clinical findings related to HIV-1-associated dementia, and outlines current areas of basic research that may clarify how HIV-1-associated encephalopathy produces clinical symptoms of brain dysfunction.
A new method is described for isolating and identifying proteins participating in protein-protein interactions in a complex mixture. The method uses a cyanogen bromide-activated Sepharose matrix to isolate proteins that are non-covalently bound to other proteins. Because the proteins are accessible to chemical manipulation, mass spectrometric identification of the proteins can yield information on specific classes of interacting proteins, such as calcium-dependent or substrate-dependent protein interactions. This permits selection of a subpopulation of proteins from a complex mixture on the basis of specified interaction criteria. The new method has the advantage of screening the entire proteome simultaneously, unlike the two-hybrid system or phage display, which can only detect proteins binding to a single bait protein at a time. The method was tested by selecting rat brain extract for proteins exhibiting calcium-dependent protein interactions. Of 12 proteins identified by mass spectrometry, eight were either known calcium-binding proteins or proteins with known calcium-dependent protein interactions, indicating that the method is capable of enriching a subpopulation of proteins from a complex mixture on the basis of a specific class of protein interactions. Because only naturally occurring interactions of proteins in their native state are observed, this method will have wide applicability to studies of protein interactions in tissue samples and autopsy specimens, for screening for perturbations of protein-protein interactions by signaling molecules, pharmacological agents or toxins, and screening for differences between cancerous and untransformed cells.

High doses of nicotine, the addictive component of tobacco, induce clonic-tonic seizures in animals. Pharmacological and biochemical data have suggested that alpha 7-containing neuronal nicotinic receptors (nAChRs) contribute to these seizures. To study potential alpha 7 contributions, we examined alpha 7 subunits with a Leu250-to-Thr substitution in the channel domain, which creates a gain-of-function mutation. Previous studies have shown that mice homozygous for the alpha 7 L250T mutation (T/T) die shortly after birth, but animals heterozygous for the mutation (+/T) are viable and grow to adulthood. Hippocampal neurons from the +/T mice exhibited altered alpha 7-type currents with increased amplitudes and slower desensitization kinetics, confirming a partial gain of function for the alpha 7 nAChR. We found that +/T mice were more sensitive to the convulsant effects of nicotine compared with their wild-type (+/+) littermates. Furthermore, although their behavior was normal in basal conditions, +/T mice showed a unique nicotine-induced phenotype, consisting of head-bobbing and paw-tapping movements. Increased sensitivity to nicotine-induced seizures occurred despite a 60% decline in brain alpha 7 nAChR protein levels. There were no changes in the levels of alpha 4, alpha 5, alpha 6, alpha 7, beta 2, and beta 4 mRNA, or in [(125)I]epibatidine and [(3)H]nicotine binding between +/T and +/+ mice. Recent data from our laboratory show that alpha 7-null mice maintain normal sensitivity to nicotine-induced seizures. Hence, these present findings suggest that alterations in the properties rather than absence of alpha 7 nAChRs might affect the mechanisms underlying the convulsive properties of nicotine.
The literature on the involvement of the autonomic nervous system (ANS) in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is conflicting. We therefore investigated several aspects of autonomic function, namely muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA), blood pressure, cardiac function (electrocardiogram; ECG), and respiration in 16 patients with sporadic ALS and in 12 age-matched healthy volunteers, both at rest and during sympathoexcitatory stimulation. We measured MSNA by provoking venous pooling during short-lasting lower body negative pressure (LBNP) and during the cold pressor test (CPT). To assess the vagal (baroreflex) control of heart rate (HR), we measured spontaneous baroreflex sensitivity (BRS). To assess the involvement of the ANS beyond the cardiovascular system, we measured the sympathetic skin response (SSR). The stand-up test showed that none of the subjects had orthostatic intolerance. In comparison with the control group, the ALS patients had an increased HR and a decreased BRS at rest, and a reduced MSNA response to LBNP. The CPT response was normal and the total MSNA at rest did not differ significantly from that of controls. The latencies of the palmar and plantar SSR were prolonged, and in 3 ALS patients there was no plantar SSR. The results indicate that the sympathetic nervous system shows subtle abnormalities in ALS, predominantly sympathetic overactivity. They also point to the involvement of the preganglionic sympathetic column as the cause of the higher sympathetic activity and the absence of SSR. The higher sympathetic activity is postulated to be due to changes in modulation of the sympathetic system, whereas the absence of the SSR is probably caused by disruption of the reflex pathway.
Chronic denervation syndromes such as the post-polio syndrome are associated with progressive muscle weakness and fatigue after motoneuron death. Neither the etiology nor the management of these syndromes is clear. To address this issue, we partially denervated rat hindlimb muscles for 1 or 12 months and examined whether chronically enlarged motor units (MUs) become destabilized with time and further destabilized by daily running on exercise wheels. MU enlargement, measured electrophysiologically and morphologically was significantly reduced at 12 months in extensively denervated muscles, and to a lesser extent in moderately denervated muscles, as compared to the findings at 1 month. A 1-month period of running exercise further reduced the size of the chronically enlarged MUs in the extensively denervated muscles. We have therefore (1) successfully established a rat model of time-related MU size reduction, in which destabilization of chronically enlarged MUs results in loss of axonal terminals, and (2) demonstrated that nonphysiological activity has small but significant effects of further destabilizing the chronically enlarged MUs.

Successful social interaction partly depends on appraisal of others from their facial appearance. A critical aspect of this appraisal relates to whether we consider others to be trustworthy. We determined the neural basis for such trustworthiness judgments using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging. Subjects viewed faces and assessed either trustworthiness or age. In a parametric factorial design, trustworthiness ratings were correlated with BOLD signal change to reveal task-independent increased activity in bilateral amygdala and right insula in response to faces judged untrustworthy. Right superior temporal sulcus (STS) showed enhanced signal change during explicit trustworthiness judgments alone. The findings extend a proposed model of social cognition by highlighting a functional dissociation between automatic engagement of amygdala versus intentional engagement of STS in social judgment.
Recent discoveries about how the central nervous system responds to injury and how patients reacquire lost behaviours by training have yielded promising new therapies for neurorehabilitation. Until recently, this field had been largely static, but the current melding of basic behavioural science with neuroscience promises entirely new approaches to improving behavioural, perceptual and cognitive capabilities after neurological damage. Studies of phenomena such as cortical reorganization after a lesion, central nervous system repair, and the substantial enhancement of extremity use and linguistic function by behavioural therapy, support this emerging view. The ongoing changes in rehabilitation strategies might well amount to an impending paradigm shift in this field.
Innate immunity was previously thought to be a nonspecific immunological programme that was engaged by peripheral organs to maintain homeostasis after stress and injury. Emerging evidence indicates that this highly organized response also takes place in the central nervous system. Through the recognition of neuronal fingerprints, the long-term induction of the innate immune response and its transition to an adaptive form might be central to the pathophysiology and aetiology of neurodegenerative disorders. Paradoxically, this response also protects neurons by favouring remyelination and trophic support afforded by glial cells.
This experiment determined if pinealectomy (PX) affects the consequences of chronic, moderate brain ischemia. Rats were pinealectomized at 25 days of age and trained at 9 months on a tactile radial maze. They then underwent permanent occlusion of the common carotid arteries (2VO) or sham surgery, followed by maze retraining and then neurohistological assessment at 16 months. Combined PX + 2VO rats committed more working memory errors on the maze. 2VO itself caused a 10% reduction in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cell number. PX alone caused a 21% reduction. Combined PX and 2VO caused the greatest reduction (32%) of CA1 cells. Similar results were seen for CA4. PX also increased glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity in both CA1 and CA4. Thus PX not only augmented the consequences of chronic brain ischemia but notably, PX itself caused hippocampal damage. These effects seemed not to result from the small cortical lesion caused by the PX procedure. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that endogenous melatonin is a neuroprotectant in the aging brain.
Impaired sensory perception is a well-established stigma of aging and whereas loss of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons is marginal there is a specific pattern of reduced peripheral sensory innervation. To resolve if similar regressive processes occur in the central innervation, peripheral nerves were injected with markers for unmyelinated (isolectin B4) or myelinated (cholera toxin B subunit; CTB) DRG neurons. The results were a dramatic decrease of primary sensory endings in the spinal cord of aged rats following transganglionic labeling with CTB, and also to a lesser degree with B4. Profile counting and frequency estimates showed that the reduction of CTB labeled profiles not was caused by impaired axonal uptake, slowed axonal transport of CTB, or by a loss of myelinated fibers in the peripheral nerve. At the ultrastructural level, peripheral nerves showed the classical hallmarks of aging, with more pronounced alterations in myelinated than unmyelinated axons. Taken together, sensory deprivation in senescence appears to be a distal process in DRG neurons involving both peripheral and central target disconnection. Finally, preliminary data indicates that the substantial reduction in mechanoreceptive input to the central nervous system co-varies with the degree of sensorimotor impairment of the aged individuals.

A novel presenilin 1 mutation, insR352, associated with a frontal temporal dementia phenotype has been identified (E. A. Rogaeva et al., 2001, Neurology 57, 621-625). This mutation does not increase Abeta42 levels, but instead acts as dominant negative presenilin, decreasing amyloid beta protein (Abeta) production by inhibiting gamma-secretase cleavage of the Abeta precursor. The distinct clinical phenotype associated with this mutation suggests that chronic partial inhibition of gamma-secretase activity may result in neurodegeneration.
Cisplatin causes apoptosis of DRG neurons in vitro and in vivo that can be prevented by high dose NGF. Design of a neuronal rescue strategy for patients receiving cisplatin will be facilitated by knowledge of the mechanism by which cisplatin causes DRG death. Inhibition of the fas receptor/ligand interaction prevents apoptosis in certain cancer cell lines treated with DNA damaging agents, including cisplatin. We demonstrated that killing curves from mice lacking a functional fas receptor and wild-type controls were not different over a wide range of therapeutically relevant concentrations. However, cisplatin treatment of DRG caused redistribution of cytosolic bax and mitochondrial release of cytochrome c. Bax redistribution was prevented by high dose NGF. This demonstrates for the first time that cisplatin does not signal for death via the fas pathway, but it does initiate the mitochondrial stress pathway in neurons and that NGF blocks death upstream of bax redistribution.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) were continuously delivered to the striatum at biologically active levels via recombinant adeno-associated viral (rAAV) gene transfer 4-5 weeks prior to 30 min of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). The magnitude of the deficits in a battery of behavioral tests designed to assess striatal function was highly correlated to the extent of ischemic damage determined by unbiased stereological estimations of striatal neuron numbers. The delivery of neurotrophins lead to mild functional improvements in the ischemia-induced motor impairments assessed 3-5 weeks after the insult, in agreement with a small but significant increase of the survival of dorsolateral striatal neurons. Detailed phenotypic analysis demonstrated that the parvalbumin-containing interneurons were spared to a greater extent by the neurotrophin treatment as compared to the projection neurons, which agreed with the specificity for interneuron transduction by the rAAV vector. These data show the advantage of the never previously performed combination of precise quantification of the ischemia-induced neuropathology along with detailed behavioural analysis for assessing neuroprotection after stroke. We observe that intrastriatal delivery of NGF and BDNF using a viral vector system can mitigate, albeit only moderately, neuronal death following stroke, which leads to detectable functional sparing.
Mutations in the cytosolic enzyme, superoxide dismutase 1, have been identified as the cause of motor neuron disease in a subset of cases of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. It has been postulated that the injurious property of mutant enzyme resides in its propensity to aggregate or its propensity to catalyze deleterious, copper-mediated, chemistries. Aggregates of SOD1 have been identified, histologically, in neurons and astroglia of the spinal cords of SOD1-linked FALS patients and in transgenic mice that express these mutant proteins. In the present study, we have employed a technique used in detecting and quantifying aggregates of mutant huntingtin (cellulose acetate filtration) to examine the molecular characteristics of mutant SOD1 in three previously characterized transgenic mouse models of FALS. We show that the brains and spinal cords of these mice accumulate mutant SOD1 complexes that can be trapped by cellulose acetate filtration. The relative abundance of these structures increases dramatically with age. Although expressed to the same level in nonnervous tissues, mutant SOD1 was not found in high molecular weight structures. We conclude that some aspect of the biology of neural tissues (in a setting of declining motor neuron function) predisposes to the accumulation of high molecular weight complexes of mutant SOD1.
The adrenergic nerve fibers (ANF), the neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactive nerve fibers (NPY-NF) and the noradrenaline (NA) amount were studied in the human thymus in subjects previously treated or not treated with interferon therapy with the aim to identify the changes due to the interferon therapy. This therapy has been used in patients affected by multiple sclerosis (MS). Biochemical and morphological methods were used associated with quantitative analysis of images. The whole thymuses were removed during autopsies in young and adult patients not treated with interferon. Moreover, samples of thymus were removed from patients, either young or adult who had previously been treated with interferon therapy, and subjected, for diagnostic reasons, to thymic biopsy. All samples of thymus were weighed, measured and dissected. Thymic slices were stained with Eosin-orange for detection of the microanatomical details, or with Bodian's reaction for recognition of nervous structures. Histofluorescence microscopy was used for detection of ANF, and immunofluorescence microscopy for recognition of NPY-like immunoreactive structures. All morphological results were subjected to quantitative analysis of images. Noradrenaline contained in thymic structures was measured by biochemical methods. Our results only concerned the effects of the therapy and suggested that treatment with interferon therapy induces many changes in the thymic structures: (1) The protein content of thymus is significantly increased; (2) the NA content in the thymus is also significantly increased; (3) NPY-like immunoreactive structures in the thymus are significantly increased; (4) occurrence of NPY-like immunoreactivity is particularly and significantly increased both in thymic microenvironment and in structures resembling nerve fibers; (5) ANF are significantly increased in the same thymic structures in which NPY-like immunoreactivity is also increased (i.e. thymic microenvironment and structures resembling nerve fibers). The morphological and biochemical changes observed can also explain the immunological changes induced in the thymus after immunostimulating therapy.
Using sodium azide (NaN3)-induced anoxia plus aglycaemia as a model of chemically-induced ischemia in the hippocampal slice, we have evaluated the effects of the novel 5-HT(1A) partial agonist/5-HT(2) receptor antagonist adatanserin and the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist BAYx3702 on the efflux of endogenous glutamate, aspartate and GABA. BAYx3702 (10-1000 nM) produced a significant (P&lt;0.05) dose-related attenuation of ischemic efflux of both glutamate and GABA with maximum decrease being observed at 100 nM (73 and 69%, respectively). This attenuation was completely reversed by the addition of the 5-HT(1A) antagonist, WAY-100635 (100 nM). Similarly, adatanserin (10-1000 nM) produced a significant (P&lt;0.05) dose-related attenuation in glutamate and GABA efflux with a maximum of 72 and 81% at 100 nM, respectively. This effect was completely reversed by the 5-HT(2A/C) receptor agonist, DOI but unaffected by WAY-100635. The 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonist MDL-100907 produced a comparable attenuation of glutamate when compared to adatanserin, while the 5-HT(2C) receptor antagonist, SB-206553, had no effect on ischemic efflux. None of these compounds significantly altered aspartate efflux from this preparation. In conclusion, the 5-HT(1A) receptor partial agonist 5-HT(2) receptor antagonist, adatanserin is able to attenuate ischemic amino acid efflux in a comparable manner to the full 5-HT(1A) agonist BAYx3702. However, in contrast to BAYx3702, adatanserin appears to produce it effects via blockade of the 5-HT(2A) receptor. This suggests that adatanserin may be an effective neuroprotectant, as has been previously demonstrated for full 5-HT(1A) receptor agonists such as BAYx3702.
Although the alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor subtype has been shown to have a significant influence on circulating levels of prolactin (PRL), its exact role remains unclear. A multitude of studies have demonstrated that blockade of the alpha(2)-receptor can either elevate or decrease circulating levels of PRL. Alpha(2)-receptor-mediated control of both stimulatory and inhibitory arms of the PRL regulatory system may explain this discrepancy. Activation of the alpha(2)-receptor has been shown to inhibit the activity of its target cell, and therefore antagonism of the alpha(2)-receptor within a stimulatory component (e.g., paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus) would theoretically have the opposite effect that it would have within an inhibitory component (arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus). Thus, the purpose of this study was to investigate the functional role of the alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor in modulating circulating levels of PRL both at the level of the PVN and arcuate using reverse microdialysis of alpha(2)-adrenergic agents coupled with serial blood sampling in the male Siberian hamster. Male hamsters were fitted with a jugular cannula for serial blood sampling, and an indwelling microdialysis probe for intrahypothalamic drug administration between 08:00 and 10:00 h. Blood samples were collected every hour for 5 h (12:00-17:00 h). During the third sampling period, atipamezole (alpha(2)-antagonist) or medetomidine (alpha(2)-agonist) at one of three doses were infused into the PVN or the arcuate to assess effects on basal PRL. At the level of the PVN, infusion of atipamezole initiated an increase in basal PRL in a dose-dependent fashion, whereas infusion of medetomidine induced a significant decline in basal PRL in a dose-dependent fashion. In the arcuate, only the highest dose of atipamezole had an effect on PRL, and this was in the opposite direction from that seen in the PVN. Infusion of medetomidine did not have a significant effect on basal PRL levels; however, a trend toward a significant elevation was observed for the highest dose. These results suggest that the alpha(2)-receptor subtype may have opposite effects on circulating levels of PRL within the PVN and arcuate regions, and may explain why antagonism of the alpha(2)-receptor has been shown to initiate both surges and declines in basal levels of PRL.
This study examines the value of spin-echo-based fMRI for cognitive studies at the main magnetic field strength of 3 T using a spin-echo EPI (SE-EPI) sequence and a Stroop color-word matching task. SE-EPI has the potential advantage over conventional gradient-echo EPI (GE-EPI) that signal losses caused by dephasing through the slice are not present, and hence although image distortion will be the same as for an equivalent GE-EPI sequence, signal voids will be eliminated. The functional contrast in SE-EPI will be lower than for GE-EPI, as static dephasing effects do not contribute. As an auxiliary experiment interleaved diffusion-weighted and non-diffusion-weighted SE-EPI was performed in the visual cortex to further elucidate the mechanims of functional contrast. In the Stroop experiment activation was detected in all areas previously found using GE-EPI. Additional frontopolar and ventral frontomedian activations were also found, which could not be detected using GE-EPI. The experiments from visual cortex indicated that at 3 T the BOLD signal change has contributions from the extravascular space and larger blood vessels in roughly equal amounts. In comparison with GE-EPI the absence of static dephasing effects would seem to result in a superior intrinsic spatial resolution. In conclusion the sensitivity of SE-EPI at 3 T is sufficient to make it the method of choice for fMR studies that require a high degree of spatial localization or where the requirement is to detect activation in regions affected by strong susceptibility gradients.
The results of in vivo neuroimaging studies assessing whether and where brain white matter damage occurs in alcoholic women is controversial. To address this controversy, we examined regional white matter macrostructure and microstructure, the latter of which may be more sensitive to the detection of subtle fiber disruption than gross measures of size. Accordingly, we used conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to quantify regional callosal size and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) to examine intravoxel coherence (fractional anisotropy, FA) and intervoxel coherence (C) of white matter of the genu and splenium of the corpus callosum and of the centrum semiovale in 12 detoxified alcoholic women and 18 control women. Additional analyses examined sex differences in FA and C in alcoholic women compared with alcoholic men. Despite absence of group differences in regional areas of callosal macrostructure, the alcoholic women had lower FA and C in genu and centrum semiovale than the control group of women. These measures also correlated with total lifetime consumption of alcohol and performance on a test of visual search in the alcoholic women. Sex comparisons revealed similar extents of FA abnormality in the genu and centrum semiovale in alcoholic men and women and differential effects in other DTI measures, with abnormalities present in splenium FA and C in the men and abnormalities present in centrum C in the women. These results provide in vivo evidence for disruption of white matter microstructure in alcoholic women not necessarily detectable with coarser measures of white matter mass and perhaps antedating its appearance.
PET studies of [(11)C]WAY-100635 binding are proving to be a useful tool to evaluate 5-HT(1A) receptor function in vivo in humans. We describe the pattern of [(11)C]WAY-100635 binding in 61 healthy male brains and examine its variability. For all PET scans, binding potential (BP) values for [(11)C]WAY-100635 in different regions were calculated using a simplified reference tissue model, with the cerebellum as reference region. Specifically we describe (1) region of interest and SPM databases of PET [(11)C]WAY-100635 binding, including test-retest variability; (2) the sensitivity of [(11)C]WAY-100635 binding to manipulations of endogenous 5-HT; and (3) correlations between [(11)C]WAY-100635 binding and radiochemical, demographic, physiological, and behavioral variables. The regional distribution of [(11)C]WAY-100635 binding in healthy human brain was similar to that reported in vitro. The test-retest variability was approximately 12% (range 9-16%) and was similar for all methods of regional sampling. The binding of [(11)C]WAY-100635 was insensitive to changes in brain 5-HT induced by tryptophan infusion and depletion. Although BP values varied greatly across subjects (range 2.9-6.8), there were no significant correlations of regional and global BP with common radiochemical, demographic, physiological, and personality variables. Specifically, in contrast with two recent small studies, we found no decline of [(11)C]WAY-100635 binding with age in our large cohort over the age range of 24 to 53 years. Assessment of 5-HT(1A) receptors in vivo using PET and [(11)C]WAY-100635 gives reliable measures of 5-HT(1A) binding. The large between-subject variability observed could not be explained by common methodological, physiological, or behavioral factors and hence the biological basis of this variability remains to be clarified.
Although fatigue is a common and troublesome symptom of multiple sclerosis (MS), its pathogenesis is poorly understood. In this study, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to test whether a different pattern of movement-associated cortical and subcortical activations might contribute to the development of fatigue in patients with MS. We obtained fMRI during the execution of a simple motor task with completely normally functioning hands from 15 MS patients with fatigue (F), 14 MS patients without fatigue (NF), and 15 sex- and age-matched healthy volunteers. F and NF MS patients were also matched for major clinical and MRI variables. FMRI data were analyzed using statistical parametric mapping. In all patients, severity of fatigue was rated using the Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS). Compared to healthy subjects, MS patients showed more significant activations of the contralateral primary somatomotor cortex, the contralateral ascending limb of the Sylvian fissure, the contralateral intraparietal sulcus (IPS), the contralateral supplementary motor area, and the ipsilateral and contralateral cingulate motor area (CMA). Compared to F MS patients, NF patients showed more significant activations of the ipsilateral cerebellar hemisphere, the ipsilateral rolandic operculum, the ipsilateral precuneus, the contralateral thalamus, and the contralateral middle frontal gyrus. In contrast, F MS patients had a more significant activation of the contralateral CMA. Significant inverse correlations were found between FSS scores and relative activations of the contralateral IPS (r = -0.63), ipsilateral rolandic operculum (r = -0.61), and thalamus (r = -0.62). This study provides additional evidence that fatigue in MS is related to impaired interactions between functionally related cortical and subcortical areas. It also suggests that fMRI might be a valuable tool to monitor the efficacy of treatment aimed at reducing MS-related fatigue.
This paper compares the statistical power of BOLD and arterial spin labeling perfusion fMRI for a variety of experimental designs within and across subjects. Based on theory and simulations, we predict that perfusion data are composed of independent observations in time under the null hypothesis, in contrast to BOLD data, which possess marked autocorrelation. We also present a method (sinc subtraction) of generating perfusion data from its raw source signal that minimizes the presence of oxygen-sensitive signal changes and can be used with any experimental design. Empirically, we demonstrate the absence of autocorrelation in perfusion noise, examine the shape of the hemodynamic response function for BOLD and perfusion, and obtain a measure of signal to noise for each method. This information is then used to generate a model of relative sensitivity of the BOLD and perfusion methods for within-subject experimental designs of varying temporal frequency. It is determined that perfusion fMRI provides superior sensitivity for within-subject experimental designs that concentrate their power at or below approximately 0.009 Hz (corresponding to a &quot;blocked&quot; experimental design of 60-s epochs). Additionally, evidence is presented that across-subject hypothesis tests may be more sensitive when conducted using perfusion imaging, despite the better within-subject signal to noise obtained in some cases with BOLD.
Asymmetrical tone and weakness in antagonistic muscles often result in misalignment of joint, contractures and deformities. Traditional static splints used to prevent these complications are expensive, have to be custom made and cannot be used when deformities are marked. Authors describe fabrication and use of pneumatic splints, which are economic, safe and easy to apply. These splints have wide application in the management of common medical problems in neurological rehabilitation like hypotension, edema, pain, spasticity and early deformities.
An experimental study was designed to compare the histological analysis of nerve anastomosis with 10-0 microsurgical sutures and fibrin adhesive. Wistar albino rats' sciatic nerves were transected and repaired either with fibrin adhesive-Beriplast P (M/s Centeon-Cadila Health Care) or with 10-0 monofilament microsutures. Histological assessment was performed at 10, 20, 30, 60 and 90 days after surgery. Functional recovery of the sciatic nerves started at two months and was near normal by three months. Separation of the stumps did not occur in any of the glued nerves. Histological evaluation showed no appreciable difference in the outcome of nerve regeneration after microsurgical repair using sutures or fibrin tissue adhesive. However, inflammation and granuloma formation were appreciated at the suture site, which presented a focal hindrance to myelin and axonal regeneration. Fibrin glueing is attractive for clinical purposes, since it is simpler and less time consuming than suturing.
Persistent cognitive disabilities represent the most troublesome consequences of acquired brain injury. Although these problems are widely recognized, few neuroprosthetic efforts have focused on developing therapeutic strategies aimed at improving general cognitive functions such as sustained attention, intention, working memory or awareness. If possible, effective modulation of these neuropsychologic components might improve recovery of interactive behaviors. The emerging field of neuromodulation holds promise that technologies developed to treat other neurological disorders may be adapted to address the cognitive problems of patients suffering from acquired brain injuries. We here discuss initial efforts at neuromodulation in patients in the persistent vegetative state and aspects of recent studies of the underlying neurobiology of PVS and other severe brain injuries. Innovative strategies for open-loop and closed-loop neuromodulation of impaired cognitive function are outlined. We discuss the possibilities of linking neuromodulation techniques to underlying neuronal mechanisms underpinning cognitive rehabilitation maneuvers. Ethical considerations surrounding the development of these strategies are reviewed.

While the pre-synaptic effects of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) on serotonin (5-HT) neurons have been studied extensively, little is known about its effects on post-synaptic 5-HT(2) receptors. Therefore, cortical 5-HT(2A) receptor densities and 5-HT concentration were studied in MDMA treated rats (10 mg/kg s.c.). Furthermore, 5-HT(2A) post-synaptic receptor densities in the cerebral cortex of recent as well as ex-MDMA users were studied using [123I]R91150 SPECT. In rats we observed a decrease followed by a time-dependent recovery of cortical 5-HT(2A) receptor densities, which was strongly and positively associated with the degree of 5-HT depletion. In recent MDMA users, post-synaptic 5-HT(2A) receptor densities were significantly lower in all cortical areas studied, while 5-HT(2A) receptor densities were significantly higher in the occipital cortex of ex-MDMA users. The combined results of this study suggest a compensatory upregulation of post-synaptic 5-HT(2A) receptors in the occipital cortex of ex-MDMA users due to low synaptic 5-HT levels.
Non-human primates exhibit similar physiological and behavioral responses to anxiety-inducing situations as humans and have, in fact, been successfully employed in both conditioned (i.e. conflict paradigms) and ethologically based tests of fear/anxiety (i.e. involuntary isolation, social interaction, human threat, predator confrontation). In the last decade, a renewed and growing interest in non-human primate models has resulted from the use of the small callitrichid species in behavioral pharmacology and neuroscience. This review focuses on the available non-human primate models for investigating fear/anxiety, addressing their advantages, shortcomings, and conceptual framework on which they are based. Lastly, a new ethologically based model to study anxiety and fear-induced avoidance in callitrichids--the marmoset predator confrontation test--is discussed.
Connections between the amygdala and auditory cortical areas TC, and the rostral, intermediate and caudal regions of area TA (TAr, TAi and TAc, respectively) in the macaque monkey (Macaca fuscata and Macaca nemestrina) were investigated following placements of cortical deposits of wheat germ agglutinin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP). Areas TC and TAc received weak projections and these derived only from the lateral basal nucleus. Areas TAi and TAr received projections from the lateral, lateral basal and accessory basal nuclei. In contrast, corticopetal projections to the amygdala originated in areas TAi and TAr, but never in TAc or TC. The projections from areas TAi and TAr terminated only in the lateral nucleus, and in particular at the lateral part of the middle and caudal portions of the amygdala. Thus, the amygdalofugal projections to the auditory cortices are more widespread and more complex than the amygdalopetal projections of the auditory cortices. As judged from experiments in which deposits were made at different sites along the rostrocaudal axis of the auditory cortex, there was a progressive increase seen in density of the amygdala connections with more anteriorly-placed injection sites.
Combinations of two different types of opioid receptors - delta-, kappa-, mu-opioid receptors (DOR, KOR, and MOR) and opioid receptor-like receptor 1 (ORL(1)) - were co-expressed with the alpha subunit of G(16) in COS-7 cells, and the ability of various selective agonists to induce activation of phospholipase Cbeta was examined. Nociceptin/orphanin FQ-induced response was enhanced when ORL(1) was co-expressed with MOR or KOR but not DOR. The kappa-agonist U50,488H induced a modest inositol phosphate formation when KOR was expressed alone or with MOR, but the response was attenuated when co-expressing with either DOR or ORL(1). It is suggested that the co-expressions of two different opioid receptor types indeed modify their downstream signaling events.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the in vitro expression of Period 1 (Per1), Period 2 (Per2) and arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase (AA-NAT) genes in the rat pineal gland to understand the mechanism(s) regulating the expression of these genes in this organ. Pineals, when maintained in vitro for 5 days, did not show circadian rhythmicity in the expression of any of the three genes monitored. Norepinephrine (NE) induced AA-NAT and Per1, whereas its effect on Per2 was negligible. Contrary to what was observed in other systems, NE stimulation did not induce circadian expression of Per1. The effect of NE on Per1 level was dose- and receptor subtype-dependent, and both cAMP and cGMP induced Per1. Per1 was not induced by repeated NE - or forskolin - stimulation. Protein synthesis was not necessary for NE-induced Per1, but it was for reduction of Per1 following NE stimulation. Per1 transcription in pinealocytes was activated by BMAL1/CLOCK. Our results indicate that important differences are present in the regulation of these genes in the mammalian pineal.
Sertoli cells, a testes-derived cell with immunosuppressive and trophic properties, may serve as an alternative cell source for transplantation in a number of neurodegenerative diseases. However, before Sertoli cells can be considered for clinical use, safety studies must be conducted to ensure that the cells themselves produce no adverse effects when transplanted into the central nervous system. The present study assessed the behavioral effects of transplanting porcine Sertoli cells into the striatum of normal rats and provided a histological examination of the graft site and host striatum. Activity monitors revealed significant increases in nocturnal locomotor activity over time following both sham and Sertoli transplants. Ambulation and rearing, but not stereotypic measures, were increased compared to pre-transplant levels. Sertoli animals exhibited less behavioral alteration than sham controls. Histological examination of the striatum demonstrated surviving Sertoli cell transplants in an intact striatum. These results indicated that Sertoli cell xenografts might be a safe alternative cell source for neurotransplantation procedures requiring immune or trophic support.
Prenatal cocaine exposure results in deficits in sensory preconditioning, discrimination reversal, and spatial navigation, tasks that require input from the hippocampus. However, there are no previous studies concerning prenatal cocaine effects on contextual fear conditioning, another hippocampal-dependent task. The present experiments tested whether chronic subcutaneous administration of 40 mg/kg of cocaine HCl to pregnant rats, from gestational day (GD) 8 through 20 would lead to disruption of contextual fear conditioning in adult male and female offspring. Offspring of saline-injected/pair-fed and untreated dams served as controls. Experiment 1 used a one-trial context conditioning preparation. Rats received a 2-s, 1-mA footshock in either the test context or a novel context, or received no shock on the day prior to the no-shock test. Defecation and freezing were measures of fear. Experiment 2 used a multiple measures protocol to optimize detection of prenatal treatment effects and was preceded by an open-field test. Rats received a 2-s, 0.8-mA footshock or no shock once daily over 4 days of conditioning. During 3 days of extinction, access to an adjacent chamber enabled the observation of four additional measures of fear: side crossing, latency, nose crossing, and side-differential. There were gender-dependent effects of conditioning on freezing and the four added measures of fear. Males showed higher levels of context conditioning and extinguished more slowly than females. The measures of nose crossing and side-differential revealed that prenatal cocaine exposure exaggerated gender-specific effects of context conditioning. The effects of prenatal cocaine exposure on context extinction are sexually dimorphic.
Three types of researches have been carried out on brain-mind relationships: 1. researches on anatomical correlates of special talents (for example, perfect pitch) or deficits (for example, dyslexia), 2. researches to examine the relationship between a given cognitive syndrome and the site of brain damage, 3. researches to localize human cognitive function in the brain in vivo using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and positron emission tomography (PET). fMRI is a particularly important because it is noninvasive. A tutorial covering basic aspects of this methodology is presented, along with a survey of recent fMRI data related to clinical application. Future investigations of the three types enumerated above are expected to further clarify brain-mind relationships.
Acute injury to the temporomandibular joint (TMJ) region activates neurons in multiple, but spatially discrete, areas of the trigeminal spinal nucleus as seen by an increase in Fos-like immunoreactive neurons (Fos-LI). Pretreatment with morphine greatly reduces Fos-LI produced in the dorsal paratrigeminal area (dPa5), ventrolateral pole of the subnucleus interpolaris/caudalis (Vi/Vc-vl) transition region, and laminae I-II at the subnucleus caudalis/upper cervical cord junction (Vc/C2) suggesting a role for these areas in processing pain signals from the TMJ region. To determine if vagal afferents contribute to neural activation after TMJ injury or reduction of activity after morphine, Fos-LI was quantified in the lower brainstem and upper cervical spinal cord of intact and vagotomized male and female rats under barbiturate anesthesia. Bilateral cervical vagotomy (VgX) did not affect Fos-LI produced by TMJ injury in males or females in the absence of morphine. By contrast, morphine-induced reduction in Fos-LI produced at the Vi/Vc-vl transition region was prevented by prior VgX in males and diestrus females, but not in proestrus females. Morphine inhibition of Fos-LI produced in laminae I-II at the Vc/C2 junction region was diminished in vagotomized males compared to intact animals, but not affected in females. In an autonomic control area, the caudal ventrolateral medulla (CVLM), VgX reversed the morphine-induced reduction in Fos-LI in males and females similarly compared to their respective intact controls. These results were consistent with the hypothesis that the Vi/Vc-vl transition region plays a unique role in deep craniofacial pain processing and may integrate autonomic and opioid-related modulatory signals in a manner dependent on sex hormone status.
Adenosine (ADO) is an inhibitory neuromodulator that can increase nociceptive thresholds in response to noxious stimulation. Inhibition of the ADO-metabolizing enzyme, adenosine kinase (AK) increases extracellular ADO concentrations at sites of tissue trauma and AK inhibitors may have therapeutic potential as analgesic and anti-inflammatory agents. N7-((1'R,2'S,3'R,4'S)-2',3'-dihydroxy-4'-amino-cyclopentyl)-4-amino-5-bromo-pyrrolo[2,3-a]pyrimidine (A-286501) is a novel and potent (IC50=0.47 nM) carbocyclic nucleoside AK inhibitor that has no significant activity (IC50 &gt;100 microM) at other sites of ADO interaction (A1, A2A, A3 receptors, ADO transporter, and ADO deaminase) or other (IC50 value &gt;10 microM) neurotransmitter and peptide receptors, ion channel proteins, neurotransmitter reuptake sites and enzymes, including cyclooxygenases-1 and -2. A-286501 showed equivalent potency to inhibit AK from several mammalian species and kinetic studies revealed that A-286501 was a reversible and competitive inhibitor with respect to ADO and non-competitive with respect to MgATP2-. A-286501 was orally effective to reduce nociception in animal models of acute (thermal), inflammatory (formalin and carrageenan), and neuropathic (L5/L6 nerve ligation and streptozotocin-induced diabetic) pain. A-286501 was particularly potent (ED50=1 micromol/kg, p.o.) to reduce carrageenan-induced inflammatory thermal hyperalgesia as compared to its analgesic actions in other pain models (acute and neuropathic) and its ability to alter hemodynamic function and motor performance. A-286501 was also effective to reduce carrageenan-induced paw edema and myeloperoxidase activity, a measure of neutrophil influx (ED50=10 micromol/kg, p.o.), in the injured paw. The anti-nociceptive effects of A-286501 in the L5/L6 nerve injury model of neuropathic pain (ED50=20 micromol/kg, p.o.) were not blocked by the opioid antagonist naloxone, but were blocked by the ADO receptor antagonist, theophylline. Following repeated administration, A-286501 showed less potential to produce tolerance as compared to morphine. Thus, A-286501 is a structurally novel AK inhibitor that effectively attenuates nociception by a non-opioid, non-non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug ADO, receptor mediated mechanism.
Exogenous ATP has been shown to be algogenic in both animal and humans. Research has focused on the P2X3 ligand-gated ion channel, as it is preferentially expressed on nociceptive C-fibers. In addition, P2X3 receptor gene disrupted mice show decreased responses to somatic painful stimuli. However, the potential role of P2X receptor activation in visceral pain has not yet been evaluated. In the present study, the systemic administration of suramin, and pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid, PPADS, both non-selective P2X receptor antagonists, dose-dependently reduced acetic acid-induced abdominal constrictions in mice (ED(50)=34.5 micromol/kg and ED50=70 micromol/kg, respectively). Furthermore, 2'-(or-3')-O-(trinitrophenyl)adenosine 5'- tri-phosphate (TNP-ATP) potently (IC50=10 nM) blocked the functional activation of P2X3 receptors in vitro and attenuated acetic acid-induced visceral pain. In the abdominal constriction assay, TNP-ATP (ED(50)=6.35 micromol/kg, i.p.) was 6-10 fold more potent than suramin and PPADS to reduce nociceptive behavior. In addition, TNP-ATP was 10 fold more potent than TNP-AMP (2'-(or-3')-O-(trinitrophenyl)adenosine 5'-mono-phosphate) (ED50=63.5 micromol/kg, i.p.) at reducing acetic acid-induced nociception. At the highest dose, TNP-ATP completely abolished nociceptive behavior, as did morphine (ED50=3 micromol/kg, i.p.). While TNP-ATP is also a potent antagonist of P2X1 receptors, P2X1 receptor mediated responses have not been shown in dorsal root ganglia and diinosine pentaphosphate, IP5I, a potent and selective P2X1 receptor antagonist, was ineffective at reducing abdominal constrictions. Thus, the antinociceptive effects of TNP-ATP appear to be mediated through activation of homomeric P2X3and/or heteromeric P2X2/3 receptors. Together, these results show that activation of P2X3 containing receptors plays a role in the transmission of inflammatory visceral pain.

Docosahexaenoic acid is an important fatty acid for neuronal function because its deficiency leads to many behavioral and functional deficits. In a previous study, we reported that docosahexaenoic acid deficiency caused a reduction in the size of neurons of the CA1 region in the hippocampus. To extend these results to other regions of the brain, the present study entailed a morphologic analysis of neuronal size in hippocampus, hypothalamus, piriform cortex, and parietal cortex in rats that were raised on docosahexaenoic acid-deficient and supplemented diets for three generations. Neuron size in these regions was measured both at weaning (21 days) and maturity (68 days), and docosahexaenoic acid content in the brain was measured on a separate set of sibling rats using fatty acid analysis. Neuron size in hippocampus, hypothalamus, and parietal cortex decreased in weanling and in piriform cortex in mature rats raised on the docosahexaenoic acid-deficient diet. The brains of these rats exhibited a nearly 90% decrease of docosahexaenoic acid. Decrease of neuron size has been linked to a loss of optimal function in neurons. In the United States, human infant-milk formulas use vegetable oils as fat sources that lack docosahexaenoic acid. If docosahexaenoic acid deficiency reduces neuron size, then human infants raised on these formulas may also have smaller neurons relative to breast-fed infants.
Anterior encephalocele is a rare condition, and only a few large series have been published in the literature. Surprisingly, the incidence is much higher in Southeast Asian countries, including some parts of India. While the reported incidence in the West is between 1:35,000 and 1:40,000 live births, it is as high as 1:5,000 live births in Thailand. We present a series comprising 92 cases of anterior encephaloceles treated over a 30-year period (1971-2000). Frontoethmoidal encephaloceles are the commonest type, followed by the nasopharyngeal and orbital type. Among the frontoethmoidal encephaloceles, nasoethmoid is the commonest type, and these patients present with swelling over the bridge of the nose with significant hypertelorism and orbital deformities. The nasopharyngeal type remains occult and presents with nasal obstruction or CSF rhinorrhea. Rarely, the patient may present with meningitis. Since 1978, computed tomography (CT) scans have regularly been performed in our patients. CT scans delineate the skull defect and associated brain anomalies. There was associated hydrocephalus present in 12 patients and agenesis of the corpus callosum in 5 patients. In all patients, one-stage repair of the encephalocele and correction of bony anomalies by appropriate osteotomy was undertaken. Since 1988, in cases of frontoethmoidal encephalocele with significant hypertelorism, medial advancement of the medial half of the orbits on either sides was carried out, instead of a classical Tessier's operation. Postoperative morbidity included CSF leak in 20 patients, wound infection in 2 and chest infection in 3. There were 3 deaths in our study. The overall cosmetic outcome was good.
Relapse to drug use following abstinence is a significant impediment in the long-term treatment of drug abuse and dependence. Conditioned stimuli are believed to be critically involved in activating drug craving and relapse to compulsive drug-taking behavior. Studies in humans and animal models have recently begun to identify the fundamental neural circuitry that mediates relapse following withdrawal from chronic drug self-administration. The current review summarizes key findings in this area that have converged on the amygdalar complex and regions of the frontal lobe as critical structures in conditioned-cued relapse. It is proposed that the amygdala is a key regulator of discrete stimulus-reinforcer associations, while the anterior cingulate and orbitofrontal cortex are critical regulators of relapse evoked by conditioned stimuli that predict drug availability. This corticolimbic circuitry may form the neural basis of multiple long-term conditioned associations produced by a variety of drugs of abuse ranging from psychostimulants to opiates. Future studies aimed at discerning the functional roles of these pathways will provide critical direction for the development of treatments for the prevention of relapse.
The objective of this article is to review data from studies that used a reinstatement model in rats to elucidate the neural mechanisms underlying relapse to heroin and cocaine seeking induced by exposure to the self-administered drug (drug priming), conditioned drug cues, and stressors. These factors were reported to contribute to relapse to drug use in humans following prolonged abstinence periods. In the reinstatement model, the ability of acute exposure to drug or nondrug stimuli to reinstate drug seeking is determined following training for drug self-administration and subsequent extinction of the drug-reinforced behavior. We will review studies in which pharmacological agents were injected systemically or intracranially to block (or mimic) reinstatement by drug priming, drug cues, and stressors. We also will review studies in which brain lesions, in vivo microdialysis and electrochemistry, and gene expression methods were used to map brain sites involved in relapse to drug seeking. Subsequently, we will discuss theoretical issues related to the processes underlying relapse to drugs and address methodological issues in studies on reinstatement of drug seeking. Finally, the implications of the findings from the studies reviewed for addiction theories and treatment will be discussed. The main conclusion of this review is that the neuronal mechanisms involved in relapse to heroin and cocaine seeking induced by drug priming, drug cues, and stressors are to a large degree dissociable. The data reviewed also suggest that the neuronal events mediating drug-induced reinstatement are to some degree dissociable from those mediating drug reinforcement.
Previous studies have demonstrated that clomipramine (CLI), a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, has negative side effects on sexual behavior when administered to adult rats and humans. In addition, neonatal rat pups given chronic doses of CLI display similar sexual deficits upon sexual maturity. This study used two experiments to test the hypothesis that 2 weeks of CLI would cause a decrease in sexual motivation and performance in the male Syrian hamster (Mesocricetus auratus). Experiment 1 administered 0, 40, or 60 mg/kg CLI for 14 days to adult male hamsters via a sugar water solution. Experiment 2 administered 0, 40, or 60 mg/kg CLI for 14 days to pregnant dams during gestation (also via a sugar water solution). We hypothesized that this administration of CLI via the pregnant mother would have long-lasting developmental effects on the male hamster pups resulting in later dysfunction in male sexual behavior. Results from Experiment 1 indicate that CLI administration to adult males caused a significant decrease in the number of ejaculations compared to controls. The only significant difference in sexual behavior between those males whose mothers received CLI during pregnancy compared to males from untreated mothers was an increase in the number of intromissions in the highest dosage group. These findings demonstrate that CLI inhibits sexual performance in adult male Syrian hamsters, and also suggest that oral administration of CLI via a sugar water solution is an effective mode of administration.

Individual types of retinal nerve cell are spaced across the retina in an orderly manner, ensuring a uniform sampling of the visual field. This regularity in cellular spacing has been commonly attributed to fate determination mechanisms operating around the time of cell birth, an hypothesis presuming that the position of a nerve cell is fixed within the plane of the retina from the time of its determination. At odds with this view, recent results from X-inactivation mosaic mice indicate that certain classes of retinal nerve cell, those known to form orderly mosaics in the adult retina, disperse tangentially during development. Furthermore, studies defining the spatial characteristics of developing and mature retinal mosaics suggest that cell-cell interactions around the time of morphological differentiation lead to mutual repulsion. Modelling studies in turn show that nothing more than a simple minimal spacing rule between neighboring cells of the same type is sufficient for the creation of the global patterning observed in biological retinal mosaics. For some cell types, the size of this &quot;exclusion zone&quot; surrounding individual cells is shown to be an intrinsic characteristic of each cell type, invariant across the retina, and accounting for the variation in mosaic regularity across changes in cell density. These results show how short-distance movements driven by intercellular interactions at the local level may mediate the emergence of the global patterning characteristic of retinal mosaics during development.
Clinical experience and burn survivor testimony show that the experience of being burned can be associated with catastrophic stress and lead to drastic permanent body image changes from scarring and limb-function loss. Close relatives, if not killed in the fire, often also experience clinically significant bystander stress. Closeness of relationships may be lost, and self-image may suffer. Property damage and loss of crucial resources may be associated with fires. Although many burns result from accidents, most result from preventable causes associated with psychiatric disorders, which include mood disorders, psychoses, cognitive disorders, and substance-use disorders. Burns then result from: Deliberate self-harm Impaired judgment and poor coordination associated with substance intoxication Risk-taking behavior Poor supervision of children and impaired elderly persons Careless handling of flammable materials. Many clinical syndromes, such as delirium, ASD, acute psychosis, suicidality, and pain need to be addressed by the consulting psychiatrist to facilitate surgical treatment of the burn injury. Other psychiatric disorders, such as PTSD, major depression, and adjustment disorder, need to be treated to expedite long-term adjustment. Hospital length of stay and RTW/RTS are major outcome variables. The psychiatry consultant can positively affect both variables substantially using both pharmacologic and psychosocial measures. The important role of psychiatric issues both before and after burn injury support the need for more consistent and comprehensive medical insurance coverage for psychiatric consultation to burn units and clinics. Burn Support Groups are an invaluable asset.
Association studies with candidate genes may contribute towards the understanding of the etiopathogenesis of bipolar disorder. Candidate genes in bipolar disorders are those related to aminergic neurotransmission, which is the target of the effects of antipsychotics and antidepressants, as well as genes related to signal transduction pathways, reporting the target for the mood-stabilizing effects of lithium. Association with such candidate genes may provide clues towards the understanding of the biological components of bipolar disorder. An association study was performed between the 5' regulatory region of the serotonin transporter gene (5-HTTLPR), the inositol polyphosphate 1-phosphatase gene (INPP1) and bipolar disorder using our sample of proband/parent trios. A total of 101 bipolar probands were considered eligible for the study. Since both parents had to be available, mean age at onset of bipolar disorder in probands was relatively young. However, the mean duration of illness and the number of episodes were consistent with a stable diagnosis. In our trios sample, the transmission disequilibrium test revealed no preferential transmission of alleles of the 5-HTTLPR and INPP1 from heterozygous parents to probands. Therefore, additional family-based data are warranted, possibly with a more complete subdivision of 5-HTTLPR alleles, since short and long alleles have recently been divided into four and six kinds of allelic variant, respectively, with significant ethnic differences in allele and genotype distributions.
A model of the effects of aging on brain activity during cognitive performance is introduced. The model is called HAROLD (hemispheric asymmetry reduction in older adults), and it states that, under similar circumstances, prefrontal activity during cognitive performances tends to be less lateralized in older adults than in younger adults. The model is supported by functional neuroimaging and other evidence in the domains of episodic memory, semantic memory, working memory, perception, and inhibitory control. Age-related hemispheric asymmetry reductions may have a compensatory function or they may reflect a dedifferentiation process. They may have a cognitive or neural origin, and they may reflect regional or network mechanisms. The HAROLD model is a cognitive neuroscience model that integrates ideas and findings from psychology and neuroscience of aging.
Inhibitory control, the ability to suppress irrelevant or interfering stimuli, is a fundamental cognitive function that deteriorates during aging, but little is understood about the bases of decline. Thus, we used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to study inhibitory control in healthy adults aged 18 to 78. Activation during &quot;successful inhibition&quot; occurred predominantly in right prefrontal and parietal regions and was more extensive, bilaterally and prefrontally, in the older groups. Presupplementary motor area was also more active in poorer inhibitory performers. Therefore, older adults activate areas that are comparable to those activated by young adults during inhibition, as well as additional regions. The results are consistent with a compensatory interpretation and extend the aging neuroimaging literature into the cognitive domain of inhibition.
After 8-10 years of experience with the fourth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM-IV) and the tenth edition of the International Classification of Diseases (ICD-10), it is an ideal time to begin looking at the clinical and research consequences of these diagnostic systems. The American Psychiatric Association, in conjunction with the National Institutes of Health, has initiated a research development process intended to accelerate an evaluation of existing criteria while developing and testing hypotheses that would improve the validity of our diagnostic concepts. Over the past year, a multidisciplinary, international panel has developed a series of six white papers which define research opportunities in the following broad areas: Nomenclature, Disability and Impairment, Personality Disorders, Relational Disorders, Developmental Psychopathology, Neuroscience, and Cross-Cultural aspects of Psychopathology. Recommendations for future national and international research in each of these areas will be discussed.
Nearly three decades after Robins and Guze's seminal delineation of the steps required to validate a psychiatric diagnosis, a pathophysiologically based classification of psychiatric disorders remains elusive. Contrary to optimistic expectations, approaches to diagnostic validity based on clinical description, laboratory studies, natural history of illness, and familial aggregation have not converged to yield a nosology based on valid disease entities. Defining a rational nosology for disorders of the brain, the body's most complex organ, is clearly one of the great challenges for modern medical science. Nonetheless, fundamental advances in our understanding of the genetic and environmental determinants of disease risk, and of the neural circuitry supporting normal and pathological mental processes promises to form the basis of improved classification in the coming decades.
An overview is presented of the historical background to the current classification of personality disorders in ICD-10 and DSM-IV. Although the precursors of the present diagnostic concepts were originally developed as dimensional or prototype typologies, both ICD-10 and DSM-IV have adopted a quasi-nosological, categorical model of personality disorders on Axis II. It is argued that the model is fundamentally flawed and restricts the capacity to collect and communicate relevant data on the impact of personality characteristics on the manifestations, course and outcome of Axis I disorders. Dimensional models originating in recent psychological research offer an alternative, but considerable theoretical and field research work will be required before a meaningful and generally acceptable restructuring of Axis II becomes feasible.



The present study was aimed at deciphering whether the delay in choice reaction time (RT) and the silent period (SP) caused by transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the motor cortex in the ongoing electromyogram are due to the same physiological mechanism. To this end, the effect of TMS was studied in 6 healthy volunteers performing a between-hand choice RT task. Specific predictions were derived from a logic inspired from the &quot;postponed stages&quot; hypothesis (Pashler &amp; Johnson, 1989). This logic predicts a correlation between SP duration and RT when the stimulated cortex is involved in the response, and a stronger correlation when the stimulation is delivered later during the RT interval. The effect of TMS on RT was twofold: At early stimulation times, the stimulation shortened the RT and this effect was independent of the involvement of the stimulated motor cortex in the subsequent response. At later stimulation times, TMS had a disruptive effect, provided that the stimulated cortex was involved in the response. When the stimulated cortex was involved in the response, there was a correlation between SP and RT; this correlation was stronger when the stimulation occurred later. In contrast, there was no correlation between these two variables when the stimulated cortex was not involved.
Clinical magnetic resonance (MR) imaging of the brain is typically performed in the standard three orthogonal planes of the magnet, with little regard to head positioning. Multiple sequences with different imaging parameters are performed, and gray-scale images are obtained and displayed separately. The authors have implemented, and currently advocate, the routine acquisition of coregistered transverse images after roll, yaw, and pitch correction to Talairach space. Talairach, anterior commissure (AC)-posterior commissure (PC) referenced, stereotactic space has been widely embraced by the neuroscience community. This standardization should lead to more reproducible and readily interpretable MR examinations. A method is described to obtain direct AC-PC referenced (Talairach space) MR images. Sample protocols are provided. Coregistered T1-weighted, T1-weighted with contrast material administration, T2-weighted, fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR), MR angiography, fractional anisotropy, and functional MR imaging sequences are presented, depicting a wide range of imaging parameters applied to normal brain anatomy in Talairach space. Illustrative examples of pathology are also provided. Color encoding is discussed and exploited to display and integrate multiparameter MR imaging contrast and white-matter-tract direction (anisotropy). The color composites may reduce the number of images needed for review by a factor of three or four and facilitate interpretation.
A method for rapid morphologic phenotyping is demonstrated by using magnetic resonance microscopy. Whole fixed C57BL/6J mice were imaged at 110-microm isotropic resolution; limited volumes of the intact specimen, at 50-microm isotropic resolution; and isolated organs, at 25-microm isotropic resolution. The three-dimensional imaging technique was applied to uricase knockout mice to demonstrate the method for the evaluation of morphologic phenotype.

Kinetic tremor recorded with a laser system during a compensatory tracking task of the index finger was analyzed in 21 patients with PD whose tremor amplitude was between low and moderate, and 30 control subjects. Nine characteristics quantifying the tracking task and tremor including mean tracking error, reaction time, peakedness, harmonicity, median frequency, proportional power in the 3-4 Hz, 4-6 Hz and 7-12 Hz ranges, and power at 0.25 Hz, were applied to the processed signal. The discriminating power of each characteristic was evaluated using differences between group means (p values), maximum percentage discrimination, and number of outliers in the patient group using z-score and 96.7(th) percentile of the control group. All nine characteristics showed significant differences between means of the two groups using Welch-modified t-tests for unequal variances. The most discriminating characteristics reflected differences in the frequency distribution of the movement and did not correlate highly with postural tremor amplitude nor with clinical ratings of tremor. Discrimination methods classified correctly up to 66.7 p.cent of the patients. Combining representative information about proportional power during posture and tracking gave a much higher discrimination (90 p.cent) with respect to the 96.7th percentile of the control group. These results suggest that by combining information coming from postural and kinetic tremors it is possible to isolate a specific aspect of PD symptomatology which could be used to reevaluate the classic distinction made between the akineto-rigid and tremulous forms of PD independently of tremor amplitude.
Hypokalemic thyrotoxic periodic paralysis (HTPP) is a rare disorder affecting primarily men of Asian descent. Males are 20 times more likely to be affected than females. The following case describes a young Native American female with HTPP.
In an exploration of the schizophrenia spectrum, we compared cortical metabolic rates in unmedicated patients with schizophrenia and schizotypal personality disorder (SPD) with findings in age- and sex-matched normal volunteers. Coregistered magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET) scans were obtained in 27 schizophrenic, 13 SPD, and 32 normal volunteers who performed a serial verbal learning test during tracer uptake. A template of Brodmann areas derived from a whole brain histological section atlas was used to analyze PET findings. Significantly lower metabolic rates were found in prefrontal areas 44-46 in schizophrenic patients than in normal volunteers. SPD patients did not differ from normal volunteers in most lateral frontal regions, but they had values intermediate between those of normal volunteers and schizophrenic patients in lateral temporal regions. SPD patients showed higher than normal metabolic rates in both medial frontal and medial temporal areas. Metabolic rates in Brodmann area 10 were distinctly higher in SPD patients than in either normal volunteers or schizophrenic patients.
A personal review is presented of the functional basis of activation, withdrawal and unreality, individual differences in schizophrenia that Venables et al. pioneered. Activated and withdrawn syndromes were delineated from the totality of symptoms by classifying unmedicated patients on the basis of lateral asymmetries in electrodermal responses. A neuropsychological syndrome translation led to a syndrome hemispheric imbalance model supported by a literature review disclosing widespread cortical and infracortical involvement extending to motoneurone excitability, with validation from tests of learning, memory and evoked responses including the P300. It is contended that the centrality of arousal, the extensive substrate and the evidence of asymmetry modification with recovery and treatment all implicate specific and nonspecific thalamo-cortical systems whose uncoupling may lead to dysfunction of input, cognition and to unreality symptoms (found inconsistently related to asymmetry). The three syndromes have developmental associations including immune competence, ventricular changes and lateral asymmetry, putative regressive neuronal changes in connectivity and electrocortical measures of connectivity, as well as sensory gating and anomalies of P50 suppression and habituation. Replication of the syndromal structure in psychometric schizotypy indicates that syndrome expression is based on the premorbid personality, compatible with evidence of early determinants of the approach/withdrawal balance in social encounters. Functional considerations for the nature of schizophrenia support neurophysiological approaches to treatment such as neurofeedback.

A type of synaptic plasticity in the brain called long-term potentiation (LTP) is thought to form the molecular basis of learning and memory. In a Perspective, Manabe discusses new findings (Kovalchuk et al.) showing brain-derived neurotropic factor modulates LTP by binding to TrkB receptors on the postsynaptic neuron.
It has been suggested that placebo analgesia involves both higher order cognitive networks and endogenous opioid systems. The rostral anterior cingulate cortex (rACC) and the brainstem are implicated in opioid analgesia, suggesting a similar role for these structures in placebo analgesia. Using positron emission tomography, we confirmed that both opioid and placebo analgesia are associated with increased activity in the rACC. We also observed a covariation between the activity in the rACC and the brainstem during both opioid and placebo analgesia, but not during the pain-only condition. These findings indicate a related neural mechanism in placebo and opioid analgesia.
Electroencephalography (EEG) is an important tool in investigating children with neurological disorders, particularly epilepsy. The objectives were to examine the relationship between clinical indications and EEG results, and assess the predictability of a normal result. 438 consecutive paediatric EEGs were included prospectively. One certified electroencephalographer (EEGer) reviewed EEG requisitions and recorded his prediction of a normal result. EEGs were reviewed separately and the relationship between the clinical indications and EEG abnormalities was recorded. The children's mean age was 5 years (SD 4.2). Paediatric neurologists ordered 32% of EEGs. The first EEG was studied in 65% of cases. Overall, 55% of the EEGs were abnormal. Repeat EEGs were twice as likely to be abnormal (95% CI 1.3-3, P= 0.001). Established epilepsy, using antiepileptic drugs, and sleep record, highly correlated with an abnormal result ( P&lt; 0.0001). The EEGer predicted 26% of the EEGs to be normal. A normal EEG was correctly predicted in 97% of non-epileptic paroxysmal events, however, normalization of EEG was correctly predicted in only 54% of children with seizures. EEGs of 15 (3.4%) children with epilepsy revealed unexpected findings that completely changed their management. To conclude, a normal EEG is highly predictable in non-epileptic paroxysmal events. EEGs of children with epilepsy are not predictable and may yield unexpected results.
Symptoms of Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS) can begin in childhood and persist into adulthood. To our knowledge, no one has done a systematic review of the literature to determine if the descriptions of 'growing pains' are consistent with the diagnosis of childhood RLS. Our group and that of Ekbom have noted that childhood onset RLS can be misdiagnosed as 'growing pains'. We therefore reviewed the work of seven groups of authors that addressed 'growing pains' as an isolated phenomenon in order to determine whether the descriptions of 'growing pains' were consistent with the clinical features of RLS. We found no consistent pattern in the descriptions even when articular pain was excluded. Thus, it is unlikely that all patients with 'growing pains' have RLS and it is likely that 'growing pains' is a heterogeneous disorder. The aforementioned authors were not looking for features unique to RLS and descriptions of the complete symptom complex of RLS are usually lacking. Further complicating the data are problems with methodology, e.g. in some studies small children and their parents were asked to retrospectively recall remote and infrequent events, and in other studies, articular pain was not adequately ruled out. Inconsistent with the hypothesis that RLS and 'growing pains' are the same are the high association of 'growing pains' with migraine headaches and abdominal pain. However, from this background emerge subsets of patients with 'growing pains' that are described as having one, some, or all of the following features consistent with the diagnosis of RLS: symptoms that are primarily in the legs, the patients rub their legs to get relief of the discomfort, the symptoms are worse at night, sleep disturbance is present and the discomfort is sometimes accompanied by motor restlessness A non-painful form of 'growing pains' has even been described. Ekbom and Brenning, a contemporary of Ekom, directly addressed the relationship between 'growing pains' and RLS. Ekbom felt that 'growing pains' and RLS were probably different since 'growing pains' disappear after childhood and one of his patients described her childhood 'growing pains' as being different from the sensory discomfort of her adult onset RLS. However, Brenning showed that RLS-like features in adulthood and a previous history of 'growing pains' in childhood occurred far more frequently in the parents of children with 'growing pains' than in control parents. More work needs to be done on the potential relationship between 'growing pains' and RLS.




Agonists of the alpha-2A-adrenergic- (alpha(2A)-AR) and the mu-opioid-receptor (muOR) jointly affect autonomic functions that are also disregulated in animals undergoing withdrawal from chronic administration of the muOR agonist morphine. Cardiovascular and gastrointestinal reflexes are mediated, in part, by the medial nucleus of the solitary tract (mNTS) at caudal (cNTS) and intermediate (iNTS) subregions. Together, this evidence suggests that alpha(2A)-AR and muOR may be colocalized within many of the same neuronal profiles in both the intermediate and caudal mNTS. In order to examine whether alpha(2A)-AR and muOR are present within common somata, dendrites, or axon terminals in the mNTS, we used electron microscopic immunocytochemistry for the detection of antisera against each receptor at intermediate and caudal levels of this brain region. Most of the dually labeled profiles were somata and dendrites. Of all dual-labeled profiles in the iNTS 49% were somata and were 47% dendrites, whereas in the cNTS 61% were somata and 32% were dendrites. Within dual-labeled profiles, the intracellular distribution of alpha(2A)-AR and muOR differed. MuOR was more frequently associated with the plasmalemma, whereas alpha(2A)-AR was often affiliated with vesicular organelles. Few axon terminals, and even fewer glia, contained both markers. We also frequently observed single-labeled alpha(2A)-AR glia that apposed exclusively muOR-containing dendrites or axon terminals. These findings indicate that somata and dendrites contain functional sites for convergent muOR and alpha(2A)-AR activation. In addition, each receptor is positioned for involvement in intercellular signaling between apposed neurons and glia. Activation of alpha(2A)-AR on muOR-containing somata or dendrites, or on glia apposed to muOR-containing neurons, may help to account for the efficacy of alpha(2A)-AR agonists in relieving some of the autonomic symptoms of opiate withdrawal.
The mesopallidal dopamine system plays a role in locomotor activity and reward. To understand the potential contribution of the dopamine D2 receptor (D2R) to the action of dopamine in the ventral pallidum (VP), we used electron microscopic immunocytochemistry to examine the cellular and subcellular localization of an antipeptide antiserum against the D2R in both ventromedial and dorsolateral VP compartments. In each region the majority of the total D2R-labeled profiles (n = 1,132) were axon terminals (55%) and small unmyelinated axons (27%). These terminals were often apposed to other axon terminals or dendrites and formed almost exclusively symmetric, inhibitory-type axodendritic synapses. Immunogold D2R labeling in axon terminals was seen on the plasmalemma and membranes of nearby synaptic vesicles. In ventral pallidal sections processed for dual detection of D2R peptide and the catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), D2R labeling was detected in a few axons and axon terminals containing TH immunoreactivity as well as in axons contacted by TH-labeled terminals. In most cases, however, the D2R-labeled profiles were located at a distance from small axons and terminals containing TH. Our results provide the first ultrastructural evidence that D2Rs in the two VP subterritories are strategically located for primary involvement in modulation of the presynaptic release of nondopaminergic inhibitory transmitters. They also suggest that in this region the presynaptic D2 receptors are 1) minimally involved in autoregulation of dopaminergic transmission, and 2) differentially activated by dopamine, depending in part on levels and distance from release sites.
Understanding the perception of all but the most impoverished and artificial scenes presents a different and probably far greater challenge from understanding face recognition, reading, or identification (or even categorization) of single objects. Central issues in the interpretation of structured objects and scenes are reviewed, starting with fundamentals such as the meaning of seeing. A theoretical approach to this formidable task is outlined, motivated by some recent developments in neuroscience and neurophilosophy.

Current evidence suggests that neural Hebbian learning in cortical and hippocampal synapses is fundamentally predictive rather than conventionally correlational. Much attention is focussing on what sort of predictions are acquired, and in what neural architectures. A recent paper by Rao and Sejnowski has suggested an interesting interpretation in terms of a popular predictive algorithm that has roots in psychology, computer science and engineering.
Stem Cells in the Mammalian Brain: the 4th Brain Research Interactive Symposium, at the 2001 Annual Conference of the Society for Neuroscience, San Diego, CA, USA from November 8-10 2001.
Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP-1) is an abundant nuclear enzyme involved in DNA repair. The therapeutic efficacy of drugs that inhibit PARP-1 in various disorders underscores the active role of PARP-1 in cell death. Although it is well established that excessive DNA damage causes PARP-1 hyperactivation, which leads to cell death by energy failure, a new mechanistic perspective is emerging following the identification of various PARPs that exhibit different features and subcellular distributions. Studies demonstrating the significant role of PARP-1 in the regulation of gene transcription have further increased the intricacy of poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation in the control of cell homeostasis and challenge the notion that energy collapse is the sole mechanism by which poly(ADP-ribose) formation contributes to cell death. The hypothesis that PARPs might regulate cell fate as essential modulators of death and survival transcriptional programs will be discussed with particular focus on the regulation of transcription factors such as nuclear factor kappaB and p53. (An animation depicting the involvement of PARP-1 in the 'suicide hypothesis' is available at http://archive.bmn.com/supp/tips/tips2303a.html)

In this work the range and scaling properties of the cooperative (contextual) interaction that was first proposed by Julesz [Foundations of Cyclopean Perception, University of Chicago Press, Chicago, 1971] to address the correspondence problem in stereopsis is measured. To this end the effect that flanking difference of Gaussians (DoG) patches produce on a perception of a target pair of patches is studied. The relative depth configuration of the target pair can switch from the small disparity gradient to a large disparity gradient state as a result of cooperative effects of the flanking stimuli. It is found that the interaction strength falls with distance. Its range varies for different subjects from 2 to 3 DoG patch sizes and scales proportionally to the size of the stimuli. The results suggest that a very localized cooperative interaction is in effect at a broad range of spatial scales.
The first goal of this study was to systematically document asymmetries in vertical saccade generation. We found that visually guided upward saccades have not only shorter latencies, but higher peak velocities, shorter durations and smaller errors. The second goal was to identify possible mechanisms underlying the asymmetry in vertical saccade latencies. Based on a recent model of saccade generation, three stages of saccade generation were investigated using specific behavioral paradigms: attention shift to a visual target (CUED paradigm), initiation of saccade generation (GAP paradigm) and release of the motor command to execute the saccade (DELAY paradigm). Our results suggest that initiation of a saccade (or &quot;ocular disengagement&quot;) and its motor release contribute little to the asymmetry in vertical saccade latency. However, analysis of saccades made in the CUED paradigm indicated that it took less time to shift attention to a target in the upper visual field than to a target in the lower visual field. These data suggest that higher attentional sensitivity to targets in the upper visual field may contribute to shorter latencies of upward saccades.
The ability to accurately perceive the speed of moving objects is one of many visual functions that decline with age. One factor that may contribute to this is a deterioration in temporal processing speed. At present, there is a dearth of information concerning how this may occur in the central nervous system, particularly in the visual cortex. Thus, in the present study, we investigated the neural basis of speed and temporal processing in areas 17 and 18 of visual cortex in young and aged rats using either a moving bar of light or a series of flashing lights. Our results showed that the mean preferred speed of a moving bar of light was significantly reduced in aged as compared to young animals. We also found that cells recorded from young animals were able to entrain to a higher frequency of flashing light stimuli than those recorded from aged animals. In addition, we found no age-related differences between cortical fields. These results suggest an age-related difference in temporal processing speed at the level of visual cortex.
The two-dimensional shape of the receptive field center of macaque retinal ganglion cells was determined by measuring responses to drifting sinusoidal gratings of different spatial frequency and orientation. The responses of most cells to high spatial frequencies depended on grating orientation, indicating that their centers were not circularly symmetric. In general, center shape was well described by an ellipse. The major axis of the ellipse tended to point towards the fovea or perpendicular to this. Parvocellular pathway cells had greater center ellipticity than magnocellular pathway cells; the median ratio of the major-to-minor axis was 1.72 and 1.38, respectively. Parvocellular pathway cells also had centers that were often bimodal in shape, suggesting that they received patchy cone/bipolar cell input. We conclude that most ganglion cells in primate retina have elongated receptive field centers and thus show orientation sensitivity.
Caregiver singing and background music were incorporated into the interaction between caregiver and patient, the aim being to illuminate the meaning of verbal communication between persons with severe dementia and their caregivers. In the absence of music, patients communicated with cognitive and behavioral symptoms associated with dementia. In these situations, caregivers devoted their verbal communication to narrating and explaining their caring activities to the patient. The patient and caregiver, however, had difficulties understanding one another. In the presence of background music, caregivers decreased their verbal instructing and narrating while the patient communicated with an increased understanding of the situation, both verbally and behaviorally. During caregiver singing, a paradoxical effect was observed such that despite at evident reduction in the amount of verbal narration and description by the caregiver; the patient implicitly understood what was happening.

Sensorimotor disturbances are common among elderly and one of the main factors depreciating life quality in senescence. Mechanistically sensory deficits during aging include not only degenerative and regressive events but also phenotypic switches among sensory neurons as well as remodeling of sensory innervation. The pattern of changes suggests that an underlying mechanism is a sustained dependence of sensory neurons on target tissues, and that this dependence, at least in part, appears to be mediated through signaling by target-derived trophic factors. This review presents and discusses evidence supporting this notion.
Cortical spreading depression (CSD) has been shown to have neuroprotective effects when administered in advance of cerebral ischemia. The mechanism by which CSD induces its neuroprotective effect however remains to be elucidated. Since MAP kinases have been shown to impart neuroprotection in ischemic preconditioning paradigms, we attempted to determine the role CSD may have in the activation of MAPK. We show that CSD is capable of increasing the phosphorylation of ERK in a MEK-dependent manner. This phosphorylation is, however, transient, as phosphorylated ERK levels return to control levels 45 min after 2 h of CSD elicitation. Immunohistochemical analysis reveals that the phosphorylated form of ERK is located ubiquitously in cells of the CSD-treated cortex while CSD-elicited MEK phosphorylation resides solely in the nuclei. These data suggest that CSD may act via the MAP kinase pathways to mediate preconditioning.
Neuronal survival in developing animals is often dependent on afferent activity. In the posthatch chick, approximately 30% of the neurons in the avian cochlear nucleus, nucleus magnocellularis (NM) die following elimination of VIIIth nerve activity. The factors that influence death or survival of an individual NM neuron are largely unknown. Previous studies indicate that both cell death and cell survival mechanisms compete to determine cell fate. One factor that has been shown to suppress cell death cascades in a variety of systems is bcl-2. If this gene product plays a role in regulating cell survival following deafferentation, then one might expect the expression of this gene to be influenced by removal of afferent input. In the present study, in situ hybridization revealed a rapid and transient increase in bcl-2 mRNA in NM neurons following deafferentation. Enhanced bcl-2 mRNA expression was observed at 6 and 12 h following deafferentation, but not at 3 or 24 h. Surprisingly, the upregulation of bcl-2 mRNA was limited to a subpopulation (20-30%) of deafferented neurons corresponding to the number of NM neurons that eventually die following cochlea removal. The robust and rapid upregulation of this gene suggests that cell death cascades regulated by bcl-2 may be initiated following deafferentation.
C57Bl/6 mice show decreased expression of the mRNA for the epsilon2 and zeta1 subunits of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor in subregions of the cerebral cortex and hippocampus with increased age. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of aging on the protein expression of the three major subunits of the NMDA receptor. Semi-quantitative Western blot techniques were applied with the use of antibodies that recognize either the epsilon1 (NR2A), epsilon2 (NR2B) or zeta1 (NR1) subunits of the NMDA receptor or a synaptic terminal protein, synaptophysin. In the cerebral cortex of 30-month-old mice, the level of protein expression of both the epsilon2 and zeta1 subunits were decreased significantly from levels found in the 3- and 10-month-old mice and the protein expression of the epsilon1 subunit showed a significant decline between 10 and 30 months of age. In the hippocampus, the epsilon2 subunit exhibited a higher protein expression level in the 10-month-old mice as compared to both the young and old mice and the zeta1 subunit showed a significant drop in expression in the old mice from both 3- and 10-month-olds. Synaptophysin showed significant declines in protein expression with increasing age. These results demonstrated that changes in the protein expression of the major subunits of the NMDA receptor occur during the aging process and, in some cases, were greater than changes seen previously in mRNA expression. These subunit alterations may explain some of the changes that are seen in NMDA receptor functions during aging.
Previous pharmacological, biochemical and molecular evidence prove that mu-subtype opiate receptors and opiate alkaloids, i.e. morphine, are present in the ganglionic nervous system of the mollusk Mytilus edulis (bivalve). We now present molecular evidence on the effect of rapid temperature changes on mu opiate receptor expression and morphine levels. Using primers, a labeled Taq-Man probe derived from the human neuronal mu1 opiate receptor, and real-time RT-PCR to measure the expression of mu transcripts from Mytilus pedal ganglia, we observe, in animals placed in cold water from room temperature, an enhanced morphine and morphine 6 glucuronide level in addition to a decrease in mu opiate receptor gene expression. This study provides further evidence that mu-type opiate receptors and morphine are expressed in mollusk ganglia and appear to be involved in physiological processes responding to thermal stress.
The aim of this study was to determine the brain regions involved in anticipation of a primary taste reward and to compare these regions to those responding to the receipt of a taste reward. Using fMRI, we scanned human subjects who were presented with visual cues that signaled subsequent reinforcement with a pleasant sweet taste (1 M glucose), a moderately unpleasant salt taste (0.2 M saline), or a neutral taste. Expectation of a pleasant taste produced activation in dopaminergic midbrain, posterior dorsal amygdala, striatum, and orbitofrontal cortex (OFC). Apart from OFC, these regions were not activated by reward receipt. The findings indicate that when rewards are predictable, brain regions recruited during expectation are, in part, dissociable from areas responding to reward receipt.
Most Down's syndrome (DS) patients develop Alzheimer's disease (AD) neuropathology. Astrocyte and neuronal cultures derived from fetal DS brain show alterations in the processing of amyloid beta precursor protein (AbetaPP), including increased levels of AbetaPP and C99, reduced levels of secreted AbetaPP (AbetaPPs) and C83, and intracellular accumulation of insoluble Abeta42. This pattern of AbetaPP processing is recapitulated in normal astrocytes by inhibition of mitochondrial metabolism, consistent with impaired mitochondrial function in DS astrocytes. Intracellular Abeta42 and reduced AbetaPPs are also detected in DS and AD brains. The survival of DS neurons is markedly increased by recombinant or astrocyte-produced AbetaPPs, suggesting that AbetaPPs may be a neuronal survival factor. Thus, mitochondrial dysfunction in DS may lead to intracellular deposition of Abeta42, reduced levels of AbetaPPs, and a chronic state of increased neuronal vulnerability.
In this issue of Neuron, record from synaptically coupled pairs of CA3 neurons to closely examine the induction of synaptic depression at a small number of identified synapses. The authors provide convincing evidence that the activation history of a synapse determines both the ability of a synapse to depress and the mechanism of depression.
Four peptide inhibitors of small-conductance Ca(2+)-activated, apamin-sensitive K(+) channels (SK(Ca)) have been isolated from the venom of the Chinese scorpion Buthus martensi, named BmP01, BmP02, BmP03, and BmP05, respectively [Romi-Lebrun, R. (1997) Eur. J. Biochem. 245, 457-464]. Among them BmP05 with 31 amino acid residues has been intensively studied due to its most potent toxicity. To investigate the structure-function relationship of BmP05, its wild type and seven mutants (their C-termini unamidated) were successfully expressed in the yeast secretion system and purified with a high yield over 8 mg/L. Their toxicity to mice and electrophysiological activity on the K(+) currents (SK(Ca) and Kv) in rat adrenal chromaffin cells were measured and compared. The results indicated the following: (1) As a selective antagonist against SK(Ca), 1 microM rBmP05 is equivalent to 0.2 microM apamin, and its IC(50) is 0.92 microM. (2) The basic residues Lys and Arg located at positions 6 and 13 in the N-terminal alpha-helix region are essential and synergetic in the interaction of the toxin with SK(Ca). (3) Disruption of the alpha-helix by mutation of Gln at position 9 with Pro results in almost total loss of toxicity. (4) The C-terminal residue His31 plays an auxiliary role in the interaction of the toxin with SK(Ca). (5) The beta-turn connecting two beta-sheets near the C-terminal part is responsible for the specificity of the toxin to the different subtypes of K(+) channels.
Diphosphoinositol pentakisphosphate (InsP(7)) and bis-diphosphoinositol tetrakisphosphate (InsP(8)) contain energetic pyrophosphate groups, occur throughout animal and plant kingdoms, and are synthesized by a recently cloned family of inositol hexakisphosphate kinases (InsP(6)Ks). We report that these inositol pyrophosphates mediate homologous DNA recombination in yeast S. cerevisae. Hyperrecombination, caused by altered protein kinase C1 (PKC1), is lost in yeast with deletion of yeast InsP(6)K (yInsP(6)K) and can be restored selectively by catalytically active yeast or mammalian InsP(6)Ks. Inositol pyrophosphates are required for two forms of hyperrecombination that differ in mechanism, suggesting some generalities for actions of inositol pyrophosphates in recombination.


Several factors are known to be capable of inducing relatively selective dopaminergic cell death in the substantia nigra and inducing the clinical features that characterize Parkinson's disease (PD). Neuronal toxins such as 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) can induce parkinsonism in human and animal models, and rotenone, another specific mitochondrial complex I inhibitor, can induce similar effects in rodents to produce a model for PD. Studies in twins suggest a significant genetic component to young-onset PD, and several gene mutations have now been identified as causing familial autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive PD. Etiologic factors including free radical-mediated damage (including excitotoxicity), mitochondrial dysfunction, and inflammation-mediated cell damage can contribute to pathogenesis. In addition, the recent interest in protein misfolding, aggregation, and proteosomal activity has provided further insight into potential pathogenetic pathways in PD. Against this background there has been increasing interest in the development of drugs to modify these biochemical abnormalities and thus alter the course of PD, either by retarding the rate of cell death or by restoring function to neurons that are likely to be damaged but not dead. In this context, dopamine agonists have shown significant promise. Not only do these drugs provide symptomatic relief of PD but they also appear to be associated with a significant decrease in the rate of motor complications and to be capable of protecting against some of the adverse consequences of levodopa use. However, evidence is now emerging that dopamine agonists may have additional neuroprotective properties. As a group, they have antioxidant actions in vitro and in vivo. More specifically, the D(2)/D(3) dopamine agonist pramipexole may have neuroprotective activity that is, at least in part, unrelated to its dopamine agonist action. Protection in cell and animal models against a variety of toxins, including MPTP and 6-hydroxydopamine, confirms that this agonist has in vitro and in vivo neuroprotective action. Evidence is now emerging that some of this may be mediated by direct action on mitochondrial membrane potential and the inhibition of apoptosis. If the neuroprotective action of this drug is confirmed in patients with PD, this will have important implications for its early use in patients.
To investigate the role of plasma lipid abnormalities in ischemic cerebrovascular disease related to primary vessel disease, the authors assess lipid profiles in a hospital-based cohort of 202 consecutive patients with atherothrombotic or lacunar stroke subtypes. Lipoprotein (a) was the unique lipid parameter that differs between these two subtypes being its value twofold higher in patients with atherothrombotic than in lacunar stroke. This suggests that lipoprotein (a) promotes large vessel atheromatosis rather than small vessel arteriolosclerosis and favors thrombosis on atheromatous plaques by suppressing local fibrinolysis.
The integrity of temporal lobe activity during and after recovery from transient global amnesia (TGA) was assessed in a case study using functional MRI. TGA was associated with scene-encoding deficits in a temporolimbic circuit that recovered over time. Frontoparietal areas recruited during the amnesic state may signify a compensatory reliance on visuospatial or working memory strategies. Reduction of extrastriate cortex responses over repeated testing sessions possibly indicates intact visual priming in TGA.


Both pigeons and rats with damage to the hippocampus are slow to acquire an autoshaped response and emit fewer overall responses than control animals. Experiment 1 explored the possibility that the autoshaping deficit was due to an impairment in contextual retrieval. Pigeons were trained for 14 days on an autoshaping task in which a red stimulus was followed by reinforcement in context A, and a green stimulus was followed by reinforcement in context B. On day 15, the subjects were given a context test in which the red and green stimuli were presented simultaneously in context A and then later in context B. Both control and hippocampal animals showed context specificity, that is, they responded more to the red stimulus in context A and to the green stimulus in context B. In Experiment 2 we video-recorded the control and hippocampal animals performing the autoshaping task. Hippocampal animals tended to miss-peck the key more often than control animals. In addition, the number of missed pecks increased across days for hippocampal animals but not for control animals, suggesting that while the control animals increased their pecking accuracy, the hippocampal animals actually decreased their pecking accuracy. Our findings suggest that impairments in moving through space may underlie the hippocampal autoshaping deficit.
Vestibular afferents have different physiological properties that can be at least partially correlated with the morphology that the peripheral ending makes with type I and type II hair cells. If the location of the ending in the sensory epithelium is included, the correlations are further improved. It is also known that vestibular afferents can be immunohistochemically stained for a variety of different substances. We have concentrated on three of these markers, calretinin, calbindin and peripherin, because the sources of afferents to the vestibular nuclear complex that contain these substances are restricted, in two cases to the primary afferents. We demonstrate that calretinin is found only in the calyx-only afferents that are located at the apex of the cristae ampullaris and along the striola of the maculae. The area containing stained calyces is equal to or slightly smaller than the central zone of the cristae as defined by the Goldberg group [J. Neurophysiol. 60 (1988) 167]. Calbindin is also found in calyces at the apex of the cristae and along the striola of the otoliths. Examination of adjacent sections of all endorgans indicates that calbindin staining overlaps with calretinin, but is always several hair cells wider on each side. Peripherin also stains fibers in the neuroepithelium. The greatest density of staining is in the peripheral zone of the cristae, i.e. at the base and toward the planum semilunatum. We suggest that these substances are useful markers for specific sets of vestibular afferents.

Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAchRs) mediate amacrine to ganglion cell synaptic transmission in the developing mammalian retina. The clustered neuronal nAchRs subunit genes, alpha 3 and beta 4, are expressed in amacrine and ganglion cells where they are used to assemble functional receptor subtypes. The transcriptional mechanisms underlying expression of these subunits in retina are not yet known but may involve enhancers that are selectively active in retinal neurons. We previously identified a neuron-selective enhancer, beta 43', whose activity in neural cell lines is dependent on ETS domain-binding sites. To determine whether beta 43' is active in retinal neurons that express the alpha 3 and beta 4 genes, we investigated beta 43' activity in primary dissociated rat retinal cultures. We found that beta 43' is selectively active in retinal neurons compared with retinal non-neuronal cells. This activity was derived primarily from amacrine and ganglion neurons, which are the retinal neuron cell types that express the clustered genes. Moreover, beta 43' was selectively active in retinal neurons compared with cerebral cortical neurons suggesting that it is not a pan-neuronal enhancer. ETS factor-binding sites in the enhancer are required for its retinal neuron activity. These findings suggest that ETS factor interactions with beta 43' control retinal neuron expression of certain nAchR subtypes.
Hedonic tone is so salient in odor perception that several authors have used odors to induce affective states. Various studies have shown that the electrophysiological and psychophysiological response patterns induced by olfactory stimuli are different for pleasant and unpleasant odors, and that these types of odor activate brain structures differentially. These results suggest that odors are first categorized according to pleasantness. The objective of the present work was to study the possible existence of an involuntary affective categorization in olfaction. Given that certain variations in the autonomic system, such as skin conductance amplitude and heart rate, are not under the voluntary control of human subjects, we used such psychophysiological methods for this investigation. Our results indicate that unpleasant odors provoke heart-rate acceleration during both a smelling task (control condition: a task in which subjects had only to inhale odors) and a pleasantness judgment, but not during a familiarity judgment. These results suggest that subjects involuntarily categorize odors by their pleasantness.
To investigate the involvement of nuclear factor kappa B1 (NF-kappaB1; p50/p105) in electroacupuncture (EA)-induced analgesia, 2 and 100 Hz EA stimulations were applied at acupoint ST36 (Zusanli) in NF-kappaB1 knockout mice. EA was performed for 30 min and tail-flick latencies (TFLs) were evaluated every 15 min for 1 h. Wild-type mice displayed a 63.3% increase in TFLs compared to baseline after 2 Hz EA, whereas NF-kappaB1+/- mice exhibited a 41.8% increase and NF-kappaB1-/- mice showed only a 3.9% increase of TFLs. The TFLs of 100 Hz EA showed similar trends: a 72.6% increase of TFLs in wild-type, a 38.6% increase in NF-kappaB1+/- and a 9.3% increase in NF-kappaB1-/- mice. The present findings suggest that NF-kappaB1 may play a crucial role in both low and high frequency EA-induced analgesic effects.

Threshold systems are known to be some of the most important nonlinear self-organizing systems in nature, including networks of earthquake faults, neural networks, superconductors and semiconductors, and the World Wide Web, as well as political, social, and ecological systems. All of these systems have dynamics that are strongly correlated in space and time, and all typically display a multiplicity of spatial and temporal scales. Here we discuss the physics of self-organization in earthquake threshold systems at two distinct scales: (i) The &quot;microscopic&quot; laboratory scale, in which consideration of results from simulations leads to dynamical equations that can be used to derive the results obtained from sliding friction experiments, and (ii) the &quot;macroscopic&quot; earthquake fault-system scale, in which the physics of strongly correlated earthquake fault systems can be understood by using time-dependent state vectors defined in a Hilbert space of eigenstates, similar in many respects to the mathematics of quantum mechanics. In all of these systems, long-range interactions induce the existence of locally ergodic dynamics. The existence of dissipative effects leads to the appearance of a &quot;leaky threshold&quot; dynamics, equivalent to a new scaling field that controls the size of nucleation events relative to the size of background fluctuations. At the macroscopic earthquake fault-system scale, these ideas show considerable promise as a means of forecasting future earthquake activity.
Marrow stromal cells (MSC) can be expanded rapidly in vitro and differentiated into multiple mesodermal cell types. In addition, differentiation into neuron-like cells expressing markers typical for mature neurons has been reported. To analyze whether such cells, exposed to differentiation media, could develop electrophysiological properties characteristic of neurons, we performed whole-cell recordings. Neuron-like MSC, however, lacked voltage-gated ion channels necessary for generation of action potentials. We then delivered MSC into the injured spinal cord to study the fate of transplanted MSC and possible effects on functional outcome in animals rendered paraplegic. MSC given 1 week after injury led to significantly larger numbers of surviving cells than immediate treatment and significant improvements of gait. Histology 5 weeks after spinal cord injury revealed that MSC were tightly associated with longitudinally arranged immature astrocytes and formed bundles bridging the epicenter of the injury. Robust bundles of neurofilament-positive fibers and some 5-hydroxytryptamine-positive fibers were found mainly at the interface between graft and scar tissue. MSC constitute an easily accessible, easily expandable source of cells that may prove useful in the establishment of spinal cord repair protocols.
Animals subjected to sublethal transient global ischemia (ischemic preconditioning) exhibit neuroprotection against subsequent global ischemia-induced neuronal death in the hippocampal CA1 (ischemic tolerance). The molecular mechanisms underlying ischemic tolerance are unclear. Here we report that ischemic preconditioning induced a small, transient down-regulation of GluR2 mRNA expression and greatly attenuated subsequent ischemia-induced GluR2 mRNA and protein down-regulation and neuronal death. Ischemic preconditioning and GluR2 antisense knockdown acted synergistically to increase cell death. Sublethal antisense knockdown did not protect against subsequent ischemic insults or antisense knockdown. These findings indicate that ischemic preconditioning acts at step(s) upstream from suppression of GluR2 gene expression to afford neuroprotection and implicate transcriptional regulation of GluR2 expression in the adaptive mechanisms associated with ischemic tolerance.
In the primary auditory cortex (AI), the development of tone frequency selectivity and tonotopic organization is influenced by patterns of neural activity. Introduction of synchronous inputs into the auditory pathway achieved by exposing rat pups to pulsed white noise at a moderate intensity during P9-P28 resulted in a disrupted tonotopicity and degraded frequency-response selectivity for neurons in the adult AI. The latter was manifested by broader-than-normal tuning curves, multipeaks, and discontinuous, tone-evoked responses within AI-receptive fields. These effects correlated with the severe impairment of normal, developmental sharpening, and refinement of receptive fields and tonotopicity. In addition, paradoxically weaker than normal temporal correlations between the discharges of nearby AI neurons were recorded in exposed rats. In contrast, noise exposure of rats older than P30 did not cause significant change of auditory cortical maps. Thus, patterned auditory inputs appear to play a crucial role in shaping neuronal processing/decoding circuits in the primary auditory cortex during a critical period.
It is well known that extracellular ATP mediates rapid excitatory signaling by means of the ionotropic P2X receptors. One of its subunits, the P2X(3) receptor, is well documented to be associated with sensory innervation in adult animals. It is speculated that the P2X(3) receptor may have already been present in the early sensory system. The aim of this study was to investigate the distribution of the P2X(3) receptor during neurogenesis by using immunohistochemistry on rat embryos from embryonic day (E)9.5-18.5. The P2X(3) receptor was first identified in the hindbrain neural tube and the sensory ganglia in E11-11.5 embryos. At E14.5, the optic tract and retina, nucleus tractus solitarius, mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus, and sensory nerves in both respiratory and digestive tract showed positive staining. The facial nucleus, the prepositus hypoglossal nucleus, and the sympathetic ganglia also showed P2X(3) immunoreactivity, even though these are not sensory associated. P2X(3) immunoreactivity was detected in the vestibular nucleus, the nerves in mesentery, bladder, and kidney in E16.5 and in nerves in vibrissae in E18.5. P2X(3) immunoreactivity in the facial nucleus, spinal trigeminal tract, the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus, and the vestibular nucleus were undetectable in postnatal day 16 rat brainstem. The P2X(3) receptor was coexpressed with the P2X(2) receptor in nucleus tractus solitarius, dorsal root ganglion, nodose ganglion, and the taste bud in E16.5 embryo, which was 5 days later than the first appearance of the native P2X(3) receptor. In summary, we present a detailed expression pattern of the P2X(3) receptor during neurogenesis and report that P2X(3) immunoreactivity is down-regulated in early postnatal brainstems.
The variety of posttranslational modifications and the relative abundance of transthyretin (TTR) in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) make TTR a suitable model molecule when comparing the performance of different combinations of methods for characterization of CSF proteins. We have compared three different electrophoretic methods: conventional two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE), liquid-phase isoelectric focusing (IEF) as a prefractionation step in combination with analytical 2-DE, and preparative 2-DE for isolation and mass spectrometric analysis of TTR in CSF. Using liquid-phase IEF in combination with 2-DE compared with conventional 2-DE improved the sequence coverage of TTR. Only the mass spectrum from the preparative 2-DE fraction contained a tryptic peptide from the first nine amino acids, thereby yielding 100% sequence coverage. Our results show that the use of a prefractionation step before 2-DE or the use of preparative 2-DE increases the sequence coverage and provide low abundant proteins in complex biological systems in sufficient quantities for protein characterization with mass spectrometry.
Naturally occurring sphingoid molecules control vital functions of the cell through their interaction with specific receptors. Proliferation, differentiation and programmed death result in fact from a fine balance of signals, among which sphingosine and structurally related molecules play fundamental roles, acting as either first or second messengers. The corresponding receptors need to be identified in order that the role of sphingoid molecules can be established. Among them, several G-protein-coupled receptors specific for sphingosine 1-phosphate, sphingosylphosphocholine, or both, have already been investigated. In contrast, the identification of the postulated intracellular receptors has been problematical. In the present study we re-evaluated the molecular characterization of Scamper, the first proposed intracellular receptor for sphingosylphosphocholine [Mao, Kim, Almenoff, Rudner, Kearney and Kindman (1996) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 93, 1993-1996] and commonly believed to be a Ca(2+) channel of the endoplasmic reticulum (the name &quot;SCaMPER&quot; used by Mao et al. being derived from &quot;sphingolipid Ca(2+)-release-mediating protein of the endoplasmic reticulum&quot;). In contrast with what has been believed hitherto, our primary-structure and overexpression experiments indicate that Scamper is a 110-amino-acid protein spanning the membrane once with a Nexo/Ccyt topology [von Heijne and Gavel (1988) Eur. J. Biochem. 174, 671-678]. Overexpression of either wild-type or tagged Scamper induces a specific phenotype characterized by the rapid extension of actin-containing protrusions, followed by cell death.
Benzodiazepine pharmacology at the GABA(A) receptor is dependent on the alpha and gamma subunit isoforms present. Ligands with higher affinity for certain isoforms--selective compounds--have been classified into benzodiazepine type I and II and into diazepam-sensitive and diazepam-insensitive receptors. A single amino acid position (alpha1G201/alpha3E225) has been identified which discriminates BZI and BZII receptors. The role of this residue has been explored by mutagenesis of alpha1 position 201 and the pharmacology of recombinant receptors examined using BZI receptor agonists. Ligand affinity is reduced by increasing side chain volume at alpha1G201 suggesting that steric inhibition underlies alpha-subunit selectivity. A second amino acid (alpha1H102/alpha6R100) determines diazepam sensitivity. The nature of the amino acid at this position was also examined by mutagenesis. Flumazenil and Ro15-4513 (ethyl 8-azido-6-dihydro-5-methyl-6-oxo-4H-imidazo[1,5-a]-[1,4]benzodiazepine-3-carboxylate) binding affinity correlated weakly with the amino acid hydrophobicity suggesting a weak hydrophobic interaction between the ligand and alpha1H102.
Dystroglycan is part of the dystrophin-associated protein complex, which joins laminin in the extracellular matrix to dystrophin within the subsarcolemmal cytoskeleton. We have investigated how mutations in the components of the laminin-dystroglycan-dystrophin axis affect the organization and expression of dystrophin-associated proteins by comparing mice mutant for merosin (alpha(2)-laminin, dy), dystrophin (mdx), and dystroglycan (Dag1) using immunohistochemistry and immunoblots. We report that syntrophin and neuronal nitric-oxide synthase are depleted in muscle fibers lacking both dystrophin and dystroglycan. Some fibers deficient in dystroglycan, however, localize dystrophin at the cell surface at levels similar to that in wild-type muscle. Nevertheless, these fibers have signs of degeneration/regeneration including increased cell surface permeability and central nuclei. In these fibers, syntrophin and nitric-oxide synthase are also localized to the plasma membrane, whereas the sarcoglycan complex is disrupted. These results suggest a mechanism of membrane attachment for dystrophin independent of dystroglycan and that the interaction of sarcoglycans with dystrophin requires dystroglycan. The distribution of caveolin-3, a muscle-specific component of caveolae recently found to bind dystroglycan, was affected in dystroglycan- and dystrophin-deficient mice. We also examined alternative mechanisms of cell-extracellular matrix attachment to elucidate how the muscle basement membrane may subsist in the absence of dystroglycan, and we found the alpha(7B) splice variant of the alpha(7) integrin receptor subunit to be up-regulated. These results support the possibility that alpha(7B) integrin compensates in mediating cell-extracellular matrix attachment but cannot rescue the dystrophic phenotype.
The basal ganglia are intimately connected to the frontal cortex via five fronto-striatal circuits. While the role of the frontal cortex in cognition has been extensively studied, the contribution of the basal ganglia to cognition has remained less clear. In Parkinson's disease, posteroventral pallidotomy (PVP) involves surgical lesioning of the internal section of the globus pallidus (GPi, the final output pathway from the basal ganglia) to relieve the motor symptoms of the disorder. PVP in Parkinson's disease provides a unique opportunity to investigate the impact of disruption of striatal outflow to the frontal cortex on cognition. We assessed executive function and working memory after withdrawal of medication in 13 patients with Parkinson's disease before and 3 months after unilateral PVP compared to 12 age- and IQ-matched normals assessed twice with an interval of 3 months. The tests used were: Wisconsin Card Sorting (WCST), Self-Ordered Random Number Sequences, Missing Digit Test, Paced Visual Serial Addition Test (PVSAT), and Visual Conditional Associative Learning Test (VCALT). After PVP, the patients performed significantly better on the Self-Ordered Random Number Sequences and the WCST, an improvement that was also observed in the normals across the two assessment and is therefore likely to reflect practice effects. Relative to the normals, the patients showed significant differential change following PVP on the Missing Digit Test and PVSAT, on which they performed worse after compared to before surgery, while the controls performed better on the second assessment. For the patients, performance on the VCALT also indicated deterioration after PVP, but the changes approached significance. The side of PVP had no effect on the results. The pattern of change observed 3 months after PVP was maintained at 15-month follow-up. The results suggest that striatal outflow to the frontal cortex may be essential for those aspects of executive function that showed deterioration after PVP.
Using event-related fMRI, we analyzed the functional neuroanatomy of covert reorienting and inhibition of return (IOR). Covert reorienting to a target appearing within 250 msec after an invalid contralateral location cue elicited increased activation in the left fronto-polar cortex (LFPC), right anterior and left posterior middle frontal gyrus, and right cerebellum, areas that have previously been associated with attentional processes, specifically attentional change. In contrast, IOR, which leads to prolonged response times to targets that appear at the cued location at a stimulus-onset-asynchrony (SOA)&gt;250 msec, was accompanied by increased activation in brain areas involved in oculomotor programming, such as the right medial frontal gyrus (supplementary eye field; SEF) and the right inferior precentral sulcus (frontal eye field; FEF), supporting the oculomotor bias theory of IOR. Pre-SEF and pre-FEF areas were involved both in covert reorienting and IOR. The supramarginal gyri were bilaterally involved in IOR, with the right supramarginal gyrus additionally involved in covert reorienting.
The chick chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) is a valuable model for evaluating angiogenesis and vasculogenesis. Our purpose was to characterize the formation of the CAM vasculature, in particular the capillary plexus, between days five and six after fertilization and to examine the mode of action of cytochalasin D and suramin on vascular development during this interval. The CAM increased 20-fold in size between days five and six, during which time the capillary plexus forms by both migration of mesodermal blood vessels toward the ectoderm and by the formation of new vessels from angioblasts near the ectoderm. Between days five and six, the CAM becomes thinner, and the density of the mesodermal cells decreases. To determine the mode of action of anti-angiogenic drugs on the day five to day six CAM, various concentrations of cytochalasin D or suramin were added directly to day five CAMs, and their effects were evaluated on day six. Both drugs significantly inhibited CAM growth, altered branching patterns of the major vessels, decreased area of the major vessels, and inhibited the formation of the capillary plexus by inhibiting both vasculogenesis and the migration of mesodermal blood vessels to the ectoderm. Cytochalasin D also inhibited compartmentalization of the plexus. Cytochalasin D and suramin were inhibitory at similar doses. This study provides new information on early CAM development, establishes the mode of action and dose dependency of cytochalasin D and suramin on day five to day six CAMs, and demonstrates that the day five to day six CAM provides a useful assay to examine the effect of anti-angiogenic drugs on blood vessel development, including capillary plexus formation.
In patients with multiple sclerosis (MS), we investigated whether the extent of cerebral grey matter (GM) pathology is associated with the presence and severity of fatigue. We quantified cerebral GM pathology in 28 MS patients (14 with fatigue and 14 without fatigue) using magnetization transfer (MT) and diffusion tensor (DT) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The average MT ratio and mean diffusivity from cerebral GM did not differ between fatigued and non-fatigued patients. Fatigued and non-fatigued patients also did not differ in terms of GM pathology of the cerebral cortex of the frontal lobe and basal ganglia. No correlations were found between the fatigue severity scale scores and any of the MT- and DT-MRI quantities. These preliminary results suggest that structural GM pathology is not a major contributing factor to the development of fatigue in patients with MS.
This study was aimed at describing temporal synergies of hand movement and determining the influence of sensory cues on the control of these synergies. Subjects were asked to reach to and grasp various objects under three experimental conditions: (1) memory-guided movements, in which the object was not in view during the movement; (2) virtual object, in which a virtual image of the object was in view but the object was not physically present; and (3) real object, in which the object was in view and physically present. Motion of the arm and of 15 degrees of freedom of the hand was recorded. A principal components analysis was developed to provide a concise description of the spatiotemporal patterns underlying the motion. Vision of the object during the reaching movement had no influence on the kinematics, and the effect of the physical presence of the object became manifest primarily after the fingers had contacted the object. Two principal components accounted for &gt;75% of the variance. For both components, there was a strong positive correlation in the rotations of metacarpophalangeal and proximal interphalangeal joints of the fingers. The first principal component exhibited a pattern of finger extension reversing to flexion, whereas the second principal component became important only in the second half of the reaching movement.
The nitric oxide (NO)-cGMP signaling pathway is implicated in an increasing number of experimental models of plasticity. Here, in a behavioral analysis using one-trial appetitive associative conditioning, we show that there is an obligatory requirement for this pathway in the formation of long-term memory (LTM). Moreover, we demonstrate that this requirement lasts for a critical period of approximately 5 hr after training. Specifically, we trained intact specimens of the snail Lymnaea stagnalis in a single conditioning trial using a conditioned stimulus, amyl-acetate, paired with a salient unconditioned stimulus, sucrose, for feeding. Long-term associative memory induced by a single associative trial was demonstrated at 24 hr and shown to last at least 14 d after training. Tests for LTM and its dependence on NO were performed routinely 24 hr after training. The critical period when NO was needed for memory formation was established by transiently depleting it from the animals at a series of time points after training by the injection of the NO-scavenger 2-phenyl-4,4,5,5-tetramethyl-imidazoline-1-oxyl 3-oxide (PTIO). By blocking the activity of NO synthase and soluble guanylyl cyclase enzymes after training, we provided further evidence that LTM formation depends on an intact NO-cGMP pathway. An electrophysiological correlate of LTM was also blocked by PTIO, showing that the dependence of LTM on NO is amenable to analysis at the cellular level in vitro. This represents the first demonstration that associative memory formation after single-trial appetitive classical conditioning is dependent on an intact NO-cGMP signaling pathway.
The regulation of dendritic dopamine release in the substantia nigra (SN) likely involves multiple mechanisms. GABA and glutamate inputs to nigrostriatal dopamine neurons exert powerful influences on dopamine neuron physiology; therefore, it is probable that GABA and glutamate likewise influence dendritic dopamine release, at least under some conditions. The present studies used in vivo microdialysis to determine the potential roles of nigral GABA and glutamate receptors in the regulation of dendritic dopamine release under normal conditions and when dopamine signaling in the basal ganglia is compromised after systemic haloperidol administration. Nigral application of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline by reverse dialysis significantly increased spontaneous dopamine efflux in the SN. However, spontaneous dopamine efflux in the SN was not significantly affected by local application of the glutamate receptor antagonists 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione or (+/-)-3-[2-carboxypiperazine-4-yl]-propyl-1-phosphonic acid. Systemic haloperidol administration significantly increased the extracellular dopamine measured in the SN. Blockade of nigral GABA(A) receptors by local bicuculline application did not alter this effect of systemic haloperidol, despite the bicuculline-induced increase in spontaneous dendritic dopamine efflux. In contrast, nigral application of either glutamate receptor antagonist significantly attenuated the increases in dendritic dopamine efflux elicited by systemic haloperidol. These data suggest that under normal conditions, activity of GABA afferents to SN dopamine neurons is an important determinant of the spontaneous level of dendritic dopamine release. Circuit-level changes in the basal ganglia involving an increased glutamatergic drive to the SN appear to underlie the increase in dendritic dopamine release that occurs in response to systemic haloperidol administration.
It is now well established that sensory neurons and receptors display characteristic morphological and electrophysiological properties tailored to their functions. This is especially evident in the auditory system, where cells are arranged tonotopically and are highly specialized for precise coding of frequency- and timing-dependent auditory information. Less well understood, however, are the mechanisms that give rise to these biophysical properties. We have provided insight into this issue by using whole-cell current-clamp recordings and immunocytochemistry to show that BDNF and NT-3, neurotrophins found normally in the cochlea, have profound effects on the firing properties and ion channel distribution of spiral ganglion neurons in the murine cochlea. Exposure of neurons to BDNF caused all neurons, regardless of their original cochlear position, to display characteristics of the basal neurons. Conversely, NT-3 caused cells to show the properties of apical neurons. These results are consistent with oppositely oriented gradients of these two neurotrophins and/or their high-affinity receptors along the tonotopic map, and they suggest that a combination of neurotrophins are necessary to establish the characteristic firing features of postnatal spiral ganglion neurons.
The sleeping rat cycles between two well-characterized physiological states, slow-wave sleep (SWS) and rapid-eye-movement sleep (REM), often identified by the presence of large-amplitude irregular activity (LIA) and theta activity, respectively, in the hippocampal EEG. Inspection of the activity of ensembles of hippocampal CA1 complex-spike cells along with the EEG reveals the presence of a third physiological state within SWS. We characterize the hippocampal EEG and population activity of this third state relative to theta activity and LIA, its incidence relative to REM and LIA, and the functional correlates of its population activity. This state occurs repeatedly within stretches of SWS, occupying approximately 33% of SWS and approximately 20% of total sleep, and it follows nearly every REM episode; however, it never occurs just before a REM episode. The EEG during this state becomes low in amplitude for a few seconds, probably corresponding to &quot;small-amplitude irregular activity&quot; (SIA) described in the literature; we will call its manifestation during sleep &quot;S-SIA.&quot; During S-SIA, a small subset of cells becomes active, whereas the rest remain nearly silent, with the same subset of cells active across long sequences of S-SIA episodes. These cells are physiologically indistinguishable from ordinary complex-spike cells; thus, the question arises as to whether they have any special functional correlates. Indeed, many of these cells are found to have place fields encompassing the location where the rat sleeps, raising the possibility that S-SIA is a state of increased alertness in which the animal's location in the environment is represented in the brain.
Using a spinal cord slice preparation and patch-clamp recordings from spinal cord dorsal horn neurons, we examined excitatory and inhibitory circuits connecting to lamina V neurons after the activation of afferent central terminal vanilloid receptor-1 (VR1) receptors and P2X receptors. We found that single neurons in lamina V often received excitatory inputs from two chemically defined afferent pathways. One of these pathways was polysynaptic from capsaicin-sensitive afferent terminals. In this pathway the capsaicin-sensitive afferent input first activated interneurons in superficial laminas, and then the excitatory activity was transmitted onto lamina V neurons. The second excitatory input was monosynaptic from alpha(beta)m-ATP-sensitive/capsaicin-insensitive afferent terminals. Both capsaicin-sensitive and alpha(beta)m-ATP-sensitive/capsaicin-insensitive pathways also recruited polysynaptic inhibitory inputs to lamina V neurons. Furthermore, we demonstrated that simultaneous activation of both capsaicin-sensitive afferent pathways and alpha(beta)m-ATP-sensitive/capsaicin-insensitive pathways could generate a temporal summation of excitatory inputs onto single lamina V neurons. These convergent pathways may provide a mechanism of sensory integration for two chemically defined sensory inputs and may have implications in different sensory states.
Sensory hair cells die after acoustic trauma or ototoxic insults, but the signal transduction pathways that mediate hair cell death are not known. Here we identify several important signaling events that regulate the death of vestibular hair cells. Chick utricles were cultured in media supplemented with the ototoxic antibiotic neomycin and selected pharmacological agents that influence signaling molecules in cell death pathways. Hair cells that were treated with neomycin exhibited classically defined apoptotic morphologies such as condensed nuclei and fragmented DNA. Inhibition of protein synthesis (via treatment with cycloheximide) increased hair cell survival after treatment with neomycin, suggesting that hair cell death requires de novo protein synthesis. Finally, the inhibition of caspases promoted hair cell survival after neomycin treatment. Sensory hair cells in avian vestibular organs also undergo continual cell death and replacement throughout mature life. It is unclear whether the loss of hair cells stimulates the proliferation of supporting cells or whether the production of new cells triggers the death of hair cells. We examined the effects of caspase inhibition on spontaneous hair cell death in the chick utricle. Caspase inhibitors reduced the amount of ongoing hair cell death and ongoing supporting cell proliferation in a dose-dependent manner. In isolated sensory epithelia, however, caspase inhibitors did not affect supporting cell proliferation directly. Our data indicate that ongoing hair cell death stimulates supporting cell proliferation in the mature utricle.
Apoptosis mediated by members of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-nerve growth factor superfamily plays a crucial role in the interaction of the nervous and the immune system. On the one hand, it is involved in the defense mechanisms of the brain, the immune privilege. On the other hand, it is involved in the induction of glial-neuronal cell death in neuroinflammatory diseases. Here, we show that in contrast to the other known death ligands, TNF-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) is not constitutively expressed in the human brain, whereas both apoptosis-mediating and apoptosis-blocking TRAIL receptors are found on neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes. Thus, the brain differs from other immune-privileged organs, such as the placenta, with the TRAIL receptor-TRAIL system not being part of the immune privilege of the brain. Conversely, this death receptor-ligand system might well play an important role in T cell-mediated autoimmune diseases of the CNS such as multiple sclerosis.
Several methodological limitations have emerged in the use of viral gene transfer into skeletal muscle. First, because the nuclei of mature muscle fibers do not undergo division, the use of strategies involving replicative integration of exogenous DNA is greatly limited. Another important limitation concerns the maturation-dependent loss in muscle fiber infectivity with adenoviral vectors. In this study, we investigated the possibility that high-titer infections with recombinant adenovirus, expressing a foreign marker gene under the control of a strong viral promoter, can significantly improve the efficiency of gene transfer in vivo into neonatal and adult rat skeletal muscle. High-titer (2 x 10(10) plaque forming units) intramuscular injection of replication-defective adenovirus vector, expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP) under the control of cytomegalovirus promoter, resulted in GFP expression in 99 +/- 0.34% of fibers in the adult soleus muscle and in approximately 85 +/- 1.44% of fibers in the adult tibialis anterior muscle. Interestingly, reduction in injected adenoviral dose significantly reduced the number of GFP-positive fibers in the adult tibialis anterior muscle, but not in the soleus muscle. However, in neonates, adenoviral infection resulted in GFP expression in 96-99% of the fibers in the tibialis anterior and the gastrocnemius muscles regardless of administered adenoviral dose.
Animal research assessing multiple responses during Pavlovian conditioning has revealed a dichotomy between the central nervous system (CNS) substrates for somatomotor and visceral CRs. These findings have implications for the study of clinical/applied problems in human subjects, since differences in the acquisition functions for these response systems may suggest which CNS structures are involved in various neuropsychiatric disorders. The present paper describes methods and procedures utilized to assess the somatomotor conditioned eyeblink (EB) response and accompanying visceral changes in human subjects. Methods are described for assessing concomitant EB conditioned and unconditioned responses and the accompanying heart rate, skin conductance, and respiratory changes during Pavlovian conditioning in human subjects. It is stressed that utilization of concomitant conditioning of these different response systems may lead to inferences regarding the central nervous system structures involved in a variety of different kinds of clinical problems.
Anticipatory activity of hand and eye has been examined during oculo-manual tracking of a constant velocity visual target with a hand cursor. Both target and cursor were presented briefly (&lt; 480 ms), but repeatedly, at regular inter-stimulus intervals (ISI). In Expt 1, the build-up of hand and eye responses was examined for target velocities varying from 10-40 deg x s(-1) with an ISI of 2.4 s. The velocity 100 ms after target onset (i.e. prior to visual feedback) for both hand and eye (V100) progressively increased over the first four presentations but then attained a steady state (SS). SS V100 values for eye and hand increased in proportion to target velocity and were thus predictive of forthcoming movement. Hand velocity exceeded eye velocity but both exhibited similar anticipatory trajectories. In Expt 2, target velocity was constant (40 deg x s(-1)) but ISI varied from 0.48-3.74 s. Subjects made anticipatory eye movements for all ISIs but hand movements were often reactive at the longest ISI. If the target failed to appear as expected, subjects initiated predictive hand and eye responses with timing appropriate for the prevailing ISI. In Expt 3, predictive responses were compared with responses to randomised presentation. Peak hand velocity was greater in the randomised mode than in the predictive condition, whereas the converse was true for peak eye velocity. This difference is discussed in terms of the mechanisms of positional error correction in hand and eye. Results provide evidence of similar anticipatory mechanisms in hand and eye, using storage of velocity and timing to achieve rapid prediction of target motion.
Calcium (Ca2+) channel clustering at specific presynaptic sites is a hallmark of mature synapses. However, the spatial distribution patterns of Ca2+ channels at newly formed synapses have not yet been demonstrated. Similarly, it is unclear whether Ca2+ 'hotspots' often observed at the presynaptic sites are indeed target cell contact specific and represent a specialized mechanism by which Ca2+ channels are targeted to select synaptic sites. Utilizing both soma-soma paired (synapsed) and single neurons from the mollusk Lymnaea, we have tested the hypothesis that differential gradients of voltage-dependent Ca2+ signals develop in presynaptic neuron at its contact point with the postsynaptic neuron; and that these Ca2+ hotspots are target cell contact specific. Fura-2 imaging, or two-photon laser scanning microscopy of Calcium Green, was coupled with electrophysiological techniques to demonstrate that voltage-induced Ca2+ gradients (hotspots) develop in the presynaptic cell at its contact point with the postsynaptic neuron, but not in unpaired single cells. The incidence of Ca2+ hotspots coincided with the appearance of synaptic transmission between the paired cells, and these gradients were target cell contact specific. In contrast, the voltage-induced Ca2+ signal in unpaired neurons was uniformly distributed throughout the somata; a similar pattern of Ca2+ gradient was observed in the presynaptic neuron when it was soma-soma paired with a non-synaptic partner cell. Moreover, voltage clamp recording techniques, in conjunction with a fast, optical differential perfusion system, were used to demonstrate that the total whole-cell Ca2+ (or Ba2+) current density in single and paired cells was not significantly different. However, the amplitude of Ba2+ current was significantly higher in the presynaptic cell at its contact side with the postsynaptic neurons, compared with non-contacted regions. In summary, this study demonstrates that voltage-induced Ca2+ hotspots develop in the presynaptic cell, concomitant with the appearance of synaptic transmission between the soma-soma paired cells. The appearance of Ca2+ gradients in presynaptic neurons is target cell contact specific and is probably due to a spatial redistribution of existing channels during synaptogenesis.
The neurons with the widest axons that carry information into a locust brain belong to L-neurons, the large, second-order neurons of the ocelli. L-neurons play roles in flight control and boosting visual sensitivity. Their morphology is simple, and their axons convey graded potentials from the ocellus with little decrement to the brain, which makes them good subjects in which to study transmission of graded potentials. L-neurons are very sensitive to changes in light, due to an abnormally high gain in the sign inverting synapses they receive from photoreceptors. Adaptation ensures that L-neurons signal contrast in a light signal when average light intensity changes, and that their responses depend on the speed of change in light. Neurons L1-3 make excitatory output synapses with third-order neurons and with L4-5. These synapses transmit tonically, but are unable to convey hyperpolarising signals about large increases in light. Graded rebound spikes enhance depolarising responses. L1-3 also make reciprocal inhibitory synapses with each other and transmission at these decrements so rapidly that it normally requires a presynaptic spike. The resolution with which graded potentials can be transferred has been studied at the inhibitory synapses, and is limited by intrinsic variability in the mechanism that determines neurotransmitter release. Electron microscopy has shown that each excitatory connection made from an L-neuron to a postsynaptic partner consists of thousands of discrete synaptic contacts, in which individual dense-staining bars in the presynaptic neuron are associated with clouds of vesicles. Acetylcholine is likely to be a neurotransmitter released by L-neurons.
Motion detectors in the locust optic lobe and brain fall into two categories: neurones that respond selectively to approaching vs. receding objects and neurones that respond selectively to a particular pattern of image motion over a substantial part of the eye, generated by the locust's own movements through its environment. Neurones from the two categories can be differentiated on the basis of their response to motion at a constant velocity at a fixed distance from the locust: neurones of the first category respond equally well to motion in any direction whereas neurones in the second category respond selectively to one preferred direction of motion. Several of the motion detectors of the first category, responding to approaching objects, share the same input organisation, suggesting that it is important in generating a tuning for approaching objects. Anatomical, physiological, and modelling studies have revealed how the selectivity of the response is generated. The selectivity arises as a result of a critical race between excitation, generated when image edges move out over the eye and delayed inhibition, generated by the same edge movements. For excitation to build up, the velocity and extent of edge motion over the eye must increase rapidly. The ultrastructure of the afferent inputs onto the dendrites of collision sensitive neurones reveals a possible substrate for the interaction between excitation and inhibition. This interpretation is supported by both physiological and immunocytochemical evidence. The input organisation of these neurones has been incorporated into the control structure of a small mobile robot, which successfully avoids collisions with looming objects. The ecological role of motion detectors of the second category that respond to image motion over a substantial part of the visual field, is discussed as is the input organisation that generates this selective response. The broad tuning of these neurones, particularly at low velocities (&lt;0.02 degree/s), suggests they may have a role in navigation during migratory flights at altitude. By contrast, their optimum tuning to high-image velocities suggests these motion detectors are adapted for use in a fast flying insect, which does not spend significant time hovering.
The prioritized processing of threat is suggested to be motivated by anxiety, regulated by the parasympatheticus, and biased to the right hemisphere. However, according to an anterior dimensional model of negative affect this is unlikely to be true when threat is of social origin. Social threat is communicated by the angry facial expression, and recent research indicates that prioritized processing of angry faces is motivated by anger. Anger is a sympathetically dominated emotion, and for its expression and experience, neuroimaging data have demonstrated anterior lateralization to the left hemisphere. To scrutinize the above diverging statements, suprathreshold low-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) was applied over the right and the left prefrontal cortex (PFC) of ten healthy subjects during 15min continuously, and the subsequent effects on sympathetic and parasympathetic activity of the heart, and selective attention to angry facial expressions were investigated. Combined rTMS-neuroimaging studies have shown contralateral excitation after unilateral supratheshold low-frequency rTMS, hence the strengthening of contralaterally mediated emotion functions. The earlier reported increases in selective attention to angry facial expressions after right-PFC rTMS were found to be accompanied by and significantly associated with elevations in sympathetic activity. Our data suggest that a left-PFC lateralized, sympathetic mechanism directs attention towards the angry facial expression.
The expression of capsaicin (VR1) receptor by A-fiber primary afferent neurons has been investigated by double immunohistochemical staining with VR1 and 200 kD neurofilament (NF200; an A-fiber marker) antibodies, and by VR1 immunohistochemical staining in combination with cholera toxin B subunit (CTB; also an A-fiber marker) retrograde tracing. Approximately 30% of the VR1-positive dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons were NF200-positive. Intra-sciatic nerve injection of CTB labeled over 30% of the VR1-positive neurons in the L5 DRG. Size frequency distribution analysis revealed that these VR1 and NF200, or VR1 and CTB, double-labeled neurons were predominantly small and medium sized. These results suggest that capsaicin receptors are likely to be expressed by Adelta-fiber neurons as well as C-fiber neurons.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) leads to an increase in metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 1 (mGluR1) immunoreactivity in the peri-lesion area. The increased expression of mGluR1 parallels the development of thermal hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia and has been suggested to contribute to the development and maintenance of chronic central pain (CCP) syndromes resulting from SCI. However, expression of mGluR1 has not been directly shown to increase on cells in the pain pathway. Therefore, the expression of mGluR1 on spinothalamic tract (STT) neurons was quantified using confocal imaging and densiometric analysis in normal, sham, and SCI rats. Contusion SCI produced an increase in mGluR1 expression on STT cells in both the cervical enlargement and the spinal section just rostral to contusion SCI. These results suggest that mGluR1 is expressed on neurons that modulate pain transmission and expression on these cells increases following injury, supporting the hypothesis that mGluR1 contributes to CCP following SCI.
We have developed a novel microarray approach for differential screening using probes labelled with two different radioelements. The complementary DNAs from the reverse transcription of mRNAs from two different biological samples were labelled with radioelements of significantly different energies (3H and 35S or 33P). Radioactive images corresponding to the expressed genes were acquired with a MicroImager, a real time, high resolution digital autoradiography system. An algorithm was used to process the data such that the initially acquired radioactive image was filtered into two subimages, each representative of the hybridisation result specific for one probe. The simultaneous screening of gene expression in two different biological samples requires &lt;100 ng mRNA without any amplification. In such conditions, the technique is sensitive enough to directly quantify the amount of mRNA even when present in small amounts: 10(7) molecules in the probe as assessed with an added control sequence and 2 x 10(5) molecules with an endogenous tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA. This novel technique of double radioactive labelling on a microarray is thus suitable for the comparison of gene expression in two different biological samples available in only small quantities. Consequently, it has great potential for various biological fields, such as neuroscience.
There are many sources of systematic variation in cDNA microarray experiments which affect the measured gene expression levels (e.g. differences in labeling efficiency between the two fluorescent dyes). The term normalization refers to the process of removing such variation. A constant adjustment is often used to force the distribution of the intensity log ratios to have a median of zero for each slide. However, such global normalization approaches are not adequate in situations where dye biases can depend on spot overall intensity and/or spatial location within the array. This article proposes normalization methods that are based on robust local regression and account for intensity and spatial dependence in dye biases for different types of cDNA microarray experiments. The selection of appropriate controls for normalization is discussed and a novel set of controls (microarray sample pool, MSP) is introduced to aid in intensity-dependent normalization. Lastly, to allow for comparisons of expression levels across slides, a robust method based on maximum likelihood estimation is proposed to adjust for scale differences among slides.

Homologation of (S)-glutamic acid (Glu, 1) and Glu analogues has previously provided ligands with activity at metabotropic Glu receptors (mGluRs). The homologue of ibotenic acid (7), 2-amino-3-(3-hydroxy-5-isoxazolyl)propionic acid (HIBO, 8), and the 4-phenyl derivative of 8, compound 9a, are both antagonists at group I mGluRs. Here we report the synthesis and molecular pharmacology of HIBO analogues 9b-h containing different 4-aryl substituents. All of these compounds possess antagonist activity at group I mGluRs but are inactive at group II and III mGluRs.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate subtype of glutamate receptor (NMDAR) serves critical functions in physiological and pathological processes in the central nervous system, including neuronal development, plasticity and neurodegeneration. Conventional heteromeric NMDARs composed of NR1 and NR2A-D subunits require dual agonists, glutamate and glycine, for activation. They are also highly permeable to Ca2+, and exhibit voltage-dependent inhibition by Mg2+. Coexpression of NR3A with NR1 and NR2 subunits modulates NMDAR activity. Here we report the cloning and characterization of the final member of the NMDAR family, NR3B, which shares high sequence homology with NR3A. From in situ and immunocytochemical analyses, NR3B is expressed predominantly in motor neurons, whereas NR3A is more widely distributed. Remarkably, when co-expressed in Xenopus oocytes, NR3A or NR3B co-assembles with NR1 to form excitatory glycine receptors that are unaffected by glutamate or NMDA, and inhibited by D-serine, a co-activator of conventional NMDARs. Moreover, NR1/NR3A or -3B receptors form relatively Ca2+-impermeable cation channels that are resistant to Mg2+, MK-801, memantine and competitive antagonists. In cerebrocortical neurons containing NR3 family members, glycine triggers a burst of firing, and membrane patches manifest glycine-responsive single channels that are suppressible by D-serine. By itself, glycine is normally thought of as an inhibitory neurotransmitter. In contrast, these NR1/NR3A or -3B 'NMDARs' constitute a type of excitatory glycine receptor.
The degree to which perceptual awareness of threat stimuli and bodily states of arousal modulates neural activity associated with fear conditioning is unknown. We used functional magnetic neuroimaging (fMRI) to study healthy subjects and patients with peripheral autonomic denervation to examine how the expression of conditioning-related activity is modulated by stimulus awareness and autonomic arousal. In controls, enhanced amygdala activity was evident during conditioning to both &quot;seen&quot; (unmasked) and &quot;unseen&quot; (backward masked) stimuli, whereas insula activity was modulated by perceptual awareness of a threat stimulus. Absent peripheral autonomic arousal, in patients with autonomic denervation, was associated with decreased conditioning-related activity in insula and amygdala. The findings indicate that the expression of conditioning-related neural activity is modulated by both awareness and representations of bodily states of autonomic arousal.
Neuronal connections are made during embryonic development with astonishing precision to ultimately form the physical basis for the central nervous system's main capacity: information processing. Over the past few decades, much has been learned about the general principles of axon guidance. A key finding to emerge is that extracellular cues play decisive roles in establishing the connections. One family of such cues, the semaphorin proteins, was first identified as repellents for navigating axons during brain wiring. Recent studies have implicated these molecules in many other processes of neuronal development, including axonal fasciculation, target selection, neuronal migration, and dendritic guidance, as well as in the remodeling and repair of the adult nervous system. It appears that responding neuronal processes sense these semaphorin signals by a family of transmembrane molecules, namely the plexins, even though neuropilins were also found to be required for mediating the interaction between plexins and class 3 semaphorins. Our understanding of the intracellular signaling machinery linking the receptors to the cytoskeleton machinery is still incomplete, but several molecules have been implicated in mediating or modulating semaphorin-induced responses. Adding to the complexity of semaphorin biology, new findings implicate semaphorins in functioning not only as signaling ligands, but also as signal-transducing receptors. Thus, semaphorins may serve as important probes for exploring the mechanisms of intercellular communication during the development and function of the nervous system.
The dihydropyridine is currently one of the lead compounds in the neuropeptide-Y(1) (NPY-Y(1)) receptor antagonist program. Compound is a selective, high affinity ligand at the NPY-Y(1) receptors (IC(50)=4.2 nM) in SK-N-MC cells. To further expand the SAR study surrounding this dihydropyridine core structure we succeeded in synthesizing an analogous series of dihydropyrazine derivatives. This structural modification yielded compounds substantially different from the parent molecules in terms of molecular polarization and electron distribution while the overall molecular structure was generally preserved. This altered property should therefore provide us with additional SAR information on the optimal binding requirement with NPY receptors.
The design and synthesis of a novel series of indole derivatives (9) having dual 5-HT transporter reuptake and 5-HT(1A) antagonist activity are described.
Quantitative morphometric techniques were used to assess the extent and pattern of remyelination produced by transplanting allogenic Schwann cells into demyelinated lesions in adult rat spinal cords. The effects of donor age, prior culturing of donor cells, prior lesioning of donor nerves, and host immunosuppression were evaluated by transplanting suspensions of 30,000 acutely dissociated or cultured Schwann cells from neonatal, young adult, or aged adult rat sciatic nerves into X-irradiation and ethidium bromide-induced demyelinated dorsal column lesions, with or without co-transplantation of neonatal optic nerve astrocytes. Three weeks after transplantation, spinal cords were processed for histological analysis. Under all Schwann cell transplant protocols, large areas containing many Schwann cell-like myelinated axon profiles could be readily observed throughout most of the lesion length. Within these &quot;myelin-rich&quot; regions, the vast majority of detectable axons showed a peripheral-like pattern of myelination. However, interaxonal spacing also increased, resulting in densities of myelinated axons that were more similar to peripheral nerve than intact dorsal columns. Freshly isolated Schwann cells remyelinated more axonal length than cultured Schwann cells, and cells from younger donors remyelinated slightly more axon length than cells from older donors, but all Schwann cell transplant protocols remyelinated tens of thousands of millimeters of axon length and remyelinated axons at similar densities. These results indicate that Schwann cells prepared under a variety of conditions are capable of eliciting remyelination, but that the density of remyelinated axons is much lower than the myelinated axon density in intact spinal cords.
Astrocytes, with their many functions in producing and controlling the environment in the brain, are of great interest when it comes to studying regeneration after injury and neurodegenerative diseases such as in grafting in Parkinson's disease. This study was performed to investigate astrocytic guidance of growth derived from dopaminergic neurons using organotypic cultures of rat fetal ventral mesencephalon. Primary cultures were studied at different time points starting from 3 days up to 28 days. Cultures were treated with either interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta), which has stimulating effects on astrocytic proliferation, or the astrocytic inhibitor cytosine arabinoside (Ara-C). Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-immunohistochemistry was used to visualize dopaminergic neurons, and antibodies against glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and S100 beta were used to label astrocytes. The results revealed that a robust TH-positive nerve fiber production was seen already at 3 days in vitro. These neurites had disappeared by 5 days. This early nerve fiber outgrowth was not guided by direct interactions with glial cells. Later, at 7 days in vitro, a second wave of TH-positive neuritic outgrowth was clearly observed. GFAP-positive astrocytic processes guided these neurites. TH-positive neurites arborized overlying S100 beta-positive astrocytes in an area distal to the GFAP-positive astrocytic processes. Treatment with IL-1 beta resulted in an increased area of TH-positive nerve fiber network. In cultures treated with Ara-C, neither astrocytes nor outgrowth of dopaminergic neurites were observed. In conclusion, this study shows that astrocytes play a major role in long-term dopaminergic outgrowth, both in axonal elongation and branching of neurites. The long-term nerve fiber growth is preceded by an early transient outgrowth of dopamine neurites.
Increasing evidence indicates that basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF2), a well-known mitogen, can regulate the synthesis and secretion of peptide hormones. FGF2 has also been recently shown to inhibit cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) formation and increase the number of dark choroid plexus epithelial cells. These latter FGF2 actions could be mediated by vasopressin (VP) synthesized by and released from choroidal epithelium. The present study was therefore designed to determine whether VP co-localizes with fibroblast growth factor receptors (FGFRs) in the choroid plexus epithelium. Using confocal laser-scanning microscopy, we demonstrated the apical (CSF-facing) distribution of FGFRs in epithelial cells. FGFRs were expressed on clusters of VP-positive cells, with the intensity of FGFR-immunopositive staining varying from one group of cells to the other. These observations are in line with the possible mediatory role of VP in the FGF2-dependent inhibition of CSF secretion and the induction of dark epithelial cells.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) was originally identified as a serine/threonine kinase and subsequently demonstrated to play a critical role in the development of CNS. We recently reported the novel function of Cdk5 in the neuregulin signaling pathway during the development of neuromuscular junction (NMJ). Here, we report the regulation of Cdk5 and p35 in rat skeletal muscle after nerve injury. Northern blot analysis revealed that Cdk5 and p35 transcripts were up-regulated in muscle after nerve denervation. The temporal profiles for the regulation of Cdk5 and p35 transcripts were different, suggesting that these changes in gene transcription might be regulated by different mechanism. Our finding on the ability of tetrodotoxin to induce p35 transcript in muscle suggested that electrical activity could regulate p35 expression. In addition to the induction of mRNA expression, the total Cdk5 and p35-associated kinase activity in muscle increased prominently after nerve denervation. Taken together, our findings suggest that Cdk5 and p35 may play important physiological roles in muscle regeneration following nerve injury.

Glutamate is a major excitatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian CNS. After its release, specific transporter proteins rapidly remove extracellular glutamate from the synaptic cleft. The clearance of excess extracellular glutamate prevents accumulation under normal conditions; however, CNS injury elevates extracellular glutamate concentrations to neurotoxic levels. The purpose of this study was to examine changes in expression and in spatial localization of glial glutamate transporters GLAST (EAAT1) and GLT-1 (EAAT2) and the neuronal glutamate transporter EAAC1 (EAAT3) after spinal cord contusion injury (SCI). The levels of all three transporters significantly increased at the epicenter of injury (T10) and in segments rostral and caudal to the epicenter as determined by Western blot analysis. Quantitative immunohistochemistry demonstrated an increase in GLAST staining in laminae I-V and lamina X both rostral and caudal to the epicenter of injury. Staining for GLT-1 increased significantly in lamina I rostral to the injury site and in the entire gray matter caudal to the injury site. A significant increase in EAAC1 staining was observed in laminae I-IV rostral to the epicenter of injury and throughout the gray matter caudal to the injury site. The results suggest that upregulation of these high affinity transporters occurs rapidly and is important in regulating glutamate homeostasis after SCI.
The present study describes the biochemical changes, morphological development and the cerebrospinal fluid dynamics of the kaolin-induced hydrocephalus in the adult rat. Two, 4 and 6 weeks after microsurgical kaolin instillation into the rat cisterna magna the basal intracranial pressure and the cerebrospinal fluid outflow resistance were measured. To determine possible biochemical changes in the rat cerebrum, brain stem and cerebellum the concentrations of glutamine, glutamate, glutathione, aspartate, GABA, alanine and taurine were measured by high pressure liquid chromatography. In addition, ventriculomegaly and syringomyelia were assessed, measuring the lateral ventricles and central canals by means of an image-processing computer program. It could be shown that the acute phase of kaolin-induced hydrocephalus in the first 4 weeks is characterised by a high basal intracranial pressure, a considerably increased CSF outflow resistance and a rise in brain water content in the fourth week. The changes in the concentrations of amino acids were moderate. Glutamine was increased and taurine was decreased in the cerebrum and alanine was increased in the brain stem. The chronic phase, however, is defined by normal basal pressure, declining outflow resistance, progression of ventriculomegaly and distinct changes in the biochemical parameters such as a remarkable decrease of glutamate, glutamine and taurine in the cerebellum, a decrease of taurine and alanine plus an increase in glutamine in the cerebrum and an increase of alanine in the brain stem. Moreover, cerebral metabolism in the adult rat seems to be more resistant to the effects of hydrocephalus than metabolism in neonatal and infantile rats.

Light synchronizes mammalian circadian rhythms with environmental time by modulating retinal input to the circadian pacemaker-the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus. Such photic entrainment requires neither rods nor cones, the only known retinal photoreceptors. Here, we show that retinal ganglion cells innervating the SCN are intrinsically photosensitive. Unlike other ganglion cells, they depolarized in response to light even when all synaptic input from rods and cones was blocked. The sensitivity, spectral tuning, and slow kinetics of this light response matched those of the photic entrainment mechanism, suggesting that these ganglion cells may be the primary photoreceptors for this system.
The primary circadian pacemaker, in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the mammalian brain, is photoentrained by light signals from the eyes through the retinohypothalamic tract. Retinal rod and cone cells are not required for photoentrainment. Recent evidence suggests that the entraining photoreceptors are retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) that project to the SCN. The visual pigment for this photoreceptor may be melanopsin, an opsin-like protein whose coding messenger RNA is found in a subset of mammalian RGCs. By cloning rat melanopsin and generating specific antibodies, we show that melanopsin is present in cell bodies, dendrites, and proximal axonal segments of a subset of rat RGCs. In mice heterozygous for tau-lacZ targeted to the melanopsin gene locus, beta-galactosidase-positive RGC axons projected to the SCN and other brain nuclei involved in circadian photoentrainment or the pupillary light reflex. Rat RGCs that exhibited intrinsic photosensitivity invariably expressed melanopsin. Hence, melanopsin is most likely the visual pigment of phototransducing RGCs that set the circadian clock and initiate other non-image-forming visual functions.

It is not yet clear whether humans are able to learn while they are sleeping. Here we show that full-term human newborns can be taught to discriminate between similar vowel sounds when they are fast asleep. It is possible that such sleep training soon after birth could find application in clinical or educational situations.
Cholestasis results from hepatocyte dysfunction due to the accumulation of bile acids in the cell, many of which are known to be cytotoxic. Recent evidence implicates competitive antagonism of key cytotoxic responses as the mechanism by which certain therapeutic bile acids might afford cytoprotection against cholestasis. In this work, we compare the relative cytotoxicity of bile acids in terms of dose- and time-dependence. To better elucidate the controversy related to the therapeutic use of ursodeoxycholate (UDCA) in cholestatic patients, we also evaluated the effects of bile acid combinations. Viability of Wistar rat hepatocytes in primary culture was measured by LDH leakage after 12 and 24 h exposure of cells to the various bile acids. All unconjugated bile acids caused a dose-dependent decrease in cell viability. The tauro- and glyco-conjugates of chenodeoxycholate (CDCA) and UDCA were all less toxic than the corresponding unconjugated form. Although relatively non-toxic, UDCA caused synergistic cell killing by lithocholate (LCA), CDCA, glyco-CDCA (GCDC) and tauro-CDCA (TCDC). Glycoursodeoxycholate decreased the toxicity of GCDC, but potentiated the toxicity of unconjugated CDCA and LCA. The tauro-conjugate of UDCA had no significant effect. These data suggest that at cholestatic concentrations, bile acid-induced cell death correlates with the degree of lipophilicity of individual bile acids. However, these results indicate that the reported improvement of biochemical parameters in cholestatic patients treated with UDCA is not due to a direct effect of UDCA on hepatocyte viability. Therefore, any therapeutic effect of UDCA must be secondary to some other process, such as altered membrane transport or nonparenchymal cell function.
Multidomain guanine nucleotide (GDP/GTP) exchange factor (GEF) proteins coordinate diverse inputs that signal the actin cytoskeleton. Mammals have two such proteins (Kalirin, Trio), while Drosophila has one, which plays essential roles within and outside the nervous system. For Kalirin, numerous isoforms containing different combinations of functional domains are generated through alternative splicing and use of alternative transcriptional start sites. These different isoforms potentially allow a wide variety of proteins to interact with Kalirin, thereby affecting the activity of the functional domains. Humans, like rats, express a large set of Kalirin isoform mRNAs, and we identified a novel Kalirin isoform, containing only the second GEF domain. Kalirin isoforms are predominantly expressed in the brain, while Trio is expressed in a wider variety of tissues. Alternative splicing and transcription of Kalirin are differentially regulated during development in rats and humans, resulting in expression of isoforms of Kalirin containing different functional domains at different times and locations. The prevalence of Kalirin in the cortex throughout life suggests roles in axonal development and the mature brain.
Anthrax toxin consists of three protein components: protective antigen (PA), lethal factor (LF), and edema factor (EF). PA(63), generated by protease &quot;nicking&quot; of whole PA, is responsible for delivering the toxin's catalytic fragments (LF and EF) to the target cell's cytosol. In planar bilayer membranes, trypsin-nicked PA makes cation-selective voltage-gated channels with a pore diameter of &gt; or =12 A. The channels are presumed to be heptameric &quot;mushrooms&quot;, with an extracellular &quot;cap&quot; region and a membrane-inserted, beta-barrel &quot;stem&quot;. Although the crystal structure of the water-soluble monomeric form has been resolved to 2.1 A and that of the heptameric &quot;prepore&quot; to 4.5 A, the structure for the membrane-bound channel (pore) has not been determined. We have engineered mutant channels that are cysteine-substituted in residues in the putative beta-barrel, and identified the residues lining the channel lumen by their accessibility to a water-soluble sulfhydryl-specific reagent. The reaction with lumen-exposed cysteinyl side chains causes a drop in channel conductance, which we used to map the residues that line the pore. Our results indicate that the beta-barrel structure extends beyond the bilayer and involves residues that are buried in the monomer. The implication is that major rearrangement of domains in the prepore cap region is required for membrane insertion of the beta-barrel stem.
Over 150 years ago, E.H. Weber declared that experience showed that tactile acuity was not affected by viewing the stimulated body part. However, more recent investigations suggest that cross-modal links do exist between the senses. Viewing the stimulated body site improves performance on tactile discrimination and detection tasks and enhances tactile acuity. Here, we show that vision modulates somatosensory cortex activity, as measured by somatosensory event-related potentials (ERPs). This modulation is greatest when tactile stimulation is task relevant. Visual modulation is not present in the P50 component reflecting the primary afferent input to the cortex but appears in the subsequent N80 component, which has also been localized to SI, the primary somatosensory cortex. Furthermore, we replicate previous findings that noninformative vision improves spatial acuity. These results are consistent with a hypothesis that vision modulates cortical processing of tactile stimuli via back projections from multimodal cortical areas. Several neurophysiological studies suggest that primary and secondary somatosensory cortex (SI and SII, respectively) activity can be modulated by spatial and tactile attention and by visual cues. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration of direct modulation of somatosensory cortex activity by a noninformative view of the stimulated body site with concomitant enhancement of tactile acuity in normal subjects.

Large, second-order neurons of locust ocelli, or L-neurons, make some output connections that transmit small changes in membrane potential and can sustain transmission tonically. The synaptic connections are made from the axons of L-neurons in the lateral ocellar tracts, and are characterized by bar-shaped presynaptic densities and densely packed clouds of vesicles near to the cell membrane. A cloud of vesicles can extend much of the length of this synaptic zone, and there is no border between the vesicles that are associated with neighboring presynaptic densities. In some axons, presynaptic densities are associated with discrete small clusters of vesicles. Up to 6% of the volume of a length of axon in a synaptic zone can be occupied with a vesicle cloud, packed with 4.5 to 5.5 thousand vesicles per microm(3). Presynaptic densities vary in length, from less than 70 nm to 1.5 microm, with shorter presynaptic densities being most frequent. The distribution of vesicles around short presynaptic densities was indistinguishable from that around long presynaptic densities, and vesicles were distributed in a similar way right along the length of a presynaptic density. Within the cytoplasm, vesicles are homogeneously distributed within a cloud. We found no differences in the distribution of vesicles in clouds between locusts that had been dark-adapted and locusts that had been light-adapted before fixation.
A primary cause of deafness is damage of receptor cells in the inner ear. Clinically, it has been demonstrated that effective functionality can be provided by electrical stimulation of the auditory nerve, thus bypassing damaged receptor cells. However, subsequent to sensory cell loss there is a secondary degeneration of the afferent nerve fibers, resulting in reduced effectiveness of such cochlear prostheses. The effects of neurotrophic factors were tested in a guinea pig cochlear prosthesis model. After chemical deafening to mimic the clinical situation, the neurotrophic factors brain-derived neurotrophic factor and an analogue of ciliary neurotrophic factor were infused directly into the cochlea of the inner ear for 26 days by using an osmotic pump system. An electrode introduced into the cochlea was used to elicit auditory responses just as in patients implanted with cochlear prostheses. Intervention with brain-derived neurotrophic factor and the ciliary neurotrophic factor analogue not only increased the survival of auditory spiral ganglion neurons, but significantly enhanced the functional responsiveness of the auditory system as measured by using electrically evoked auditory brainstem responses. This demonstration that neurotrophin intervention enhances threshold sensitivity within the auditory system will have great clinical importance for the treatment of deaf patients with cochlear prostheses. The findings have direct implications for the enhancement of responsiveness in deafferented peripheral nerves.
Eyeblink classical conditioning is a relatively simple form of associative learning that has become an invaluable tool in our understanding of the neural mechanisms of learning. When studying rabbits in this paradigm, we observed a dramatic modification of learning rate by conducting training during episodes of either hippocampal theta or hippocampal non-theta activity as determined by on-line slow-wave spectral analysis. Specifically, if animals were given trials only when a computer analysis verified a predominance of slow-wave oscillations at theta frequencies (3-8 Hz), they learned in half as many trials as animals trained during non-theta hippocampal activity (58 vs. 115). This finding provides important evidence from awake, behaving animals that supports recent advances in our knowledge of (i) brain sites and neurobiological mechanisms of learning and memory, specifically hippocampus and theta oscillations, (ii) the biological plausibility of current models of hippocampal function that posit important roles for oscillatory potentials, and (iii) the design of interfaces between biological and cybernetic (electronic) systems that can optimize cognitive processes and performance.
Even during well-calibrated cognitive tasks, successive brain responses to repeated identical stimulations are highly variable. The source of this variability is believed to reside mainly in fluctuations of the subject's cognitive &quot;context&quot; defined by his/her attentive state, spontaneous thought process, strategy to carry out the task, and so on... As these factors are hard to manipulate precisely, they are usually not controlled, and the variability is discarded by averaging techniques. We combined first-person data and the analysis of neural processes to reduce such noise. We presented the subjects with a three-dimensional illusion and recorded their electrical brain activity and their own report about their cognitive context. Trials were clustered according to these first-person data, and separate dynamical analyses were conducted for each cluster. We found that (i) characteristic patterns of endogenous synchrony appeared in frontal electrodes before stimulation. These patterns depended on the degree of preparation and the immediacy of perception as verbally reported. (ii) These patterns were stable for several recordings. (iii) Preparatory states modulate both the behavioral performance and the evoked and induced synchronous patterns that follow. (iv) These results indicated that first-person data can be used to detect and interpret neural processes.
The cerebellum is considered a brain structure in which memories for learned motor responses (e.g., conditioned eyeblink responses) are stored. Within the cerebellum, however, the relative importance of the cortex and the deep nuclei in motor learning/memory is not entirely clear. In this study, we show that the cerebellar cortex exerts both basal and stimulus-activated inhibition to the deep nuclei. Sequential application of a gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor (GABA(A)R) agonist and a noncompetitive GABA(A)R antagonist allows selective blockade of stimulus-activated inhibition. By using the same sequential agonist and antagonist methods in behaving animals, we demonstrate that the conditioned response (CR) expression and timing are completely dissociable and involve different inhibitory inputs; although the basal inhibition modulates CR expression, the conditioned stimulus-activated inhibition is required for the proper timing of the CR. In addition, complete blockade of cerebellar deep nuclear GABA(A)Rs prevents CR acquisition. Together, these results suggest that different aspects of the memories for eyeblink CRs are encoded in the cerebellar cortex and the cerebellar deep nuclei.
Arrestins are important components for desensitization of G protein-coupled receptor cascades that mediate neurotransmission as well as olfactory and visual sensory reception. We have isolated AgArr1, an arrestin-encoding cDNA from the malaria vector mosquito, Anopheles gambiae, where olfaction is critical for vectorial capacity. Analysis of AgArr1 expression revealed an overlap between chemosensory and photoreceptor neurons. Furthermore, an examination of previously identified arrestins from Drosophila melanogaster exposed similar bimodal expression, and Drosophila arrestin mutants demonstrate impaired electrophysiological responses to olfactory stimuli. Thus, we show that arrestins in Drosophila are required for normal olfactory physiology in addition to their previously described role in visual signaling. These findings suggest that individual arrestins function in both olfactory and visual pathways in Dipteran insects; these genes may prove useful in the design of control strategies that target olfactory-dependent behaviors of insect disease vectors.
We have analyzed mice that lack both the myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) and the myelin galactolipids, two glial components implicated in mediating axo-glial interactions during the myelination process. The single-mutant mice produce abnormal myelin containing similar ultrastructural abnormalities, suggesting that these molecules may play an overlapping role in myelin formation. Furthermore, the absence of the galactolipids results in a disruption in paranodal axo-glial interactions, and we show here that similar, albeit less severe, abnormalities exist in the developing MAG mutant. In the double-mutant mice, maintenance of axo-glial adhesion is significantly more affected than in the single mutants, supporting the overlapping function hypothesis. We also show that independently of MAG, galactolipids, and paranodal junctional components, immature nodes of Ranvier form normally, but rapidly destabilize in their absence. These data indicate that distinct molecular mechanisms are responsible for the formation and maintenance of axo-glial interactions.
More than a decade ago, spinal-cord injury meant confinement to a wheelchair and a lifetime of medical comorbidity. The physician's armamentarium of treatments was very limited, and provision of care for individuals with spinal-cord injury was usually met with frustration. Advances in the neurosciences have drawn attention to research into spinal-cord injury. Nowadays, advanced interventions provide high hope for regeneration and functional restoration. As scientific advances become more frequent, scepticism is giving way to the ideas that spinal-cord injury will eventually be repairable and that strategies to restore function are within our grasp. We address the present understanding of spinal-cord injury, its cause, pathophysiology, diagnosis, and treatment, and look at promising research avenues. We also discuss new treatment options, including functional electric stimulation and part-weight-supported walking.


The clinical presentation of polyneuropathy associated with monoclonal gammopathy is heterogeneous. As T cells in sural nerve biopsy specimens may represent a marker of inflammation, we analyzed whether the presence of sural nerve T cells in patients with demyelinating polyneuropathy associated with monoclonal gammopathy may help to define a specific clinical entity. Using immunohistochemical analysis we investigated the number and distribution of sural nerve T cells in 18 patients with polyneuropathy associated with IgM monoclonal gammopathy (including 14 with antibodies to the myelin-associated glycoprotein) and 7 with IgG monoclonal gammopathy, and compared them with sural nerves of 23 patients with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP), 15 patients with chronic idiopathic axonal polyneuropathy (CIAP), and 10 normal controls. Six patients with polyneuropathy associated with monoclonal gammopathy had increased T cell densities compared with CIAP patients and normal controls. No differences were found in distribution or phenotype of the T cells. T cell densities in patients with IgM monoclonal gammopathy were significantly lower than in patients with IgG monoclonal gammopathy or with CIDP. Increased sural nerve T cells were significantly associated with a subset of patients who had a more progressive disease course and more pronounced weakness. Increased sural nerve T cells were found significantly more often in patients with a monoclonal gammopathy of the IgG isotype, which was frequently associated with hematological malignancy.

It has been known for decades that babies born to women that have a dietary deficiency in folic acid (folate) are at increased risk for birth defects, and that the nervous system is particularly susceptible to such defects. Folate deficiency in adults can increase risk of coronary artery disease, stroke, several types of cancer, and possibly Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Recent findings have begun to reveal the cellular and molecular mechanisms whereby folate counteracts age-related disease. An increase in homocysteine levels is a major consequence of folate deficiency that may have adverse effects on multiple organ systems during aging. Humans with inherited defects in enzymes involved in homocysteine metabolism, including cystathionine beta-synthase and 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase, exhibit features of accelerated aging and a marked propensity for several age-related diseases. Homocysteine enhances accumulation of DNA damage by inducing a methyl donor deficiency state and impairing DNA repair. In mitotic cells such DNA damage can lead to cancer, while in postmitotic cells such as neurons it promotes cell death. The emerging data strongly suggest that elevated homocysteine levels increase the risk of multiple age-related diseases, and point to dietary supplementation with folate as a primary means of normalizing homocysteine levels and increasing healthspan.
Cryptococcosis is a relatively common mycotic infection of the CNS caused by a ubiquitous saprophytic fungus. We present an unusual case of CNS cryptococcosis in an immunocompetent patient. Florid choroid plexitis resulted in the formation of intraventricular enhancing mass lesions that filled the ventricles and were hyperintense to associated periventricular edema on T2-weighted MR images. We also noted lesions corresponding to microcystic, dilated Virchow-Robin spaces in the basal ganglia that were characteristic of cryptococcal infection.


On the basis of findings obtained from this study, we hypothesize that the female sex steroid 17beta-estradiol (E(2)) protects against cerebellar neuronal damage and behavioral deficit in rats withdrawn from chronic ethanol exposure. Ovariectomized rats implanted with E(2) or an oil pellet received liquid ethanol (7.5% [wt./vol.]) or dextrin diet for 5 weeks, followed by 2 weeks of ethanol withdrawal. On termination of diet administration, rats were tested for both overt withdrawal signs and latency (seconds) to fall from an accelerating rotarod in six consecutive sessions (the longer the latency, the better the performance). The initial latency was measured separately to assess motoric capacity before learning occurred. Rats were then killed, and cerebella were prepared for accessing of Purkinje cell damage. The study revealed three specific findings. (1) In the absence of E(2), the ethanol withdrawal group showed higher total ethanol withdrawal sign scores than those for the dextrin group, whereas the score for the ethanol withdrawal group was lower in the presence of E(2). (2) In the absence of E(2), the ethanol withdrawal group showed shorter rotarod latency than that for the dextrin group, whereas the latency for the ethanol withdrawal group increased in the E(2)-treated group. In ethanol withdrawal groups, E(2) treatment also resulted in a longer latency than that observed with oil treatment in the initial session and in subsequent sessions. (3) Purkinje cell numbers in the ethanol withdrawal group without E(2) were lower than those in dextrin groups and in the ethanol withdrawal group with E(2) treatment. These findings support the suggestion that E(2) exerts protective effects against withdrawal signs, cerebellar neuronal damage, and motoric impairment in subjects exposed to, and withdrawn from, chronic ethanol exposure.




Transgenic mice with vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) driven by the rhodopsin promoter (rho/VEGF mice) develop neovascularization that originates from the deep capillary bed of the retina and grows into the subretinal space. In rho/VEGF mice, VEGF expression in photoreceptors begins between postnatal days 5 and 7, the period when the deep capillary bed is developing. An important question is whether or not the developmental stage of the deep capillary bed is critical for occurrence of neovascularization. Also, although rho/VEGF mice are extremely useful for the study of ocular neovascularization, there are some applications for which the early onset of VEGF expression is a disadvantage. In this study, we used the reverse tetracycline transactivator (rtTA) inducible promoter system coupled to either the rhodopsin or interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein (IRBP) promoter to control the time of onset of VEGF transgene expression in photoreceptors. In the absence of doxycycline, adult double-transgenic rho/rtTA-TRE/VEGF or IRBP/rtTA-TRE/VEGF mice showed little VEGF transgene expression and no phenotype. The addition of doxycycline to the drinking water resulted in prominent transgene expression and evidence of neovascularization within 3 to 4 days. Like rho/VEGF mice, the neovascularization originated from the deep capillary bed of the retina, but it was more extensive and caused outer retinal folds followed by total retinal detachment. Real-time polymerase chain reaction and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay demonstrated that the mice with inducible expression of VEGF that developed retinal detachment had much higher ocular levels of VEGF mRNA and protein compared to rho/VEGF mice that manifest a much milder phenotype. These data demonstrate that regardless of developmental stage of the vascular bed, increased expression of VEGF in the retina is sufficient to cause neovascularization, and high levels of expression cause severe neovascularization and traction retinal detachment. Mice with inducible expression of VEGF in the retina provide a valuable new model of ocular neovascularization.

In this study, Zn(2+) transport in rat cortical neurons was characterized by successfully combining radioactive tracer experiments with spectrofluorometry and fluorescence microscopy. Cortical neurons showed a time-dependent and saturable transport of (65)Zn(2+) with an apparent affinity of 15-20 microM. (65)Zn(2+) transport was pH dependent and was decreased by extracellular acidification and increased by intracellular acidification. Compartmentalization of newly transported Zn(2+) was assessed with the Zn(2+)-selective fluorescent dye zinquin. Resting cortical neurons showed uniform punctate labeling that was found in cell processes and the soma, suggesting extrasynaptic compartmentalization of Zn(2+). Depletion of intracellular Zn(2+) with the membrane-permeant chelator N,N,N',N'-tetrakis(2-pyridylmethyl)-ethylenediamine (TPEN) resulted in the complete loss of punctate zinquin labeling. After Zn(2+) depletion, punctate zinquin labeling was rapidly restored when cells were placed in 30 microM Zn(2+), pH 7.4. However, rapid restoration of punctate zinquin labeling was not observed when cells were placed in 30 microM Zn(2+), pH 6.0. These data were confirmed in parallel (65)Zn(2+) transport experiments.
Distension of the perfused guinea pig ureter at pressures from 20 to 700 cmH(2)O increased the amount of ATP released from the epithelium in a pressure-dependent manner. During basal perfusion (40 microl/min), the perfusate contained 10 pmol/ml ATP; this increased 10- to 50-fold at various distending pressures. ATP was released from epithelial cells during distension as mechanical removal of the urothelium blocked release. No lactate dehydrogenase was detected in the perfusate, and scanning electron microscopy confirmed an intact urothelium after distension. ATP was not released due to the activation of stretch-activated channels, as gadolinium (10 microM) failed to affect ATP release. Glibenclamide (10 microM), known to inhibit two members of the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) protein family, did not affect ATP release after distension; nor did verapamil (10 microM). In contrast, both monensin (100 microM) and brefeldin A (10 microM), which interfere with vesicular formation or trafficking, inhibited distension-evoked ATP release, which was Ca(2+)-dependent. This suggests that ATP release from the ureter epithelium might be mediated by vesicular exocytosis. The role of ATP released by distension of hollow visceral organs is discussed in relation to the concept of purinergic mechanosensory transductions, with special reference to nociception and the activation of P2X(3) receptors on the subepithelial sensory nerves.
Although apolipoprotein E epsilon4 is an established risk factor for Alzheimer's disease, its effect on the rate of progression of Alzheimer's disease remains unknown. The purpose of this longitudinal study was to elucidate whether the rate of hippocampal atrophy is a function of the apolipoprotein E genotypes and severity of disease. Fifty-five patients with probable Alzheimer's disease were the subjects. The annual rate of hippocampal atrophy was determined by using magnetic resonance imaging repeated at a 1-year interval. On a two-way analysis of variance, the effect of the apolipoprotein E epsilon4 allele on hippocampal atrophy was significant, but neither the effect of severity nor the interaction term was significant. In further analysis with one-way analysis of variance, the mean annual rate of hippocampal atrophy was significantly different between the groups of patients with (9.76 +/- 4.27%) and without the apolipoprotein E epsilon4 allele (6.99 +/- 4.24%). Apolipoprotein E epsilon4 dose was significantly correlated with the rate of hippocampal atrophy (rs = 0.277, Spearman rank correlation coefficient), suggesting a gene dose effect. The involvement of the apolipoprotein E epsilon4 allele in the progression of hippocampal atrophy has implications for therapeutic approaches in Alzheimer's disease and should be taken into consideration in longitudinal studies including clinical drug trials.
Neurotrophins and their receptors play an important role in cutaneous nerve development and reconstruction after injury. Recent developments indicate that this group of molecules not only exert a neurotrophic action, but are also involved in immune responses and inflammation. Prurigo nodularis is a skin disease characterized by neurohyperplasia and intense itch. In the present study, the localization and distribution of nerve growth factor (NGF) and its receptors were explored by immunohistochemical methods, with the aim of detecting the cause of the neurohyperplasia in the disease. In normal healthy volunteers and in uninvolved skin, NGF immunoreactivity was seldom seen in the basal layer of the epidermis or in the dermis. In prurigo nodularis skin, there was also very little NGF immunoreactivity in the epidermis. However, in the dermis, a huge number of cells showed an NGF-like immunoreactivity. In normal skin of healthy volunteers, only a weak staining for tyrosine kinase A (trkA) was seen in the epidermis, whereas in the dermis, there was no trkA staining seen at all. However, in the prurigo nodularis tissue, the hyperplastic nerves clearly showed trkA immunoreactivity, and it seemed that the staining was only present in the axons. By NGF and p75 NGF receptor double-labelling, both immunoreactivities showed weak staining in the epidermis and dermis of normal skin. However, in the dermis of prurigo nodularis, strong staining for both NGF and NGF receptor antibodies was seen. NGF receptor-immunoreactive nerves were more dense in areas where there were more NGF-immunoreactive cells. The results indicate that in prurigo nodularis skin, NGF is overexpressed, locally infiltrated inflammatory cells may be the source of this NGF, and NGF and its receptors may contribute to the neurohyperplasia of the disease.



Otoacoustic emissions (OAEs) and auditory evoked potentials (AEPs) are different in several special populations of subjects. For females having opposite-sex co-twins (OSDZ females) and for homosexual and bisexual females, OAEs are masculinized. Certain AEP measures from homosexual and bisexual females also are masculinized. Certain AEP measures from homosexual males are hypermasculinized. These and other facts can be explained by assuming that these special populations received greater-than-normal exposures to androgens at some point(s) during development, possibly during prenatal development. It is proposed that some differences in androgenization may have been spatially and temporally localized rather than global, and that the localized response to androgen exposure sometimes may be nonmonotonic.
Whether animals ever exhibit a preference for same-sex sexual partners is a subject of debate. Japanese macaques represent excellent models for examining issues related to sexual preference in animals because females, in certain populations, routinely engage in both heterosexual and homosexual behavior over the course of their life spans. Multiple lines of evidence indicate that female homosexual behavior in Japanese macaques is a sexual behavior, not a sociosexual one. Additional evidence indicates that female Japanese macaques do not engage in homosexual behavior simply because acceptable male mates are unavailable or unmotivated to copulate. Patterns of sexual partner choice by female Japanese macaques that are the focus of intersexual competition indicate that females of this species choose same-sex sexual partners even when they are simultaneously presented with a motivated, opposite-sex alternative. Thus, in some populations of Japanese macaques, females prefer certain same-sex sexual partners relative to certain male mates, and vice versa. Taken together, this evidence suggests that female Japanese macaques are best characterized as bisexual in orientation, not preferentially homosexual or preferentially heterosexual.
In the traditional model for sexual differentiation in mammals, the female phenotype is the default condition. That is, the female-typical pattern will persist unless acted upon by hormones early in development. The frequency of play fighting in rats, as in most other mammals, is sexually differentiated, and conforms to the traditional model. Males engage in more play fighting than females, and this can be reduced to female-typical levels by neonatal castration. Furthermore, females can be induced to play fight at male-typical levels if treated with testosterone neonatally. Fractionation of play fighting into its constituent components, attack and defense, reveals that it is the frequency of attack that is sexually differentiated, not the likelihood of defense. However, in males, defensive behavior changes at puberty so that the play becomes &quot;rougher.&quot; For males to switch to this rougher form of play fighting, they have to be androgenized perinatally. Hence, for males, this second aspect of play fighting that is sexually differentiated also follows the traditional model. In marked contrast, development of the female-typical pattern does not. Neonatal treatment of females with testosterone has no effect; at puberty, they still show the female-typical pattern. On the the other hand, ovariectomy, either at birth or at weaning, leads to females exhibiting the male-typical transition to rougher play fighting at puberty. That is, ovarian hormones appear to actively inhibit the expression of a male-typical trait in females. Play fighting, then, is a mixture of traits, with some features conforming to the traditional model and some not. For some phenotypic features, ovarian hormones appear to exert an active role in their development.

Patients with Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome, a genetic disorder associated with severe mental retardation, are unable to convert 7-dehydrocholesterol to cholesterol. Treatment of rats with agents that block cholesterol synthesis produces a sterol profile reminiscent of Smith-Lemli-Opitz patients i.e., low levels of cholesterol accompanied by the appearance of its immediate precursor 7-dehydrocholesterol. In previous work, chronic inhibition of cholesterol synthesis in just-weaned rats impaired acquisition of the classically conditioned eyeblink response. The present study had two primary goals--(1) to determine whether the learning impairment depended on the age in which treatment was initiated; and (2) to determine whether the deficit was associative or due to performance factors. Consistent with earlier work, acquisition of the eyeblink conditioned response was impaired when the 30-day treatment was initiated on postnatal day (PND) 21. Reactivity to acoustic stimuli and to eyelid stimulation were normal, suggesting that the learning impairment was associative in nature. The learning impairment was transitory; acquisition was normal when evaluated 30 days after the cessation of treatment. When treatment was initiated 30 days after weaning (PND 51), acquisition of the eyeblink response was normal. However, brain sterols of young adult rats were less affected than those of just-weaned rats. Thus, there is a developmental sensitivity to cholesterol synthesis blocking agents both in terms of their effects on brain sterols and new motor learning.
Latent inhibition (LI) refers to the decrease in conditioned response produced by the repeated nonrein-forced preexposure to the to-be-conditioned stimulus. Experiment I investigated the effects of electrolytic lesions of the entorhinal cortex on LI in a conditioned emotional response procedure. Entorhinal cortex lesions attenuated LI. Experiments 2 and 3 investigated whether this attenuation of LI could result from a modification in nucleus accumbens (NAcc) dopamine (DA) release. Rats with entorhinal cortex lesions displayed normal spontaneous and amphetamine-induced locomotor activity, as well as normal basal and amphetamine-induced release of DA within the NAcc (assessed by microdialysis). Taken together, these results show that entorhinal cortex lesions disrupt LI in a way that is unlikely to be due to an alteration of DA release within the NAcc.
Recently, R. Richardson, A. Vishney, and J. Lee (1999) reported that ambient odor cues that were previously paired with footshock potentiate the acoustic startle response in rats. The authors of the present study extend those findings by using a discrete 4-s amyl acetate odor paired with footshock to address several parametric issues that might be important for using odorants as conditioned stimuli (CSs) in this paradigm. Amyl acetate (5%) had no significant effect on startle in untrained rats but did potentiate startle in rats that received 1, 2, 5, or 10 odor-shock pairings. Fear-potentiated startle decreased but was still significant up to 40 days after conditioning and could be measured in test trials separated by as little as 30 s. The magnitude of potentiated startle decreased with decreasing concentrations of amyl acetate (5%-5 x 10-9%). The anxiolytic compound buspirone (10 mg/kg) significantly attenuated olfactory-mediated fear-potentiated startle.
Pavlovian eyeblink (EB) conditioning was studied in both trace and delay paradigms in rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus) with either medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) lesions or sham lesions. mPFC lesions of prelimbic cortex (Brodmann's Area 32) retarded EB conditioning in the trace but not the delay paradigm. However, this effect was significant only when the conditioned stimulus (CS) was 500 rather than 100 ms in duration. Lesions of the anterior cingulate cortex (Area 24) did not affect EB conditioning in a trace paradigm. Accompanying CS-evoked heart rate slowing was attenuated under all conditions by the mPFC lesions, although this result was not always statistically significant.
Contextual stimuli associated with drug exposure can modulate various effects of drugs, but little is known about their role in relapse to drug seeking. Using a renewal procedure, the authors report that drug-associated contextual stimuli play a critical role in relapse to drug-seeking previously maintained by a heroin-cocaine mixture (speedball). Rats were trained to self-administer speedball, after which drug-reinforced behavior was extinguished over 20 days in the self-administration context or in a different context. On the test day, rats exposed to the drug-associated context, after extinction in a different context, reliably renewed drug seeking. The authors suggest that the renewal procedure can be used to study mechanisms underlying relapse to drug seeking elicited by drug-associated contextual stimuli.
This study used a genetic correlational strategy to characterize the neurobiological basis of ethanol's (0, 2, or 4 g/kg) aversive effects as indexed by conditioned taste aversion. Substantial strain differences in taste aversion and hypothermia were observed, but the genetic correlation between these phenotypes was not significant. However, significant genetic correlations were observed between taste aversion and ethanol-related behaviors measured in previous studies, including home-cage ethanol preference (r = .68) and ethanol withdrawal severity (r = -.69). Strains showing stronger taste aversion tended to show lower ethanol preference and higher withdrawal severity. This pattern of findings is consistent with previous studies suggesting a commonality in neurobiological mechanisms underlying these phenotypes. These results do not support the hypothesis that ethanol-induced taste aversion is mediated by the drug's rewarding properties.
To identify novel obesity-related genes in adipose tissue, differential display was performed using bombesin receptor subtype-3 (BRS-3)-deficient mice. These mice exhibit mild late-onset obesity. We report that a gene, Urb, is upregulated in these mice. Full-length Urb cDNA is approximately 3 kb long and comprises an open reading frame of 949 amino acid residues. Interestingly, Urb mRNA expression in brown adipose tissue of BRS-3-deficient mice is fourfold higher than that in wild-type controls. Enhanced Urb mRNA expression was also observed in brain, digestive tissues, kidney, and lung. Within the brain, Urb mRNA is detected in the dorsal endopiriform nucleus and choroid plexus. A T31 radiation hybrid mapping panel revealed that the Urb gene maps to mouse chromosome 16. Collectively, these findings suggest that Urb may have a unique function in the regulation of body weight and energy metabolism.
Acute neurodegeneration in man is encountered during and following stroke, transient cardiac arrest, brain trauma, insulin-induced hypoglycemia and status epilepticus. All these severe clinical conditions are characterized by neuronal calcium overload, aberrant cell signaling, generation of free radicals and elevation of cellular free fatty acids, conditions that favor activation of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mtPTP). Cyclosporin A (CsA) and its analog N-methyl-valine-4-cyclosporin A (MeValCsA) are potent blockers of the mtPTP and protect against neuronal death following excitotoxicity and oxygen glucose deprivation. Also, CsA and MeValCsA diminish cell death following cerebral ischemia, trauma, and hypoglycemia. Here we present data that strongly imply the mtPT in acute neurodegeneration in vivo. Compounds that readily pass the blood-brain-barrier (BBB) and block the mtPT may be neuroprotective in stroke.
The DRAGON View information visualization tools aid in the comprehensive analysis of large-scale gene expression data that has been annotated with biologically relevant information through the generation of three types of complementary graphical outputs.
The murine autosomal deleted in azoospermia-like protein (mDAZL) is a germ cell-restricted RNA-binding protein essential for sperm production. Homozygous disruption of the mDAZL gene results in the absence of germ cells beyond the spermatogonial stage. Progress into the function of DAZL in spermatogenesis has been hampered without identification of the cognate mRNA substrates that it binds to and regulates. Using the isolation of specific nucleic acids associated with proteins (SNAAP) technique recently developed in our lab, we identified mRNAs from testis that were specifically bound by mDAZL. One mRNA encoded the Tpx-1 protein, a testicular cell adhesion protein essential for the progression of spermatogenesis. A 26-nucleotide region necessary and sufficient to bind mDAZL was found within additional mRNAs isolated by the screen. These included mRNA encoding Pam, a protein associated with myc; GRSF1, an mRNA-binding protein involved in translation activation, and TRF2, a TATA box-binding protein-like protein involved in transcriptional regulation. Each mRNA containing the mDAZL binding site was specifically bound by mDAZL. A similar sequence is also present in the Cdc25A mRNA, a threonine/tyrosine phosphatase involved in cell cycle progression. The mDAZL and Cdc25A homologues are functionally linked in Drosophila and are necessary for spermatogenesis. Our demonstration that Tpx-1 and Cdc25A mRNAs are bound by mDAZL suggests that mDAZL regulates a subset of mRNAs necessary for germ cell development and cell cycle progression. Understanding how mDAZL regulates the target mRNAs will provide new insights into spermatogenesis, strategies for therapeutic intervention in azoospermic patients, and novel approaches for male contraception.
Hydroxy-galactocerebrosides (mixed chain length, constituent of myelin membranes) from bovine brain are investigated as monolayers at the air-water interface with isotherms, fluorescence microscopy, x-ray reflectivity and grazing incidence diffraction. With grazing incidence diffraction a monoclinic tilted chain lattice is found in the condensed phase. According to x-ray reflectivity, the longest chains protrude above the chain lattice and roughen the lipid/air interface. On compressing the chain lattice, the correlation length increases by approximately 65%; obviously, the sugar headgroups are flexible enough to allow for lattice deformation. With fluorescence experiments, small coexisting fluid and ordered domains are observed, and there is lipid dissolution into the subphase as well. The dissolved hydroxy-galactocerebroside molecules reenter on monolayer expansion. The electron density profiles derived from x-ray reflectometry (coherent superposition) show that the chain-ordering transition causes the molecules to grow into the subphase.
Three cases of intracerebral haemorrhage following removal of a chronic subdural haematoma are reported and the literature on this topic reviewed. The possibility of an increase in cerebral blood flow following removal of CSH, makes slow, gradual decompression mandatory in all patients submitted to cranial trapanation.
The objective of the investigation was to report on the health-related quality of life (HRQoL) of patients diagnosed with skull base tumours using the Short Form Health Survey questionnaire (SF-36). Those patients suffering with vestibular schwannoma were examined to determine the effect facial nerve function had on their quality of life. It took place at the tertiary referral centre at the Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh. A prospective study of 70 consecutive patients was taken, who harboured the following tumours: 54 vestibular schwannomas, 13 meningiomas, two haemangioblastomas and one hypoglossal schwannoma. Patients were interviewed using the short form 36 (SF-36) questionnaire. Facial nerve function was assessed in those patients who had vestibular schwannomas. The entire cohort of live skull base patients were assessed after a median follow-up time of 38.4 months. Patients with vestibular schwannoma treated conservatively with interval MRI had a quality of life similar to t he normal population. Those who underwent surgery had a significant difference in two of the SF-36 domains. No statistically significant correlation was found at final assessment between the degree of facial nerve functioning and any of the domains of SF-36. Patients with non-vestibular tumours had an impaired HRQoL in seven of the eight domains. Patients with skull base tumours have a significant impairment of their HRQoL. A conservative policy of follow up with interval MRI for patients with small vestibular schwannomas may therefore be more appropriate to preserve their HRQoL. Facial nerve outcome has little influence on quality of life in vestibular schwannoma patients.
1. Extracellular guanosine has diverse effects on many cellular components of the central nervous system, some of which may be related to its uptake into cells and others to its ability to release adenine-based purines from cells. Yet other effects of extracellular guanosine are compatible with an action on G-protein linked cell membrane receptors. 2. Specific binding sites for [(3)H]-guanosine were detected on membrane preparations from rat brain. The kinetics of [(3)H]-guanosine binding to membranes was described by rate constants of association and dissociation of 2.6122 x 10(7) M(-1) min(-1) and 1.69 min(-1), respectively. A single high affinity binding site for [(3)H]-guanosine with a K(D) of 95.4 +/- 11.9 nM and B(max) of 0.57 +/- 0.03 pmol mg(-1) protein was shown. This site was specific for guanosine, and the order of potency in displacing 50 nM [(3)H]-guanosine was: guanosine=6-thio-guanosine &gt; inosine &gt; 6-thio-guanine &gt; guanine. Other naturally occurring purines, such as adenosine, hypoxanthine, xanthine caffeine, theophylline, GDP, GMP and ATP were unable to significantly displace the radiolabelled guanosine. Thus, this binding site is distinct from the well-characterized receptors for adenosine and purines. 5. The addition of GTP produced a small concentration-dependent decrease in guanosine binding, suggesting this guanosine binding site was linked to a G-protein. 6. Our results therefore are consistent with the existence of a novel cell membrane receptor site, specific for guanosine.
Systemic administration of recombinant erythropoietin (EPO) has been demonstrated to mediate neuroprotection. This effect of EPO may in part rely on a beneficial effect on cerebrovascular dysfunction leading to ischaemic neuronal damage. We investigated the in vivo effects of subcutaneously administered recombinant EPO on impaired cerebral blood flow (CBF) autoregulation after experimental subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH). Four groups of male Sprague-Dawley rats were studied: group A, sham operation plus vehicle; group B, sham operation plus EPO; group C, SAH plus vehicle; group D, SAH plus EPO. SAH was induced by injection of 0.07 ml of autologous blood into the cisterna magna. EPO (400 iu kg(-1) s.c.) or vehicle was given immediately after the subarachnoid injection of blood or saline. Forty-eight hours after the induction of SAH, CBF autoregulatory function was evaluated using the intracarotid (133)Xe method. CBF autoregulation was preserved in both sham-operated groups (lower limits of mean arterial blood pressure: 91+/-3 and 98+/-3 mmHg in groups A and B, respectively). In the vehicle treated SAH-group, autoregulation was abolished and the relationship between CBF and blood pressure was best described by a single linear regression line. A subcutaneous injection of EPO given immediately after the induction of SAH normalized autoregulation of CBF (lower limit in group D: 93+/-4 mmHg, NS compared with groups A and B). Early activation of endothelial EPO receptors may represent a potential therapeutic strategy in the treatment of cerebrovascular perturbations after SAH.
A hallmark for unstable bladder contractions is hyperexcitability and changes in the nature of spontaneous phasic activity of the bladder smooth muscle. In this study, we have characterized the spontaneous activity of the urinary bladder smooth muscle from the pig, a widely used model for studying human bladder function. Our studies demonstrate that phasic activity of the pig detrusor is myogenic and is influenced by the presence of urothelium. Denuded strips exhibit robust spontaneous activity measured as mean area under the contraction curve (AUC=188.9+/-15.63 mNs) compared to intact strips (AUC=7.3+/-1.94 mNs). Spontaneous phasic activity, particularly the amplitude, is dependent on both calcium entry through voltage-dependent calcium channels and release from ryanodine receptors as shown by inhibition of spontaneous activity by nifedipine and ryanodine respectively. Inhibition of BK(Ca) channels by iberiotoxin (100 nM) resulted in an increase in contraction amplitude (89.1+/-20.4%) and frequency (92.5+/-31.0%). The SK(Ca) channel blocker apamin (100 nM) also increased contraction amplitude (69.1+/-24.3%) and frequency (53.5+/-13.6%) demonstrating that these mechanisms are critical to the regulation of phasic spontaneous activity. Inhibition of K(ATP) channels by glyburide (10 microM) did not significantly alter myogenic contractions (AUC=18.5+/-12.3%). However, K(ATP) channel openers (KCOs) showed an exquisite sensitivity for suppression of spontaneous myogenic activity. KCOs were generally 15 fold more potent in suppressing spontaneous activity compared to contractions evoked by electrical field-stimulation. These studies suggest that potassium channel modulation, particularly K(ATP) channels, may offer a unique mechanism for controlling spontaneous myogenic activity especially those associated with the hyperexcitability occurring in unstable bladders.



Ablation of the sympathetic nervous system by chemical sympathectomy is a standard model for the study of sympathetic nervous system regulation of immune function. We have previously documented that chemical denervation results in enhanced antigen-specific, but suppressed mitogen-induced, cytokine production by spleen cells. In our investigation into the mechanisms of sympathectomy-induced immune alterations, we first evaluated the peritoneal environment into which the protein antigen keyhole limpet hemocyanin is administered. Denervation resulted in increased production of tumor necrosis factor-alpha by peritoneal exudate cells and these cells appeared to have enhanced antigen presenting capability. We hypothesized that nerve terminal destruction may be inducing an inflammatory response by monocyte/macrophages and other cell types throughout the periphery that could differentially alter subsequent mitogen versus antigen-specific responses. However, no evidence of sympathectomy-induced systemic or local splenic inflammatory responses was observed, as indicated by measuring the proinflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1beta. These experiments indicate that an inflammatory response is not likely to be responsible for sympathectomy-induced immune alterations, eliminating a potential confounding factor in interpreting sympathectomy studies.
Motor events are behaviorally meaningful, discrete entities (e.g., key strokes) that are generated at some specific portion of an effector's movement trajectory. Bimanual coordination may be conceptualized with reference to such discrete motor events or with reference to continuous movement trajectories. Studies inspired by the former approach suggest that hand coordination is primarily achieved by assigning a coherent timing goal structure to the motor events produced by each hand. Studies conducted with the latter approach have shown that between-hand interdependence may also arise from the cross-coupling of the command signals that generate each hand's motion. Little is known, however, about the relationships between timing-level coordination and trajectory-level coordination of the hands. Some aspects of these relationships are analyzed using data from experiments that involved bimanual finger tapping and circle drawing at identical and different frequencies.
Theoretical and experimental issues for our understanding of the timing of motor acts are reviewed, contrasting stochastic and dynamic timing models. It is argued that the theory of dynamical systems and, in particular, of limit cycle attractors, provides a unified framework within which these issues can be appreciated. The strength of stochastic timing models in the domain of absolute timing is contrasted with the strength of dynamic timing models in the domain of relative timing, the unification of the two domains being currently under way. It is further argued that accounts of timing must examine the interrelation between timing and other levels of processing involved in movement generation, in particular, the representation of spatial aspects of movement and the control of movement. The emergence of discrete event structure in timing skills is discussed from a dynamical systems perspective. Finally, the understanding of the timing structure of discrete movement is raised as a further challenge for future work.
Agrammatic aphasics do not exhibit a normal pattern of verb production; their spontaneous speech is said to lack verbs, and the verbs that are produced lack inflection. The current article focuses on the lexical, morphological, and syntactic aspects of verbs in spontaneous speech of a group of Dutch agrammatic speakers. Dutch is a so-called verb-second language in which the finite verb in the matrix clause is in the second position and nonfinite verbs are in the final position. The analysis shows that agrammatic speakers are sensitive to this relation; they virtually never produce finite verbs in the final clause position or nonfinite verbs in the second position. Nevertheless, they produce significantly fewer finite clauses than do non-brain-damaged speakers. The diversity of the lexical verbs in spontaneous speech is also lower than in non-brain-damaged speakers, but this is due to less variation in the finite lexical verbs. Hence, it is suggested that the problems with verbs in Dutch agrammatic spontaneous speech are restricted to finite lexical verbs. In an experiment, it was evaluated whether these problems with finite lexical verbs are caused by a morphological deficit or a syntactic deficit. The data show that a syntactic deficit is more likely; Dutch agrammatic speakers produce finite verbs in the base-generated position (i.e., in the embedded clause) significantly better than finite verbs that have been moved to the second position (i.e., in the matrix clause). From these data, the authors conclude that in Dutch, a verb-second language, agrammatic aphasics demonstrate specific problems with moved finite verbs, although they are perfectly aware of the relation between verb position and verb finiteness. This syntactic problem affects not only the proportion of finite verbs but also the diversity of the verbs and, hence, communicative contents.
Mutations in the alpha-synuclein gene have been linked to rare cases of familial Parkinson's disease (PD). Alpha-synuclein is a major component of Lewy bodies (LB), a pathological hallmark of PD. Transgenic mice and Drosophila expressing either wild-type or mutant human alpha-synuclein develop motor deficits, LB-like inclusions in some neurons, and neuronal degeneration. However, the relationship between abnormal aggregates of alpha-synuclein and human dopamine (DA) neuron degeneration remains unclear. In this report, we have investigated the influence of alpha-synuclein expression on DA neurons in primary culture of embryonic human mesencephalon. Two days after culture, human DA cells were transduced with wild-type or mutant human (Ala(53)Thr) alpha-synuclein adenoviruses and maintained for 5 days. Overexpression of mutant and wild-type human alpha-synuclein resulted in 49% (P&lt;0.01) and 27% (P&lt;0.05) loss of DA neurons, respectively, while not affecting viability of other cells in the culture. Overexpression of rat alpha-synuclein or GFP (green fluorescent protein) had no effect on DA neuron survival. Cytoplasmic inclusions of alpha-synuclein were detected immunohistochemically in DA cells transduced with mutant human alpha-synuclein, but not wild-type alpha-synuclein. These results show that overexpression of human alpha-synuclein, particularly the mutant form, can cause human DA neuron death, suggesting that alpha-synuclein may have a primary role in the pathogenesis of PD.
We describe an animal model to study neurotransmitter changes in parallel with urodynamic testing following Spinal Cord Injury (SCI). Urodynamic access was achieved using a subcutaneously placed 7 French dual lumen portacatheter. Spinal cord injury was induced by weight drop technique onto exposed dura at T8. The L6-S1 detrusor nuclei were localized stereotactically and microdialysis probe placement was confirmed through histologic methods. Chronic urodynamics revealed detrusor hyperreflexia (DH) 14 days following SCI. In vivo microdialysis of spinal cord amino acids was performed using CMA 11 (240 uM) probes in halothane-anesthetized rats at baseline and intervals of 20-30 min following spinal cord injury. Significant increases in the excitatory amino acid glutamate, and the inhibitory amino acids, glycine and taurine, were seen following spinal cord injury. Amino acid levels peaked at approximately 40 min following contusion injury with glycine demonstrating the highest levels of all amino acids measured. This neurogenic rat model provides a useful means of examining the effects of spinal cord injury on bladder function. By utilizing spinal cord microdialysis, one could intervene at the level of the detrusor nuclei to modulate bladder function.
We developed a method in which laser scanning cytometry (LSC) is applied to evaluate cell viability. Neuronal cell death induced by glutamic acid, serum potassium deprivation and 3-nitropropionic acid was studied in cerebellar granule cells by neutral red assay (NR) and LSC, using propidium iodide (PI) as fluorescent dye. PI labeled the nuclei of dead neurons and increased fluorescence was measured using a laser scanning cytometer. Similar levels of damage for each injury were detected by NR or LSC. The protocol presented here, provides a fast and sensitive assay for the analysis of neuronal viability using LSC, and can be used to study new neuroprotective drugs in neuronal cell cultures.
Opioid peptides act as growth factors in neural and non-neural cells and tissues, in addition to serving for neurotransmission/neuromodulation in the nervous system. The native opioid growth factor (OGF), [Met(5)]-enkephalin, is a tonic inhibitory peptide that plays a role in cell proliferation and tissue organization during development, cancer, cellular renewal, wound healing, and angiogenesis. OGF action is mediated by a receptor mechanism. Assays with radiolabeled OGF have detected specific and saturable binding, with a one-site model of kinetics. Subcellular fractionation studies show that the receptor for OGF (OGFr) is an integral membrane protein associated with the nucleus. Using antibodies generated to a binding fragment of OGFr, this receptor has been cloned and sequenced in human, rat, and mouse. OGFr is distinguished by containing a series of imperfect repeats. The molecular and protein structure of OGFr have no resemblance to that of classical opioid receptors, and have no significant homologies to known domains or functional motifs with the exception of a bipartite nuclear localization signal. Immunoelectron microscopy and immunocytochemistry investigations, including co-localization studies, have detected OGFr on the outer nuclear envelope where it interfaces with OGF. The peptide-receptor complex associates with karyopherin, translocates through the nuclear pore, and can be observed in the inner nuclear matrix and at the periphery of heterochromatin of the nucleus. Signal transduction for modulation of DNA activity is dependent on the presence of an appropriate confirmation of peptide and receptor. This report reviews the history of OGF-OGFr, examines emerging insights into the mechanisms of action of opioid peptide-receptor interfacing, and discusses the clinical significance of these observations.
Obesity, anorexia and general body weight fluctuations cause a variety of effects on the reproductive system. Our understanding of the neuro-biological mechanisms of the connections between body weight and the reproductive axis is not especially developed despite a number of interesting physiological observations. Several reports suggest that leptin could play a key role in connecting energy balance and reproduction. The melanocortin system, involving melanocyte stimulating hormone, adrenocorticotrophic hormone, agouti related peptide and the central melanocortin 3 and 4 receptors, plays a major role in the hypothalamic regulation of energy balance. The melanocortins have also been suggested to participate in possible downstream events of the adipose cell derived hormone, leptin. Leptin has importance for several aspects of reproduction including regulation of luteinizing hormone and prolactin release. This review discusses the interplay of hypothalamic regulation of food intake and the hormones involved in the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis with special emphasis on putative roles of the melanocortin system.
The study of synaptic plasticity has revealed a common cascade of ultrastructural events across several paradigms. Most notable of these paradigms are development, long-term potentiation (LTP), and adult reactive synaptogenesis (RS). These plastic neural events are discussed in terms of major categories of synaptic morphological change--synaptic density, curvature, and perforations, as well as the size of synaptic elements. The potential functional implications of these morphological changes are reviewed, along with considerations based on recently developed mathematical models of synaptic function. These considerations are then incorporated into the common structural alterations observed during multiple forms of synaptic activation, producing a sequential model supporting increased efficacy associated with neural plasticity. The data suggest that during a plastic challenge, synapses move through a continuum of morphological change, dependent upon the interaction of structural parameters and their effect on various aspects critical to synaptic efficacy. This complex interplay of morphological alterations and synaptic types over time and location may form a critical aspect of neural plasticity.
Both differences and similarities exist between mammalian species in the projections from entorhinal cortex to the hippocampal formation. In most species, layer II cells of the entorhinal cortex project to the dentate gyrus, and they terminate in the outer two-thirds of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. The axons from layer III cells project bilaterally to areas CA(1) and CA(3) of the hippocampus, terminating in the stratum lacunosum moleculare. We have analyzed these projections in mice, and in general, the entorhinal cortex-to-hippocampus projections are similar to those in rats. Axons from layer II neurons terminate in the outer and middle thirds of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, and axons from layer III neurons terminate bilaterally in the stratum lacunosum moleculare of areas CA(1) and CA(3), and in the molecular layer of the subiculum. However, in contrast to rat, mouse entorhinal cortex neurons do not appreciably project to the contralateral dentate gyrus. Most species, including mice, show a similar topographical organization of the entorhinal-hippocampal projections, with neurons in the lateral part of both the lateral and medial entorhinal cortex projecting to the dorsal part or septal pole of the hippocampus, whereas the projection to the ventral hippocampus originates primarily from neurons in medial parts of the entorhinal cortex.
The lateral and ventral pallia have been proposed as the source of neurons for the insular and endopiriform claustra, respectively. However, this correlation is controversial. Here, we analysed this relationship by labelling radial glia in coronal slices of the telencephalon of paraformaldehyde-fixed rabbit embryos (E18-E28) and newborn rabbits with an anti-vimentin antibody or with the fluorescent dye DiI. The radial glia that crossed the claustrum was anchored to the neuroepithelium of the lateral ventricular angle (LVA) at all ages studied. The LVA was deep at E18, but it subsequently become shallower, because of the apposition of the portion of its walls proximal to the vertex of the LVA. At E18, the radial glia that crossed most of the insular claustrum extended from the lateral wall of the LVA (presumptive lateral pallium), and the radial glia that crossed either the most ventral part of the insular claustrum or the endopiriform claustrum proceeded from the medial wall of the LVA (presumptive ventral pallium). These results suggest that although the endopiriform claustrum originates from the ventral pallium, the insular claustrum originates from both the lateral and the ventral pallial portions.
The pretectum is involved in the neural integration of visually dependent responses. We studied the occurrence of immunoreactivity for subunits that constitute the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA)-type glutamate receptors in the chick pretectum. Four pretectal nuclei of the chick brain, namely, the nucleus pretectalis, the nucleus spiriformis lateralis, the nucleus spiriformis medialis, and the nucleus lentiformis mesencephali, were included in the study, and they all showed AMPA-positive neurons. GluR1- and GluR2/3-positive neurons and fibers were detected in the pretectal nucleus, with GluR4-positive neurons forming a cap surrounding the main core of that nucleus. The lateral spiriform nucleus showed immunoreactivity only for GluR2/3 and GluR4, and the medial spiriform nucleus showed immunoreactivity only for GluR1 and GluR2/3. GluR1-positive neurons and fibers were found in the nucleus lentiformis mesencephali, but only GluR2/3-positive neurons and GluR4-positive fibers were detected into that nucleus. The different patterns of distribution of GluR subunits within the pretectal nuclei suggest different AMPA-triggered properties among their neurons. This suggests that the four pretectal nuclei exert at least part of their functions under control of excitatory glutamate inputs acting through AMPA-type receptors.
The dynamic process of neural tube regionalization in vertebrates is regulated by the expression of developmental genes which appear in characteristic patterns at neuroepithelial transversal domains, which are called secondary organizers. The molecular code present in these neuroepithelial organizers controls the generation of morphogenetic signals that induce and maintain regional characteristics in the surrounding neuroepithelium. The product of the Fgf8 gene is a secreted protein that has been demonstrated to be the key molecule for the isthmic organizer and is also expressed in two other organizer regions: the zona limitans and the anterior neural ridge. Here we analyze the expression of Fgf15 at different stages of mouse development in relation to Fgf8 and Otx2 expression patterns.

Voice is not only the vehicle of speech, it is also an 'auditory face' that conveys a wealth of information on a person's identity and affective state. In contrast to speech perception, little is known about the neural bases of our ability to perceive these various types of paralinguistic vocal information. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we identified regions along the superior temporal sulcus (STS) that were not only sensitive, but also highly selective to vocal sounds. In the present study, we asked how neural activity in the voice areas was influenced by (i) the presence or not of linguistic information in the vocal input (speech vs. nonspeech) and (ii) frequency scrambling. Speech sounds were found to elicit greater responses than nonspeech vocalizations in most parts of auditory cortex, including primary auditory cortex (A1), on both sides of the brain. In contrast, response attenuation due to frequency scrambling was much more pronounced in anterior STS areas than at the level of A1. Importantly, only right anterior STS regions responded more strongly to nonspeech vocal sounds than to their scrambled version, suggesting that these regions could be specifically involved in paralinguistic aspects of voice perception.
Communicating disappointing or unexpected neurological news to parents is often both difficult and emotionally unwelcome. At the same time, it is important that transfer of such information is done well and, indeed, if done well, can be a very rewarding experience. Limited references are available for physicians regarding the proper communication of neurological bad news to parents. This paper attempts to provide general guidelines regarding this process. The review is based on the available medical literature, detailed discussions with many senior physicians from different medical systems and the authors personal experience. The manner in which neurological bad news is conveyed to parents can significantly influence their emotions, their beliefs and their attitudes towards the child, the medical staff, and the future. This review of the literature, combined with clinical experience, attests to the fact that most families describe emotional shock, upset, and subsequent depression after the breaking of news of a bad neurological disorder. However, the majority find the attitude of the news giver, combined with the clarity of the message and the news giver's knowledge to answer questions as the most important aspects of giving bad news.
Despite the availability of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), primary HIV-related neurological diseases remain major problems in HIV clinics. The present review examines the pathogenesis of HIV-related dementia and the less severe minor cognitive and motor deficit, together with distal sensory and drug-induced toxic polyneuropathies. Abnormal host immune responses within the nervous system and the role of viral expression and diversity are emphasized in relation to neurovirulence. Induction of innate immune responses within the central and peripheral nervous systems, largely mediated by cells of macrophage lineage, appear to be common to the development of primary HIV-related neurological disease. Activation of these cell types results in the release of a cascade of inflammatory molecules including cytokines, chemokines, matrix metalloproteinases, and arachidonic acid metabolites that influence neuronal survival. Individual viral proteins encoded by envelope and tat genes and discrete sequences within these genes influence the extent to which these pro-inflammatory molecules are induced. At the same time, systemic immune suppression may influence the occurrence and severity of HIV-related neurological diseases. Implementation of HAART and neuroprotective treatments improves neurological function although the evolution of drug-resistant viral strains limits the sustained benefits of HAART.


Neurofilaments are among the most abundant organelles in neurones. They are synthesised in cell bodies and then transported into and through axons by a process termed 'slow axonal transport' at a rate that is distinct from that driven by conventional fast motors. Several recent studies have now demonstrated that this slow rate of transport is actually the consequence of conventional fast rates of movement that are interrupted by extended pausing. At any one time, most neurofilaments are thus stationary. Accumulations of neurofilaments are a pathological feature of several human neurodegenerative diseases suggesting that neurofilament transport is disrupted in disease states. Here, we review recent advances in our understanding of neurofilament transport in both normal and disease states. Increasing evidence suggests that phosphorylation of neurofilaments is a mechanism for regulating their transport properties, possibly by promoting their detachment from the motor(s). In some neurodegenerative diseases, signal transduction mechanisms involving neurofilament kinases and phosphatases may be perturbed leading to disruption of transport.
Zinc is an essential trace element and present at high concentrations in the central nervous system. Recent studies have revealed that excess amount of extracellular zinc is neurotoxic, and that the disruption of zinc homeostasis may be related to various neurodegenerative diseases. Zinc (25-100 microM) caused significant death of immortalized hypothalamic neuronal cells (GT1-7 cells) in a dose- and time-dependent manner. LD50 was estimated to be 34 microM. The degenerated cells were TUNEL-positive and exhibited apoptosis-like characteristics. Preadministration of sodium pyruvate (1-2 mM), a downstream energy substrate, inhibited the zinc-induced neurotoxicity in GT1-7 cells. GT1-7 cells can be used as a good tool for the investigation of zinc neurotoxicity in the hypothalamus.
We previously reported that exogenous histone H1, when injected into mitotic cells, disrupts the synchronous progression of mitotic events by delaying chromosome decondensation. This strategy was utilized to determine whether any other interphase proteins are also able to disrupt normal mitotic processes, when introduced into the mitotic phase. We found that a chromatin subfraction from bovine liver nuclei induced postmitotic micronuclei formation in a dose-dependent manner when injected into the prometaphase of rat kangaroo kidney epithelial (PtK(2)) cells. Close observation showed that, in the case of injected mitotic cells, the mitotic spindles were disrupted, chromosomes became scattered throughout the cytoplasm, and actin filaments were organized ectopically. In addition, when the fraction was injected into interphase cells, extra actin filaments were formed and microtubule organization was affected. In order to determine whether the micronuclei formation resulted from the ectopic formation of actin filaments, we examined the effect of the actin polymerization inhibitor, cytochalasin D. The results showed that the drug inhibited micronuclei formation. From these findings, we concluded that this chromatin subfraction contains actin polymerization activity, thus causing the disruption of mitotic spindles.
The crustacean hyperglycaemic hormones (cHHs) are multifunctional neuropeptides that play a central role in the physiology of crustaceans. A partial cDNA coding for cHH of the Norway lobster, Nephrops norvegicus, was cloned; this cDNA was fused to glutathione- S-transferase (GST) to obtain a recombinant fusion protein that was used to raise a rabbit antiserum and to perform a biological assay. The specificity of the purified antibody was demonstrated by means of Western blotting. To validate the specificity of the purified antibody to the cHH of N. norvegicus and its cross-reactivity with other species, we performed standard immunocytochemistry of the eyestalk on: (1) paraffin sections of the decapod species N. norvegicus, Munida rugosa and Astacus leptodactylus and of the stomatopod Squilla mantis; (2) semithin resin sections of N. norvegicus and Palaemon elegans; (3) ultrathin sections of N. norvegicus sinus gland (transmission electron microscopy studies). The pattern of immunoreactivity shown by N. norvegicus eyestalk sections conforms to distribution, relative amount and ultrastructural features of cHH-containing neurons and nerve endings as reported in the previous literature. In all the crustacean species examined, the antibody marks precisely the X organ-sinus gland complex and unspecific staining is completely lacking. In addition, its specific cross-reaction by immunoprecipitation depletes shrimp eyestalk extract of hyperglycaemic activity in an in vivo bioassay. The results obtained show a cHH-specific molecular recognition despite the fact that the species tested belong to systematic groups increasingly remote in the phylogenetic tree. The antibody could be used for advancing our knowledge on cHH activity in a variety of crustacean species, e.g. for monitoring reproductive and stress conditions.
To develop transplantable beta-cell lines for the treatment of diabetes mellitus, we have taken advantage of the property of INS-1 cells to synthesize and secrete not only insulin, but also small quantities of the insulinotropic hormone glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1). In INS-1 cells over-expressing the beta-cell GLP-1 receptor (GLP-1-R), we have shown, by radioimmune assay and bioassay of conditioned medium, that an autocrine signaling mechanism of hormone action exists whereby self-secreted GLP-1 acts as a competence factor in support of insulin gene transcription. INS-1 cells also exhibit insulin gene promoter activity, as assayed in cells transfected with a rat insulin gene I promoter-luciferase construct (RIP1-Luc). The GLP-1-R agonist exendin-4 stimulates RIP1-Luc activity in a glucose-dependent manner, an effect mediated by endogenous GLP-1-Rs, and is blocked by the serine/threonine protein kinase inhibitor Ro 31-8220. Over-expression of GLP-1-R in transfected INS-1 cells reduces the threshold for exendin-4 agonist action, whereas basal RIP1-Luc activity increases 2.5-fold in the absence of added agonist. The increase of basal RIP1-Luc activity is a consequence of autocrine stimulation by self-secreted GLP-1 and is blocked by introduction of (1) an inactivating W39A mutation in the N-terminus ligand-binding domain of GLP-1-R or (2) mutations in the third cytoplasmic loop that prevent G protein coupling. No evidence for constitutive ligand-independent signaling properties of the GLP-1-R has been obtained. Over-expression of GLP-1-R increases the potency and efficacy of D-glucose as a stimulator of RIP1-Luc. Thus, INS-1 cells over-expressing the GLP-1-R recapitulate the incretin hormone effect of circulating GLP-1, thereby providing a possible strategy by which beta-cell lines may be engineered for efficient glucose-dependent insulin biosynthesis and secretion.
Inbred mouse strains vary in their response to bitter-tasting compounds as assessed by 48 h preference tests. These differences are generally assumed to result from altered gustatory function, although such long-term tests could easily reflect additional factors. We developed a brief-access taste test and tested the responses of two inbred strains, as well as C3. SW congenic mice, to the bitter stimulus sucrose octaacetate (SOA). Water-deprived trained mice were tested with five concentrations of SOA (0.00018-0.18 mM) and distilled water in a Davis MS- 160 apparatus. Trials were 5 s in duration and stimuli were presented randomly within blocks; each stimulus trial was preceded by a water rinse trial. Each concentration was presented twice in a session and mice were repeatedly tested across consecutive days. SOA-taster mice, including the SWR/J (SW) inbred and C3. SW congenic taster (T) mice, avoided licking SOA at concentrations &gt;0.003 mM. In comparison, C3HeB/FeJ (C3) and C3. SW demitaster mice (D) licked all concentrations at the same rate as water. Concentration-response functions were similar across strains for both the brief-access test and a parallel 48 h preference test run on separate groups of mice. Furthermore, concentration-response functions were similar whether or not the brief-access test was preceded by a 4 day, single concentration pretest with SOA. The brief-access test is a suitable assay for bitter taste function in mice because it minimizes possible post-ingestive influences on taste.




Nerve growth factor belongs to a small family of proteins whose binding at the Trk and p75(NTR) transmembrane receptors triggers a cascade of signaling events that give rise to neurotrophic responses in neuronal cells and in vivo. Following their robust effects in animal models of neurodegeneration, neurotrophins have been evaluated for therapy for several human neurodegenerative diseases. However, due mainly to the poor pharmacokinetic behavior of these proteins, they have largely met without success in the clinic, making it desirable to develop small molecule neurotrophin mimetics. A range of compounds is described that achieves some of the neurotrophic and neuroprotective effects attributed to neurotrophins through a variety of mechanisms. These small molecules are divided into the following functional categories: (1). compounds that activate Trk receptors directly; (2). compounds that potentiate the actions of neurotrophins on Trk receptors; (3). compounds that activate Trk indirectly; (4). compounds that influence neurotrophin expression or secretion; and (5). a broad class of compounds that act downstream of, or independently of, Trk receptors. Unfortunately, most of the compounds that have been reported suffer from either lack of specificity for the desired mechanism/effect(s) or lack of efficacy of the compounds in appropriate in vivo models, or both. This second limitation has been particularly severe for compounds designed to mimic the neurotrophins in their interaction with Trk receptors, an ongoing and formidable challenge. Nevertheless, a small subset of the compounds, acting on intracellular signaling pathways downstream of Trk receptors, shows promise for the future treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.
The advent of genomic technologies has enabled the discovery of key processes involved in the pathogenesis of many disease states. The application of high-throughput transcriptional profiling methods holds promise for similar advances in neuroscience; however, particular considerations need to be addressed when initiating these studies in the context of CNS disorders. This review provides a comparison of current genomic technologies, highlighting specific challenges that arise in genomic analysis of brain function and disease, and describes how these approaches have been successfully applied to identify targets for therapeutic intervention.
The bulk of neuronally synthesized proteins destined for the axon is transported in a phase of transport approximately 100 times slower (1mm/day) than the vesicular traffic of fast axonal transport (100mm/day). Of late, a number of studies have shed considerable light on the controversies and mechanisms surrounding this slow phase of axonal transport. Along-standing controversy has centered on the form of the transported proteins. One major transport cargo, neurofilament protein, has now been seen in a number of contexts to be transported primarily in a polymeric form, whereas a second cargo tubulin is transported as a small oligomer. The development of techniques to visualize the slow transport process in live cells has demonstrated that instantaneous motions of transported neurofilaments, and presumably other slow transport cargoes, are fast, bidirectional and interspersed with long pauses. This and additional biochemical efforts indicate that traditional fast motors, such as conventional kinesin and dynein, are responsible for these fast motions.
CEE-03-310 is a selective dopamine D1-like receptor antagonist with no appreciable binding affinity for other receptors. Although originally developed by Novo Nordisk A/S as NNC-687 for the treatment of schizophrenia, the company changed its therapeutic focus in the mid-1990s and the full rights to CEE-03-310 and several related compounds were subsequently granted to CeNeS Pharmaceuticals in 1999. CeNeS is currently investigating the drug's potential in the treatment of insomnia and alcohol dependency [340965], [382293], [401496],[416026]. A phase II, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of CEE-03-310 demonstrated a dose-dependent enhancement of NREM sleep at the beginning of the night without any effects on the quantity of REM sleep [410739].
Substance P (NK1 receptor) antagonists (SPAs) are currently the best validated and clinically most advanced novel approach to treating major depressive disorder (MDD), and several compounds are in advanced clinical development. Three years since the discovery of the antidepressant efficacy of MK-869 (Merck &amp; Co Inc), the first in a new class of drugs that act by selectively blocking the actions of substance P, the principle that blocking the NK1 receptor can alleviate major depression has recently been replicated in a placebo-controlled, blinded study. SPAs are active in a range of preclinical assays that detect clinically used antidepressant drugs, but they have a pharmacological profile that is distinct from established drugs. There is preliminary evidence that substance P and NK1 receptor density may be altered in MDD, suggesting a possible link between substance P and depressive pathophysiology. Studies in animals indicate that the psychotherapeutic effects of SPAs may be mediated at least partly through stimulation of hippocampal neurogenesis, by direct blockade of NK1 receptors in the amygdala and its associated output projections, and also via interactions with monoamines. Additional studies are needed to explore these hypothesesfurther.
DPC-423 is a biphenylamine-containing amide which is under development by Bristol-Myers Squibb (formerly DuPont Pharmaceuticals) as a Factor Xa inhibitor for the potential treatment of thrombotic disorders [372092]. As of August 2000, DPC-423 was in phase I trials [380880]. DPC-423 was discovered as a result of SAR modifications of DuPont's SN-429, including replacement of the benzamidine moiety with a less basic benzylamine [398701]. Its 2-aminomethylphenyl analog DPC-602 is also under investigation for thrombotic disorders [402714].
Recent advances in the study of the connectivity of Drosophila olfactory system include the demonstration that olfactory receptor neurons project to specific glomeruli according to the receptor type they express, and that their projection neuron partners are prespecified to innervate particular glomeruli by birth order or time. This same theme of sequential generation has been observed in the generation of the three major types of mushroom body neurons.
Findings over the past decade demonstrating persistent neurogenesis in the adult brain have overturned dogma, provoked reevaluation of cellular plasticity in the mature brain and raised hopes for novel approaches to brain repair. Recent discoveries reveal that neurogenesis is regulated by environmental stimuli and can be responsive to brain injury. This cellular plasticity may indicate a possible endogenous repair program. By understanding the mechanisms involved, it may be possible to harness this plasticity to recruit endogenous neural stem cells or to graft stem cells to achieve structural brain repair.
This last decade has seen remarkable progress made toward unraveling the mystery of primary headache disorders like migraine and cluster. The vascular theory has been superseded by recognition that neurovascular phenomena seem to be the permissive and triggering factors in migraine and cluster headache. This understanding has been achieved through new imaging modalities such as positron emission tomography and functional magnetic resonance imaging. Prior to these imaging techniques it was impossible to study the primary headache disorders because these had no structural basis. There is now an increasing body of evidence that the brain is involved primarily in cluster and migraine and that vessel dilatation is an epiphenomenon.
Contrary to common clinical perceptions, individuals with personality disorders attempt and commit suicide at nearly the same rate as individuals with major depression. In particular, those with borderline personality disorder are at high risk for suicidal behavior and nonsuicidal self-injury. Yet there is significant controversy surrounding the diagnosis of borderline personality disorder in terms of its existence, its definition and symptom structure, its Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition (DSM-IV) axis location, and its importance as a contributing factor to suicidality and nonsuicidal self-injury. Furthermore, both suicidal and nonsuicidal self-harm is prominent in borderline personality disorder. There is often confusion between suicidal and nonsuicidal self-injury with one sometimes mistaken for the other. Nonsuicidal self-injury is sometimes met with hospitalization, because it is viewed as life threatening. Alternately, the potential lethality of suicidal behavior is underestimated, because it occurs in the context of multiple low lethality self-harm behaviors. It is possible to view these behaviors as distinct yet on a spectrum in borderline personality-disordered patients. With respect to treatment of self-injury in personality disorders, some recent pharmacotherapy trials have been conducted, though efficacy is often unclear. Findings with respect to psychotherapy, particularly dialectical behavior therapy, a form of cognitive behavioral treatment, are promising.
Carbohydrates have been shown to mediate or modulate a number of important events in the development of the nervous system; however, there is little evidence that they participate directly in the development of synapses. One carbohydrate structure that is likely to be important in synaptic development of the neuromuscular junction is the CT carbohydrate antigen [GalNAcbeta1,4[NeuAcalpha2,3]Galbeta1(-3GalNAc or -4GlcNAc)]. The synaptic localization of the CT antigen is due to the presence of the terminal beta1,4 GalNAc linkage, and such linkages are localized to the neuromuscular junction in many species. Here we show that an enzyme that can create the synaptic CT structure, the CT GalNAc transferase, is also confined to the neuromuscular junction in mice. Using transgenic mice, we show that overexpression of the CT GalNAc transferase in extrasynaptic regions in skeletal myofibers caused as much as a 60% reduction in the diameter of adult myofibers and an order of magnitude increase in satellite cells. Neuromuscular junctions of transgenic mice had severely reduced numbers of secondary folds, Schwann cell processes were present in the synaptic cleft, and secondary folds were often misaligned with active zones. In addition, multiple presynaptic specializations occurred on individual myofibers. In addition, some normally synaptic proteins, including laminin alpha4, laminin alpha5, utrophin, and NCAM, were expressed along extrasynaptic regions of myofibers. One of the muscle proteins that displayed increased glycosylation with the CT antigen in the transgenic mice was alpha-dystroglycan. These experiments provide the first in vivo evidence that a synaptic carbohydrate antigen has important roles in the development of the neuromuscular synapse and suggest that the CT antigen is involved in controlling the expression of synaptic molecules.


Most C(2)-domains bind to phospholipid bilayers as a function of Ca(2+). Although phospholipid binding is central for the normal functions of C(2)-domain proteins, the precise mechanism of phospholipid binding is unclear. One of the key questions is whether phospholipid binding by C(2)-domains is primarily governed by electrostatic or hydrophobic interactions. We have now examined this question for the C(2)A-domain of synaptotagmin I, a membrane protein of secretory vesicles with an essential function in Ca(2+)-triggered exocytosis. Our results confirm previous data showing that Ca(2+)-dependent phospholipid binding by the synaptotagmin C(2)A-domain is exquisitely sensitive to ionic strength, suggesting an essential role for electrostatic interactions. However, we find that hydrophobic interactions mediated by exposed residues in the Ca(2+)-binding loops of the C(2)A-domain, in particular methionine 173, are also essential for tight phospholipid binding. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the apparent Ca(2+) affinity of the C(2)A-domain is determined not only by electrostatic interactions as shown previously, but also by hydrophobic interactions. Together these data indicate that phospholipid binding by the C(2)A-domain, although triggered by an electrostatic Ca(2+)-dependent switch, is stabilized by a hydrophobic mechanism. As a result, Ca(2+)-dependent phospholipid binding proceeds by a multimodal mechanism that mirrors the amphipathic nature of the phospholipid bilayer. The complex phospholipid binding mode of synaptotagmins may be important for its role in regulated exocytosis of secretory granules and synaptic vesicles.
Regulated exocytosis forms the basis for many intercellular signaling processes, for example, in hormone secretion or neurotransmitter release. During regulated exocytosis, the membrane of a secretory vesicle fuses with the plasma membrane in a tightly controlled reaction that is most often triggered by calcium. Recent advances have allowed major insights into the molecular mechanisms that mediate regulated exocytosis. In the present review, we will briefly discuss two key features of regulated exocytosis that have been particularly well studied recently. First, we will examine the current understanding of the membrane fusion reaction that underlies regulated exocytosis and that is effected by SNARE (soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor) and munc18-like proteins similar to other membrane fusion reactions. Second, we will describe the role of the major candidates for the calcium sensors that trigger exocytosis, a protein family called synaptotagmins. Although our understanding of regulated exocytosis is as yet incomplete, the results from the studies of SNAREs, munc18s, and synaptotagmins have provided a molecular anchor for a more complete future description.
Membrane-bounded organelles (MBOs) are delivered to different domains in neurons by fast axonal transport. The importance of kinesin for fast antero grade transport is well established, but mechanisms for regulating kinesin-based motility are largely unknown. In this report, we provide biochemical and in vivo evidence that kinesin light chains (KLCs) interact with and are in vivo substrates for glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3). Active GSK3 inhibited anterograde, but not retrograde, transport in squid axoplasm and reduced the amount of kinesin bound to MBOs. Kinesin microtubule binding and microtubule-stimulated ATPase activities were unaffected by GSK3 phosphorylation of KLCs. Active GSK3 was also localized preferentially to regions known to be sites of membrane delivery. These data suggest that GSK3 can regulate fast anterograde axonal transport and targeting of cargos to specific subcellular domains in neurons.
Synaptotagmins constitute a large family of membrane proteins implicated in Ca(2+)-triggered exocytosis. Structurally similar synaptotagmins are differentially localized either to secretory vesicles or to plasma membranes, suggesting distinct functions. Using measurements of the Ca(2+) affinities of synaptotagmin C2-domains in a complex with phospholipids, we now show that different synaptotagmins exhibit distinct Ca(2+) affinities, with plasma membrane synaptotagmins binding Ca(2+) with a 5- to 10-fold higher affinity than vesicular synaptotagmins. To test whether these differences in Ca(2+) affinities are functionally important, we examined the effects of synaptotagmin C2-domains on Ca(2+)-triggered exocytosis in permeabilized PC12 cells. A precise correlation was observed between the apparent Ca(2+) affinities of synaptotagmins in the presence of phospholipids and their action in PC12 cell exocytosis. This was extended to PC12 cell exocytosis triggered by Sr(2+), which was also selectively affected by high-affinity C2-domains of synaptotagmins. Together, our results suggest that Ca(2+) triggering of exocytosis involves tandem Ca(2+) sensors provided by distinct plasma membrane and vesicular synaptotagmins. According to this hypothesis, plasma membrane synaptotagmins represent high-affinity Ca(2+) sensors involved in slow Ca(2+)-dependent exocytosis, whereas vesicular synaptotagmins function as low-affinity Ca(2+) sensors specialized for fast Ca(2+)-dependent exocytosis.
Ghrelin stimulates and leptin inhibits appetite by modulating neuropeptide Y (NPY) signaling in the hypothalamus. Analysis of plasma ghrelin and leptin by sensitive radioimmunoassays showed that the two peripheral hormones are secreted in pulsatile fashion in rats consuming ad libitum rat chow. Fasting augmented all parameters of ghrelin pulsatile secretion and diminished leptin secretion by selectively attenuating the pulse amplitude; concomitantly it produced synchrony in ghrelin and leptin pulse discharge. These studies imply that a synchronous leptin restraint and ghrelin stimulus on NPYergic signaling may underlie robust appetitive drive.
Gonadal steroid hormones act in the brain to elicit changes in gene expression that result in profound effects on behavior and physiology. A variety of in vitro studies indicate that nuclear receptor coactivators are required for efficient transcriptional activity of steroid receptors. Two nuclear receptor coactivators, steroid receptor coactivator-1 (SRC-1) and cAMP response element binding protein-binding protein (CBP), have been shown to act in concert to enhance ER activity in vitro. In the present study, we investigated the function of these important nuclear receptor coactivators in estrogen action in rodent brain. Reduction of SRC-1 and CBP protein in brain disrupted ER-mediated activation of the behaviorally relevant progestin receptor gene. Furthermore, we found that SRC-1 and CBP function in brain to modulate the expression of hormone-dependent female sexual behavior. These findings indicate that these nuclear receptor coactivators function in brain to modulate ER transcriptional activity and the expression of hormone-dependent behavior.
This study aimed at describing preoperative psychiatric morbidity in a consecutive series of 70 epilepsy patients who were surgically treated and to analyze postoperative psychiatric morbidity and predisposing factors. Nonorganic (DSM-III-R) and organic (Lindqvist-Malmgren diagnostic system) psychiatric morbidity was prospectively assessed preoperatively and during the first two postoperative years. At presurgical evaluation 44.3% of the patients had a psychiatric diagnosis (nonorganic in 14.3%, organic in 38.6%). The most common nonorganic diagnosis was major depression; the most common organic diagnosis was Astheno-Emotional disorder (AE disorder). During the first two postoperative years 68.1% of the patients received some psychiatric diagnosis. The most common nonorganic diagnoses were anxiety and depressive disorders (AD disorders) in 36.2%; the most common organic diagnosis was AE disorder in 52.2%. Patients with a preoperative history of AD disorders or AE disorder had a significantly higher risk of postoperative AD disorders (P &lt; 0.01 and P &lt; 0.001 respectively). Laterality, type of resection, histopathological diagnosis, or outcome were not significantly related to postoperative psychiatric morbidity. The importance of psychiatric assessment, including organic psychiatric disorders, is emphasized.
The purpose of the present study was to investigate the distribution of suicide during the months of the year and the days of the week in severe depression. A total of 1206 in-patients rated at discharge from the Department of Psychiatry, Lund, Sweden, on a multiaxial diagnostic schedule received the diagnosis severe depression/melancholia between 1956 to 1969. When followed up to 1998, a total of 114 depressed patients had taken their own life. Out of these, 98 patients appeared to have a primary depression. The monthly distribution of suicides showed a significant peak in October/November for men (41 % of all male suicides). No correlation with the onset of depression could be detected. Furthermore, there was a preponderance of suicide on Sundays for both sexes (31 % of all suicides).

Production of dopamine is regulated via phosphorylation of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of catecholamines. Here we have used a preparation of rat striatal slices to examine the involvement of two mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2), in the depolarization-dependent regulation of TH phosphorylation and dopamine synthesis. Depolarization with elevated KCl (45 mm) caused an increase in the phosphorylation state and, thereby, activation of ERK1/2. The same stimulus also increased TH phosphorylation at Ser19, Ser31 and Ser40 (measured using site- and phospho-specific antibodies) and TH activity [measured as 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) accumulation]. A MAPK/ERK kinase inhibitor, PD098059, decreased the basal levels of phospho-ERK1/2 and prevented the increase in ERK1/2 phosphorylation induced by depolarization. PD098059 also decreased both basal and depolarization-induced phosphorylation of TH at Ser31 and reduced the increase in Ser40 phosphorylation induced by high potassium, but did not affect Ser19 phosphorylation. PD098059 alone inhibited basal TH activity and decreased the accumulation of DOPA induced by depolarization. These data provide evidence for the involvement of ERK1/2 in the regulation of the state of phosphorylation of TH at Ser31 and Ser40 and a correlation between ERK1/2-dependent phosphorylation of TH and stimulation of dopamine synthesis in the brain.
Administration of typical antipsychotic drugs (APDs) is often accompanied by extrapyramidal side-effects (EPS). Treatment with atypical APDs has a lower incidence of motor side-effects and atypical APDs are superior to typical APDs in treating the negative symptoms of schizophrenia. Although typical APDs strongly induce the immediate-early gene c-fos in the striatum while atypical APDs do so only weakly, it is possible that the effects of atypical APDs are more pronounced within certain regions of the striatum. The striatum contains two histochemically defined compartments, the striosome (patch) and the matrix. These compartments have been well characterized anatomically but their functional attributes are unclear. We therefore examined the effects of typical and atypical APDs on Fos expression in the striosome and matrix of the rat. Typical and atypical APDs were distinguished by the pattern of striatal compartmental activation they induced: the striosome : matrix ratio of Fos-li neurons was greater in rats treated with atypical APDs. Pretreating animals with selective antagonists of receptors that atypical APDs target with high affinity did not increase the striosome : matrix Fos ratio of typical APD-treated rats and thus did not mimic the ratio seen in response to atypical APDs. However, pretreatment with the atypical APD clozapine did recapitulate the characteristic compartmental Fos pattern seen in response to typical APDs. These data suggest that some characteristics of atypical APDs, such as the lower EPS liability and greater reduction of negative symptoms, may be linked to the coordinate regulation of the striatal striosome and matrix.
The time-dependent decline in the ability of motoneurons to regenerate their axons after axotomy is one of the principle contributing factors to poor functional recovery after peripheral nerve injury. A decline in neurotrophic support may be partially responsible for this effect. The up-regulation of BDNF after injury, both in denervated Schwann cells and in axotomized motoneurons, suggests its importance in motor axonal regeneration. In adult female Sprague-Dawley rats, we counted the number of freshly injured or chronically axotomized tibial motoneurons that had regenerated their axons 1 month after surgical suture to a freshly denervated common peroneal distal nerve stump. Motor axonal regeneration was evaluated by applying fluorescent retrograde neurotracers to the common peroneal nerve 20 mm distal to the injury site and counting the number of fluorescently labelled motoneurons in the T11-L1 region of the spinal cord. We report that low doses of BDNF (0.5-2 microg/day for 28 days) had no detectable effect on axonal regeneration after immediate nerve repair, but promoted axonal regeneration of motoneurons whose regenerative capacity was reduced by chronic axotomy 2 months prior to nerve resuture, completely reversing the negative effects of delayed nerve repair. In contrast, high doses of BDNF (12-20 microg/day for 28 days) significantly inhibited motor axonal regeneration, after both immediate nerve repair and nerve repair after chronic axotomy. The inhibitory actions of high dose BDNF could be reversed by functional blockade of p75 receptors, thus implicating these receptors as mediators of the inhibitory effects of high dose exogenous BDNF.
Experiments were carried out to learn about changes in sensory cortical processing associated with different levels of anaesthesia. Traditionally this question has been addressed by studying single neurons. Because state changes are likely to influence the relationships between neurons, the present experiments were undertaken to investigate the spatial and temporal firing patterns distributed across cortex. Using 5 x 5 or 10 x 10 microelectrode arrays, spontaneous and stimulus-evoked activity of multineuron clusters was recorded from rat somatosensory 'barrel' cortex (the whisker representation) during a light surgical stage of urethane anaesthesia, and after two supplemental doses of urethane which led to intermediate and deep levels of anaesthesia. At all depths of anaesthesia, spontaneously occurring action potentials at a single electrode tended to be clustered into 'bursts.' With increasing anaesthetic depth, bursts became more prominent and rhythmic, and increasingly synchronized between cortical barrel-columns. Burst frequency decreased and fewer spikes occurred outside bursts, leading to a decrease in the overall spontaneous firing rate. The cortical territory engaged by individual whiskers contracted with increasing depth of anaesthesia, leading to the spatial segregation of whisker representations. At all stages of anaesthesia, whisker stimulation produced the maximal cortical response when delivered close to burst onset. These observations show that ongoing spontaneous activity modulates sensory response properties and makes peripheral tactile information accessible to a cortical territory whose size is determined by the phase of burst cycle. The possible significance of the cyclic cortical responsiveness encountered during urethane anaesthesia to cortical processing in awake rats is considered.
The connections of limbic structures are remarkably constant across species. However, different species express fear in distinct ways. Because the central amygdaloid nucleus is considered an important mediator of fear responses, we compared the physiological properties of central amygdala neurons in guinea pigs, rats and cats using whole-cell recordings in coronal slices in vitro. In guinea pigs, most central medial and lateral neurons displayed an outward rectification that delayed firing onset in response to depolarizing current pulses (hence the designation late-firing neurons). Late-firing neurons were also prevalent in the lateral sector of the cat central nucleus. In contrast, late-firing neurons were rare in the rat central nucleus and the cat central medial nucleus. There, most neurons generated Ni2+-sensitive low-threshold bursts of Na+ spikes and/or displayed pronounced inward rectification in the hyperpolarizing direction. Species differences in passive properties were also observed, but they were mainly related to the relative prevalence of late-firing cells. Indeed, late-firing cells had a significantly lower input resistance and more negative membrane potential than other types of central neurons. Thus, there are marked species differences in the physiological properties of central neurons. Because the synaptic responsiveness of neurons is constrained by their physiological properties, our findings raise the possibility that the contrasting behavioural responsiveness observed across species is partly dependent on the species-specific physiological properties of central neurons.
We have previously reported that the activity of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) receptors is potentiated by protein kinase C (PKC) in cultured chick retina amacrine neurons, and that constitutive PKC activity is necessary for basal AMPA receptor activity (Carvalho et al., 1998). In this study, we evaluated the phosphorylation of the GluR4 subunit, which is very abundant in cultured amacrine neurons, to correlate it with the effects of PKC on AMPA receptor activity in these cells. 32P-labelling of GluR4 increased upon AMPA receptor stimulation or cell treatment with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) before stimulating with kainate. By contrast, phosphorylation of GluR4 was not changed when PKC was inhibited by treating the cells with the selective PKC inhibitor GF 109203X before stimulation with kainate. We conclude that GluR4 is phosphorylated upon PKC activation and/or stimulation of AMPA receptors in cultured amacrine cells. Additionally, AMPA receptor activation with kainate in cultured chick amacrine cells leads to translocation of conventional and novel PKC isoforms to the cell membrane, suggesting that PKC could be activated upon AMPA receptor stimulation in these cells.
Following the cloning and sequencing of the A subunit of the 5-HT3 receptor, two alternatively spliced isoforms, 5-HT3-AS and 5-HT3-AL, have been identified. In order to analyse the distribution of the receptor, a polyclonal antibody has been produced against the short form which is the most abundant in the central nervous system [Doucet et al. (2000) Neuroscience 95, 881-892]. As expected from the recognition of functional 5-HT3 receptors, immunostaining by this anti-5-HT3-R-AS antibody matched the distribution of the high-affinity 5-HT3 binding sites in the rat brain and spinal cord. 5-HT3-AS-like immunoreactivity was detected at low levels in the limbic system, particularly in the amygdala and the hippocampus, and in the frontal, piriform and entorhinal cortices. High levels of immunoreactivity were found in the brainstem, mainly in the nucleus tractus solitarius and the nucleus of the spinal tract of the trigeminal nerve, and in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. At the ultrastructural level, immunostaining was generally found associated with axons and nerve terminals (70-80%) except in the hippocampus, where labelled dendrites were more abundant (56%). This preferential localization on nerve endings is consistent with the well-documented physiological role of 5-HT3 receptors in the control of neurotransmitter release. However, the different distribution in the hippocampus raises the question of whether differential addressing mechanisms exist for preferentially targeting 5-HT3 receptors to postsynaptic dendritic sites as compared to presynaptic nerve endings, depending on the nature of the neurons bearing these receptors.
The present study investigates the role of cGMP and cAMP on the memory performance in the object recognition task in rats. The analogue 8-Br-GMP or 8-Br-cAMP was administered bilaterally into the hippocampus (0, 1, 3 and 10 microg in 0.5 microl saline/site) immediately after the exposure to two identical objects. After 24 h, saline-treated animals spent equal times exploring a new and the familiar object demonstrating that they did not recognize the familiar one. However, a dose-dependent improvement in object recognition was found after injection of 8-Br-cGMP. In contrast, 8-Br-cAMP did not improve the memory performance at the doses tested. These results indicate that hippocampal cGMP but not cAMP is involved in early stages of consolidation of object memory.
Involvement of 5-HT(2A) receptors in the discriminative-stimulus effects of cocaine versus methamphetamine was studied in Sprague Dawley rats (n=10) trained to discriminate 10 mg/kg cocaine, i.p., from saline under a fixed-ratio 10 (FR10) schedule of food presentation. The ability of (+/-)-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI), a 5-HT(2A) receptor agonist, and ketanserin, a 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonist, to either substitute for or block the discriminative-stimulus effects of cocaine, or to shift the cocaine dose-response curve, was evaluated. DOI (0.18-1.0 mg/kg) partially substituted for the training dose of 10 mg/kg cocaine, but only at doses that decreased rates of responding. At the highest dose of DOI tested (1.0 mg/kg), there was about 65% cocaine-appropriate responding. Substitution of DOI for cocaine and DOI-induced decreases in rates of responding were completely reversed by ketanserin (3.0 mg/kg). Ketanserin (3.0 mg/kg) also produced a significant shift to the right of the cocaine dose-response curve and antagonized increases in rates of responding produced by lower doses of cocaine. Ketanserin (1.0-10.0 mg/kg), however, did not block the discriminative-stimulus effects of the training dose of cocaine. When DOI (0.3 mg/kg) was co-administered with different doses of cocaine, there was a slight leftward shift in the cocaine dose-response curve, which was not significant and appeared to reflect simple additive effects of DOI and cocaine. In contrast, the same dose of DOI (0.3 mg/kg) produced a marked and highly significant shift to the left of the methamphetamine (0.18-1.0 mg/kg) dose-response curve in the same subjects and the effects of DOI and methamphetamine were clearly more than additive. The present findings provide new evidence that there is some serotonergic modulation of cocaine's discriminative-stimulus actions, which appears to involve stimulation of 5-HT(2A) receptors. However, involvement of 5-HT(2A) receptor activity in the discriminative-stimulus actions of cocaine appears to be less pronounced than in similar actions of methamphetamine.
Nitric oxide (NO) and serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) are important neuromodulators that are involved in a myriad of biochemical reactions. In this work, we describe a novel model co-culture system to study the interactions between NO and 5-HT. NO derived from cytokine stimulated Bv2 microglial cells depleted 5-HT from RBL-2H3 cells. Reduction of 5-HT content by NO derived from the NO donor S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP) was concentration-dependent, independent of intracellular Ca(2+) and inhibited by reduced glutathione (GSH). Collectively, these data indicate that this cell co-culture system is a viable model to study the mechanisms of interaction between nitrergic and serotonergic pathways.
In human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cell preparations, sigma(1) receptor agonists (+)-pentazocine and 1S,2R-(-)-cis-N-[2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]-N-methyl-2-(1-pyrrolidinyl)cyclohexylamine (BD737) competed for [3H]haloperidol binding with K(i) values of 67+/-10 and 14+/-10 nM, respectively. (+)-Pentazocine or BD737 up to 10 microM did not affect basal levels of intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) in these cells, but they significantly reduced muscarine-induced [Ca(2+)](i) changes in a dose-related manner. However, the reduction by (+)-pentazocine was not reversed by the sigma(1) receptor antagonist haloperidol. Further studies showed (+)-pentazocine, BD737 and haloperidol could compete for [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate binding in SH-SY5Y cells with K(i) values of 0.51+/-0.06, 0.32+/-0.07 and 4.4+/-2.3 microM, respectively. Thus, the inhibitory effects on muscarine-induced [Ca(2+)](i) changes by (+)-pentazocine and BD737 in SH-SY5Y cells were likely due to blockade of muscarinic receptors, not due to sigma(1) receptor activation by these ligands.
This paper first provides a survey of the expanding brain imaging literature in the field of time processing, showing that particular task features (discrete vs rhythmic, perceptual vs motor) do not significantly affect the basic pattern of activation observed. Next, positron emission tomography (PET) data obtained in a timing task (temporal reproduction) with two distinct duration ranges (2.2--3.2 and 9--13 s) are reported. The stimuli consisted of vibrations applied to the subject's right middle finger. When the vibration ended, the subject estimated an interval identical to its length before pressing a response button. The control task used cued responses with comparable intervals and stimuli. The pattern of activation obtained in the timing task as compared to control mainly included areas having attentional functions (the right dorsolateral prefrontal, inferior parietal, and anterior cingulate cortices), and the supplementary motor area (SMA). No significant difference was seen as a function of the duration range. It is argued, firstly, that involvement of the attentional areas derives from specific relations between attention and the temporal accumulator, as described by dominant timing models; and, secondly, that the SMA, or more probably one of its subregions, subserves time processing.
Four experiments were carried out using the action span paradigm. In experiment 1 we found that well-learnt, meaningful (MF) actions were imitated better than novel, meaningless (ML) actions. In experiments 2 and 3, during the encoding of MF and ML actions, participants were required to carry out different suppression tasks. In experiment 2 we replicated the advantage of MF actions over ML actions and also found that the motor suppression shortened the action span more than the other forms of suppressions (spatial and articulatory). Action encoding and motor suppression tapping the same subsystem, temporarily holding the motor information, could explain the reduced motor span obtained in experiment 2. Two alternative explanations that could have accounted for this effect were ruled out in experiments 3 and 4. In experiment 3 we verified whether the reduction of the action span was produced by the different combination of the articulatory suppression with motor suppression or with the spatial suppression. In experiment 4, we demonstrated that the reduction was not due to the motor suppression being more difficult than the other types of suppression. The critical finding that the spans of well-learnt, MF actions are longer than those of novel, ML actions observed in experiments 1 and 2 was interpreted in terms of different processing routes engaged in the imitation of these two types of actions. MF actions can be imitated along both a semantic, indirect route and a direct route leading from the visual analysis of the action to the motor system. In contrast, the imitation of ML actions is accomplished along the direct route only.
Recent data indicate that opioid agonist and antagonist challenges decrease and increase (respectively) heroin craving in physically dependent individuals. This study investigated effects of methadone dose variations on craving and new drug use in 18 outpatients who were given money contingencies. In Phase 1, volunteers were told in different test sessions that methadone dose would increase, decrease, or stay the same; drug-abstinence contingencies were suspended for 24 hr. Craving significantly increased and new heroin use marginally increased (relative to maintenance dose) only when a dose reduction was paired with a dose decrease instruction. In Phase 2 (detoxification), craving and heroin use significantly increased as methadone dose decreased. Thus, loss of micro-receptor agonist effect increased craving and risk of relapse.
The distribution and relative intrafascicular contribution of myelin fibers derived from spinal segments L-4 to L-6 were analyzed in adult rat sciatic nerve and its main branches, using 200-kDa neurofilament subunit immunodetection in previously injured nerve sections in the L-4 or L-5 spinal branch or both. These branches' functional contribution was evaluated 16 days after the injury, using the method of J. Bain, S. Mackinnon, and D. Hunter (1988, Plast. Reconstr. Surg. 83: 129-136). A common topographic intrafascicular distribution was found in 69% of cases, with notable segregation of L-4 and L-5 fibers and a random distribution for L-6 fibers. At sciatic nerve main branch level, L-4 contributes almost entirely to the peroneal nerve, L-5 to the tibial nerve, and L-6 and other branches to the sural nerve. After injury to L-4, a significant reduction in peroneal nerve functional index (PFI) was observed, as was a reduction in print length (PL). Injury to L-5 caused a significant reduction in the sciatic (SFI) and tibial (TFI) functional nerve indices, an increase in PL, and a reduction in the spread between opposite toes (TS). Finally, transection of both L-4 and L-5 was followed by a significant reduction in all functional indices measured, an increase in PL, and a reduction in intermediate toe (ITS) and opposite toe spread (TS). The results indicate a direct relationship between the distribution and contribution of the spinal nerve fibers forming the sciatic nerve and the alteration in functional indices for sciatic, tibial, and peroneal nerves.
In rats, hindlimb postural and locomotor functions mature during the first 3 postnatal weeks. Previous evidence indicates that maturation of descending monoaminergic pathways is important for the postnatal emergence of locomotion with adequate antigravity postural support. Here we have studied the effect of the monoamine precursor L-DOPA on locomotor activity in freely moving postnatal rats (7-9 days old) using electromyographic recordings from ankle extensor (soleus) and flexor (tibialis anterior or extensor digitorum longus) muscles. Before pharmacological treatment, both muscles were usually silent at rest, and during spontaneous movements there was a high degree of coactivation between the two antagonists. This was due to a longer electromyographic (EMG) burst duration in flexors, which partly overlapped with the extensor burst. L-DOPA administration (150 mg/kg) resulted in a marked increase in postural tonic EMG activity in extensors which appeared gradually within 10 min after injection and was sufficient for the pups to maintain a standing posture with the pelvis raised above ground. Thereafter, episodes of locomotion characterized by rhythmic reciprocal bursts of EMG activity in flexor and extensor muscles were seen. The L-DOPA-induced rhythmic EMG pattern was also seen in postnatal rats subjected to a midthoracic spinal cord transection, indicating that the effect of L-DOPA on motor coordination is exerted primarily at the level of the spinal pattern generator. Analysis of EMG burst characteristics showed that the pattern of L-DOPA-induced locomotion in both intact and spinalized postnatal rats resembled in some respects that observed in adults during spontaneous locomotion. The appearance of reciprocal activation during L-DOPA-induced locomotion in neonates was primarily due to a shortening of the EMG burst duration in flexors, which reduced the degree of antagonist coactivation. These results show that the spinal cord has the potential to produce coordinated overground locomotion several days before such movements are normally expressed in the freely moving animal.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) shows potent neuroprotective as well as neurorestorative actions on the adult neurons impacted in animal models of Parkinson's disease (PD). Long-term pharmaco-physiological effects of GDNF on developing dopaminergic (DA) neurons have not yet been explored because of technical difficulties in producing prolonged cell type-specific delivery of this neurotrophic factor in mammalian embryonic brain. The current studies used our previously characterized 9.0-kb tyrosine hydroxylase promoter to produce transgenic mice with neuronal cell type-specific expression of GDNF in substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) and locus coeruleus (LC). These mice were used to test the parsimonious hypothesis that increased developmental expression of GDNF in SNc and LC would significantly enhance the number of postmitotic adult neurons. To our surprise, adult transgenic mice carrying the TH9.0kb-GDNF hybrid gene showed dramatic reductions in both the numbers and the volumes of SNc-DA and LC-noradrenergic (NA) neurons by quantitative morphometric analysis. The decrease in the number of DA neurons was apparent as early as postnatal day 2, the period before the major naturally occurring apoptotic cell death in midbrain. Aged transgenic mice exhibited no further significant deficits in motor behaviors. These data suggest that continuous, early developmental GDNF expression exerts physiological effects on newly differentiated, immature dopamine neurons that differ from those observed on more mature and adult DA neurons. Further elucidation of the mechanisms underlying differential GDNF actions will greatly improve the pharmacological efficacy of GDNF in fetal neural transplantation as well as adult neuronal gene therapy in PD patients.
The reestablishment of topographically organized connections is a necessary prerequisite to obtain a full anatomical repair following brain injury. One system where such an issue can be addressed is the olivocerebellar system, where, normally, clusters of inferior olive neurons project to neurochemically heterogeneous Purkinje cell compartments defined by the expression of cell-specific markers, such as zebrin II. To assess whether adult injured olivocerebellar axons that regenerate into cerebellar transplants are able to establish target-specific innervation of grafted Purkinje cells, we made surgical transections in the white matter of adult rat cerebella and placed solid grafts from the embryonic cerebellar anlage into the lesion site. The transplanted tissue developed highly organized minicerebella, in which Purkinje cells were distributed into distinct clusters of zebrin II-immunopositive or -immunonegative neurons, mimicking the cortical compartments present in the normal adult cerebellum. Olivocerebellar axons, labeled by biotinylated dextran amine tracing, regenerated into the transplants where they formed discrete patches made of several terminal arbors impinging upon Purkinje cell dendrites. Among 401 such climbing fiber patches, 96% exclusively innervated Purkinje cells of either phenotype and stopped at the border of the zebrin II(+/-) Purkinje cell clusters, whereas only 4% were extended across this boundary and innervated both zebrin II-positive and -negative Purkinje cells. The results obtained support the view that the embryonic cerebellar tissue provides target-specific information that can be decoded by ingrowing adult olivocerebellar axons in order to establish appropriate innervation patterns with zebrin II-positive or -negative Purkinje cell compartments.
Recent studies in cell cultures have shown that modulating the cholinergic activity can influence the processing and metabolism of amyloid precursor protein (APP). To investigate whether acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (ChEIs) could decrease production of amyloid beta-peptide (A(beta)) and slow down the accumulation of A(beta) also in vivo, we chronically administered metrifonate (100 mg/kg, po), a second-generation ChEI, to 7-month-old doubly transgenic APP+PS1 mice and their nontransgenic littermate controls for 7 months. Behavioral studies, including open field test, T maze, and water maze, were conducted after 6 months treatment with metrifonate, and the mice were sacrificed at the age of 14 months for biochemical and histological analyses. The long-term treatment with metrifonate failed to inhibit the marked overproduction and deposition of A(beta) in the APP+PS1 mice; in contrast, it increased both A(beta)40 and A(beta)42 levels in the hippocampus. However, the A(beta)42 to 40 ratio was significantly reduced by the treatment. In addition, the number of amyloid plaques in the hippocampus did not differ between the treatment and the control groups. Tolerance to cholinesterase inhibition might be induced in the mouse brain because the inhibition rate of AChE was attenuated from about 80 to 50% during the experiment in both APP+PS1 and nontransgenic mice. The metrifonate treatment did not affect cognitive testing parameters but reduced swimming speed and locomotor activity in both genotypes. Our results do not support the idea that ChEIs would slow down the progression of amyloid pathology in Alzheimer's disease.
Pathologic impacts in the brain lead to a widespread activation of microglial cells far beyond the site of injury. Here, we demonstrate that glial Ca2+ waves can trigger responses in microglial cells. We elicited Ca2+ waves in corpus callosum glial cells by electrical stimulation or local adenosine triphosphate (ATP) ejection in acute brain slices. Macroglial cells, but not microglia, were bulk-loaded with Ca2+-sensitive dyes. Using a transgenic animal in which astrocytes were labeled by the enhanced green fluorescence protein (EGFP) allowed us to identify the reacting cell populations: the wave activated a Ca2+ response in both astrocytes and non-astrocytic glial cells and spread over hundreds of micrometers even into the adjacent cortical and ventricular cell layers. Regenerative ATP release and subsequent activation of metabotropic purinergic receptors caused the propagation of the glial Ca2+ wave: the wave was blocked by the purinergic receptor antagonist Reactive Blue 2 and was not affected by the gap junction blocker octanol, but enhanced in Ca2+ free saline. To test whether microglial cells respond to the wave, microglial cells were labeled with a dye-coupled lectin and membrane currents were recorded with the patch-clamp technique. When the wave passed by, a current with the characteristics of a purinergic response was activated. Thus, Ca2+ waves in situ are not restricted to astrocytic cells, but broadly activate different glial cell types.
Human neural progenitor cells (hNPCs) represent an attractive source for cell therapy of neurological disorders. Genetic modification of hNPCs may allow a controlled release of therapeutic proteins, suppress immune rejection, or produce essential neurotransmitters. In search of an effective gene delivery vehicle, we evaluated the efficiency of a recombinant adeno-associated viral (rAAV) vector expressing enhanced green fluorescent protein (CAGegfp). Our study demonstrated that CAGegfp efficiently transduced both proliferating and differentiated hNPCs in vitro. EGFP expression was detected as early as 1 day after exposure to CAGegfp and was detectable for up to 4 months. Following transduction, the growth rate of hNPCs slowed down, but they were still able to differentiate into neurons and glia. Furthermore, CAGegfp-modified hNPCs survived, differentiated and expressed EGFP after transplanting into spinal cord of adult rats. Our results indicated that rAAV vectors might be a useful tool in hNPC-based cell and gene therapy for neurological disorders.
In many organisms, the rate of genetic recombination is not uniform along the length of chromosomes or between sexes. To compare the relative recombination rates during meiosis in male and female zebrafish, we constructed a genetic map based on male meiosis. We developed a meiotic mapping panel of 94 androgenetic haploid embryos that were scored for genetic polymorphisms. The resulting male map was compared to female and sex-average maps. We found that the recombination rate in male meiosis is dramatically suppressed relative to that of female meiosis, especially near the centromere. These findings have practical applications for experimental design. The use of exclusively female meiosis in a positional cloning project maximizes the ratio of genetic map distance to physical distance. Alternatively, the use of exclusively male meiosis to localize a mutation initially to a linkage group or to maintain relationships of linked alleles minimizes recombination, thereby facilitating some types of analysis.
In 1792 the young military surgeon Dominique Jean Larrey (later Baron de l'empire) had to amputate a soldier's leg. His scholarly knowledge combined with intellectual curiosity turned a common event into an innovative scientific experiment, after he used the severed leg to affirm in the human being the recent observations made by Galvani on frogs. The possibility of inducing muscular contractions by galvanic current led him to foretell, much ahead of his time, that this mode would facilitate rehabilitation of the paralyzed.
Laminin-1 (LN) is expressed along the route of neural growth from spiral ganglion (SG) neurons towards the developing organ of Corti, and has been shown to enhance neurite outgrowth from SG neurons in vitro. Signal transduction pathways linking LN signaling at the cell membrane to the cell nucleus can involve a variety of signaling molecules. Data from other systems suggest the potential involvement of the small G protein Ras, and the mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) Erk and/or p38. To assess these possibilities, the length and number of processes extending from SG explants cultured on LN-coated surfaces were evaluated after treatment with the Ras inhibitor FTI-277, the p38 inhibitor SB203580 and MAPK kinase (MEK) inhibitor U0126, which operates immediately upstream of the Erk MAPK. Treatment with the Ras inhibitor at levels known to inhibit the H- and N-Ras isoforms had no effect, while FTI-277 levels known to inhibit K-Ras reduced only neurite length. Suppression of MEK resulted in a decrease of both parameters, while incubation with the p38 inhibitor had no effect. The results of this study suggest that MEK plays a central role in LN signaling in SG neurites. While K-Ras signaling may participate in MEK-dependent increases in neurite length, the MEK-dependent increase in neurite number appears to be activated by a different intracellular pathway.
The present study investigated the effect of highly selective mu-opioid receptor (OR) agonists on lordosis behavior in ovariectomized rats treated with 3 microg of estradiol benzoate followed 48 h later by 200 microg of progesterone. Ventricular infusion of the endogenous mu-OR agonists endomorphin-1 and -2 suppressed receptive behavior in a time- and dose-dependent fashion. At 6 microg, both endomorphin-1 and -2 inhibited lordosis behavior within 30 min. However, while the effect of endomorphin-1 lasted 60 min, endomorphin-2 inhibition lasted up to 120 min after infusion. Pretreatment with naloxone (5 mg/kg sc) was able to block both endomorphin-1 and endomorphin-2 effects on lordosis. Site-specific infusions of endomorphin-1 or endomorphin-2 into the medial preoptic area (mPOA), the ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMH), or into the mesencephalic central gray did not affect receptivity. In contrast, infusion of 1 mug of either compound into the medial septum/horizontal diagonal band of Broca inhibited lordosis in a pattern very similar to that seen after intraventricular infusions. Infusion of the potent synthetic mu-OR agonist [D-Ala(2),N-Me-Phe(4),Gly-ol(5)]-enkephalin (0.08 microg) into the VMH and mPOA inhibited lordosis behavior for at least 60 min after infusion. The nonspecific opioid receptor antagonist naloxone was able to facilitate lordosis in partially receptive female rats when infused into the mPOA but not when infused into the VMH. The behavioral effects of the agonists and antagonist used in this study suggest that the endogenous mu-opioid system modulates estrogen and progesterone-induced lordosis behavior.
This study examined the effects of long-term estrogen treatment (sc 17 beta-estradiol minipellets) on learning in C57BL/6J female and male mice using a position discrimination task in the T-maze and a win-stay task (1/8 arms baited) in the radial arm maze (RAM). In addition, hippocampal monoamines and ChAT activity were measured at the end of the study and correlated to task performance. Female sham-operated (gonadally intact) and ovariectomized (OVX) mice were treated with estrogen either for 7 or 40 days before the behavioral tests and intact male mice for 7 days before the behavioral tests. In sham-operated mice the 40-day estrogen treatment improved RAM performance and in OVX mice both the 7- and 40-day estrogen treatments improved the performance in both maze tasks. The estrogen treatment also improved RAM performance in males. The hippocampal ChAT, NA, 5-HIAA, and DOPAC levels were decreased in OVX mice. Furthermore, the effects of estrogen treatment on the levels of hippocampal 5-HT and its metabolite 5-HIAA were different in sham-operated than in OVX mice. We could find no correlation between cognitive measures and neurochemical variables. This study gives new information about the effects of estrogen on learning and hippocampal neurotransmitters in mice.
This study aimed to characterize the neural generators of the early components of the visual evoked potential (VEP) to isoluminant checkerboard stimuli. Multichannel scalp recordings, retinotopic mapping and dipole modeling techniques were used to estimate the locations of the cortical sources giving rise to the early C1, P1, and N1 components. Dipole locations were matched to anatomical brain regions visualized in structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and to functional MRI (fMRI) activations elicited by the same stimuli. These converging methods confirmed previous reports that the C1 component (onset latency 55 msec; peak latency 90-92 msec) was generated in the primary visual area (striate cortex; area 17). The early phase of the P1 component (onset latency 72-80 msec; peak latency 98-110 msec) was localized to sources in dorsal extrastriate cortex of the middle occipital gyrus, while the late phase of the P1 component (onset latency 110-120 msec; peak latency 136-146 msec) was localized to ventral extrastriate cortex of the fusiform gyrus. Among the N1 subcomponents, the posterior N150 could be accounted for by the same dipolar source as the early P1, while the anterior N155 was localized to a deep source in the parietal lobe. These findings clarify the anatomical origin of these VEP components, which have been studied extensively in relation to visual-perceptual processes.
The role of oxygen free radicals and other oxidants in several diseases has been well established over the past decade. Whereas it was long known that high doses of oxidants may damage or kill cells, the effect of low doses or long-time exposure to small flux rates of oxidants have been the focus of the free radical research until now. Here one has to take into account that most physiological and pathophysiological actions of oxidants and free radicals are based on the permanent action of small doses and flux rates. This includes effects of oxidants on signal transduction pathways and gene expression patterns. Therefore, only a few answers can be given today on the relevance of the effects of low doses of oxidants.
Hirschsprung disease (HSCR) is a congenital disorder characterized by the absence of enteric nervous plexuses in hind gut. Ten to forty percent of HSCR patients carry a dominant loss-of-function mutation in the gene encoding the receptor tyrosine kinase RET, a receptor for glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF). Although several mutations have also been found in the GDNF gene of HSCR patients, their impact on GDNF function is unknown. In this study, we have characterized the effect of these mutations on the ability of GDNF to bind and activate its receptors. Although none of the four mutations analyzed appeared to affect the ability of GDNF to activate RET, two of them resulted in a significant reduction in the binding affinity of GDNF for the binding subunit of the receptor complex, GFR(alpha)1. Our results indicate that, although none of the GDNF mutations identified so far in HSCR patients are per se likely to result in HSCR, two of these mutations (i.e. D150N and I211M) may, in conjunction with other genetic lesions, contribute to the pathogenesis of this disease.
Reconstructing an accurate and topologically correct representation of the cortical surface of the brain is an important objective in various neuroscience applications. Most cortical surface reconstruction methods either ignore topology or correct it using manual editing or methods that lead to inaccurate reconstructions. Shattuck and Leahy recently reported a fully automatic method that yields a topologically correct representation with little distortion of the underlying segmentation. We provide an alternate approach that has several advantages over their approach, including the use of arbitrary digital connectivities, a flexible morphology-based multiscale approach, and the option of foreground-only or background-only correction. A detailed analysis of the method's performance on 15 magnetic resonance brain images is provided.
Connexins (cx) constitute a family of transmembrane proteins that form gap junction channels allowing metabolic and electrical coupling of cellular networks. Initial studies on the expression of cx in the developing brain have suggested that cx may undergo dynamic changes and may possibly be implicated in synchronizing development and differentiation of neural progenitor cells and young neurons. We have investigated expression of cx26, cx32, cx43, and cx45 in the midbrain floor, where nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons originate and differentiate. This neuron population is of major importance in regulating motor-functions. Semiquantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) revealed low levels of cx26-mRNA in the midbrain floor at E12, which gradually increased during pre- and postnatal development, reaching a maximum in the adult. Cx32-mRNA-levels reached a first peak at E16, and showed highest levels in adulthood. Cx43 was highly expressed at E12, decreased until E18, and subsequently increased again until adulthood. Cx45 mRNA was prominent at all developmental ages, but slightly decreased after the first postnatal week. Double-labeling for the dopaminergic neuronal marker tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), and cx-immunoreactivities (ir) evaluated by quantitative confocal laser microscopy revealed both distinct and similar developmental patterns for the individual cx investigated. Cx26 was highest at E14, decreased towards birth, and subsequently increased again reaching about 50% of the E14 level in the adult. Cx32-ir peaked at E16 and dropped to low levels after birth. Cx43-ir was highest at E12, decreased sharply at E14, reached its lowest levels at birth, but modestly increased again afterwards. Cx45-ir showed a biphasic pattern, with two prominent peaks at E12 and E18, followed by a massive postnatal decrease. Taken together, our results reveal that expression and ir of cx in the midbrain floor and dopaminergic neurons, respectively, follow cx-type specific patterns that temporally coincide with important steps of midbrain morphogenesis, as e.g. progenitor cell formation and migration (E12), early differentiation (E14-16), target encounter (E16-18) and postnatal functional maturation of the nigrostriatal system.
Our laboratory has generated a genetically mutant mouse in which the alpha subunit of the heterotrimeric GTP binding protein, G(z) has been made dysfunctional by homologous recombination to determine its in vivo function. These animals show a characteristic failure to thrive phenotype. G(z alpha) is expressed in a variety of nervous system tissues as well as in the adrenal medulla. We therefore examined the autonomic nervous system of the G(z alpha) deficient mouse by measuring the activity of tyrosine hydroxylase and choline acetyltransferase in the superior cervical ganglia, submaxillary gland and the adrenal medulla. Preliminary results using animals of mixed BALB/c and C57BL/6 strains gave inconsistent results. Further experiments demonstrated differences in the activity of tyrosine hydroxylase and choline acetyltransferase between BALB/c and C57BL/6 mouse strains. The analysis of the pure strains showed a reduction in the size and enzyme levels of the adrenal gland and submaxillary glands of the G(z alpha) deficient mouse suggesting a role for adrenal insufficiency and/or nutritional disorders for the failure to thrive phenotype. The survival of sympathetic and sensory neurons was also examined in the G(z alpha) deficient mouse and in the presence of pertussis toxin, sympathetic but not sensory neuronal survival in G(z alpha) deficient mice was significantly attenuated. This suggests that in vivo other pertussis toxin sensitive G proteins may be recruited to compensate for the loss of G(z alpha).
The activity and the subunit expression of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA)/kainate ionotropic glutamate receptors were studied in retina cells developing in chick embryos and in retina cells cultured as retinospheroids, at the same stages of development. In the retinospheroids, the activity of the AMPA/kainate receptors was monitored by following the changes in the intracellular free calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)), in response to AMPA, kainate or to L-glutamate, and the expression of the receptor subunits GluR1, GluR2/3, GluR4 and GluR6/7 was determined in the retinospheroids and in chick retinas by immunodetection using polyclonal antibodies. The changes in [Ca(2+)](i) in response to 400 microM kainate increased from 5h in vitro to 3 days, and remained constant until day 14, whereas the [Ca(2+)](i) in response to 500 microM L-glutamate or 400 microM AMPA increased from 5h in vitro to 3 days, and thereafter decreased slightly until day 14. The [Ca(2+)](i) responses to kainate are mainly due to AMPA receptor stimulation, since the signals were abolished by LY303070, the AMPA receptor antagonist, and were not affected by MK-801, the NMDA receptor antagonist. In retinospheroids, the levels of expression of GluR1 subunit increased from 5h in vitro until day 7, then decreased until day 14. The levels of expression of GluR2/3 and GluR4 subunits increased from 5h in vitro until day 10, and remained constant until day 14. The levels of kainate receptor subunits GluR6/7 increased from 5h in vitro until day 3, and thereafter decreased slightly until day 14. In the retinas, the expression of GluR1 and GluR6/7 subunits increased from day 8 until day 15, and then decreased until day 22 (post-natal 1). The subunits GluR2/3 and GluR4 increased from day 8 until day 18, and remained constant until day 22. The results suggest that AMPA/kainate receptors are expressed at early embryonic stages, although at low levels and before synapse formation (E12). However, the AMPA receptors are not completely functional at the first stage studied since they do not respond to the agonist AMPA. Also, the patterns of AMPA/kainate receptor subunit expression in retinospheroids of chick embryo retina cells cultured in vitro and in retina cells developing in the embryo (in vivo) were similar, indicating that the AMPA/kainate receptor subunits expression in these primary cultures mimics their expression in the developing chick retina.
Soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC) is an important enzyme in corpus cavernosum smooth muscle cells as it is one of the regulators of the synthesis of cGMP. The efficacy of sildenafil (Viagra) in the treatment of male erectile dysfunction indicates the importance of the cGMP system in the erectile response as the increased levels of cGMP induce relaxation of the corpus cavernosum. sGC is physiologically activated by nitric oxide (NO) during sexual stimulation, and its activity can be pharmacologically enhanced by several NO-donors. Agents like YC-1 can also activate sGC after binding to a novel allosteric site in the enzyme, a site different from the NO binding site. YC-1 can relax rabbit cavernosal tissue and it facilitates penile erection in vivo. This review summarizes the enzymology, biochemistry and pharmacology of this novel allosteric site and its relevance for the regulation of penile function. This type of sGC activators represent a new class of compounds with a different pharmacological profile in comparison to the classical NO-donors and they could be beneficial for the treatment of male erectile dysfunction.


We examined hemispheric activation patterns during auditory and visual processing in two groups of children: 13 boys in the age range from 9 to 12 years rated by their parents and teachers as poor listeners and 11 boys in the same age range rated as normal listeners. Three tasks were employed: auditory gap detection, detection of auditory movement, and a control task involving visuospatial discrimination. Electrical activity was recorded from 30 scalp electrodes as participants responded to target stimuli in an event-related potential paradigm. In the visual task, hemispheric activation was relatively symmetric around the midsagittal plane in both groups. In the two auditory tasks, however, hemispheric activation patterns differed significantly between groups. In the normal-listener group, activation was asymmetric to the right hemisphere. In the poor-listener group, however, activation tended toward asymmetry, favoring the left hemisphere. These results suggest that abnormalities in hemispheric lateralization of function may underlie the auditory processing problems of at least some children described as poor listeners.
The purpose of the present study was to determine sympathetic vascular transduction in young normotensive black and white adults. We hypothesized that blacks would demonstrate augmented transduction of muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) into vascular resistance. To test this hypothesis, MSNA, forearm blood flow, heart rate, and arterial blood pressure were measured during lower body negative pressure (LBNP). At rest, no differences existed in arterial blood pressure, heart rate, forearm blood flow, and forearm vascular resistance (FVR). Likewise, LBNP elicited comparable responses of these variables for blacks and whites. Baseline MSNA did not differ between blacks and whites, but whites demonstrated greater increases during LBNP (28 +/- 7 vs. 55 +/- 18%, 81 +/- 21 vs. 137 +/- 42%, 174 +/- 81 vs. 556 +/- 98% for -5, -15, and -40 mmHg LBNP, respectively; P &lt; 0.001). Consistent with smaller increases in MSNA but similar FVR responses during LBNP, blacks demonstrated greater sympathetic vascular transduction (%FVR/%MSNA) than whites (0.95 +/- 0.07 vs. 0.82 +/- 0.07 U; 0.82 +/- 0.11 vs. 0.64 +/- 0.09 U; 0.95 +/- 0.37 vs. 0.35 +/- 0.09 U; P &lt; 0.01). In summary, young whites demonstrate greater increases in MSNA during baroreceptor unloading than age-matched normotensive blacks. However, more importantly, for a given increase in MSNA, blacks demonstrate greater forearm vasoconstriction than whites. This finding may contribute to augmented blood pressure reactivity in blacks.
A most prominent feature of neurons in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is the circadian rhythm in spontaneous firing frequency. To disclose synaptic mechanisms associated with the rhythmic activity, the spontaneous postsynaptic activity was studied using whole-cell, patch clamp recordings in the ventral region of the SCN in slice preparations from rats. The synaptic events were compared between two time intervals corresponding to the highest and lowest electrical activity within the SCN during subjective daytime and nighttime, respectively. The gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-mediated spontaneous inhibitory activity showed no diurnal variations, but the excitatory activity was markedly higher in frequency, without differences in amplitude, during the subjective day compared to the subjective night. Spontaneous and evoked inhibitory synaptic events were blocked by the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline. The alpha-amino-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA/kainate) receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2, 3-dione (CNQX) blocked most of the excitatory activity. In addition, CNQX reduced the spontaneous inhibitory activity. The N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid reduced the inhibitory activity to a lesser degree, and there was no significant difference in amplitude or frequency of synaptic events in control and Mg2+-free solutions, indicating that the AMPA receptor plays an important role in regulating the inhibitory release of GABA within the SCN. Ipsi- and contralateral stimulation of the SCN consistently evoked excitatory synaptic responses. Inhibitory synaptic responses occurred in some neurons upon increasing stimulus strength. In conclusion, this study shows that there is a substantial influence from spontaneous glutamatergic synapses on the ventral part of the SCN and that these exhibit daily variations in activity. Diurnal fluctuations in spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic activity within this network may contribute to the mechanisms for synchronization of rhythms between individual SCN neurons and may underlie the daily variations in the spontaneous firing frequency of SCN neurons.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY), present in an input pathway to the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN), can block the effects of light on circadian rhythms. The authors have studied this interaction using an in vitro brain slice technique. Effects of NPY on light-induced period1 and period2 mRNA in the SCN were examined in vitro following a light pulse during early subjective night. Golden hamsters (n = 91) were housed under a 14:10 LD cycle and then moved to constant dim red light for 3 days. Hamsters were exposed to a 5-min light pulse previously shown to induce phase shifts and prepared for in vitro application of NPY. Hypothalamic slices containing the SCN were maintained in vitro for 40 min to 4 h after the light pulse, then quick-frozen. Sections were evaluated by in situ hybridization with [35S]-labeled cRNA probes for per mRNA. Rapid light induction of both per1 and per2 by 40 min and 1 h after the light pulse, respectively, was apparent, with NPY inhibition of this response significant by at least these same time points. However, although striking suppression of per2 mRNA by the NPY continued through the peak for per2 at 2 h, per1 mRNA levels rebounded quickly to equal the per1 induction peak at 1 h and mirrored the control light induction pattern for per1 thereafter. Delaying NPY to 30 min after slice preparation demonstrated that NPY is capable of suppressing peak per1 levels. These results confirm the feasibility of measuring light-induced gene expression in the SCN in vitro. A differential regulation of per1 and per2 transcription might be of critical importance for the modulation of circadian responses to light.

Estradiol reduces brain injury from many diseases, including stroke and trauma. To investigate the molecular mechanisms of this protection, the effects of 17-beta-estradiol on heat shock protein (HSP) expression were studied in normal male and female rats and in male gerbils after global ischemia. 17-beta-estradiol was given intraperitoneally (46 or 460 ng/kg, or 4.6 microg/kg) and Western blots performed for HSPs. 17-beta-estradiol increased hemeoxygenase-1, HSP25/27, and HSP70 in the brain of male and female rats. Six hours after the administration of 17-beta-estradiol, hemeoxygenase-1 increased 3.9-fold (460 ng/kg) and 5.4-fold (4.6 microg/kg), HSP25/27 increased 2.1-fold (4.6 microg/kg), and Hsp70 increased 2.3-fold (460 ng/kg). Immunocytochemistry showed that hemeoxygenase-1, HSP25/27,and HSP70 induction was localized to cerebral arteries in male rats, possibly in vascular smooth muscle cells. 17-beta-estradiol was injected intraperitoneally 20 minutes before transient occlusion of both carotids in adult gerbils. Six hours after global cerebral ischemia, 17-beta-estradiol (460 ng/kg) increased levels of hemeoxygenase-1 protein 2.4-fold compared with ischemia alone, and HSP25/27 levels increased 1.8-fold compared with ischemia alone. Hemeoxygenase-1 was induced in striatal oligodendrocytes and hippocampal neurons, and HSP25/27 levels increased in striatal astrocytes and hippocampal neurons. Finally, Western blot analysis confirmed that estrogen induced heat shock factor-1, providing a possible mechanism by which estrogen induces HSPs in brain and other tissues. The induction of HSPs may be an important mechanism for estrogen protection against cerebral ischemia and other types of injury.
Increasing evidence suggests that cyclin-dependent kinases participate in neuronal death induced by multiple stresses in vitro. However, their role in cell death paradigms in vivo is not well characterized. Accordingly, the authors examined whether cyclin-dependent kinase inhibition resulted in functionally relevant and sustained neuroprotection in a model of global ischemia. Intracerebroventricular administration of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor flavopiridol, immediately or at 4 hours postreperfusion after a global insult, reduced injury in the CA1 of the hippocampus when examined 7 days after reperfusion. No significant protection was observed when flavopiridol was administered 8 hours after reperfusion. The tumor-suppressor retinoblastoma protein, a substrate of cyclin-dependent kinase, was phosphorylated on a cyclin-dependent kinase consensus site after the global insult; this phosphorylation was inhibited by flavopiridol administration. Importantly, flavopiridol had no effect on core body temperature, suggesting that the mechanism of neuroprotection was through cyclin-dependent kinase inhibition but not through hypothermia. Furthermore, inhibition of cyclin-dependent kinases improved spatial learning behavior as assessed by the Morris water maze 7 to 9 days after reperfusion. However, the histologic protection observed at day 7 was absent 28 days after reperfusion. These results indicate that cyclin-dependent kinase inhibition provides an extended period of morphologic and functional neuroprotection that may allow time for other neuroprotective modalities to be introduced.
Animal studies have demonstrated the importance of orexigenic NPY and agouti-related protein (AGRP) hypothalamic neurons, which are inhibited by the adipocyte hormone leptin, in the regulation of body weight and neuroendocrine secretion. We have examined NPY and AGRP neurons in postmortem human hypothalami from controls, Prader-Willi syndrome and other obese subjects, using quantitative immunocytochemistry (ICC) and in situ hybridization, to identify causes of leptin resistance in human obesity. Using combined ICC and in situ hybridization, AGRP, but not POMC, was colocalized with NPY in infundibular nucleus neurons. Infundibular nucleus (including median eminence) NPY ICC staining or mRNA expression, and AGRP ICC staining, increased with premorbid illness duration. NPY ICC staining and mRNA expression were reduced in obese subjects, but AGRP ICC staining was unchanged, correcting for illness duration. This suggests normal responses of NPY and AGRP neurons to peripheral signals, such as leptin and insulin, in human illness and obesity. The pathophysiology of obesity and illness-associated anorexia appear to lie in downstream or separate neuronal circuits, but the infundibular neurons may mediate neuroendocrine responses to illness. The implications for pharmacological treatment of human obesity are discussed.

In an open study, self-ratings of bodily symptoms, mood (before and after stress), and cognitive performance were investigated in 25 women (aged 54-66 years) who for approximately 10 years had been taking an oral preparation of hormone replacement therapy (HRT), tibolone (Livial; 2.5 mg/ day). Tibolone has a unique profile, with estrogenic, progestogenic, and androgenic actions. The control group of 25 women had never taken HRT. Each woman in this group was pair-matched to one in the tibolone group on age, years since menopause, IQ, years of secondary education, and occupation. The groups were matched on their anxiety and depression scores on the Hospital Anxiety and Depression rating scale. Exclusion criteria were scores on this scale in the clinical range and any current illness or recent use of psychoactive medication. The women who were taking tibolone felt significantly less clumsy and had less severe palpitations than the control group. After exposure to a mildly stressful test, the control group felt more anxious, but this change was not seen in the group receiving tibolone. The group taking tibolone had significantly better semantic memory (memory for facts), as assessed in a category generation task, but they did not differ in tests of episodic memory (memory for events). An unexpected finding was that the tibolone group performed significantly worse on a sustained attention task and a planning task, tasks that are associated with frontal lobe function. Our results suggest that the effects of HRT on cognition may be influenced by the type of HRT, the duration of treatment, the nature of the tests, and the brain region controlling the cognitive function.
Auditory-induced expression of the immediate-early gene ZENK was examined in 18 brain areas of domestic chicken and Japanese quail subjects with no previous exposure to parental vocalizations. After one 30-min exposure (approximately 120 calls) within 24 h of hatching to either the chicken or quail maternal call, paired subjects from each species showed significantly more intense levels of ZENK staining to conspecific (own species) calls. Single brain areas did not show consistent, large differences in ZENK expression across all subject pairs. Instead, a majority of brain areas exhibited a small conspecific stimulus-induced staining advantage in each species. The species differed in the quantitative distribution of ZENK responses among brain areas; qualitative patterns of call-induced staining exhibited both similarities and differences. The results suggest shared neural correlates and potential developmental/evolutionary differences in congenital brain responses to biologically significant auditory stimuli in nave individuals of the two species.
We used cell lines expressing wild-type connexin43 and connexin43 fused with the enhanced green fluorescent protein (Cx43-EGFP) to examine conductance and perm-selectivity of the residual state of Cx43 homotypic and Cx43/Cx43-EGFP heterotypic gap junction channels. Each hemichannel in Cx43 cell-cell channel possesses two gates: a fast gate that closes channels to the residual state and a slow gate that fully closes channels; the transjunctional voltage (V(j)) closes the fast gate in the hemichannel that is on the relatively negative side. Here, we demonstrate macroscopically and at the single-channel level that the I-V relationship of the residual state rectifies, exhibiting higher conductance at higher V(j)s that are negative on the side of gated hemichannel. The degree of rectification increases when Cl(-) is replaced by Asp(-) and decreases when K(+) is replaced by TEA(+). These data are consistent with an increased anionic selectivity of the residual state. The V(j)-gated channel is not permeable to monovalent positively and negatively charged dyes, which are readily permeable through the fully open channel. These data indicate that a narrowing of the channel pore accompanies gating to the residual state. We suggest that the fast gate operates through a conformational change that introduces positive charge at the cytoplasmic vestibule of the gated hemichannel, thereby producing current rectification, increased anionic selectivity, and a narrowing of channel pore that is largely responsible for reducing channel conductance and restricting dye transfer. Consequently, the fast V(j)-sensitive gating mechanism can serve as a selectivity filter, which allows electrical coupling but limits metabolic communication.
Two strains of the senescence accelerated mouse, P8 and R1,were tested in footshock-motivated passive avoidance (PA; P8, 3-21 months; R1, 3-24 months) and 14-unit T-maze (P8 and R1, 9, and 15 months) tasks. For PA, entry to a dark chamber from a lighted chamber was followed by a brief shock. Latency to enter the dark chamber 24 hours later served as a measure of retention. Two days of active avoidance training in a straight runway preceded 2 days (8 trials/day) of testing in the 14-unit T-maze. For PA retention, older P8 mice entered the dark chamber more quickly than older R1 mice, whereas no differences were observed between young P8 or R1 mice. In the 14-unit T-maze, age-related learning performance deficits were reflected in higher error scores for older mice. P8 mice were actually superior learners; that is, they had lower error scores compared with those of age-matched R1 counterparts. Although PA learning results were in agreement with other reports, results obtained in the 14-unit T-maze were not consistent with previous reports of learning impairments in the P8 senescence accelerated mouse.
A Sunderland type IV traction injury to the C6 root of adult sheep or newborn lamb brachial plexus was used as a model for obstetric traction injury to the C5 root in humans. In one experimental cohort the injury was created and repaired using interfascicular nerve autografts or coaxially aligned freeze-thawed skeletal muscle autografts in a group of adult sheep and in a group of newborn lambs. In a second cohort a similar injury was created and repaired either immediately or after a delay of 30 days, using either interfascicular nerve autografts or coaxially aligned freeze-thawed skeletal muscle autografts in four groups of six newborn lambs. In all cases both functional and morphometric indices of nerve regeneration were poorer in the injured and repaired nerves than in normal nerves. In lambs the method of repair made no difference and no significant differences were found for any of the indices of nerve function or morphology. In sheep the use of muscle grafts was associated with a poorer outcome than the use of nerve autografts. Where a delay of 30 days had elapsed between injury and repair, the results using nerve autografts were not significantly different. Where freeze-thawed muscle autografts had been used, the maturation of the regenerated nerve fibres after delay was significantly poorer than after immediate repair. The electrophysiological variables CV(max) and jitter, which may be applied clinically, were found to be good discriminators of recovery in all of the animals and in respect of all procedures.


Nestin is an intermediate filament protein (IFP) expressed in undifferentiated cells during CNS development and in CNS tumors. Previous studies have arrived at different conclusions in terms of which types of CNS tumors express nestin. In this report we establish an immunohistochemical protocol using antigen retrieval, which significantly enhances staining with two polyclonal anti-nestin antisera, #130 and #4350. The staining pattern was identical for the two nestin antisera and very similar to that of vimentin, while glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), immunoreactivity was absent from 9.5-week-old forebrain. The current study of 20 primary CNS tumors from pediatric patients included seven ependymomas, seven primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNETs), five pilocytic astrocytomas, and one glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). All these tumors expressed nestin to various extents, in contrast to five brain metastases tested. Strong nestin immunoreactivity was found in malignant primary CNS tumors, whereas benign pilocytic astrocytomas showed low but consistent nestin expression. In all tumors nestin immunoreactivity was confined to the cytoplasm of tumor cells and was co-expressed with astrocyte markers vimentin, GFAP, and S-100. Vascular endothelial cells of all neoplasms also showed marked immunoreactivity for nestin and vimentin, whereas they were negative for GFAP and S-100. In conclusion, antiserum #4350 detected nestin in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue sections by heat-induced antigen retrieval immunohistochemistry. Nestin was expressed in both highly malignant and low malignant gliomas, indicating the potential use of nestin as a diagnostic tumor marker in surgical pathology.

Routing of membrane proteins to large dense core vesicles in neuroendocrine cells can depend on information in both the lumenal and cytoplasmic domains. This study in PC12 cells focuses on the routing, cleavage, and secretion of an integral membrane protein, peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM), examining both endogenous and virally derived membrane PAM. The role of the lumenal catalytic domains in membrane PAM trafficking was examined by replacement with an epitope tag. Virally derived membrane PAM is localized to the perinuclear area and to slender processes where the large dense core vesicles are located. Expression of PAM along with a neuroendocrine-specific endoprotease liberates a soluble monooxygenase domain, yielding regulated secretion of both the monooxygenase and the prohormone convertase from large dense core vesicles. The subcellular distribution of the epitope-substituted version of PAM within the cells is similar to that of membrane PAM, and both proteins are internalized from the plasma membrane. When secretion is stimulated, Serine937 in the cytoplasmic domain of PAM is phosphorylated to a similar extent in endogenous membrane PAM, virally encoded membrane PAM, and epitope-substituted PAM. Thus, the lumenal PAM catalytic domains are not required for routing or phosphorylation of PAM in PC12 cells.
The adult brain contains small populations of neural precursor cells (NPC) that can give rise to new neurons and glia, and may play important roles in learning and memory, and recovery from injury. Growth factors can influence the proliferation, differentiation and survival of NPC, and may mediate responses of NPC to injury and environmental stimuli such as enriched environments and physical activity. We now report that neurotrophin expression and neurogenesis can be modified by a change in diet. When adult mice are maintained on a dietary restriction (DR) feeding regimen, numbers of newly generated cells in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus are increased, apparently as the result of increased cell survival. The new cells exhibit phenotypes of neurons and astrocytes. Levels of expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) are increased by DR, while levels of expression of high-affinity receptors for these neurotrophins (trkB and trkC) are unchanged. In addition, DR increases the ratio of full-length trkB to truncated trkB in the hippocampus. The ability of a change in diet to stimulate neurotrophin expression and enhance neurogenesis has important implications for dietary modification of neuroplasticity and responses of the brain to injury and disease.
The alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subtype is believed to be involved in the regulation of neuronal growth, differentiation and synapse formation during the development of the human brain. In this study the expression of the alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor was investigated in human fetal brain and spinal cord of 5-11 weeks gestational age. Both the specific binding of [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin to prenatal brain membranes and the expression of alpha7 mRNA were significantly higher in the pons, medulla oblongata, mesencephalon and spinal cord of 9-11 weeks gestational age compared with cerebellum, cortex and subcortical forebrain. A significant positive correlation between gestational age and the expression of alpha7 mRNA was observed in all brain regions except cortex. A positive correlation was also observed between the gestational age and the [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding in the pons, medulla oblongata, mesencephalon, and cerebellum. Consequently, a significant relationship between the alpha7 mRNA levels and the binding sites for [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin was found in the fetal brain. The increasing levels of the alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor during the first trimester support the important role of nAChRs for the development of the central nervous system.
While it has been reported that familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD)-linked mutants of amyloid precursor protein (APP) and presenilin (PS)2 induce neuronal cytotoxicity in a manner sensitive to antioxidant and pertussis toxin (PTX), little of the mechanism for PS1-mediated neuronal cell death has been characterized. We previously found that multiple mechanisms, different in detail, underlie cytotoxicities by two FAD-linked mutants of APP, using neuronal cells with an ecdysone-controlled expression system. Here we report that this system revealed that (i) low expression of FAD-linked M146L-PS1 caused neuronal cell death, whereas that of wild-type (wt)PS1 did not; (ii) mutation-specific cytotoxicity by M146L-PS1 was sensitive to antioxidant glutathione-ethyl-ester and resistant to Ac-DEVD-CHO; (iii) cytotoxicity by higher expression of wtPS1 was resistant to both; and (iv) cytotoxicity by M146L-PS1 was inhibited by PTX. It was also highly likely that the involved superoxide-generating enzyme was nitric oxide synthase (NOS), and that the PTX-sensitive cytotoxic signal by M146L-PS1 was mediated by none of the G(i/o) proteins. We conclude that M146L-PS1 activates a NOS-mediated cytotoxic pathway via a novel PTX target.
The brain and CSF distribution of the HIV reverse transcriptase inhibitor, 2'3'-dideoxycytidine (ddC), was investigated by the in situ brain perfusion and isolated incubated choroid plexus methods in the guinea pig. Multiple-time brain perfusions indicated that the distribution of [3H]ddC to the brain and CSF was low and the unidirectional rate constant (K(in)) for the brain uptake of this nucleoside analogue (0.52 +/- 0.10 microL/min/g) was not significantly different to that for the vascular marker, [14C]mannitol (0.44 +/- 0.09 microL/min/g). The influence of unlabelled ddC, six organic anion transport inhibitors and 3'-azido 3'-deoxythymidine (AZT) on the CNS uptake of [3H]ddC was examined in situ and in vitro. ddC, probenecid and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid altered the distribution of [3H]ddC into the brain and choroid plexuses, indicating that the limited distribution of [3H]ddC was a result of an organic anion efflux transporter, in addition to the low lipophilicity of this drug (octanol-saline partition coefficient, 0.047 +/- 0.001). The CNS distribution was also sensitive to p-aminohippurate and deltorphin II, but not digoxin, suggesting the involvement of organic anion transporters (OAT1/OAT3-like) and organic anion transporting polypeptides (OATP1/OATPA-like). AZT did not effect the accumulation of [3H]ddC, indicating that when these nucleoside analogues are used in anti-HIV combination therapy, the CNS distribution of ddC is unchanged.
Previous studies in neurons have demonstrated a rapid decrease in NMDA receptor currents following tyrosine kinase inhibition or exposure to platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF). Inhibitors of protein kinase A (PKA) block the PDGF-induced rundown suggesting a multistep pathway that leads to decreased amplitudes of NMDA-activated currents. In this study, HEK293 cells expressing different NMDA receptor subunits were used to study the effects of prostacyclin receptor-mediated PKA activation on the magnitude of glutamate-activated currents. The prostacyclin agonist iloprost induced a rapid and time-dependent depression of otherwise stable glutamate-activated currents in cells expressing NR1-2a/2A or NR1-2a/2D receptors but not NR1-2a/2B or NR1-2a/2C receptors. This rundown was prevented by treatment of cells with the PKA inhibitor H89. The iloprost effect persisted in cells coexpressing NR1-2a/2A receptors and either wild-type or mutant Src kinase (SrcS17A). Co-expression of PSD-95 with NR1-2a/2A receptors reduced but did not eliminate the extent of rundown. Iloprost also produced current rundown in cells expressing NR1-2a and a C-terminal truncated NR2A subunit (NR2A1050stop) but not in those transfected with an NR2A tyrosine mutant (Y842F). The iloprost-induced rundown of wild-type NR1-2a/2A receptors was prevented by prior exposure of cells to hypertonic sucrose. These results suggest that PKA influences the functional activity of NMDA receptors in an NR2 subunit-selective fashion.
Tissue-type transglutaminase (tTG, EC 2.3.2.13) has been implicated in various disease paradigms including neurodegenerative disease. In these studies, tTG induction after traumatic brain injury was studied using a rat cortical impact model. Using western blots, two forms of tTG protein expression were identified--an approximately 79-kDa primary form (tTG-L) and a less abundant approximately 70-kDa form (tTG-S). Both forms of tTG protein were elevated after injury. In ipsilateral cortex, peak induction of tTG-L protein [561% +/- 80% of control (n = 5)] was observed five days after injury, with expression remaining elevated after two weeks. Peak induction of tTG-S protein [302% +/- 81% of control (n = 5)] was observed three days after injury. Lesser tTG protein induction was observed in hippocampus. Northern blot analysis demonstrated two tTG transcripts in the ipsilateral cortex with peak induction of tTG-L mRNA three days after injury. However, tTG-S mRNA was not identified in control samples and only faintly detected in injured tissue. To facilitate analysis of low abundance transcripts in smaller tissue samples, a semiquantitative real-time PCR strategy was used. Semi-quantitative PCR analysis of tTG-L mRNA induction in ipsilateral cortex (peak after three days; 414% +/- 21% of control, n = 3) confirmed tTG-L mRNA induction determined by northern blot (410% of control).
Vaginocervical stimulation (VCS) has a variety of effects on the brain, physiology and behaviour. Previous work demonstrated that a progestin antagonist blocked neuronal response to VCS (i.e. Fos expression) in the absence of progesterone in some neurones, and suggested that some of the effects of VCS on the brain are mediated by ligand-independent activation of progestin receptors (PRs). Although it had been reported previously that some of the cells in which VCS induces Fos expression also contain PRs, it had not been determined if a progestin antagonist blocked Fos expression in these particular neurones. The purpose of this experiment was to determine if a progestin antagonist decreases Fos expression specifically in cells that also express PRs in the preoptic area and ventromedial hypothalamus. As has been shown previously, VCS increased Fos-immunoreactive (ir) expression in the particular areas studied. In the rostral medial preoptic area, VCS increased Fos expression in cells that coexpressed PRs, as well as in cells that do not. However, in the caudal medial preoptic area, VCS only increased Fos expression in cells that did not coexpress PRs. Injection of the progestin antagonist, RU 486, decreased Fos expression in the rostral, but not caudal medial preoptic area, and it decreased Fos expression only in cells that coexpressed PR-ir. In contrast to a previous report, in the present study, the progestin antagonist did not inhibit VCS-induced Fos expression in the ventromedial hypothalamic area. The results of this experiment suggest that the progestin antagonist inhibits VCS-induced Fos expression in some neurones by blocking PRs, and they provide further support for the idea that VCS influences neuronal response in some cells by ligand-independent activation of PRs in those cells.
Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) seems to be involved in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis (MS). We found that in unstimulated (PHA(-)) and PHA-stimulated (PHA(+)) peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), MCP-1 and TNFalpha levels are higher in stable untreated MS patients. Interferon gamma (IFNgamma) is higher in relapsing patients in PHA(-) cultures and in stable patients in PHA(+) cultures. Chronic IFNbeta-1b treatment down-regulates TNFalpha, IFNgamma and MCP-1 production except for TNFalpha in relapsing patients. IFNbeta-1b, in vitro, increases MCP-1, TNFalpha and IFNgamma spontaneous production in all patients. Multivariate analysis suggests that MCP-1 production is dependent from clinical status and not from TNFalpha and IFNgamma production. Logistic regression analysis shows that MCP-1 production is significantly modified by treatment. Further studies are needed to clarify the role of MCP-1 in MS.
Bacterial superantigens, such as the staphylococcal enterotoxins (SE), exert a strong capacity for in vivo stimulation of T cell proliferation and cytokine production. Among these superantigens, staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB) has been shown to promote anxiety-like properties, possibly mediated by activation of central corticotropin-releasing hormone. In the present study, using male C57BL/6J mice, it was shown that challenge with another prominent superantigen, staphylococcal enterotoxin A (SEA), produced a dose-dependent (0.2-50 microg/mouse) increase in corticosterone and ACTH levels. Interestingly, while the adrenocorticoid response to SEA persisted in cyclosporine A-pretreated mice, it was completely abolished in RAG-1 deficient mice that lack functional T and B lymphocytes. The latter is consistent with the need for cellular interactions involving T cells and B cells (probably in an antigen-presenting capacity) that will initiate events leading to pituitary-adrenal activation by SEA. Since pituitary-adrenal activation typically alters &quot;emotional&quot; reactivity in animals, a final set of experiments assessed behavioral responses to an open field, exposure to a novel object, and a novel appetitive stimulus. These tests revealed a significant augmentation of reactivity to the novel object in SEA-challenged mice, although activity in the open field was not affected. Furthermore, consumption of a novel solution was reduced only if testing involved unfamiliar contextual circumstances. This suggested that anorexic effects per se were not induced by SEA at the dose used, but that attentional mechanisms focused on novelty were enhanced.

Irinotecan (CPT-11) is a topoisomerase I inhibitor with antitumor activity on a wide variety of neoplasms in several preclinical studies, but it showed poor efficacy in patients with nervous system tumors. We have carried out an experimental study in order to evaluate the effect of CPT-11 on the growth of a subcutaneously implanted malignant neuroectodermal tumor, after administration by different routes. The results showed that CPT-11 administration by intraperitoneal injections (at dose 10 mg/kg, 5 days per week, for 2 weeks, followed by 7-days rest period--one course--to a total of two courses) had no significant antitumor effect. Nevertheless, continuous infusion by intraperitoneal osmotic minipump over 28 days (at an infusion rate of 4.4 microg/h) showed a significant delay in tumor growth in 4 weeks of the implantation. The best antitumor effects were observed after CPT-11 intratumoral administration (at dose of 5 mg/kg, 5 days per week, for 2 weeks, followed by 7-days rest period, to a total of three courses) reaching tumor regression in the treated animals. These results suggest the utility of CPT-11, by means of intralesional administration, on malignant tumors of the nervous system.
Low concentration of Ni(2+), a T- and R-type voltage-dependent calcium channel (VDCC) blocker, is known to inhibit the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells. These VDCCs are distributed more abundantly at the distal area of the apical dendrite than at the proximal dendritic area or soma. Therefore we investigated the relationship between the Ni(2+)-sensitivity of LTP induction and the synaptic location along the apical dendrite. Field potential recordings revealed that 25 microM Ni(2+) hardly influenced LTP at the proximal dendritic area (50 microM distant from the somata). In contrast, the same concentration of Ni(2+) inhibited the LTP induction mildly at the middle dendritic area (150 microM) and strongly at the distal dendritic area (250 microM). Ni(2+) did not significantly affect either the synaptic transmission at the distal dendrite or the burst-firing ability at the soma. However, synaptically evoked population spikes recorded near the somata were slightly reduced by Ni(2+) application, probably owing to occlusion of dendritic excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) amplification. Even when the stimulating intensity was strengthened sufficiently to overcome such a reduction in spike generation during LTP induction, the magnitude of distal LTP was not significantly recovered from the Ni(2+)-dependent inhibition. These results suggest that Ni(2+) may inhibit the induction of distal LTP directly by blocking calcium influx through T- and/or R-type VDCCs. The differentially distributed calcium channels may play a critical role in the induction of LTP at dendritic synapses of the hippocampal pyramidal cells.
The horizontal vestibuloocular reflex (VOR) of Purkinje cell degeneration (pcd/pcd) mutant mice, which lack a functional cerebellar cortex, was compared in darkness to that of wild-type animals during constant velocity yaw rotations about an earth-horizontal axis and during sinusoidal yaw rotations about an earth-vertical axis. Both wild-type and pcd/pcd mice showed a compensatory average VOR eye velocity, or bias, during constant velocity horizontal axis rotations, evidence of central neural processing of otolith afferent signals to create a signal proportional to head angular velocity. Eye velocity bias was greater in pcd/pcd mice than in wild-type mice at a low rotational velocity (32 degrees/s), but less at higher velocities (128 and 200 degrees/s). Lesion of the medial nodulus severely attenuated eye velocity bias in two wild-type mice, without attenuating VOR during sinusoidal vertical axis yaw rotations at 0.2 Hz. These results show that while head velocity estimation in mice, as in primates, depends on the cerebellum, pcd/pcd mutant mice develop velocity estimation without a functional cerebellar cortex. We conclude that neural circuits that exclude cerebellar cortex are capable of the signal processing necessary for head angular velocity estimation, but that these circuits are insufficient for normal estimation at high velocities.
We showed previously that dopamine (DA) release in dorsal striatum is inhibited by endogenously generated hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)). Here, we examined whether endogenous H(2)O(2) can also modulate somatodendritic DA release in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) and the ventral tegmental area (VTA), with companion measurements in DA terminal regions. Evoked DA release was monitored in brain slices using carbon-fiber microelectrodes with fast-scan cyclic voltammetry. Exogenous H(2)O(2) decreased DA release by 50-60% in SNc and VTA but only by 35% in nucleus accumbens. Whether endogenous H(2)O(2) also modulated somatodendritic release was examined using the glutathione peroxidase inhibitor, mercaptosuccinate (MCS), which should increase stimulation-evoked H(2)O(2) levels. In the presence of MCS, DA release was suppressed by 30-40% in SNc as well as in dorsal striatum and nucleus accumbens. In striking contrast, DA release in the VTA was unaffected by MCS. These data are consistent with stronger H(2)O(2) regulation or lower H(2)O(2) generation in VTA than in the other regions. Importantly, oxidative stress has been linked causally to Parkinson's disease, in which DA cells in SNc degenerate, but VTA cells are spared. The present data suggest that differences in oxidant regulation or generation between SNc and VTA could contribute to this.
Following stepping in-place on the surface of a rotating circular treadmill, a subject attempting to step in-place or walk in a straight line across the floor without vision will rotate relative to space. This adaptation, termed podokinetic after-rotation (PKAR), transfers to backward walking following forward walking on the rotating disk. We asked whether adaptation obtained during stepping in-place on the rotating disk would transfer to hopping on both feet. We hypothesized that subjects would demonstrate PKAR during both hopping and stepping, adding support to the hypothesis that PKAR is a centrally mediated adaptation of general locomotor trajectory that is not specific to the form of locomotion used while on the rotating disk. Subjects demonstrated PKAR during both hopping and stepping after stepping in-place on the rotating disk. The time courses of PKAR during hopping and stepping were similar, although the angular velocity amplitude of PKAR was lower in hopping than in stepping. This difference in amplitude suggests an incomplete transfer of PKAR.
Previous studies demonstrated an aftereffect of walking on a rotating treadmill, involving inadvertent circular navigation with eyes closed [podokinetic after-rotation (PKAR)]. We compared PKAR following unilateral and bilateral podokinetic (PK) stimulation to determine whether the left and right legs could be independently adapted. Each subject performed two sessions of PK stimulation, stepping in place with one foot on either side of the axis of a rotating disk. Subjects experienced bilateral stimulation (i.e., both left and right feet stepped on the rotating disk) in one session and unilateral stimulation (i.e., the left foot stepped on the rotating disk and the right foot stepped on a stationary surface) in the other. Following stimulation, we recorded foot lift-off and touchdown times and pelvic angular velocity while subjects stepped in place on a stationary surface. PKAR velocity following unilateral stimulation was lower than that following bilateral stimulation. Following bilateral stimulation, pelvic rotation was in the counterclockwise (CCW) direction during single-limb support on both the left and right sides. Immediately following left unilateral stimulation, subjects demonstrated CCW pelvic rotation during left single-limb support but not during right single-limb support. Across the first 13 strides, the difference between left and right sides diminished; pelvic angular velocity was then CCW during single-limb support on both sides. This suggests that both the adapted left and the unadapted right limb influenced the final PKAR response with information from the two limbs being integrated over the first few strides.
We investigated internal Ca(2+) release at mossy fiber synapses on CA3 pyramidal neurons (mossy fiber terminals, MFTs) in the hippocampus. Presynaptic Ca(2+) influx was induced by giving a brief train of 20 stimuli at 100 Hz to the mossy fiber pathway. Using Ca(2+) imaging techniques, we recorded the Ca(2+) response as DeltaF/F, which increased rapidly with stimulation, but was often accompanied by a delayed peak that occurred after the train. The rise in presynaptic [Ca(2+)] could be completely blocked by application of 400 microM Cd(2+). Furthermore, the evoked Ca(2+) signals were reduced by group II mGluR agonists. Under the same experimental conditions, we investigated the effects of several agents on MFTs that disrupt regulation of intracellular Ca(2+) stores resulting in depletion of internal Ca(2+). We found that ryanodine, cyclopiazonic acid, thapsigargin, and ruthenium red all decreased both the early and the delayed increase in the Ca(2+) signals. We applied D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (D,L-APV; 50 microM) and 6,7-Dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX; 20 microM) to exclude the action of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and non-NMDA receptors. Experiments with alternative lower affinity indicators for Ca(2+) (fura-2FF and calcium green-2) and the transient K(+) channel blocker, 4-aminopyridine were performed to control for the possible saturation of fura-2. Taken together, these results strongly support the hypothesis that the recorded terminals were from the mossy fibers of the dentate gyrus and suggest that a portion of the presynaptic Ca(2+) signal in response to brief trains of stimuli is due to release of Ca(2+) from internal stores.
Neural networks capable of generating coordinated rhythmic activity form at early stages of development in the spinal cord. In this study, voltage-imaging techniques were used to examine the spatiotemporal pattern of rhythmic activity in transverse slices of lumbar spinal cord from embryonic and neonatal rats. Real-time images were recorded in slices stained with the voltage-sensitive fluorescent dye RH414 using a 464-element photodiode array. Fluorescence signals showed spontaneous voltage oscillations with a frequency of 3 Hz. Simultaneous recordings of fluorescence and extracellular field potential demonstrated that the two signals oscillated with the same frequency and had a distinct phase relationship, indicating that the fluorescence changes represented changes in transmembrane potentials. The oscillations were reversibly blocked by cobalt (1 mM), indicating a dependence on Ca(2+) influx through voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels. Extracellular field potentials revealed oscillations with the same frequency in both stained and unstained slices. Oscillations were apparent throughout a slice, although their amplitudes varied in different regions. The largest amplitude oscillations were produced in the lateral regions. To examine the spatial organization of rhythm-generating networks, slices were cut into halves and quarters. Each fragment continued to oscillate with the same frequency as intact slices but with smaller amplitudes. This finding suggested that rhythm-generating networks were widely distributed and did not depend on long-range projections. In slices from neonatal rats, the oscillations exhibited a complex spatiotemporal pattern, with depolarizations alternating between mirror locations in the right and left sides of the cord. Furthermore, within each side depolarizations alternated between the lateral and medial regions. This medial-lateral pattern was preserved in hemisected slices, indicating that pathways intrinsic to each side coordinated this activity. A different pattern of oscillation was observed in slices from embryos with synchronous 3-Hz oscillations occurring in limited regions. Our study demonstrated that rhythm generators were distributed throughout transverse sections of the lumbar spinal cord and exhibited a complex spatiotemporal pattern of coordinated rhythmic activity.
Our aim was to investigate the patterns of functional inputs and outputs from individual barrels in the mouse somatosensory cortex, and to test the hypothesis that individual barrels in layer IV are functionally independent of direct inputs from neighboring barrels. In a mouse in vitro slice preparation of the barrel cortex, we recorded voltage-sensitive dye signals evoked in response to microstimulation of a single barrel. Activity propagated from the stimulated barrel to the supragranular layers, where it spread to activate several barrel columns. However, in no instance did activity propagate directly from the stimulated barrel to neighboring barrels. Neither suppression of GABAergic inhibition, nor activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, revealed direct interbarrel interactions. By contrast, microstimulation in the supra- or infragranular layers resulted in direct propagation of activity to neighboring barrel columns. We conclude that the neurons within individual barrels are functionally independent of direct inputs from neighboring barrels. This suggests that the response properties of layer IV barrel neurons are shaped primarily by their presynaptic thalamic afferents and by intrabarrel interactions, and that these responses are independent of direct inputs from neighboring barrels.
The complete striatal axonal arborizations of 16 juxtacellularly stained cortical pyramidal cells were analyzed. Corticostriatal neurons were located in the medial agranular or anterior cingulate cortex of rats. All axons were of the extended type and formed synaptic contacts in both the striosomal and matrix compartments as determined by counterstaining for the mu-opiate receptor. Six axonal arborizations were from collaterals of brain stem-projecting cells and the other 10 from bilaterally projecting cells with no brain stem projections. The distribution of synaptic boutons along the axons were convolved with the average dendritic tree volume of spiny projection neurons to obtain an axonal innervation volume and innervation density map for each axon. Innervation volumes varied widely, with single axons occupying between 0.4 and 14.2% of the striatum (average = 4%). The total number of boutons formed by individual axons ranged from 25 to 2,900 (average = 879). Within the innervation volume, the density of innervation was extremely sparse but inhomogeneous. The pattern of innervation resembled matrisomes, as defined by bulk labeling and functional mapping experiments, superimposed on a low background innervation. Using this sample as representative of all corticostriatal axons, the total number of corticostriatal neurons was estimated to be 17 million, about 10 times the number of striatal projection neurons.
The pharynx of C. elegans is a rhythmically active muscle that pumps bacteria into the gut of the nematode. This activity is maintained by action potentials, which qualitatively bear a resemblance to vertebrate cardiac action potentials. Here, the ionic basis of the resting membrane potential and pharyngeal action potential has been characterized using intracellular recording techniques. The resting membrane potential is largely determined by a K(+) permeability, and a ouabain-sensitive, electrogenic pump. As previously suggested, the action potential is at least partly dependent on voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels, as the amplitude was increased as extracellular Ca(2+) was increased, and decreased by L-type Ca(2+) channel blockers verapamil and nifedipine. Barium caused a marked prolongation of action potential duration, suggesting that a calcium-activated K(+) current may contribute to repolarization. Most notably, however, we found that action potentials were abolished in the absence of external Na(+). This may be due, at least in part, to a Na(+)-dependent pacemaker potential. In addition, the persistence of action potentials in nominally free Ca(2+), the inhibition by Na(+) channel blockers procaine and quinidine, and the increase in action potential frequency caused by veratridine, a toxin that alters activation of voltage-gated Na(+) channels, point to the involvement of a voltage-gated Na(+) current. Voltage-clamp analysis is required for detailed characterization of this current, and this is in progress. Nonetheless, these observations are quite surprising in view of the lack of any obvious candidate genes for voltage-gated Na(+) channels in the C. elegans genome. It would therefore be informative to re-evaluate the data from these homology searches, with the aim of identifying the gene(s) conferring this Na(+), quinidine, and veratridine sensitivity to the pharynx.
In rabbits, raphe magnus/pallidus neurons form a link in the CNS pathway regulating changes in cutaneous blood flow elicited by nociceptive stimulation and activation of the central nucleus of the amygdala. To characterize relevant raphe-spinal neurons, we performed extracellular recordings from the rostral medullary raphe nuclei in anesthetized, paralyzed, mechanically ventilated rabbits. All studied neurons were antidromically activated from the dorsolateral funiculus of the spinal cord (C(8)-T(2)). Of 129 studied neurons, 40% were silent. The remaining neurons discharged spontaneously at 0.3-29 Hz. Nociceptive stimulation (lip squeeze with pliers) excited 63 (49%), inhibited 9 (7%), and did not affect 57 (44%) neurons. The same stimulation also elicited falls in ear pinna blood flow. In neurons activated by the stimulation, the increase in discharge preceded the fall in flow. Electrical stimulation of the spinal trigeminal tract excited 61/63 nociception-activated neurons [onset latencies range: 6-75 ms, mean: 28 +/- 3 (SE) ms], inhibited 9/9 nociception-inhibited neurons (onset latencies range: 9-85 ms, mean: 32 +/- 10 ms), and failed to affect 55/57 neurons insensitive to nociceptive stimulation. Neurons insensitive to nociceptive/trigeminal stimulation were also insensitive to nonnociceptive tactile stimulation and to electrical stimulation of the amygdala. They were either silent (32/45) or discharged regularly at low frequencies. They possessed long-duration action potentials (1.26 +/- 0.08 ms) and slow-conducting axons (6.0 +/- 0.5 m/s). These neurons may be serotonergic raphe-spinal cells. They do not appear to be involved in nociceptive-related cutaneous vascular control. Of the 63 neurons sensitive to nociceptive and trigeminal tract stimulation, 35 also responded to tactile stimulation (wide receptive field). These neurons possessed short action potentials (0.80 +/- 0.03 ms) and fast-conducting axons (30.3 +/- 3.1 m/s). In this subpopulation, electrical stimulation of the amygdala activated nearly all neurons tested (10/12), with a mean onset latency of 34 +/- 3 ms. The remaining 28 neurons sensitive to nociceptive and trigeminal stimulation did not respond to tactile stimuli and were mainly unaffected by amygdala stimulation. It may be that fast-conducting raphe-spinal neurons, with wide multimodal receptive fields and with input from the central nucleus of the amygdala, constitute the bulbo-spinal link in the CNS pathway regulating cutaneous blood flow in response to nociceptive and alerting stimuli.
Dopamine is a known inhibitor of pituitary melanotropic cells. It reduces Ca(2+) influx by hyperpolarizing the cell membrane and by modulating high- and low-voltage-activated (HVA and LVA) Ca(2+) channels. As a result, dopamine reduces the hormonal output of the cell. However, it is unknown how dopamine affects each of the four different HVA Ca(2+) channel types individually. Moreover, it is unknown whether dopamine interacts with exocytosis independent of Ca(2+) channels. Here we show that dopamine differentially modulates the HVA Ca(2+) channels and that it affects the stimulus-secretion coupling through a direct effect on the exocytotic machinery. Sustained L- and P-type Ba(2+) currents are reduced in amplitude and inactivating N- and Q-type currents acquire different activation and inactivation kinetics in the presence of dopamine. The Q-type current shows slow activation, which is a hallmark for direct G-protein modulation. We used membrane capacitance measurements to monitor exocytosis. Surprisingly, we find that the amount of exocytosis per step depolarization is not diminished by dopamine despite the reduction in Ca(2+) current. To test whether dopamine affects the release machinery downstream of Ca(2+) entry, we stimulated exocytosis by dialyzing cells with buffered high-Ca(2+) solutions. Dopamine increased the amount and the rate of exocytosis. In the first 90 s, the rate of secretion was increased two- to threefold, but it was normalized again at 180 s, suggesting that predominantly vesicles that fuse early in the exocytotic phase are modulated by dopamine. Thus while Ca(2+) channels are inhibited by dopamine, the exocytotic machinery downstream of Ca(2+) influx is sensitized. As a result, release is more effectively stimulated by Ca(2+) influx during dopamine inhibition.
C-type dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons express three types of Na+ currents: fast TTX-sensitive, slow TTX-resistant, and persistent TTX-resistant Na+ currents. The nitric oxide (NO) donors papa-NONOate and S-nitroso-N-acetyl-DL-penicillamine inhibit all three types of Na+ currents. The NO scavenger hemoglobin abolished the effects of papa-NONOate on Na+ currents, indicating that NO or NO-related species inhibit these Na+ currents. NO donor inhibition of all three types of Na+ currents was reversed by washout. Incubation of neurons with 8-bromo cGMP, a membrane-permeable analogue of cGMP, and cG-PKI, an inhibitor of cGMP-dependent protein kinase, had no effect on papa-NONOate-mediated Na+ current block, demonstrating that Na+ current inhibition is independent of cGMP. Alkylation of free thiols with N-ethylmaleimide prevented the actions of papa-NONOate, suggesting that NO, or a related reactive nitrogen species, modifies sulfhydryl groups on Na+ channels or a closely associated protein. Papa-NONOate-mediated block of Na+ currents is not due to a hyperpolarizing shift in steady state voltage-dependent inactivation. The absence of NO-mediated enhancement of slow inactivation in fast and slow Na+ channels indicates that NO does not inhibit fast and slow Na+ channels by facilitating the transition to a slow inactivated state. These results demonstrate that inhibition of Na+ currents is not due to the modulation of fast and slow sodium channel inactivation. Taken together, these results show that NO or NO-related products modify the sulfhydryl groups on Na+ channels and inhibit Na+ currents by blocking the channel conductance.
The perforant path constitutes the primary projection system relaying information from the neocortex to the hippocampal formation. Long-term synaptic potentiation (LTP) in the perforant path projections to the dentate gyrus is well characterized. However, surprisingly few studies have addressed the mechanisms underlying LTP induction in the direct perforant path projections to the hippocampus. Here we investigate the role of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and opioid receptors in the induction of LTP in monosynaptic medial and lateral perforant path projections to the CA3 region in adult pentobarbital sodium-anesthetized rats. Similar to LTP observed at the medial perforant path-dentate gyrus synapse, medial perforant path-CA3 synapses display LTP that is blocked by both local and systemic administration of the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist (+/-)-3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl) propyl-1-phosphonic acid [(+/-)-CPP]. By contrast, LTP induced at the lateral perforant path-CA3 synapses is not blocked by either local or systemic administration of this NMDA receptor antagonist. The induction of LTP at lateral perforant path-CA3 synapses, which is blocked by the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone, is also blocked by the selective mu opioid receptor antagonist Cys(2)-Tyr(3)-Orn(5)-Pen(7)-amide (CTOP), but not the selective delta opioid receptor antagonist naltrindole (NTI). CTOP was without effect on the induction of medial perforant path-CA3 LTP. The selective sensitivity of lateral perforant path-CA3 LTP to mu-opioid receptor antagonists corresponds with the distribution of mu-opioid receptors within the stratum lacunosum-moleculare of area CA3 where perforant path projections to CA3 terminate. These data indicate that both lateral and medial perforant path projections to the CA3 region display LTP, and that LTP induction in medial and lateral perforant path-CA3 synapses are differentially sensitive to NMDA receptor and mu-opioid receptor antagonists. This suggests a role for opioid, but not NMDA receptors in the induction of LTP at lateral perforant path projections to the hippocampal formation.
Many phenomenological models of the responses of simple cells in primary visual cortex have concluded that a cell's firing rate should be given by its input raised to a power greater than one. This is known as an expansive power-law nonlinearity. However, intracellular recordings have shown that a different nonlinearity, a linear-threshold function, appears to give a good prediction of firing rate from a cell's low-pass-filtered voltage response. Using a model based on a linear-threshold function, Anderson et al. showed that voltage noise was critical to converting voltage responses with contrast-invariant orientation tuning into spiking responses with contrast-invariant tuning. We present two separate results clarifying the connection between noise-smoothed linear-threshold functions and power-law nonlinearities. First, we prove analytically that a power-law nonlinearity is the only input-output function that converts contrast-invariant input tuning into contrast-invariant spike tuning. Second, we examine simulations of a simple model that assumes instantaneous spike rate is given by a linear-threshold function of voltage and voltage responses include significant noise. We show that the resulting average spike rate is well described by an expansive power law of the average voltage (averaged over multiple trials), provided that average voltage remains less than about 1.5 SDs of the noise above threshold. Finally, we use this model to show that the noise levels recorded by Anderson et al. are consistent with the degree to which the orientation tuning of spiking responses is more sharply tuned relative to the orientation tuning of voltage responses. Thus neuronal noise can robustly generate power-law input-output functions of the form frequently postulated for simple cells.
Binaural cortical responses are mixtures of inputs from both ears. We introduce here a novel method that allows, for the first time, to selectively follow these inputs in humans up to the cortex during binaural hearing. We recorded neuromagnetic cortical responses to amplitude-modulated continuous tones, with different modulation frequencies at each ear. During binaural hearing, the left- and right-ear inputs competed strongly in both auditory cortices: the right-hemisphere responses were symmetrically suppressed, compared with monaural stimulation, for sounds of both ears, whereas the left-hemisphere responses were suppressed significantly more for ipsilateral than contralateral sounds, thereby intensifying the right-ear dominance of the left auditory cortex. This type of hemisphere- and ear-selective information on cortical binaural interaction could have important applications in human auditory neuroscience.
Behavioral, electrophysiological, and anatomical evidence suggests that retrosplenial (RS) cortex (areas RSA and RSG) plays a role in spatial navigation. This conclusion has been questioned in recent work, suggesting that it is damage to the underlying cingulum bundle (CG) (areas CG and IG), and not RS, that disrupts spatial place learning (Aggleton et al., 2000). We revisited this issue by comparing Long-Evans rats, the strain used in studies that report RS deficits, to Dark Agouti rats, the strain in which no RS deficit has been reported. Rat groups with RS, RS + CG, or no lesion were tested on a place task in a swimming pool, a test of nonspatial and spatial learning, and a matching-to-place task, a relatively selective test of spatial learning. Long-Evans rats given RS and RS + CG lesions, either before or after training on the two tasks, were impaired on both tasks, a deficit not attributable to impaired visual acuity. Control Dark Agouti rats and RS Dark Agouti rats, although not different on the place task, were both significantly impaired relative to Long-Evans rats. The RS Dark Agouti group, however, was also impaired on the matching-to-place task. Thus, we show that RS cortex is part of an extended neural circuit involved in spatial behavior in both Long-Evans and Dark Agouti rats, but its role in the place task may be masked by an innate nonspatial deficit in Dark Agouti rats. The results are discussed in relation to the importance of assessing spatial learning with appropriate spatial tests, the problems of interpretation posed by rat strain differences, and the role of retrosplenial cortex in spatial behavior.
Cocaine addiction is a chronically relapsing brain disease, but its neural basis is not yet well understood. Clinical reports underscore the possible importance of associative processes for regulating at least some aspects of cocaine addiction. The present study reports the effects of reversible lidocaine-induced inactivation of rostral basolateral amygdala (rBLA) and caudal basolateral amygdala (cBLA) regions on the maintenance and reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior in rats trained to self-administer 1 mg/kg cocaine under a second order schedule of drug delivery. Both regions of the basolateral amygdala were investigated because they have dissociable effects on cognitive task performance. Results demonstrated that after self-administration training and a period of extinction and abstinence, lidocaine inactivation of the rBLA and cBLA attenuated the reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior induced by cocaine-associated cues examined in conjunction with a single priming injection of cocaine. In contrast, lidocaine inactivation of only the rBLA blocked reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior induced by cocaine-associated cues examined alone. Additional differences were shown during cocaine maintenance testing where inactivation of only the cBLA attenuated drug-seeking behavior. Drug intake was not altered. Thus, the rBLA and cBLA appear to selectively and dissociably regulate drug-seeking behavior under conditions of cocaine abstinence (cue-induced reinstatement) and repeated cocaine use (maintenance), respectively. These findings suggest that the basolateral amygdala may be more functionally heterogeneous than commonly thought for regulating drug-seeking behavior. The basis for this dissociation might be related to neuroanatomical connections of the rBLA and cBLA with segregated, but parallel, corticostriatalpallidothalamic circuits.
Our capacity to learn multiple dynamic and visuomotor tasks is limited by the time between the presentations of the tasks. When subjects are required to adapt to equal and opposite position-dependent visuomotor rotations (Krakauer et al., 1999) or velocity-dependent force fields (Brashers-Krug et al., 1996) in quick succession, interference occurs that prevents the first task from being consolidated in memory. In contrast, such interference is not observed between learning a position-dependent visuomotor rotation and an acceleration-dependent force field. On the basis of this finding, it has been argued that internal models of kinematic and dynamic sensorimotor transformations are learned independently (Krakauer et al., 1999). However, these findings are also consistent with the perturbations interfering only if they depend on the same kinematic variable. We evaluated this hypothesis using kinematic and dynamic transformations matched in terms of the kinematic variable on which they depend. Subjects adapted to a position-dependent visuomotor rotation followed 5 min later by a position-dependent rotary force field either with or without visual feedback of arm position. The force field tended to rotate the hand in the direction opposite to the visuomotor rotation. To assess learning, all subjects were retested 24 hr later on the visuomotor rotation, and their performance was compared with a control group exposed only to the visuomotor rotation on both days. Adapting to the position-dependent force field, both with and without visual feedback, impaired learning of the visuomotor rotation. Thus, interference between our kinematic and dynamic transformations was observed, suggesting that the key determinant of interference is the kinematic variable on which the transformation depends.
Intravenous heroin self-administration in trained rats was accompanied by robust brain hyperthermia (+2.0-2.5 degrees C); parallel changes were found in the dorsal and ventral striatum, mediodorsal thalamus, and deep temporal muscle. Temperature began to increase at variable latency after a signal of drug availability, increased reliably (approximately 0.4 degrees C) before the first lever press for heroin, increased further (approximately 1.2 degrees C) after the first heroin injection, and rose more slowly after the second and third injections to stabilize at an elevated plateau (39-40 degrees C) for the remainder of the session. Brain and body temperature declined slowly when drug self-administration was terminated; naloxone precipitated a much more rapid decrease to baseline levels. Changes in temperature were similar across repeated daily sessions, except for the increase associated with the first self-administration of each session, which had progressively shorter latency and greater acceleration. Despite consistent biphasic fluctuations in movement activity associated with heroin self-administrations (gradual increase preceding the lever press, followed by an abrupt hypodynamia after drug infusion), mean brain temperature was very stable at an elevated plateau. Only mean muscle temperature showed evidence of biphasic fluctuations (+/-0.2 degrees C) that were time locked to and correlated with lever pressing and associated movements. Drug- and behavior-related changes in brain temperature thus appear to reflect some form of neuronal activation, and, because temperature is a factor capable of affecting numerous neural functions, it may be an important variable in the control of behavior by drugs of abuse.
Through its complex role in cognition, memory, and emotion, the mammalian prefrontal cortex is thought to contribute to the organization of adaptive behavioral actions. In the present studies we examined the role of dopaminergic D1 and glutamatergic NMDA receptors within the prefrontal cortex of the rat during the development of adaptive instrumental learning. Hungry rats with bilateral indwelling cannulas aimed at the medial prefrontal cortex were trained to lever-press for food. Infusion of the selective D1 antagonist SCH-23390 (0.15, 0.3, 3.0 nmol) dose-dependently impaired acquisition of this behavior. Higher doses also impaired expression of this task. Co-infusion of the lowest dose of SCH 23390 with a low dose of the NMDA antagonist AP-5 (0.5 nmol), each of which had no effect on learning when infused alone, potently reduced the ability to acquire the response. Inhibition of intracellular protein kinase A with the selective PKA inhibitor Rp-cAMPS also disrupted acquisition, suggesting that PKA is an intracellular substrate for a D1-NMDA receptor interaction. In control experiments, drug infusions that impaired learning did not affect food intake or locomotion, suggesting a specific effect on learning. We hypothesize that coincident detection of D1-NMDA receptor activation and its transcriptional consequences, within multiple sites of a distributed corticostriatal network, may represent a conserved molecular mechanism for instrumental learning.
Inescapable shock (IS) produces subsequent interference with escape behavior and increased fear conditioning that has been linked to increased activity and release of serotonin (5-HT) from neurons within the caudal dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) both at the time of IS and later behavioral testing. Extrahypothalamic corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) has been implicated in many stress-related phenomena and has recently been shown to increase DRN 5-HT activity in the same caudal DRN area at which IS increases 5-HT activity. The current set of studies therefore examined the role of CRH in mediating the behavioral sequelae of IS. Intra-DRN microinjection of the nonselective CRH receptor antagonist d-Phe CRH (12-41) blocked the IS-induced behavioral changes when administered before IS but not when administered before later behavioral testing. Furthermore, intra-DRN administration of CRH in the absence of IS dose-dependently mimicked the effects of IS and interfered with escape behavior and increased fear conditioning 24 hr later. This effect was specific to injection of CRH into the caudal DRN and was not produced by microinjection into the rostral DRN. Intracerebroventricular CRH produced escape deficits and potentiated fear conditioning 24 hr later at only much higher doses, further confirming the site specificity of the effects. The potential role of the caudal DRN in states of anxiety is discussed.
Serotonin is a major component of the inflammatory chemical milieu and contributes to the pain of tissue injury via an action on multiple receptor subtypes. Here we studied mice after genetic or pharmacological disruption of the 5-HT(3) receptor, an excitatory serotonin-gated ion channel. We demonstrate that tissue injury-induced persistent, but not acute, nociception is significantly reduced after functional elimination of this receptor subtype. Specifically, in the setting of tissue injury, the 5-HT(3) receptor mediates activation of nociceptors but does not contribute to injury-associated edema. This result is explained by the localization of 5-HT(3) receptor transcripts to a previously uncharacterized subset of myelinated and unmyelinated afferents, few of which express the proinflammatory neuropeptide substance P. Finally, we provide evidence that central serotonergic circuits modulate nociceptive transmission via a facilitatory action at spinal 5-HT(3) receptors. We conclude that activation of both peripheral and central 5-HT(3) receptors is pronociceptive and that the contribution of peripheral 5-HT(3) receptors involves a novel complement of primary afferent nociceptors.
Neurons of the thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN) provide inhibitory input to thalamic relay cells and generate synchronized activity during sleep and seizures. It is widely assumed that TRN cells interact only via chemical synaptic connections. However, we show that many neighboring pairs of TRN neurons in rats and mice are electrically coupled. In paired-cell recordings, electrical synapses were able to mediate close correlations between action potentials when the coupling was strong; they could modulate burst-firing states even when the coupling strength was more modest. Electrical synapses between TRN neurons were absent in mice with a null mutation for the connexin36 (Cx36) gene. Surprisingly, inhibitory chemical synaptic connections between pairs of neurons were not observed, although strong extracellular stimuli could evoke inhibition in single TRN neurons. We conclude that Cx36-dependent gap junctions play an important role in the regulation of neural firing patterns within the TRN. When combined with recent observations from the cerebral cortex, our results imply that electrical synapses are a common mechanism for generating synchrony within networks of inhibitory neurons in the mammalian forebrain.
Sleep is influenced by diverse factors such as circadian time, affective states, ambient temperature, pain, etc., but pathways mediating these influences are unknown. To identify pathways that may influence sleep, we examined afferents to the ventrolateral preoptic nucleus (VLPO), an area critically implicated in promoting sleep. Injections of the retrograde tracer cholera toxin B subunit (CTB) into the VLPO produced modest numbers of CTB-labeled monoaminergic neurons in the tuberomammillary nucleus, raphe nuclei, and ventrolateral medulla, as well as a few neurons in the locus coeruleus. Immunohistochemistry for monoaminergic markers showed dense innervation of the VLPO by histaminergic, noradrenergic, and serotonergic fibers. Along with previous findings, these results suggest that the VLPO and monoaminergic nuclei may be reciprocally connected. Retrograde and anterograde tracing showed moderate or heavy inputs to the VLPO from hypothalamic regions including the median preoptic nucleus, lateral hypothalamic area, and dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus (DMH), autonomic regions including the infralimbic cortex and parabrachial nucleus, and limbic regions including the lateral septal nucleus and ventral subiculum. Light to moderate inputs arose from orexin and melanin concentrating hormone neurons, but cholinergic or dopaminergic inputs were extremely sparse. Suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) projections to the VLPO were sparse, but the heavy input to the VLPO from the DMH, which receives direct and indirect SCN inputs, could provide an alternate pathway regulating the circadian timing of sleep. These robust pathways suggest candidate mechanisms by which sleep may be influenced by brain systems regulating arousal, autonomic, limbic, and circadian functions.
Neuroimaging studies have demonstrated activations in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) related to the affective component of pain, but not to stimulus intensity. However, it is possible that the low spatial resolution of positron emission tomography, as used in the majority of these studies, obscured areas coding stimulus intensity. We revisited this issue, using a parametric single-trial functional magnetic resonance imaging design, and investigated pain, stimulus intensity, and stimulus awareness (i.e., pain unrelated) responses within the ACC in nine healthy volunteers. Four different stimulus intensities ranging from warm to painful (300-600 mJ) were applied with a thulium yttrium-aluminum granite infrared laser in a randomized order and rated by the subjects on a five point scale (P0-P4). Pain-related regions in the ventral posterior ACC showed a response that did not distinguish between innocuous trials (P0 and P1) but showed a positive linear relationship with the blood oxygenation level-dependent contrast signal for painful trials (P2-P4). Regions in the dorsal anterior ACC along the cingulate sulcus differentiated between P0 (not perceived) and P1 but exhibited no additional signal increase with P2; these regions are related to stimulus awareness and probably to cognitive processing. Most importantly, we identified a region in the dorsal posterior ACC showing a response that discriminated between nonpainful trials (P0 and P1); therefore, this region was simply related to basic sensory processing and not to pain intensity. Stimulus-related activations were all located adjacent to the cingulate motor area, highlighting the strategic link of stimulus processing and response generation in the posterior ACC.
Transgenic mice expressing enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) driven by the mouse myelin proteolipid protein (PLP) gene promoter have been developed to investigate cells in the oligodendrocyte lineage. Transgene expression is consistent with the developmental expression of PLP, with cells at all stages of oligodendrocyte differentiation clearly visualized. These animals were analyzed to establish the time course of oligodendrocyte progenitor migration, proliferation, and differentiation in neonatal cortex. In these animals, two populations of NG2 proteoglycan-positive oligodendrocyte progenitor cells were identified that exist in postnatal subventricular zone and cortex. These two populations are distinguished by the presence or absence of PLP gene expression. Thus, PLP gene expression defines a subpopulation of NG2-positive cells from very early postnatal ages, which migrates toward the pial surface and proliferates in situ. EGFP(+)/NG2(+) cells are present in the cortex from postnatal day 1, and they remain in the cortex as undifferentiated oligodendrocyte progenitors for up to 3 weeks before myelination begins. These data could be explained by the presence of an important inhibitor of oligodendrocyte differentiation in the cortex during this period, which is downregulated in a region-specific manner to allow myelination. On the other hand, it is possible that oligodendrocyte progenitor cells remain undifferentiated in cortex until an essential signal is produced in situ to induce differentiation.
The murine olfactory system consists of two primary divisions: (1) a main olfactory system, in which olfactory sensory neurons (OSNs) located in the main olfactory epithelium (MOE) send their axons to glomeruli in the main olfactory bulb (MOB); and (2) an accessory olfactory system, in which OSNs located in the vomeronasal organ send their axons to glomeruli in the accessory olfactory bulb (AOB). In labeling studies using the lectin Ulex europaeus agglutinin (UEA), we discovered a novel subset of small neuropilar structures in the MOB that are distinct from other glomeruli both in the MOB and AOB. These &quot;microglomeruli&quot; are morphologically similar to MOB glomeruli in many respects: they receive innervation from processes present in the olfactory nerve layer and are isolated from other glomeruli by juxtaglomerular cells; in addition, the compartmental pattern of UEA labeling suggests the presence of UEA (-) processes within their neuropil. Microglomeruli contained processes that express the olfactory marker protein, a marker common to mature OSN axons. However, unlike other glomerular structures, the microglomeruli did not contain neural cell adhesion molecule-labeled processes. Within microglomeruli, UEA(+) processes interdigitated with MAP2(+) dendrites, some of which likely originate from interneurons, as indicated by glutamic acid decarboxylase labeling. Synaptophysin labeling in microglomeruli strongly suggested that synapses occur between UEA(+) processes and dendrites. Anterograde labeling of OSNs, by injection of rhodamine-dextran into one naris, demonstrated that UEA(+) processes in microglomeruli originated in the MOE. The unique morphology, protein expression, and location of microglomeruli have led us to hypothesize that they represent a novel class of glomerular structures in the murine olfactory system.
Chick ciliary neurons have somatic spines grouped in discrete clumps or mats tightly folded against the soma and enriched in nicotinic receptors containing alpha7 subunits. An embryonic ciliary neuron has one to two dozen such spine mats, all overlaid by a large presynaptic calyx engulfing the cell. Three-dimensional tomographic reconstruction from serial thick sections revealed 13 somatic spines in one complete spine mat on a ciliary neuron late in embryogenesis. The spines varied in morphology and usually were branched but had numerous similarities to dendritic spines, including mean length, volume, surface area, presence of endoplasmic reticulum, and occasional multivesicular bodies. The spines invariably were connected to the soma via a narrow neck of approximately 0.2 micrometer in diameter as found for dendritic spines, suggesting restricted access from spine lumen to soma. A prominent difference between dendritic and somatic spines is the absence of postsynaptic densities from most somatic spines both on embryonic and adult ciliary neurons. Transmitter access to receptors on the spines may occur either by lateral diffusion from release sites over nearby postsynaptic densities or by release directly onto spines from the overlying calyx lined with vesicles. The latter is less likely in the adult, where some spines are adjacent to but not overlaid by vesicle-enriched presynaptic structures. The anatomical configuration of spine mats suggests coordinate spine activation by transmitter release into a confined volume while spine morphology is used to control the chemical consequences of synaptic signaling.
Recent evidence suggests that reactive oxygen species (ROS), including superoxide, are not only neurotoxic but function as small messenger molecules in normal neuronal processes such as synaptic plasticity. Consistent with this idea, we show that brief incubation of hippocampal slices with the superoxide-generating system xanthine/xanthine oxidase (X/XO) produces a long-lasting potentiation of synaptic transmission in area CA1. We found that X/XO-induced potentiation was associated with a persistent superoxide-dependent increase in autonomous PKC activity that could be isolated via DEAE column chromatography. The X/XO-induced potentiation was blocked by the inhibition of PKC, indicating that the superoxide-dependent increase in autonomous PKC activity was necessary for the potentiation. We also found that X/XO-induced potentiation and long-term potentiation (LTP) occluded one another, suggesting that these forms of plasticity share similar cellular mechanisms. In further support of this idea, we found that a persistent, superoxide-dependent increase in autonomous PKC activity isolated via DEAE column chromatography also was associated with LTP. Taken together, our findings indicate that X/XO-induced potentiation and LTP share similar cellular mechanisms, including superoxide-dependent increases in autonomous PKC activity. Finally, our findings suggest that superoxide, in addition to its well known role as a neurotoxin, also can be considered a small messenger molecule critical for normal neuronal signaling.
We studied the emergence of vesicle pool organization at developing hippocampal synapses by monitoring vesicle recycling and neurotransmitter release as well as examining electron micrographs. Our analysis suggests that presynaptic boutons go through three distinct functional states to mature. At the onset the synapses lack readily releasable vesicles although they possess a pool of recycling vesicles that can release neurotransmitters under strong stimulation. In the next stage the majority of these recycling vesicles switches to a functionally docked state and forms the readily releasable pool (RRP). After assembly of the RRP, new vesicles build the reserve pool. At the mature state the size of the RRP increases linearly with increasing recycling pool size. Furthermore, this preferential filling of the RRP during early synapse maturation is reduced strikingly in synapses deficient in synapsin I and II. Taken together, these results expose a mechanism that ensures functionally effective allocation of a limited number of vesicles in a CNS synapse.
The association of the E4 allele of apolipoprotein E (apoE4) as a genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been well established. Although recent studies in neuronal cell lines and transgenic mice have shown that apoE4 promotes neurodegeneration, the mechanisms through which apoE4 impairs neuronal viability are not completely understood. In this context, the main objective of the present study was to determine whether the neurotoxic effects of apoE4 are mediated by an alteration in calcium homeostasis. For this purpose, effects of recombinant apoE3 and apoE4 on cell viability and intracellular calcium levels were analyzed in a murine hippocampal cell line (HT22) and in primary rat cortical neurons, in the presence or absence of calcium inhibitors. Under basal conditions, apoE4-treated cells displayed increased levels of cytosolic calcium associated with cell death in a dose-dependent manner. Furthermore, apoE4 treatment potentiated the rise in cytosolic calcium and cell death following the administration of a calcium ionophore. The effects of apoE4 on cell viability and calcium homeostasis were inhibited by calcium chelators or by blocking calcium channels, but not by inhibitors of intracellular calcium reserves. Taken together, these results indicate that the neurotoxic effects of apoE4 are dependent on extracellular calcium influx via calcium channels.
Striatal neurons in symptomatic Huntington's disease (HD) transgenic mice are resistant to a variety of toxic insults, including quinolinic acid (QA), kainic acid and 3-nitropropionic acid. The basis for this resistance is currently unknown. To investigate the possibility that the immediate-early gene (IEG) response is defective in symptomatic HD mice leading to a lack of response to these compounds, we examined the expression of c-Fos and Krox 24 after administration of the indirect dopamine agonist methamphetamine, the dopamine D(2) receptor antagonist haloperidol and the neurotoxin QA in 5- and 10-week-old R6/2 transgenic HD and wild-type mice. Unlike wild-type and pre-symptomatic R6/2 transgenic HD mice, 10-week-old symptomatic HD mice were resistant to methamphetamine-induced gliosis and QA lesion. There was, however, no difference in the number or distribution of c-Fos-immunoreactive nuclei 2 hr after single injections of methamphetamine or haloperidol among 5- and 10-week-old wild-type mice and 5- and 10-week-old R6/2 HD mice. Similarly, despite their resistance to QA-induced lesioning and lower basal levels of krox-24 mRNA, the symptomatic R6/2 mice had equivalent increases in the amount of c-fos and krox-24 mRNA compared to wild-type and pre-symptomatic R6/2 HD mice as determined by in situ hybridization and densitometry 2 hr after QA administration. These data demonstrate that the c-Fos and Krox 24 IEG response to dopamine agonists, dopamine antagonists and neurotoxic insult is functional in symptomatic R6/2 HD mice. Resistance to toxic insult in R6/2 mice may be conferred by interactions of mutant huntingtin with proteins or transcriptional processes further along the toxic cascade.

Spinal lamina I neurons expressing the substance P receptor (SPR) have been shown to play a role in the transmission of somatic inflammatory and neuropathic pain. To evaluate their involvement in visceral nociception in both the noninflamed and inflamed colon, we examined the expression and ligand-induced internalization of the SPR in the rat spinal cord after distention of the noninflamed colon and in rats with inflammation induced by intracolonic instillation of zymosan (3 hours). In the noninflamed animal, acute noxious but not non-noxious colorectal distention induced SPR internalization in lamina I neurons at the thoracolumbar (T13) and lumbosacral (S1) spinal levels, whereas SPR internalization was not detected in lamina I neurons at spinal lumbar segment L4. Although zymosan-induced colorectal inflammation alone did not induce SPR internalization in lamina I neurons, there was an increased number of SPR-expressing lamina I neurons showing SPR internalization in segments T12 through S2 of the spinal cord after colorectal distention. These results show that acute noxious visceral stimuli induce activation of spinal lamina I neurons expressing the SPR and, that after visceral inflammation, there is a marked increase in both the number and rostrocaudal extent of lamina I SPR neurons activated in response to both normally non-noxious and noxious distention of the colon.
Rat P2X(1) and P2X(2) subunits were coexpressed in defolliculated Xenopus oocytes and the resultant P2X receptors studied under voltage-clamp conditions. Extracellular ATP elicited biphasic inward currents, involving an initial rapidly inactivating (P2X(1)-like) component and a later slowly inactivating (P2X(2)-like) component. The maximum amplitude of P2X(1)-like ATP responses was increased in some cells by lowering extracellular pH (from 7.5 to 6.5), whereas P2X(2)-like responses and those of homomeric rP2X(1) and rP2X(2) receptors were not changed by this treatment. Concentration-response (C/R) curves for ATP for pH-enhanced P2X(1)-like responses were biphasic, and clearly distinct from monophasic ATP C/R curves for homomeric rP2X(1) and rP2X(2) receptors. Under acidic (pH 5.5 and 6.5) and alkaline (pH 8.5) conditions, ATP C/R curves for P2X(1)-like responses showed increases in agonist potency and efficacy, compared with data at pH 7.5, but the same was not true of homomeric rP2X(1) and rP2X(2) receptors. ATP C/R curves for P2X(2)-like responses overlay C/R curves for homomeric rP2X(2) receptors, and determinations of agonist potency and efficacy were identical for P2X(2)-like and P2X(2) responses at all pH levels tested. Our results show that P2X(1)-like responses possessed the kinetics of homomeric P2X(1) receptors but an acid sensitivity different from homomeric P2X(1) and P2X(2) receptors. In contrast, the P2X(2)-like responses exactly matched the profile expected of homomeric P2X(2) receptors. Thus, coexpression of P2X(1) and P2X(2) subunits yielded a mixed population of homomeric and heteromeric P2X receptors, with a subpopulation of novel pH-sensitive P2X receptors showing identifiably unique properties that indicated the formation of heteromeric P2X(1/2) ion channels.
In this report we investigated the immunopharmacological role of selective and nonselective phosphodiesterase (PDE) inhibition in regulating the inhibitory-kappaB (IkappaB-alpha)/nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) signaling transduction pathway. In fetal alveolar type II epithelial cells, PDE blockade at the level of the diverging cAMP/cGMP pathways differentially regulated the phosphorylation and degradation of IkappaB-alpha, the major cytosolic inhibitor of NF-kappaB. Whereas selective inhibition of PDEs 1, 3, and 4, by the action of 8-methoxymethyl-3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine, amrinone, and rolipram, respectively, exhibited a tendency to augment the translocation of NF-kappaB(1) (p50), RelA (p65), RelB (p68), and c-Rel (p75), selective blockade of PDE 5, 6, and 9, by the action of 4-[[3',4'-(methylenedioxy)benzyl]amino]-6-methoxyquinazoline and zaprinast, attenuated lipopolysaccharide-endotoxin (LPS)-mediated NF-kappaB translocation. Pentoxifylline, a nonspecific PDE inhibitor, reversed the excitatory effect of LPS on NF-kappaB subunit nuclear localization, in a dose-dependent manner. Furthermore, analysis of NF-kappaB activation under the same conditions revealed a biphasic effect mediated by LPS. PDEs 1, 3, and 4 inhibition was associated with up-regulating NF-kappaB transcriptional activity. In contrast, blockading the activity of PDEs 5, 6, and 9 negatively attenuated LPS-mediated NF-kappaB activation, similar to the effect of 3,7-dihydro-3,7-dimethyl-1-(5-oxohexyl)-1H-purine-2,6-dione (pentoxifylline). These results indicate that selective and nonselective interference with the control of the dynamic equilibrium of cyclic nucleotides via PDE isoenzyme regulation represents an immunoregulatory mechanism that requires the differential, biphasic targeting of the IkappaB-alpha/NF-kappaB pathway.
In an attempt to elaborate in vitro on a therapeutic strategy that counteracts an inflammatory signal, we previously reported a novel immunopharmacological potential of glutathione, an antioxidant thiol, in regulating inflammatory cytokines. In the present study, we investigated the hypothesis that selective regulation of phosphodiesterases (PDEs), a family of enzymes that controls intracellular cAMP/cGMP degradation, differentially regulates proinflammatory cytokines. Selective PDE1 inhibition (8-methoxymethyl-3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine) blockaded lipopolysaccharide-endotoxin (LPS)-mediated biosynthesis of interleukin (IL)-6, but this pathway had no inhibitory effect on tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha). Furthermore, inhibition of PDE3 (amrinone) abolished the effect of LPS on IL-6, but attenuated TNF-alpha production. Reversible competitive inhibition of PDE4 (rolipram) exhibited a potent inhibitory effect on IL-6 and a dual, biphasic (excitatory/inhibitory) effect on TNF-alpha secretion. Blockading PDE5 (4-[[3',4'-(methylenedioxy)benzyl] amino]-6-methoxyquinazoline) showed a high potency in reducing IL-6 production, but in a manner similar to the inhibition of PDE4, exhibited a biphasic effect on TNF-alpha biosynthesis. Simultaneous inhibition of PDE5, 6, and 9 (zaprinast), purported to specifically elevate intracellular cGMP, reduced, in a dose-independent manner, IL-6 and TNF-alpha biosynthesis. Finally, nonselective inhibition of PDE by pentoxifylline suppressed LPS-mediated secretion of IL-6 and TNF-alpha. The involvement of specific PDE isoenzymes in differentially regulating LPS-mediated inflammatory cytokine biosynthesis indicates a novel approach to unravel the potential therapeutic targets that these isozymes constitute during the progression of inflammation within the respiratory epithelium.
The role for excitatory amino acids (EAAs) in the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) in descending pain modulation after persistent noxious input is unclear. In an animal model of inflammatory hyperalgesia, we examined the effects of intra-RVM microinjection of EAA receptor agonists and antagonists on paw withdrawal and tail-flick responses in lightly anesthetized rats. N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) produced effects that depended upon the postinflammatory time period. At 3 h postinflammation, NMDA induced facilitation at a lower dose (10 pmol) and inhibition at a higher dose (1000 pmol). At 24 h postinflammation, NMDA (0.1-1000 pmol) produced a dose-dependent inhibition. The facilitation and inhibition, respectively, were attenuated significantly by the preadministration of an NMDA receptor antagonist, DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV) (10 pmol, P &lt; 0.05), to the same site. Intra-RVM microinjection of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) (0.1-100 pmol) produced dose-dependent inhibition at both 3 and 24 h postinflammation that was blocked by the preadministration of an AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist, 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoylbenzo(f)quinoxaline (100 pmol, P &lt; 0.05). Unexpectedly, AMPA-produced inhibition was also significantly attenuated by preadministration of APV (10 pmol, P &lt; 0.05). Compared with 3 h postinflammation, both NMDA and AMPA showed a leftward shift in their dose-response curves at 24 h postinflammation. These results demonstrate that NMDA and AMPA receptors in the RVM are involved in the descending modulation after inflammatory hyperalgesia. There is a time-dependent increase in EAA neurotransmission in the RVM after inflammation and NMDA receptors play an important role in AMPA-produced inhibition.
Coordination of the bladder detrusor and the external urethral sphincter is a supraspinally controlled reflex that is essential for efficient micturition. This coordination is permanently lost after spinal cord transection but can recover chronically after incomplete spinal cord injury (SCI). As glutamatergic transmission plays a key role in all levels of detrusor-external urethral sphincter coordination, we examined the role of potential alterations in glutamatergic control in its recovery after SCI. Rats were subjected to standardized incomplete contusion injury. Detrusor-external urethral sphincter coordination was evaluated urodynamically at 5 days (subacute) and 8 weeks (chronic) after SCI. Sensitivity of coordinated activation of the external urethral sphincter in response to bladder distension to the alpha -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazoleproprionic acid/kainate antagonist 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6-nitro-2,3-dioxo-benzo(f)quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide disodium (NBQX) and to the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist R(--3-(2-carboxypiperazine-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP) was determined by intrathecal application at the L6 spinal cord level during urodynamic recordings. We found that while detrusor contractions recovered at 5 days after SCI, coordinated activation of the external urethral sphincter was significantly impaired at 5 days and recovered only by 8 weeks. There was no difference in sensitivity of detrusor-external urethral sphincter coordination to NBQX at the subacute or chronic time points. However, external urethral sphincter response to bladder distension was sensitive to a 50% lower dose of CPP at 5 days compared with uninjured rats or chronic recovered SCI rats. Thus, alterations in NMDA receptor function appeared to be involved in recovery of detrusor-external urethral sphincter coordination after incomplete SCI.
Hypoxia significantly reduced cholinergic theta activity in rat CA1 field and intracellular theta in the CA1 pyramidal cells, recorded in hippocampal slices. The hypoxic responses of the hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells to a brief hypoxia consisted of a short period of &quot;synaptic arrest&quot;, observed as an elimination of excitatory postsynaptic current under voltage clamp and recovered immediately as oxygenation was reinitiated. The hypoxic synaptic arrest was not associated with reduced postsynaptic responses of the pyramidal cells to externally applied L-glutamate, suggesting that the synaptic arrest might result from a presynaptic mechanism. The hypoxic synaptic arrest was abolished in the presence of 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX), a specific adenosine A(1) receptor antagonist. Blocking adenosine A(1) receptors also eliminated effects of hypoxia on the hippocampal CA1 field theta activity and intracellular theta of the CA1 pyramidal cells. In behaving rats, brief hypoxia impaired their water maze performance in both the escape latency and probe tests. The impairment was prevented by intralateral cerebroventricular injections of DPCPX. These results suggest that hypoxia releases adenosine and produces an inhibition of synaptic transmission and intracellular signal cascade(s) involved in generation/maintenance of hippocampal CA1 theta activity. This protection of synaptic efficacy and spatial learning through adenosine A(1) receptor antagonism may represent an effective therapeutic strategy to eliminate functional interruption due to transient hypoxic episodes and/or chronic hypoxia secondary to compromise of respiratory function.
Retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) are the output neurons of the retina, sending their signals via the optic nerve to many different targets in the thalamus and brainstem. These cells are divisible into more than a dozen types, differing in receptive field properties and morphology. Light responses of individual RGCs are in large part determined by the exact nature of the retinal synaptic network in which they participate. Synaptic inputs, however, are greatly influenced by the intrinsic membrane properties of each cell. While it has been demonstrated clearly that RGCs vary in their intrinsic properties, it remains unclear whether this variation is systematically related to RGC type. To learn whether membrane properties contribute to the functional differentiation of RGC types, we made whole-cell current clamp recordings of RGC responses to injected current of identified cat RGCs. The data collected demonstrated that RGC types clearly differed from one another in their intrinsic properties. One of the most striking differences we observed was that individual cell types had membrane time constants that varied widely from approximately 4 ms (alpha cells) to more than 80 ms (zeta cells). Perhaps not surprisingly, we also observed that RGCs varied greatly in their maximum spike frequencies (kappa cells 48 Hz-alpha cells 262 Hz) and sustained spike frequencies (kappa cells 23 Hz-alpha cells 67 Hz). Interestingly, however, most RGC types exhibited similar amounts of spike frequency adaptation. Finally, RGC types also differed in their responses to injection of hyperpolarizing current. Most cell types exhibited anomalous rectification in response to sufficiently strong hyperpolarization, although alpha and beta RGCs showed only minimal, if any, rectification under similar conditions. The differences we observed in RGC intrinsic properties were striking and robust. Such differences are certain to affect how each type responds to synaptic input and may help tune each cell type appropriately for their individual roles in visual processing.
We studied the permeation properties of two distinct single voltage-gated Ca2+ channels in bullfrog saccular hair cells to assess the roles of the channels as physiological Ca2+ transporters and multi-ion pores. By varying the permeant ions (Ba2+, Ca2+) and concentrations (2-70 mM), we estimated the affinity constant (K(D)) of the two channels as follows (mM): L-type channel, K(D,Ba) = 7.4 +/- 1.0, K(D,Ca) = 7.1 +/- 2.2 (n = 7); non-L-type channel, K(D,Ba) = 5.3 +/- 3.2, K(D,Ca) = 2.0 +/- 1.0 (n = 8). Using ionic concentrations close to physiological conditions (2 mM Ca2+ and 1.0 mM Mg2+), the conductance of the L-type channel was approximately 2 pS. We determined the mechanisms by which ions traverse the pore of these single Ca2+ channels, using mixtures of Ba2+ and Ca2+ at total concentrations above (70 mM) or close to (5 mM) the K(D) of the channels. We found evidence for an anomalous mole fraction effect (AMFE) only when the total divalent ion concentration was 5 mM, consistent with a multi-ion pore. We show that AMFE arises from the boundaries between the pore and bulk solution in the atria of the channel, which is derived from the presence of depletion zones that become apparent at low divalent cation concentrations. The present findings provide an explanation as to why previous whole-cell Ca2+ currents that were recorded in quasi-physiological Ca2+ concentrations (approximately 2-5 mM) showed clear AMFE, whereas single Ca2+ channel currents that were recorded routinely at high Ca2+ concentrations (20-110 mM) did not.
The isoform specific role of sialic acid in human voltage-gated sodium channel gating was investigated through expression and chimeric analysis of two human isoforms, Na(v1.4) (hSkM1), and Na(v1.5) (hH1) in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell lines. Immunoblot analyses indicate that both hSkM1 and hH1 are glycosylated and that hSkM1 is more glycosylated than hH1. Four sets of voltage-dependent parameters, the voltage of half-activation (V(a)), the voltage of half-inactivation (V(i)), the time constants for fast inactivation (tau(h)), and the time constants for recovery from inactivation (tau(rec)), were measured for hSkM1 and hH1 expressed in two CHO cell lines, Pro5 and Lec2, to determine the effect of changing sialylation on channel gating under conditions of full (Pro5) or reduced (Lec2) sialylation. For all parameters measured, hSkM1 gating showed a consistent 11-15 mV depolarizing shift under conditions of reduced sialylation, while hH1 showed no significant change in any gating parameter. Shifts in channel V(a) with changing external [Ca2+] indicated that sialylation of hSkM1, but not hH1, directly contributes to a negative surface potential. Functional analysis of two chimeras, hSkM1P1 and hH1P1, indicated that the responsible sialic acids are localized to the hSkM1 S5-S6 loop of domain I. When hSkM1 IS5-S6 was replaced by the analogous hH1 loop (hSkM1P1), changing sialylation had no significant effect on any voltage-dependent parameter. Conversely, when hSkM1 IS5-S6 was added to hH1 (hH1P1), all four parameters shifted by 6-7 mV in the depolarized direction under conditions of reduced sialylation. In summary, the gating of two human sodium channel isoforms show very different dependencies on sialic acid, with hSkM1 gating uniformly altered by sialic acid levels through an apparent electrostatic mechanism, while hH1 gating is unaffected by changing sialylation. Sialic acid-dependent gating can be removed or created by replacing or inserting hSkM1 IS5-S6, respectively, indicating that the functionally relevant sialic acid residues are localized to the first domain of the channel.
Mouse hepatitis virus (MHV) infection spreads from MHV-infected DBT cells, which express the MHV receptor CEACAM1 (MHVR), to BHK cells, which are devoid of the receptor, by intercellular membrane fusion (MHVR-independent fusion). This mode of infection is a property of wild-type (wt) JHMV cl-2 virus but is not seen in cultures infected with the mutant virus JHMV srr7. In this study, we show that soluble MHVR (soMHVR) potentiates MHVR-independent fusion in JHMV srr7-infected cultures. Thus, in the presence of soMHVR, JHMV srr7-infected DBT cells overlaid onto BHK cells induce BHK cell syncytia and the spread of JHMV srr7 infection. This does not occur in the absence of soMHVR. soMHVR also enhanced wt virus MHVR-independent fusion. These effects were dependent on the concentration of soMHVR in the culture and were specifically blocked by the anti-MHVR monoclonal antibody CC1. Together with these observations, direct binding of soMHVR to the virus spike (S) glycoprotein as revealed by coimmunoprecipitation demonstrated that the effect is mediated by the binding of soMHVR to the S protein. Furthermore, fusion of BHK cells expressing the JHMV srr7 S protein was also induced by soMHVR. These results indicated that the binding of soMHVR to the S protein expressed on the DBT cell surface potentiates the fusion of MHV-infected DBT cells with nonpermissive BHK cells. We conclude that the binding of soMHVR to the S protein converts the S protein to a fusion-active form competent to mediate cell-cell fusion, in a fashion similar to the fusion of virus and cell membranes.
Amyloid beta (A beta) is the principal constituent of senile plaques in Alzheimer's disease patients. We investigated whether A beta and glutamate affect long-term potentiation (LTP) in rat hippocampal slices. Pretreatment with 1 microM A beta1-42 alone for 3 h slightly inhibited LTP; however, the potentiation was maintained for 60 min. Although the impairment was not observed by pretreatment with 30 microM glutamate alone for 3 h, pretreatment with A beta1-42 and glutamate impaired LTP significantly. These results raise the possibility that neurotoxicity of A beta is exacerbated by the enhancement of susceptibility to excitatory amino acids.
Although possible usefulness of non-selective monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors for Parkinson's disease therapy has been suggested in the literature, MAO inhibitors whose inhibition is reversible and have dual action to both MAO-A and -B subtypes is not available yet. Subtype selectivity and reversibility of a series of novel MAO inhibitors, 3-(2-aminoethoxy)-1,2-benzisoxazole derivatives, were studied. Several dual MAO inhibitors, which inhibit both MAO-A and -B, were obtained. When administered to mice, their effects were generally reversible. Among the derivatives, RS-1636 and RS-1653 had much longer duration of brain MAO-B inhibition than that of MAO-A. In vitro, the inhibited MAO-A activity by these compounds was partially recovered by buffer change at 4 degrees C, while little MAO-B activity was recovered. Although it is not fully elucidated yet, the reversibility of these inhibitors is probably determined primarily by this dissociation profile. This unique differential reversibility indicates that optimization of the balance of actions can be achieved by differentiating reversibility to each target molecule.
The laser trapping technique combined with near-infrared Raman (NIR) spectroscopy was used for the analysis of single cellular organelles in the nanometer range. The samples were synaptosomes, nerve-ending particles (about 500-700 nm in diameter) isolated from a neuron in a rat brain, dispersed in the phosphate buffer solution. The NIR laser Raman trapping (NIR-LRT) system trapped a single synaptosome without photochemical damage and provided a Raman spectrum of the sample with less fluorescence background. After the background subtraction from the Raman spectrum, two large peaks appeared, which are attributed to the peaks of the CH(2) deformation mode and the amide I mode. This indicates the laser-trapped synaptosomes include some types of lipids and proteins. The result demonstrates that the NIR-LRT system can determine biological molecules in single cellular organelles in the nanometer range. Further improvement of the detection sensitivity will enable us to get detailed information about the functions of single cellular organelles in the brain, which will be valuable for neuroscience.
Peripheral and autonomic neuropathies are known but often unrecognized associations of cirrhosis from any cause. The pathogenesis of these effects are ill understood. Liver transplantation has been shown to reverse autonomic manifestations, but little evidence exists for an effect on peripheral neuropathy. This case report documents improvement in peripheral and autonomic neuropathy in a 40-year-old man with hepatitis B virus--related cirrhosis. A return to normal neurophysiological function was seen within 9 months of successful liver transplantation, suggesting a metabolic, rather than a structural, cause of such changes in the peripheral nervous system.
RanBP1, a velocardiofacial syndrome/DiGeorge syndrome candidate gene, is expressed in the frontonasal processes, branchial arches, aortic arches, and limb buds. At these sites, RanBP1 apparently coincides with neural crest-derived mesenchymal cells. In addition, RanBP1 is expressed in the forebrain as well as in hindbrain regions previously associated with crest-derived mesenchymal cells.
Recent advances into the neuroscience research related to pathophysiology of schizophrenia have been impressive. While some are based on pre-existing theories and models, others have explored on a molecular level attempting to integrate the concepts of the past and present. However, given the complex multifactorial etiology of schizophrenia attempts to improve the current treatment modalities raise more questions than answers. In the cascade model of the hypotheses, the focus will be on a common factor/marker for the disease, to address the possible stepwise correlation between the various theories. Homeostasis of calcium, its relation to the release of glutamate, dopamine and nitric oxide will be discussed in detail with the potential for interventions aimed at every stage. Although this hypothesis emphasizes the role of calcium as a common factor, other potential causes such as autoantibodies to the receptors, such as NMDA (and GABA) cannot be ruled out.
Nitric oxide has been shown to have important physiological regulatory roles, i. e, vasodilation, neurotransmitter release, etc. Now, we review its role as an antibacterial and antiviral agent. Nitric oxide has also been identified as an important factor in the development of non-specific immunity. And accordingly, nitric oxide synthase (NOS), the catalytic enzyme producing nitric oxide, is a key element in the protective activities of nitric oxide. The expression of inducible (i) NOS is regulated by cytokines. iNOS-derived nitric oxide was found to contribute to both early and late phases of antibacterial activity. Enzymes, such as proteases (reverse transciptases, and ribonucleotide reductase, etc.) containing cysteine residues, appear to be targets for nitric oxide nitrosylation, as well as viral-encoded transcription factors that are involved in viral replication. It would appear that this multifunctional signaling molecule is not only involved with signaling between cells, it also appears to maintain the immediate environment free of microbial agents.
This study investigated whether there is an association between bone density and features of the metabolic syndrome in relation to hormonal status. All women aged 50 to 59 years living in a defined geographic area in Sweden were offered a health assessment program including blood glucose, lipid profile, blood pressure, and bone densitometry. Women were divided into 3 groups according to their hormonal status: premenopausal (PM), postmenopausal with hormone replacement therapy (PMT), and postmenopausal without hormone replacement therapy (PM0). Of the 6,886 women investigated, 7% were PM, 41% PMT, and 52% PM0. The overall prevalence of osteopenia and osteoporosis, according to the World Health Organization (WHO) definition, was 42.6% and 6.6%, respectively. T-score in the PM group was higher than in the PMT (P &lt;.05) and PM0 groups (P &lt;.001) and higher in the PMT group compared with the PM0 group (P &lt;.001). Also, in the total cohort, the bone density was positively associated with body weight, body mass index (BMI), waist-to-hip ratio (WHR), systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP), serum triglycerides, and blood glucose (P &lt;.001 for all) and negatively associated with serum levels of cholesterol (P &lt;.05) and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) (P &lt;.001). This was most evident among the PMO women, suggesting that the influence of metabolic factors on bone density increases when the levels of hormones decrease. This indicates that hormone replacement therapy maintains treated women in a premenopausal status concerning the metabolic factors.
Many methods are available and widely used to determine specific proteins that bind to a particular RNA of interest. However, approaches to identify unknown substrate RNAs to which an RNA-binding protein binds and potentially regulates are not as common. In this article we describe a technique termed isolation of specific nucleic acids associated with proteins (SNAAP) that allows the identification of mRNAs associated with a protein. Methods are detailed for expressing and purifying fusion proteins that are used to isolate substrate mRNPs employing differential display technology. Lastly, experiments are described to confirm that the RNAs identified are indeed bonafide substrates for an RNA-binding protein. As the number of known RNA-binding proteins increases, of which many are involved in genetic disorders, it is essential that methodologies exist to identify RNA-protein interactions to better understand the manifestation of disease.
Activation of purinergic P2X7 receptors, principally by extracellular ATP, promotes the processing and release of the cytokine interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and induces cell death in activated microglia and macrophages. The objective of this study was to determine if IL-1beta release contributes directly to this cell death in microglia. Exposure of microglia to bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and ATP induced release of IL-1beta and IL-1alpha, as well as cell death. Neither cell death nor IL-1 release was observed in microglia lacking the P2X7 receptor. Microglia from mice lacking the IL-1beta gene demonstrated a profile of death identical to that of wild-type microglia in response to LPS and ATP. Thus, IL-1beta is not required for P2X7 receptor-stimulated microglial death.
Historically, much attention has focused on the mechanisms of activity-dependent plasticity since the description of long-term potentiation by Bliss and Lomo in the early 1970s, while extrasynaptic changes have received much less interest. However, recent work has concentrated on the role of back-propagating action potentials in hippocampal dendrites in synaptic plasticity. In this review, we focus on the modulation of back-propagating action potentials by K+ currents in the dendrites of hippocampal cells. We described the primary K+-channel subunits and their interacting subunits that most likely contribute to these currents, and how these sites can be regulated by phosphorylation and other mechanisms. In conclusion, we provide a model for an alternative form of coincidence detection through K+ channels in the hippocampus.
We analyzed two new cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibitors, celecoxib (SC-58635) and meloxicam, for the treatment of experimental autoimmune neuritis (EAN) in rats. Celecoxib and meloxicam significantly reduced clinical EAN score and histopathological damage of the sciatic nerve. They induced no serious side effects, whereas indomethacin used as a control caused severe intestinal ulceration and dysfunction of liver and kidney. These findings suggest that the new COX-2 inhibitors may be useful as additional therapeutic agents for patients with Guillain-Barr syndrome and chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy.
The increasing complexity of the pathways implicated in the pathogenesis of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) has stimulated intensive research in many directions. Genetic analysis of familial ALS has yielded six loci and one disease gene (SOD1), initially suggesting a role for free radicals in the disease process, although the mechanisms through which the mutant exerts toxicity and results in selective motor neuron death remain uncertain. Numerous studies have focused on structural elements of the affected cell, emphasizing the role of neurofilaments and peripherin and their functional disruption in disease. Other topics examined include cellular homeostasis of copper and calcium, particularly in the context of oxidative stress and the processes of protein aggregation, glutamate excitotoxicity, and apoptosis. It has become evident that there is considerable interplay between these mechanisms and, as the role of each is established, a common picture may emerge, enabling the development of more targeted therapies. This study discusses the main areas of investigation and reviews the findings.
The deposition of the abundant presynaptic brain protein alpha-synuclein as fibrillary aggregates in neurons or glial cells is a hallmark lesion in a subset of neurodegenerative disorders. These disorders include Parkinson's disease (PD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and multiple system atrophy, collectively referred to as synucleinopathies. Importantly, the identification of missense mutations in the alpha-synuclein gene in some pedigrees of familial PD has strongly implicated alpha-synuclein in the pathogenesis of PD and other synucleinopathies. However, specific post-translational modifications that underlie the aggregation of alpha-synuclein in affected brains have not, as yet, been identified. Here, we show by mass spectrometry analysis and studies with an antibody that specifically recognizes phospho-Ser 129 of alpha-synuclein, that this residue is selectively and extensively phosphorylated in synucleinopathy lesions. Furthermore, phosphorylation of alpha-synuclein at Ser 129 promoted fibril formation in vitro. These results highlight the importance of phosphorylation of filamentous proteins in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders.
We report a patient with unilateral damage to the rostral part of the pulvinar who was impaired in localizing stimuli in the inferior visual field contralateral to the lesion and who made errors in the binding of shape and color in that quadrant. The findings demonstrate the importance of the pulvinar in spatial coding and provide support for the function of the thalamus in binding of features. They also provide evidence for a homology between the visual field maps of the inferior and lateral subdivisions of the pulvinar in monkeys and in humans, such that the inferior visual field is represented in the rostral part of the nucleus.
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-dependent synaptic plasticity in the mammalian hippocampus is essential for learning and memory. Although computational models and anatomical studies have emphasized functional differences among hippocampal subregions, subregional specificity of NMDA receptor function is largely unknown. Here we present evidence that NMDA receptors in CA3 are required in a situation in which spatial representation needs to be reorganized, whereas the NMDA receptors in CA1 and/or the dentate gyrus are more involved in acquiring memory that needs to be retrieved after a delay period exceeding a short-term range. Our data, with data from CA1-specific knockout mice, suggest the possibility of heterogeneous mnemonic function of NMDA receptors in different subregions of the hippocampus.
Prestin, a transmembrane protein found in the outer hair cells of the cochlea, represents a new type of molecular motor, which is likely to be of great interest to molecular cell biologists. In contrast to enzymatic-activity-based motors, prestin is a direct voltage-to-force converter, which uses cytoplasmic anions as extrinsic voltage sensors and can operate at microsecond rates. As prestin mediates changes in outer hair cell length in response to membrane potential variations, it might be responsible for sound amplification in the mammalian hearing organ.
In this article, I discuss the use of neurally driven evolutionary autonomous agents (EAAs) in neuroscientific investigations. Two fundamental questions are addressed. Can EAA studies shed new light on the structure and function of biological nervous systems? And can these studies lead to the development of new tools for neuroscientific analysis? The value and significant potential of EAA modelling in both respects is demonstrated and discussed. Although the study of EAAs for neuroscience research still faces difficult conceptual and technical challenges, it is a promising and timely endeavour.
A novel definition of the stimulus-specific information is presented, which is particularly useful when the stimuli constitute a continuous and metric set, as, for example, position in space. The approach allows one to build the spatial information distribution of a given neural response. The method is applied to the investigation of putative differences in the coding of position in hippocampus and lateral septum.
Measuring agreement between a statistical model and a spike train data series, that is, evaluating goodness of fit, is crucial for establishing the model's validity prior to using it to make inferences about a particular neural system. Assessing goodness-of-fit is a challenging problem for point process neural spike train models, especially for histogram-based models such as perstimulus time histograms (PSTH) and rate functions estimated by spike train smoothing. The time-rescaling theorem is a well-known result in probability theory, which states that any point process with an integrable conditional intensity function may be transformed into a Poisson process with unit rate. We describe how the theorem may be used to develop goodness-of-fit tests for both parametric and histogram-based point process models of neural spike trains. We apply these tests in two examples: a comparison of PSTH, inhomogeneous Poisson, and inhomogeneous Markov interval models of neural spike trains from the supplementary eye field of a macque monkey and a comparison of temporal and spatial smoothers, inhomogeneous Poisson, inhomogeneous gamma, and inhomogeneous inverse gaussian models of rat hippocampal place cell spiking activity. To help make the logic behind the time-rescaling theorem more accessible to researchers in neuroscience, we present a proof using only elementary probability theory arguments. We also show how the theorem may be used to simulate a general point process model of a spike train. Our paradigm makes it possible to compare parametric and histogram-based neural spike train models directly. These results suggest that the time-rescaling theorem can be a valuable tool for neural spike train data analysis.
The distribution of morphine-containing cells in the central nervous system, adrenal gland, and its presence in blood may serve to demonstrate that this signal molecule can act as a hormone besides its role in cell-to-cell signaling within the brain. This speculative review is the result of a literature evaluation with an emphasis on studies from our laboratory. Opioid peptides and opiate alkaloids have been found to influence cardiac and vascular function. They have also been reported to promote ischemic preconditioning protection in the heart. Given the presence of morphine and the novel mu(3) opiate receptor on vascular endothelial cells, including cardiac and vascular endothelial cells in the median eminence, it would appear that endogenous opiate alkaloids are involved in modulating cardiac function, possible at the hormonal level. This peripheral target tissue, via nitric oxide coupling to mu opiate receptors, may serve to down regulate the excitability of this tissue given the heart's high performance state as compared to that of the saphenous vein, a passive resistance conduit. With this in mind, morphine and other endogenous opiate alkaloids may function as a hormone.
Demonstration that cleavage of both APP and Notch are dependent on the product of the early onset Alzheimer's disease gene, presenilin-1 (PS1), has raised the possibility that Notch function may be altered in AD. This finding also suggests that Notch may be affected by APPgamma-secretase inhibitors under development for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, as these target PS1. Data that address these questions have been lacking, due to inability to specifically modulate PS1 activity in a system directly relevant to the adult human brain. Using novel highly specific inhibitors of PS1/gamma-secretase, we demonstrate that modulation of PS1 activity in human CNS neurons not only affects Abeta generation, but also has unanticipated effects on Notch and its activity. We demonstrate that intracellular trafficking of Notch in human CNS neurons is altered by inhibition of PS1 and is accompanied by dramatic changes in neurite morphology, consistent with inhibition of Notch activity. These data, together with immunohistochemical evidence of elevation of Notch pathway expression in AD brain, suggest that Notch dysregulation may contribute to the neuritic dystrophy characteristically seen in Alzheimer's disease brain. In addition, they raise the possibility that inhibition of gamma-secretase/PS1 may have clinically beneficial effects on the neuritic pathology of AD, in addition to its expected effect to reduce amyloid burden.
Buoyant membrane fractions containing presenilin 1 (PS1), an essential component of the gamma-secretase complex, and APP CTFbeta, a gamma-secretase substrate, can be isolated from cultured cells and brain by several different fractionation procedures that are compatible with in vitro gamma-secretase assays. Analysis of these gradients for amyloid beta protein (Abeta) and CTFgamma production indicated that gamma-secretase activity is predominantly localized in these buoyant membrane microdomains. Consistent with this localization, we find that gamma-secretase activity is cholesterol dependent. Depletion of membrane cholesterol completely inhibits gamma-secretase cleavage, which can be restored by cholesterol replacement. Thus, altering cholesterol levels may influence the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD) by influencing production and deposition of Abeta within cholesterol rich membrane microdomains.
In this review, we describe insights into beta-amyloid (Abeta) production using aged dogs as a model of human brain aging. The advantage of using dogs is that they naturally accumulate Abeta neuropathology with age. In parallel, dogs also develop age-associated learning and memory impairments. Thus, dogs can complement existing transgenic and nonhuman primate models typically used in aging studies. Dogs can live up to 18-19 years of age and companion dogs share the same environment as humans. Morphological brain changes as a function of age are clearly visible in vivo using magnetic image resonance scans. At the light microscopic level, dogs accumulate diffuse plaques with a distribution similar to that observed in human brain. Confocal studies suggest that Abeta accumulates on neuronal membranes in a segregated pattern. This pattern has been confirmed at the ultrastructural level using electron microscopy and provides insight into the deposition of Abeta into the extracellular space, possibly prior to overt plaque formation. Further, double immunogold labeling studies demonstrate that Abeta associated with the plasma membrane is colocalized with presenilin. These in vivo observations suggest a common site for both Abeta and presenilin supporting the hypothesis that the latter is involved with APP processing.
This study was performed to analyze the effects of glutamate and the epileptogenic agent pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) on neuronal glucose metabolism. Cerebellar granule neurons were incubated for 2 h in medium containing 3 mM [U-(13)C]glucose, with and without 0.25 mM glutamate and/or 10 mM PTZ. In the presence of PTZ, decreased glucose consumption with unchanged lactate release was observed, indicating decreased glucose oxidation. PTZ also slowed down tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle activity as evidenced by the decreased amounts of labeled aspartate and [1,2-(13)C]glutamate. When glutamate was present, glucose consumption was also decreased. However, the amount of glutamate, derived from [U-(13)C]glucose via the first turn of the TCA cycle, was increased. The decreased amount of [1,2-(13)C]glutamate, derived from the second turn in the TCA cycle, and increased amount of aspartate indicated the dilution of label due to the entrance of unlabeled glutamate into TCA cycle. In the presence of glutamate plus PTZ, the effect of PTZ was enhanced by glutamate. Labeled alanine was detected only in the presence of glutamate plus PTZ, which indicated that oxaloacetate was a better amino acid acceptor than pyruvate. Furthermore, there was also evidence for intracellular compartmentation of oxaloacetate metabolism. Glutamate and PTZ caused similar metabolic changes, however, via different mechanisms. Glutamate substituted for glucose as energy substrate in the TCA cycle, whereas, PTZ appeared to decrease mitochondrial activity.
Cortical cells from embryonic mice (E17) showed a rapid cell-death under the serum-free condition. The addition of nefiracetam at 0.1-10 microM increased the survival activity, while aniracetam at the same concentrations did not. The cell death was characterized to be apoptotic, since dead cells showed nuclear condensation, fragmentation, and TUNEL-positive staining. The nefiracetam-induced anti-apoptotic activity was completely blocked by 1 microM nifedipine or omega-conotoxin GVIA, and partially by 1 microM verapamil. These results suggest that the reported anti-amnesic action of nefiracetam in ischemic animals may be partly attributed to the neuroprotective action.
Recent evidence suggests a link between the aberrant re-expression of cell cycle proteins in adult neurons of the Alzheimer's disease brain and the process of apoptotic degeneration. Here we will discuss this unexpected phenomenon as related to the mechanisms of beta-amyloid toxicity, and its significance for therapeutic possibilities.
Metabolism of glutamine was determined under a variety of conditions to study compartmentation in cortical synaptosomes. The combined intracellular and extracellular amounts of [U-13C] GABA, [U-13C]glutamate and [U-13C]glutamine were the same in synaptosomes incubated with U-13C]glutamine in the presence and absence of glucose. However, the concentration of these amino acids was decreased in the latter group, demonstrating the requirement for glucose to maintain the size of neurotransmitter pools. In hypoglycemic synaptosomes more [U-13C]glutamine was converted to [U-13C]aspartate, and less glutamate was re-synthesized from the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, suggesting use of the partial TCA cycle from alpha-ketoglutarate to oxaloacetate for energy. Compartmentation was studied in synaptosomes incubated with glucose plus labeled and unlabeled glutamine and glutamate. Incubation with [U-13C]glutamine plus unlabeled glutamate gave rise to [U-13C]GABA but not labeled aspartate; however, incubation with [U-13C]glutamate plus unlabeled glutamine gave rise to [U-13C]aspartate, but not labeled GABA. Thus the endogenous glutamate formed via glutaminase in synaptic terminals is preferentially used for GABA synthesis, and is metabolized differently than glutamate taken up from the extracellular milieu.
Cerebellar granule neurons were incubated with or without glucose (3 mM) in the presence or absence of citrate (20 mM) using normoxic and/or hypoxic incubation conditions. During 4 h of hypoglycemia and also during hypoxia plus hypoglycemia, citrate increased lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) leakage from the cells and decreased mitochondrial activity, the latter was also the case in the presence of glucose. After 24 h of hypoglycemia, however, citrate decreased LDH leakage slightly, possibly due to its metabolism in the tricarboxylic acid cycle under these conditions. It should be noted that during mild hypoxia plus hypoglycemia a reduced LDH leakage was observed when compared to hypoglycemia alone. The 4 h low oxygen period did protect the neurons also during the 20 h re-oxygenation period. The present study might indicate that incubation of brain cell cultures in an atmosphere of air (30% oxygen) and 5% CO2, which is used in most laboratories, can be toxic and that oxygen concentration should be lowered considerably to mimic conditions in the brain.
Carbamazepine (CBZ) has been extensively used in the treatment of epilepsy, as well as in the treatment of neuropathic pain and affective disorders. However, the mechanisms of action of this drug are not completely elucidated and are still a matter of debate. Since CBZ is not very effective in some epileptic patients and may cause several adverse effects, several antiepileptic drugs have been developed by structural variation of CBZ, such as oxcarbazepine (OXC), which is used in the treatment of epilepsy since 1990. (S)-(-)-10-acetoxy-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenz [b,f]azepine-5-carboxamide (BIA 2-093) and 10,11-dihydro-10-hydroxyimino-5H-dibenz[b,f] azepine-5-carboxamide (BIA 2-024), which were recently developed by BIAL, are new putative antiepileptic drugs, with some improved properties. In this review, we will focus on the mechanisms of action of CBZ and its derivatives, OXC, BIA 2-093 and BIA 2-024. The available data indicate that the anticonvulsant efficacy of these AEDs is mainly due to the inhibition of sodium channel activity.
Dopamine-releasing protein (DARP) is a potent regulator of dopamine (DA) release known to be involved in the development of rat catecholaminergic systems. In the present study, we examined the internalization and transport of DARP-36aa, a synthetic peptide derived from the N-terminal sequence of DARP, in rat C6 glioma cells. A colloidal gold DARP-36aa conjugate (DARP-36aa: AU) and biotinylated DARP-36aa were employed to visualize internalization and intracellular transport of DARP-36aa. Electron microscopy demonstrated that DARP-36aa: AU was rapidly incorporated into C6 glioma cells. Internalization via clathrin-coated pits and vesicles was clearly observed followed by transport and sorting of DARP-36aa: AU into multivesicular bodies, tubulo-vesicular endosomes, and lysosomes. Internalization of DARP-36aa: AU was also examined in primary mesencephalic cell cultures where a similar pattern of internalization and transport via clathrin-coated pits and vesicles was observed. Fluorescence microscopy using a biotinylated DARP-36aa/avidin-rhodamine conjugate revealed that DARP-36aa is diffusely distributed on the plasmalemma prior to internalization at 4 degrees C. Following a 30-min incubation at 37 degrees C DARP-36aa was concentrated in the cytosol, particularly in areas surrounding cellular projections and the perikaryon. Immunocytochemical studies employing biotinylated DARP-36aa and an anti-clathrin heavy chain antibody demonstrated that DARP-36aa and clathrin colocalize during DARP-36aa internalization. We also observed a marked increase in tyrosine phosphorylation of a 45-kD protein in response to DARP-33a stimulation in C6 glioma cells. Genistein, a specific tyrosine kinase inhibitor, significantly inhibited DARP-36aa: AU internalization and transport in C6 glioma cells. These findings suggest that tyrosine kinase activity may result in DARP-36aa receptor-mediated endocytosis.
Enumeration of small groups of four or fewer objects is very fast and accurate (often called &quot;subitizing&quot;), but gets slower and more error prone for more than four items (&quot;counting&quot;). Many theories have been proposed to account for this dichotomy, most suggesting that &quot;subitizing&quot; and &quot;counting&quot; are two qualitatively different and separable processes. Others, in contrast, have proposed that the two operations reflect two different levels along a continuum of complexity. In this paper we present a PET study that attempts to characterize subitizing and counting at a neural level in order to investigate whether they are implemented as separate or functionally overlapping processes. Subjects performed an enumeration task on visual arrays of dots that varied in numerosity (1-4 and 6-9 dots) and spatial arrangement (canonical and random). The results demonstrated a common network for subitizing and counting that comprises extrastriate middle occipital and intraparietal areas. The intensity and spatial extent of this network were modulated by the number of dots and their spatial arrangement: activation increased as the number of items in the visual array increased, reaching maximum peak and extent for counting 6-9 randomly arranged items. Direct comparison between subitizing and counting showed that counting, relative to subitizing, was correlated with increased activity in this occipitoparietal network, while subitizing did not show areas of increased activation with respect to counting. Results speak against the idea of the two processes being implemented in separable neural systems.
One of the most compelling challenges for modern neuroscience is the influence of awareness on behavior. We studied prefrontal correlates of conscious and subconscious motor adjustments to changing auditory rhythms using regional cerebral blood flow measurements. At a subconscious level, movement adjustments were performed employing bilateral ventral mediofrontal cortex. Awareness of change without explicit knowledge of the nature of change led to additional ventral prefrontal and premotor but not dorsolateral prefrontal activations. Only fully conscious motor adaptations to a changing rhythmic pattern showed prominent involvement of anterior cingulate and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. These results demonstrate that while ventral prefrontal areas may be engaged in motor adaptations performed subconsciously, only fully conscious motor control which includes motor planning will involve dorsolateral prefrontal cortex.
We have previously shown that galectin-1 is a factor capable of converting mouse dermal fibroblasts to the myogenic lineage [Cell Transplant 2000;9:519]. Here, we report that human dermal fibroblasts are also capable of expressing the myogenic marker, desmin, when grown in muscle-cell-conditioned media. Furthermore, the human foetal skin cells also express this marker when grown in the presence of galectin-1. These results highlight the importance of galectin-1 in the conversion of both human and murine skin cells to a myogenic lineage. Thus galectin-1 could be an important tool for use in autologous cell therapies for the treatment of human muscular dystrophies.
The hallmark of the lesions in multiple sclerosis (MS) is inflammatory demyelination with sparing of axons. Recent neuropathological and neuroradiological investigations show that structural changes of the axons occur, both in plaques and in the normal appearing white matter. A better understanding of the axonal damage in MS is important, since this may be responsible for permanent disability. We have investigated the immunoreactivity for ubiquitin, a sensitive method to detect axonal dystrophy and accumulation of abnormal proteins in pathological conditions of the nervous system, in the brains of six cases of MS (age range 39-66 years). Tissue blocks were fixed in formalin and embedded in paraffin. A panel of antibodies was used: anti-ubiquitin, anti-neurofilament (SMI-31 + SMI-32), anti-amyloid precursor protein and anti-PGP9.5. We focused our attention on chronic plaques, recognized by the absence of Luxol Fast Blue B-positive inclusions in macrophages. SMI-31 + SMI-32 showed the presence of a variable amount of axons within the plaques; the axonal network within the plaques was looser than outside. No ubiquitin reactivity was present in chronic plaques. In the normally myelinated white matter surrounding the plaques, a dense granular ubiquitin immunoreactivity was found both near and far from the plaque edge. No similar staining was found in control brains. Ubiquitination is the first step of a non-lysosomal degradation pathway of proteins. The present findings suggest a derangement of this proteolytic pathway in the axons outside the plaques, possibly as a consequence of chronic absence of myelin in the axonal segment inside the plaque. The spectrum of axonal changes in MS appears to be wider than expected and involves the apparently normal white matter.
Sandhoff disease is a heritable lysosomal storage disease resulting from impaired degradation of GM2 ganglioside and related substrates. A mouse model of Sandhoff disease created by gene targeting displays progressive neurological manifestations, similar to patients with the disease. In the present in vivo and in vitro studies, we examined morphological and functional abnormalities of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurones in Sandhoff disease mice at an asymptomatic stage (approximately 1 month of age). Light microscopic studies with Nissl staining and immunocytochemistry suggested extensive intracytoplasmic storage of GM2 ganglioside in the Sandhoff mouse DRG neurones. These findings were consistent with the results of electron microscopy, in which a huge number of pleomorphic inclusion bodies immunoreactive for GM2 ganglioside were present in the cytoplasm of the neurones. The inclusion bodies were also identified in satellite cells and Schwann cells in the Sandhoff mouse DRG. The survival ratios of DRG neurones after 1, 2, 4 and 6 days in culture were significantly lower in the Sandhoff mice than in the age-matched heterozygous mice. The ratio of neurite-bearing cells on poly-l-lysine-coated dishes after 2 days in culture was also lower by approximately 10% in the Sandhoff mice compared to the heterozygotes, but additional coating of laminin onto poly-l-lysine dramatically enhanced the neurite extension from the neurones in both groups of mice. These results indicate that accumulation of GM2 ganglioside in DRG neurones impairs the capability of the neurones to survive in vitro, although viable neurones from the Sandhoff mice in culture can regenerate neurites nearly as well as unaffected neurones.
Several CART (cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript) peptides have been identified in the brain. One peptide, rlCART 55-102, has been previously characterized in locomotor and feeding assays in rodents. The present study characterized the locomotor-stimulating effect of several additional CART peptides after intra-VTA administration in rats. The results confirm earlier findings that intra-VTA administration of rlCART 55-102 dose-dependently increased locomotor activity. Intra-VTA administration of rlCART 62-102 increased activity comparable with that produced by rlCART 55-102. However, intra-VTA administration of rsCART 10-89 and rlCART 55-59 did not increase motor activity. These results suggest that the portion of rlCART 55-102 responsible for increasing motor activity must reside within the portion of the protein also encompassed by rlCART 61-102, as the initial 5-amino acid sequence of rlCART 55-102 did not increase motor activity. In summary, rlCART 55-102 and rlCART 62-102 are behaviorally active in this locomotor assay, while rsCART 10-89 and rlCART 55-59 are not.

SKF 83959 that has a unique antiparkinson profile in animal models of Parkinson's disease is an in vitro dopamine D1 antagonist of receptors coupled to adenylyl cyclase. We hypothesized that SKF 83959, among others, interacts with dopamine D1 receptors coupled to adenylyl cyclase in the nucleus accumbens and the prefrontal cortex. Effects of intra-accumbal injections of SKF 83959 on locomotor activity were compared to effects of the dopamine D1 agonist SKF 81297 and the dopamine D1 antagonist SCH 39166. Similarly to SCH 39166, SKF 83959 did not affect locomotor activity, but counteracted SKF 81297-induced locomotor activity. Effects of unilateral intra-prefrontal injections of SKF 83959 on rotational behaviour were compared to the effects of the dopamine D1 agonist SKF 81297 and the dopamine D1 antagonists SCH 23390 and SCH 39166 in rats selected on basis of their high locomotor response to novelty and pretreated with a subcutaneous injection of 0.75 mg/kg dexamphetamine. Like SCH 39166 and SCH 23390, SKF 83959 induced a bias for contralateral rotating and blocked the SKF 81297-induced bias for ipsilateral rotating. In conclusion, SKF 83959 is an in vivo antagonist of dopamine D1 receptors that are coupled to adenylyl cyclase in the nucleus accumbens and the prefrontal cortex. The role of these receptors in the antiparkinson profile of SKF 83959 is discussed.
The finding that serotonin (5-HT) can modulate dopamine (DA) and norepinephrine (NE) release in the brain has led us to hypothesize that fluoxetine, a selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitor, may influence the ability of bupropion, a preferential DA and NE dual reuptake inhibitor, to modulate extracellular DA and NE concentrations in some brain areas. The present study was designed to evaluate this hypothesis by assessing the effects of fluoxetine on bupropion-induced changes in extracellular monoamine concentrations by means of in vivo microdialysis. Three mesocorticolimbic areas including hypothalamus (Ht), prefrontal cortex (Pfc) and nucleus accumbens (Acb) were selected based on their relevance to depression and antidepressant actions. In the Ht of untreated rats, bupropion dose-dependently (s.c.) increased extracellular DA and NE concentrations either in single injection study or in sequential injection study. Thus, 10 mg/kg of bupropion had no effect on the DA and NE concentrations, while 30 mg/kg of bupropion induced transient but significant increases (about 240% of the baselines), and 100 mg/kg of bupropion induced marked and persistent increases (over 600% of the baselines) in the DA and NE concentrations. In the rats pre-treated with fluoxetine (10 mg/kg, s.c., 90 min interval), the threshold dose of bupropion (10 mg/kg) significantly increased the DA and NE concentrations to more than 350% of the baselines, and 30 mg/kg of bupropion markedly increased the DA and NE concentrations to more than 570% of the baselines in the Ht. The fluoxetine pre-treatment also potentiated the DA increases induced by 10 mg/kg of bupropion in the Pfc (260% for bupropion alone vs 357% for the combination) and in the Acb (224% vs 645%). The bupropion-induced NE increases were potentiated by fluoxetine mainly in the Ht. Bupropion did not significantly affect the extracellular 5-HT concentrations in all the 3 brain areas tested. In summary, the present study demonstrated that bupropion can increase extracellular DA and NE concentrations in several mesocorticolimbic areas, which may have an impact on bupropion's antidepressant actions. Furthermore, fluoxetine can potentiate the bupropion-induced DA and NE increases, which may produce more effective and rapid antidepressant actions.
