
Iron regulation in the brain is both necessary and highly complex. Too little or too much iron can compromise neurological function, yet we still do not know all of the regulatory processes. In our research, we seek to identify genes and gene networks underlying individual differences in brain iron regulation. To this end, we fed mice from 20+ inbred strains a diet low in iron from weaning to 4 months of age. At sacrifice, we measured iron content in the ventral midbrain (VMB). The VMB contains the substantia nigra, a region particularly vulnerable to iron imbalance. The results showed high, inter-strain variability in dietary iron reduction, from almost no loss to more than 40 % vs. control. When we performed quantitative trait loci (QTL) analysis, we observed a significant area on chromosome 2. Within this QTL, we selected glial high-affinity glutamate transporter 1 (Glt1) as the leading candidate. Expression of this gene is both correlated with VMB iron and is also cis-modulated by local sequence variants that segregate in the BXD family. VMB expression differences of Glt1 in six strains covary with differential susceptibility to VMB iron loss.
Despite the absence of stimulation or task conditions the cortex exhibits highly structured spatio-temporal activity patterns. These patterns are known as resting state networks (RSNs) and emerge as low-frequency fluctuations (&lt;0.1 Hz) observed in the fMRI signal of human subjects during rest. We are interested in the relationship between structural connectivity of the cortex and the fluctuations exhibited during resting conditions. We are especially interested in the effect of degree of connectivity on resting state dynamics as the default mode network (DMN) is highly connected. We find in experimental resting fMRI data that the DMN is the functional network that is most frequently active and for the longest time. In large-scale computational simulations of the cortex based on the corresponding underlying DTI/DSI based neuroanatomical connectivity matrix, we additionally find a strong correlation between the mean degree of functional networks and the proportion of time they are active. By artificially modifying different types of neuroanatomical connectivity matrices in the model, we were able to demonstrate that only models based on structural connectivity containing hubs give rise to this relationship. We conclude that, during rest, the cortex alternates efficiently between explorations of its externally oriented functional repertoire and internally oriented processing as a consequence of the DMN's high degree of connectivity.
Separate neuroscience experiments have examined two properties of neural coding for perceptual stimuli. Adaptation studies seek a graded recovery from neural adaptation with ever greater dissimilarity between pairs of stimuli. Studies of prototype effects test for a larger absolute response to a stimulus which is distant from the center of a stimulus space. While intellectually distinct, these effects are confounded in measurement in standard neuroscience paradigms and can be mistaken for one another. Stimuli which are more distinctive are less subject to adaptation from perceptual neighbors. Therefore, a putative prototype effect may simply result from greater adaptation of prototypical stimuli by other stimuli in the experiment. Conversely, stimulus pairs which are the most perceptually distant from one another, and therefore expected to show the greatest recovery from adaptation, disproportionately draw from the extremes of the stimulus space. Thus, an apparent neural similarity effect may be created by an underlying prototype representation. We simulate BOLD fMRI results driven by each possible effect and demonstrate spurious results in support of the complementary effect. We then present an example fMRI experiment that demonstrates the confound and how it may be minimized. Finally, we discuss the implications of this intrinsic confound for studies of perceptual representation, neural coding, and category learning.
The abilities to empathize and to systemize, two fundamental dimensions of cognitive style, are characterized by apparent individual differences. These abilities are typically measured using an empathizing quotient (EQ) and a systemizing quotient (SQ) questionnaire, respectively. The purpose of this study was to reveal any correlations between EQ and SQ scores and regional gray matter volumes in healthy children by applying voxel-based morphometry to magnetic resonance images. We collected MRIs of brain structure and administered children's versions of the EQ and SQ questionnaires (EQ-C and SQ-C, respectively) to 261 healthy children aged 5-15 years. Structural MRI data were segmented, normalized, and smoothed using an optimized voxel-based morphometric analysis. Next, we analyzed the correlation between regional gray matter volume and EQ-C and SQ-C scores adjusting for age, sex, and intracranial volume. The EQ-C scores showed significant positive correlations with the regional gray matter volumes of the left fronto-opercular and superior temporal cortices, including the precentral gyrus, the inferior frontal gyrus, the superior temporal gyrus, and the insula, which are functionally related to empathic processing. Additionally, SQ-C scores showed a significant negative correlation with the regional gray matter volume of the left posterior parietal cortex, which is functionally involved in selective attention processing. Our findings suggest that individual differences in cognitive style pertaining to empathizing or systemizing abilities could be explained by differences in the volume of brain structures that are functionally relevant to empathizing and systemizing.
The feasibility of functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) to assess resting-state functional connectivity (RSFC) has already been demonstrated. However the validity of fNIRS-based RSFC has rarely been studied. In the present study, fNIRS and fMRI data were simultaneously acquired from 21 subjects during the resting state. After the spatial correspondence was established between the two imaging modalities by transforming the fMRI data into fNIRS measurements space, the index of Between-Modality-Similarity (BMS) of RSFC was evaluated across multiple spatial scales. First, the RSFC between the bilateral primary motor ROI was quite similar between fNIRS and fMRI for all the subjects (BMS(ROI) = 0.95  0.04 for HbO and BMS(ROI) = 0.86  0.13 for HbR). Second, group-level sensorimotor RSFC maps (0.79 for HbO and 0.74 for HbR) showed higher between-modality similarity than individual-level RSFC maps (0.48  0.16 for HbO and 0.41  0.15 for HbR). Finally, for the first time, we combined fNIRS and graph theory to investigate topological properties of resting-state brain networks. The clustering coefficient (C(p)) and characteristic path length (L(p)) which are the most important network topological parameters, both showed high between-modality similarities (BMS(Cp) = 0.90  0.03 for HbO and 0.90  0.06 for HbR; BMS(Lp) = 0.92  0.04 for HbO and 0.91  0.05 for HbR). In summary, the converged results across all the spatial scales demonstrated that fNIRS is capable of providing comparable RSFC measures to fMRI, and thus provide direct evidence for the validity of the optical brain connectivity and the optical brain network approaches to functional brain integration during resting state.
Real-time in vivo oxygen amperometry, a technique that allows measurement of regional brain tissue oxygen (O(2)) has been previously shown to bear relationship to the BOLD signal measured with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) protocols. In the present study, O(2) amperometry was applied to the study of reward processing in the rat nucleus accumbens to validate the technique with a behavioural process known to cause robust signals in human neuroimaging studies. After acquisition of a cued-lever pressing task a robust increase in O(2) tissue levels was observed in the nucleus accumbens specifically following a correct lever press to the rewarded cue. This O(2) signal was modulated by cue reversal but not lever reversal, by differences in reward magnitudes and by the motivational state of the animal consistent with previous reports of the role of the nucleus accumbens in both the anticipation and representation of reward value. Moreover, this modulation by reward value was related more to the expected incentive value rather than the hedonic value of reward, also consistent with previous reports of accumbens coding of &quot;wanting&quot; of reward. Altogether, these results show striking similarities to those obtained in human fMRI studies suggesting the use of oxygen amperometry as a valid surrogate for fMRI in animals performing cognitive tasks, and a powerful approach to bridge between different techniques of measurement of brain function.
Neuroprotection to attenuate or block the ischemic cascade and salvage neuronal damage has been extensively explored for the treatment of ischemic stroke. In the last two decades, neuroprotective strategy has been evolving from targeting a signal pathway in neurons to protecting all neurovascular components and improving cell-cell and cell-extracellular matrix interaction that ultimately benefits the brain recovery after ischemic stroke. The progression from potentially reversible to irreversible injury in the ischemic penumbra has provided the opportunity to develop therapies to attenuate the ischemic stroke damage. Thus, the ischemic penumbra has been the main target for the current neuroprotective intervention. However, despite our increasing knowledge of the physiologic, mechanistic, and imaging characterizations of the ischemic penumbra, no effective neuroprotective therapy has been found so far for the treatment of ischemic stroke. The current acute neuroprotective approach focusing on the damaging mechanisms at the ischemic penumbra is greatly limited by the rapid evolution of the deleterious cascades in the ischemic penumbra. Neuroprotective intervention attempts to promote endogenous repairing in the transition zone of the penumbra for the therapeutic purposes may overcome the unrealistic therapeutic windows under the current neuroprotective strategy. In addition, increasing evidence has indicated ischemic stroke could induce long-lasing cellular and hemodynamic changes beyond the ischemic territory. It is unclear whether and how the global responses induced by the ischemic cascade contribute to the progression of cognitive impairment after ischemic stroke. The prolonged pathophysiological cascades induced by ischemic stroke beyond the ischemic penumbra might provide novel therapeutic opportunities for the neuroprotective intervention, which could prevent or slow down the progression of vascular dementia after ischemic stroke.
Patients with chronic migraine (CM) and medication overuse (MO) have a high frequency of psychiatric comorbidity or psychopathological traits, the presence of which may have important implications for the course of the CM and the MO, both for response to treatment and possible relapses. Overuse of symptomatic drugs is regarded as one of the most important risk factor for the transformation of episodic migraine into CM and drug-seeking tendency due to fear of headache in chronic migraine patients shares with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) the compulsive quality of the behavior. Aim of this study was to review the clinical history of a sample of CM patients with MO in which an obsessive-compulsive trait was identified, performing a comparison with a sample of patients without obsessive-compulsive trait. We selected 14 patients with positivity to Spectrum Project OBS (obsessive-compulsive disorder) questionnaire and other 14 patients with negativity to the same tool from among a sample of patients who were enrolled in a previous study on the psychopathological profile of patients suffering from CM with MO. According to data obtained from the clinical records referring to the previous 5 years, patients with OBS questionnaire positivity showed a worse clinical course and a tendency to early relapse in MO after symptomatic medication withdrawal. Our results show that the comorbidity of OCD should be always evaluated in patients with CM and MO as it may play a relevant role--particularly if not treated--among the risk factors favoring the progression of episodic migraine to the chronic form, and/or the tendency to a pathological behavior that prompts the overuse of symptomatic medications.
Migraine is a chronic, recurrent, disabling condition that affects millions of people worldwide. Proper acute care treatment for migraineurs is based on triptans, a class of specific medications approved over 20 years ago. Triptans are serotonin (5-HT1B/1D) receptor agonists that are generally effective, well tolerated and safe. Seven triptans are available worldwide, although not all are available in every country, with multiple routes of administration, giving to doctors and patients a wide choice. Despite the similarities of the available triptans, pharmacological heterogeneity offers slightly different efficacy profiles. Triptans are not pain medications, they are abortive migraine medications which cannot prevent migraines. In addition to migraine attacks, triptans are also helpful for cluster headaches. If they are useful in other primary headaches rather than migraine and cluster headache it is yet to be addressed. In the literature there are only limited controlled clinical data to support a migraine-selective activity for triptans. Reports are available about efficacy of triptans to stop attacks of other types of primary headache, such as tension type headache, hypnic headache and other rare forms of primary headaches. On the other hand, sumatriptan failed to treat the indomethacin-responsive primary headache disorders like chronic paroxysmal hemicrania and hemicrania continua, nor was it effective in the myofascial temporal muscle pain or in atypical facial pain. Why triptans are effective in so different types of primary headaches remain unclear. Up to date, it is not clear whether the antimigrainous activity of the triptans involves an action only in the periphery or in the CNS as well. Probably we should consider triptans as &quot;pain killers&quot; and not only as &quot;migraine killers&quot;. We clearly need additional studies on triptans as putative analgesics in well-accepted animal and clinical models of acute and chronic somatic pain.
Headache is one of the most common symptoms of idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH). The aim of this study was to investigate the applicability of the diagnostic criteria for &quot;Headache attributed to IIH&quot; included in the current classification of headache disorders, particularly as far as the main headache features. A consecutive clinical series of IIH patients with demonstration of increased intracranial pressure by lumbar puncture in the recumbent position were enrolled. Among a total of 22 patients, headache was reported by 14. The proportion of patients reporting the main headache features required by diagnostic criteria were: 93 % for daily or nearly-daily occurrence; 71.5 % for diffuse/non-pulsating pain; 57 % for aggravation by coughing/straining. Thus, these three headache features, at least one of which is required for diagnosis of headache attributed to IIH, were present in the vast majority of our sample, suggesting that their inclusion should be regarded as appropriate. The analysis of our results may suggest possible changes in the current ICDH-2 criteria for headache attributed to IIH, based on the following considerations: the existence of remarkable differences as far as the relative frequency of each headache feature; the fact that diffuse and non-pulsating pain-included in the current classification as a single requirement-were not always found together; the high frequency of migrainous associated symptoms (nausea or photophobia-phonophobia were present in 71.5 % cases).
Migraine patients with frequent and severe headaches need prophylaxis. The most used approach is monotherapy, i.e. one of the available preventive compounds is prescribed to the patient, testing its efficacy and tolerability during a treatment period of some months. Some clinicians use to add a second (or even a third) preventive compound to improve the effects of pharmacological prophylaxis, using an approach that can be defined as polytherapy. In this paper, the main advantages of monotherapy are briefly reviewed, taking into account several aspects: published evidence on polytherapy; the possibility to evaluate the adverse events of the prescribed treatment and to assess its real efficacy; the possibility of addressing different patient's needs, particularly the treatment of comorbidities and the development of an effective patient-physician communication.
A relevant proportion of patients say that their migraine attacks may be precipitated by dietary items, the percentage of patients reporting foods as trigger ranging in different study from 12 to 60 %. Fasting, alcohol, chocolate and cheese are the dietary precipitating factors more frequently reported. The finding that diet-sensitive migraineurs are usually sensitive to several and different foods, lead to the hypothesis of antigenic similarities between these disparate foods or common chemical constituents, but a clear scientific explanation of the mechanisms implicated in the development of migraine attacks supposedly precipitated by food is still lacking. The possibility that the elimination diets based on the hypothesis of food hypersensivity IgE or IgG-mediated improve migraine has been explored in different studies but the results are inconclusive. Fasting as trigger for migraine is frequently reported. Some migraineurs show reactive hypoglycaemia due to diet-induced hyperinsulinism. In conclusion, identification of environmental factors (including dietary factors) that consistently trigger migraine in some subjects may be helpful to reduce attacks frequency. The biological mechanism by means of triggers in general and food in particular precipitate migraine attacks remains obscure.
Migraine with aura affects ~20-30 % of migraineurs and it is much less common than migraine without aura. The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy of frovatriptan 2.5 mg and zolmitriptan 2.5 mg in the treatment of migraine with aura. Analysis was carried out in a subset of 18 subjects with migraine with aura (HIS criteria) out of the 107 enrolled in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, cross-over study. According to the study design, each patient had to treat three episodes of migraine in no more than 3 months with one drug, before switching to the other treatment. The rate of pain-free episodes at 2 h was significantly (p &lt; 0.05) larger under frovatriptan (45.8 %) than under zolmitriptan (16.7 %). Pain free at 4 h, pain relief at 2 and 4 h and recurrent episodes were similar between the two treatments, while sustained pain-free episode was significantly (p &lt; 0.05) more frequent during frovatriptan treatment (33.3 vs. 8.3 % zolmitriptan). Our study suggests that frovatriptan is superior to zolmitriptan in the immediate treatment of patients with migraine with aura, and it is capable of maintaining its acute analgesic effect over 48 h.
In the field of so-called chronic daily headache, it is not easy for migraine that worsens progressively until it becomes daily or almost daily to find a precise and universally recognized place within the current international headache classification systems. A proposal is advanced to differentiate between a form of high-frequency migraine without aura (10-20 days of headache per month for at least 3 months), to be considered as a migraine without aura subtype, and a form of transformed migraine (TM), to be considered as a complication of migraine. TM--a name that should be preferred to chronic migraine (CM)--would then replace the latter, from which it would distinguish itself by the more restrictive diagnostic criteria (at least 20 days of headache per month for at least 1 year, with no more than 5 consecutive days free of symptoms; same clinical features of migraine without aura for at least 10 of those 20 days).



Diagnosis of adult-onset Pompe disease is sometimes challenging because of its clinical similarities to muscular dystrophy and the paucity of disease-specific vacuolated fibers in the skeletal muscle pathology. We describe two patients with adult-onset Pompe disease whose muscle pathology showed no typical vacuolated fibers but did show unique globular inclusions with acid phosphatase activity. The acid phosphatase-positive globular inclusions may be a useful diagnostic marker for adult-onset Pompe disease even when typical vacuolated fibers are absent.
Neglect is a neurological syndrome characterised by a lack of conscious perception of events localised in the contralesional side of space. Here, we consider the possible multisensory nature of this disorder, critically reviewing the literature devoted to multisensory manifestations and processing in neglect. Although its most striking manifestations have been observed in the visual domain, a number of studies demonstrate that neglect can affect virtually any sensory modality, in particular touch and audition. Furthermore, a few recent studies have reported a correlation in severity between visual and non-visual neglect-related deficits evaluated in the same patients, providing some preliminary support for a multisensory conception of neglect. Sensory stimulation and sensorimotor adaptation techniques, aimed at alleviating neglect, have also been shown to affect several sensory modalities, including some that were not directly affected by the intervention. Finally, in some cases neglect can bias multisensory interactions known to occur in healthy individuals, leading to abnormal behaviour or uncovering multisensory compensation mechanisms. This evidence, together with neurophysiological and neuroimaging data revealing the multisensory role played by the areas that are most commonly damaged in neglect patients, seems to speak in favour of neglect as a multisensory disorder. However, since most previous studies were not conducted with the specific purpose of systematically investigating the multisensory nature of neglect, we conclude that more research is needed to appropriately assess this question, and suggest some methodological guidelines that we hope will help clarify this issue. At present, the conception of neglect as a multisensory disorder remains a promising working hypothesis that may help define the pathophysiology of this syndrome.
Unilateral spatial neglect is a neurological disorder characterized by impaired orienting of attention to stimuli located in the contralesional space, typically following right-hemisphere damage. Neuropsychological investigations in the past two decades have demonstrated that neglect is caused by deficits affecting a widespread cortico-subcortical fronto-parietal network controlling spatial attention, but usually sparing early sensory pathways. As a consequence, certain residual abilities in sensory processing remain intact and still take place for stimuli in the neglected space, such as the extraction and organization of coherent or meaningful object features. Moreover, these residual abilities can alleviate inattention symptoms when contralesional stimuli are perceptually or biologically salient. Here we review recent studies suggesting that the emotional content of stimuli may also be processed despite impaired attention towards contralesional space, and that such processing may act to enhance attention and partly reduce neglect for these stimuli, relative to similar but emotionally neutral stimuli. For example, faces with emotional expressions, voices with emotional prosody, as well as pictures of scenes or even spiders have been found to be less severely extinguished from awareness in conditions of bilateral stimulations, and/or lead to fewer omissions in search tasks with multiple distracters. Gaze cues and reward learning might also produce similar effects. Altogether, these findings suggest that emotionally significant information is not only extracted from stimuli at neglected locations through spared pathways, but can also induce emotional biases in attention that partly counteract the abnormal spatial biases caused by fronto-parietal damage. We discuss results from neuropsychology and neuroimaging research suggesting that specific mechanisms for emotional attention might exist, centered on the amygdala and other limbic regions, and that these mechanisms can operate partly independent from other circuits controlling spatial and object-based attention. Although we are only beginning to understand these interactive effects of emotion and attention and to identify their neuroanatomical substrates, we believe that a deeper knowledge of such mechanisms and their conditions of optimal operation will help develop or improve therapeutic strategies in neglect patients.
Most group studies which have investigated neglect for near and far space have found an increased severity of symptoms in far space compared to near space. However, the majority of these studies used relatively small samples and based their findings almost exclusively on line bisection performance. The aim of the present study was, therefore, to explore the occurrence of neglect for near and far space in a larger group of unselected right brain damaged patients and to evaluate whether neglect specific to near and far space is a task-related deficit or generalises across distance irrespective of task. In addition, a lesion overlap analysis was carried out to identify critical lesion sites associated with distance specific neglect deficits. Thirty-eight right hemisphere damaged patients carried out a line bisection and a cancellation task by using a pen in near space (40 cm) and a laser pointer in far space (320 cm). The results showed that both the number of left-sided omissions and rightward bisection errors were significantly increased in near compared to far space. Distance specific dissociations, albeit less common, were more frequently observed for cancellation than line bisection. These results suggest that space representation in neglect is more severely impaired in near than in far space. In addition, distance related dissociations in neglect may depend on task demands. Although the anatomical findings were broadly consistent with a dorsal and ventral stream dichotomy for near and far space processing, they also suggest the involvement of intermediate structures in distance related neglect phenomena.
Neglect dyslexia--a peripheral reading disorder generally associated with left spatial neglect--is characterized by omissions or substitutions of the initial letters of words. Several observations suggest that neglect dyslexia errors are independent of viewer-centered coordinates; the disorder is therefore thought to reflect impairment at the level of object-centered representations. This hypothesis is indirectly supported by lesion studies connecting object-centered neglect errors with damage to posterior cortical regions lying in the ventral visual stream. Here, we performed a lesion-symptom mapping study of 40 patients with spatial neglect asked to read words presented at different positions relative to a viewer-centered coordinate frame. We found that the frequency of object-centered reading errors was constant across horizontal positions, whereas the frequency of entirely neglected words (reflecting a page-centered deficit) linearly increased from right to left. Damage to the intraparietal sulcus and the angular and middle temporal gyri was the best predictor of object-centered errors. We discuss these findings with reference to a role of the posterior parietal lobe in adapting the size of the attentional focus and biasing object representations elaborated in the ventral visual stream.
Patients with unilateral neglect tend to ignore sensory information from their contralesional hemispace. Many symptoms of neglect can be reduced by exposing patients to rightward-shifting prism goggles. It was noted that the effects on neglect symptoms last for at least two hours. This seems surprising in light of the fact that the after-effect of prism adaptation in healthy subjects lasts only for a few trials. To account for this discrepancy Michel et al. (2003) referred to anecdotal observations which suggested that neglect patients show little awareness of prism-induced spatial errors. They argued that this lack of awareness might interfere with more conscious attempts to compensate for the prism goggles (called strategic control) and thereby enhance the effects of more implicit corrective mechanisms (called spatial realignment) leading to more pronounced and longer-lasting after-effects. We examined this hypothesis in a group of neglect patients, patients with right-hemispheric lesions but no neglect and a group of healthy age-matched controls. Our findings confirm that strategic control mechanisms are impaired in neglect patients. However, their after-effects seem neither reduced nor pathologically increased, thereby suggesting that the two mechanisms of prism adaptation, namely strategic control and spatial realignment are quite independent of each other. Furthermore we found that these deficits are quite specific for neglect since other patients with right-hemisphere lesions but no neglect are not impaired in this task. We discuss the implications of our findings for our understanding of visual neglect, prism adaptation and the perception and action model.
Mood and anxiety disorders develop in some but not all individuals following exposure to stress and psychological trauma. However, the factors underlying individual differences in risk and resilience for these disorders, including genetic variation, remain to be determined. Isogenic inbred mouse strains provide a valuable approach to elucidating these factors. Here, we performed a comprehensive examination of the extinction-impaired 129S1/SvImJ (S1) inbred mouse strain for multiple behavioral, autonomic, neuroendocrine, and corticolimbic neuronal morphology phenotypes. We found that S1 exhibited fear overgeneralization to ambiguous contexts and cues, impaired context extinction and impaired safety learning, relative to the (good-extinguishing) C57BL/6J (B6) strain. Fear overgeneralization and impaired extinction was rescued by treatment with the front-line anxiety medication fluoxetine. Telemetric measurement of electrocardiogram signals demonstrated autonomic disturbances in S1 including poor recovery of fear-induced suppression of heart rate variability. S1 with a history of chronic restraint stress displayed an attenuated corticosterone (CORT) response to a novel, swim stressor. Conversely, previously stress-naive S1 showed exaggerated CORT responses to acute restraint stress or extinction training, insensitivity to dexamethasone challenge, and reduced hippocampal CA3 glucocorticoid receptor mRNA, suggesting downregulation of negative feedback control of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. Analysis of neuronal morphology in key neural nodes within the fear and extinction circuit revealed enlarged dendritic arbors in basolateral amygdala neurons in S1, but normal infralimbic cortex and prelimbic cortex dendritic arborization. Collectively, these data provide convergent support for the utility of the S1 strain as a tractable model for elucidating the neural, molecular and genetic basis of persistent, excessive fear.
Despite the strong association between impulsivity and addiction in humans, it is still a matter of debate whether impulsive choice predisposes to, or results from, drug dependence. Furthermore, it is unknown whether treating impulsivity can protect against relapse propensity. Therefore, this study explored the bidirectional relationship between impulsive choice and cocaine taking and seeking in rat behavioral models. In experiment 1, to determine whether impulsive choice predisposes to cocaine taking or seeking, rats were selected based on trait impulsivity in a delayed reward task and subsequently compared on various stages of cocaine self-administration (SA). To examine the consequence of cocaine intake on impulsive choice, impulsivity was monitored once a week throughout various stages of cocaine SA. To determine whether treating impulsive choice can protect against relapse propensity, in experiment 2, impulsive choice was manipulated by pharmacological interventions and cocaine-associated contextual cues. Trait impulsive choice as determined in experiment 1 predicted high extinction resistance and enhanced propensity to context-induced relapse in the cocaine SA model, whereas cocaine intake did not alter impulsive choice. Furthermore, acute changes in impulsive choice were not related to rates of context-induced relapse. Taken together, the current data indicate that trait impulsive choice predicts persistent cocaine seeking during extinction and enhanced propensity to relapse, whereas acute manipulations of impulsive choice had no favorable outcomes on relapse measures. These observations suggest that trait impulsivity can be used as a predictive factor for addiction liability, but treating this impulsivity does not necessarily protect against relapse.
The ability to infer value from the reactions of other people is a common and essential ability with a poorly understood neurobiology. Commonly, social learning matches one's values and behavior to what is perceived as normal for one's social group. This is known as conformity. Conformity of value correlates with neural activity shared by cognitions that depend on optimum catecholamine levels, but catecholamine involvement in conformity has not been tested empirically. Methylphenidate (MPH) is an indirect dopamine and noradrenalin agonist, commonly used for the treatment of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder for which it reduces undesirable behavior as evaluated by peers and authority figures, indicative of increased conformity. We hypothesized that MPH might increase conformity of value. In all, 38 healthy adult females received either a single oral 20mg dose of MPH or placebo (PL). Each subject rated 153 faces for trustworthiness followed immediately by the face's mean rating from a group of peers. After 30min and a 2-back continuous-performance working-memory task, subjects were unexpectedly asked to rate all the faces again. Both the groups tended to change their ratings towards the social norm. The MPH group exhibited twice the conformity effect of the PL group following moderate social conflict, but this did not occur following large conflicts. This suggests that MPH might enhance signals that would otherwise be too weak to evoke conformity. MPH did not affect 2-back performance. We provide a new working hypothesis of a neurocognitive mechanism by which MPH reduces socially disruptive behavior. We also provide novel evidence of catecholamine mediation of social learning [corrected].
The dopamine agonist pramipexole (PPX) can increase impulsiveness, and PPX therapy for neurological diseases (Parkinson's disease (PD) and restless leg syndrome) is associated with impulse control disorders (ICDs) in subpopulations of treated patients. A commonly reported ICD is pathological gambling of which risk taking is a prominent feature. Probability discounting is a measurable aspect of risk taking. We recently developed a probability discounting paradigm wherein intracranial self-stimulation (ICSS) serves as the positive reinforcer. Here we used this paradigm to determine the effects of PPX on discounting. We included assessments of a rodent model of PD, wherein 6-OHDA was injected into the dorsolateral striatum of both hemispheres, which produced persistent PD-like deficits in posture adjustment. Rats were trained to perform ICSS-mediated probability discounting, in which PD-like and control groups exhibited similar profiles. Rats were treated twice daily for 2 weeks with 2mg/kg ()PPX (ie, 1mg/kg of the active form), a dose that improved lesion-induced motor deficits. In both groups, ()PPX increased discounting; preference for the large reinforcer was enhanced 30-45% at the most uncertain probabilities. Tolerance did not develop with repeated treatments. Increased discounting subsided within 2 weeks of ()PPX cessation, and re-exposure to ()PPX reinstated heightened discounting. Such findings emulate the clinical scenario; therefore, ICSS for discounting assessments in rats exhibited high face validity. This model should prove useful in medication development where assessment of the propensity of a putative therapy to induce risk-taking behaviors is of interest.
Spontaneous recanalization of the occluded internal carotid artery (ICA) is more frequent than is generally believed. The timing of spontaneous recanalization remains unclear but it may occur as either an early or a late event. The aim of this case report is to emphasize the importance of spontaneous recanalization and its consequences. From September 2008 to November 2010 we prospectively followed patients with old ICA occlusion. The diagnoses of an occlusion were based on duplex scan findings and were confirmed by CT angiography and digital subtraction angiography (DSA). ICA occlusions secondary to dissection, inflammatory process, like fibromuscular dysplasia, previous stenting or endarterectomy and trauma, were excluded from the study. All patients had a scheduled carotid duplex scan every six months. Overall 65 patients were enrolled. Two patients showed evidence of spontaneous recanalization. A 55-year-old man with a known history of transient ischemic attack had occlusion in the left side ICA. He presented with another TIA eight months later. Investigations showed evidence of rcanalization of occluded ICA. This artery underwent uneventful stenting. In another patient recanalization was heralded by global aphasia and right side hemiplegia. He was a 70-year-old man with a history of recurrent TIA. Carotid duplex scan and DSA showed recanalization of the occluded left ICA accompanied by occlusion of the ipsilateral middle cerebral artery. He remained profoundly disabled with severe neurological deficits. In conclusion, spontaneous recanalization of the occluded internal carotid artery is a potentially complicated event that may lead to severe neurological disability.
Chordomas are rare and aggressive tumors derived from notochordal remnants, usually arising in the axial skeleton. The most frequently reported anatomic distribution of chordoma is 50% sacral, 35% spheno-occipital and 15% spinal. We describe the case of an elderly lady presenting with progressive dysphagia, headache and neck pain. We found an expansile mass extending from C1 to C3. While running the diagnostic plan we considered a variety of lesions possibly involving the cervical spine. Biopsy revealed the mass was a chordoma.
Memory of past experience is essential for guiding goal-related behavior. Being able to control accessibility of memory through modulation of retrieval enables humans to flexibly adapt to their environment. Understanding the specific neural pathways of how this control is achieved has largely eluded cognitive neuroscience. Accordingly, in the current paper I review literature that examines the overt control over retrieval in order to reduce accessibility. I first introduce three hypotheses of inhibition of retrieval. These hypotheses involve: (i) attending to other stimuli as a form of diversionary attention, (ii) inhibiting the specific individual neural representation of the memory, and (iii) inhibiting the hippocampus and retrieval process more generally to prevent reactivation of the representation. I then analyze literature taken from the White Bear Suppression, Directed Forgetting and Think/No-Think tasks to provide evidence for these hypotheses. Finally, a neuroanatomical model is developed to indicate three pathways from PFC to the hippocampal complex that support inhibition of memory retrieval. Describing these neural pathways increases our understanding of control over memory in general.
Persistent, unwanted memories are believed to be key contributors to drug addiction and the chronic relapse problem over the lifetime of the addict. Contrary to the long-held idea that memories are static and fixed, new studies in the last decade have shown that memories are dynamic and changeable. However, they are changeable only under specific conditions. When a memory is retrieved (reactivated), it becomes labile for a period of minutes to hours and then is reconsolidated to maintain long-term memory. Recent findings indicate that even well-established long-term memories may be susceptible to disruption by interfering with reconsolidation through delivery of certain amnestic agents during memory retrieval. Here I review the growing literature on memory reconsolidation in animal models of addiction, including sensitization, conditioned place preference and self-administration. I also discuss (a) several issues that need to be considered in interpreting the findings from reconsolidation studies and (b) future challenges and directions for memory reconsolidation studies in the field of addiction. The findings indicate promise for using this approach as a therapy for disrupting the long-lasting memories that can trigger relapse.
In our previous study on the prepositus hypoglossi nucleus (PHN), we found a neuronal subtype exhibiting a specific firing pattern in which the first interspike interval (ISI) was longer than that of the second, designated FIL (first interspike interval long) neurons. In the present study, we explored the ionic mechanisms underlying this firing pattern using whole-cell recordings of rat brainstem slice preparations. In addition to a longer first ISI, FIL neurons showed properties such as increased slow afterhyperpolarization (AHP) of the first spike relative to the second spike. The application of 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) shortened the longer first ISI and reduced the larger AHP of the first spike, but -dendrotoxin affected neither the ISI nor the AHP. A voltage clamp study revealed that FIL neurons express transient outward currents with slow decay kinetics. When T-type Ca(2+) currents alone or T-type Ca(2+) plus persistent Na(+) currents were blocked, the FIL firing pattern changed to one with transient hyperpolarization and delayed spike generation characteristic of late-spiking neurons. These findings indicate that A-type K(+) currents showing slow decay, T-type Ca(2+) currents, and persistent Na(+) currents all contribute to the specific firing pattern of FIL neurons.
Delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS) appears with some delay after unaccustomed, strenuous exercise, especially after lengthening contraction (LC). It is characterized by tenderness and movement related pain, namely muscular mechanical hyperalgesia. To clarify the involvement of C-fibers in this mechanical hyperalgesia, we examined whether DOMS could be induced in rats treated neonatally with capsaicin. We confirmed that a large portion of unmyelinated afferent fibers were lost in capsaicin treated rats. In these animals, LC failed to induce muscular mechanical hyperalgesia. mRNA of nerve growth factor (NGF) in the muscle, which plays a pivotal role in maintaining mechanical hyperalgesia, was upregulated in the capsaicin treated animals similar to the vehicle treated animals. These results demonstrate that C-fiber afferents are essential in transmitting the nociceptive information from exercised muscle in DOMS.



Achille Louis Foville's atlas of brain anatomy (1844) is one of the most artistic and detailed works on neuroanatomy in the medical literature. The outstanding drawings by the 2 artists, Emile Beau and Frdric-Michel Bion, highlight all the philosophy, ability, and sensibility of A.L. Foville in carefully dissecting the superficial and deep structures of the brain and spinal cord. Several plates show true brain fiber dissections of high artistic and academic value. As a result of an early misrecognition in the medical literature, &quot;inferior Foville syndrome&quot; has been wrongly attributed to Achille Louis Foville rather than his son, Achille Louis Franois Foville (1832-1887), also called Defoville. Therefore, we suggest that Defoville, who actually described the pontine syndrome for the first time in the neurological literature, deserves to be credited for this syndrome and that the syndrome should be called the Defoville syndrome. Through analyzing the political and scientific events in France in the 19th century, we highlight the invaluable contributions of A.L. Foville and his son to the history of neuroanatomy and neurology.

The effects of a large dose of human serum butyrylcholinesterase (HuBChE) were evaluated in rhesus monkeys using a serial-probe recognition (SPR) task designed to assess attention and short-term memory. Each monkey received an intravenous injection of 150 mg (105,000 U or 30 mg/kg) of HuBChE 60 min prior to testing on the SPR task. Concurrent with the cognitive-behavioral assessment, blood was collected at various time points throughout the study and was analyzed for acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) activities, anti-BChE antibody production and gross clinical pathology (i.e., complete blood count and clinical chemistry panel). HuBChE revealed a peak blood activity of 227 U/ml at 5 min after intravenous injection and a mean residence time of approximately 72 h. No cognitive-behavioral decrements of any kind in SPR performance and no toxic signs in clinical pathology were detected in any of the blood assays during the 5 weeks of observation. Anti-HuBChE antibodies peaked at about 14 days after injection, with no concomitant behavioral changes. These results demonstrate the behavioral and physiological safety of HuBChE in rhesus monkeys and support its development as a bioscavenger for the prophylaxis of chemical warfare agent toxicity in humans.



Depressed mood in severely obese, bariatric surgery-seeking candidates is influenced by obesity stigma, yet the strategies for coping with this stigma are less well understood. This study hypothesized that coping strategies are significantly associated with depressed mood above and beyond demographic factors and frequency of weight-related stigma, with specific coping strategies differing between racial groups. Severely obese, bariatric surgery-seeking adults (N = 234; 91 African Americans) completed the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) and Stigmatizing Situations Inventory (SSI). Two hierarchical linear regressions were conducted separately for African Americans and whites. For both racial groups, age, sex, BMI, years overweight, annual income, and education level did not account for a significant portion of the variance in BDI scores. The frequency of stigmatizing situations and coping strategies significantly explained 16.4% and 33.2%, respectively, of the variance for whites, and 25.9% and 25%, respectively, for African Americans (P &lt; 0.001). Greater depressed mood in whites was associated with older age, lower education, fewer positive self-statements, and less self-love and more crying; while in African Americans greater depressed mood was associated only with ignoring the situation (P &lt; 0.05). The study found that regardless of race, depressed mood in severely obese, bariatric surgery-seeking clients is related to the frequency of stigmatizing experiences and associated coping strategies. This suggests that efforts to reduce the deleterious effects of weight-related stigma need to focus both on reducing the frequency of stigmatization and on teaching effective coping strategies. These efforts also need to take into account the client's racial background.
Food anticipatory activity (FAA) is displayed in rats when access to food is restricted to a specific time frame of their circadian phase, a behavior thought to reflect both hunger and the motivation to eat. Rats also display FAA in a feeding schedule with ad libitum access to normal chow, but limited availability of a palatable meal, which is thought to involve mainly motivational aspects. The orexigenic hormone ghrelin has been implicated in FAA in rodents with restricted access to chow. Because ghrelin plays an important role not only in the control of food intake, but also in reward, we sought to determine the role of ghrelin in anticipation to a palatable meal. Plasma ghrelin levels of non-restricted rats that anticipated chocolate correlated positively with FAA and were increased compared with chow-fed control rats. Furthermore, centrally injected ghrelin increased, whereas an antagonist of the ghrelin receptor decreased, the anticipation to chocolate. Therefore, we hypothesize that central ghrelin signaling is able to mediate the motivational drive to eat.

Epithelial tumors of the lacrimal gland are histologically similar to salivary gland tumors. Here we report on a rare case of mucoepidermoid carcinoma (MEC) in a 73year-old man with a swelling of the left lacrimal gland. The tumor had a microscopic appearance consistent with a classical low-grade MEC of the lacrimal gland. There were no signs of recurrence or metastases during a five-year follow-up. Using RT-PCR and FISH we demonstrated that the tumor was positive for the CRTC1-MAML2 gene fusion previously shown to be associated with in particular low-grade salivary MECs with favorable prognosis. By immunohistochemistry we showed that the majority of tumor cells, including epidermoid, intermediate and mucous producing cells, expressed the CRTC1-MAML2 fusion protein. In contrast, 15 non-MEC lacrimal neoplasm were fusion-negative. Our findings show that lacrimal MEC is not only clinically and morphologically but also genetically identical to MECs originating from other exocrine glands, including those of the lung, thyroid, cervix and salivary glands. Taken together, the present and previous studies further emphasize the fundamental biologic and genetic similarities among MECs developing from different anatomical sites and organs. Moreover, our findings indicate that the CRTC1-MAML2 fusion may be a useful diagnostic and prognostic biomarker for lacrimal MEC.

The aim of the present study was to investigate the associations between parental chronic pain and anxiety, depression, and conduct problems in adolescents. The current study was based on cross-sectional surveys performed during 2006 to 2008 from the Nord Trndelag Health Study (HUNT 3 and Young-HUNT 3). The sample consisted of 3227 adolescents aged 13 to 18 years for whom information was available on parental chronic pain and health statuses. Separate analyses were conducted for girls and boys. The results indicated that if both parents experienced chronic pain, there was an increased risk of symptoms of anxiety and depression in girls (OR=2.17, CI=1.36-3.45, P=.001) and boys (OR=2.33, CI=1.17-4.63, P=.016) compared with children for whom neither parent had chronic pain. Girls had an increased risk of conduct problems in school if their mothers had chronic pain (OR=1.33, CI=1.02-1.74, P=.034). These results remained after adjusting for the possible effects of confounding factors and parental mental health. The results suggest that the presence of both maternal and paternal chronic pain is a high risk factor for internalizing symptoms in both girls and boys. The present study offers insights that should prove useful in clinical work and further large-scale research.
Spinal glial and proinflammatory cytokine actions are strongly implicated in pathological pain. Spinal administration of the anti-inflammatory cytokine interleukin (IL)-10 abolishes pathological pain and suppresses proinflammatory IL-1 and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-). Drugs that bind the cannabinoid type-2 receptor (CB(2)R) expressed on spinal glia reduce mechanical hypersensitivity. To better understand the CB(2)R-related anti-inflammatory profile of key anatomical nociceptive regions, we assessed mechanical hypersensitivity and protein profiles following intrathecal application of the cannabilactone CB(2)R agonist, AM1710, in 2 animal models; unilateral sciatic nerve chronic constriction injury (CCI), and spinal application of human immunodeficiency virus-1 glycoprotein 120 (gp120), a model of peri-spinal immune activation. In CCI animals, lumbar dorsal spinal cord and corresponding dorsal root ganglia (DRG) were evaluated by immunohistochemistry for expression of IL-10, IL-1, phosphorylated p38-mitogen-activated-kinase (p-p38MAPK), a pathway associated with proinflammatory cytokine production, glial cell markers, and degradative endocannabinoid enzymes, including monoacylglycerol lipase (MAGL). AM1710 reversed bilateral mechanical hypersensitivity. CCI revealed decreased IL-10 expression in dorsal spinal cord and DRG, while AM1710 resulted in increased IL-10, comparable to controls. Adjacent DRG and spinal sections revealed increased IL-1, p-p38MAPK, glial markers, and/or MAGL expression, while AM1710 suppressed all but spinal p-p38MAPK and microglial activation. In spinal gp120 animals, AM1710 prevented bilateral mechanical hypersensitivity. For comparison to immunohistochemistry, IL-1 and TNF- protein quantification from lumbar spinal and DRG homogenates was determined, and revealed increased DRG IL-1 protein levels from gp120, that was robustly prevented by AM1710 pretreatment. Cannabilactone CB(2)R agonists are emerging as anti-inflammatory agents with pain therapeutic implications.
N-Methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are thought to play an important role in the processes of central sensitization and pathogenesis of neuropathic pain, particularly after spinal cord injury (SCI). NMDA antagonists effectively reduce neuropathic pain, but serious side effects prevent their use as therapeutic drugs. NMDA NR2B antagonists have been reported to effectively reduce inflammatory and neuropathic pain. In this study, we investigated the effects of NR2B antagonists on neuropathic pain and the expression of NR2B in the spinal cord in 2 SCI models. SCI was induced at T12 by a New York University impactor (contusion) or by sectioning of the lateral half of the spinal cord (hemisection). Ifenprodil (100, 200, 500, 1000nmol) and Ro25-6981 (20, 50, 100, 200nmol) were intrathecally injected and behavioral tests were conducted. Ifenprodil increased the paw withdrawal threshold in both models but also produced mild motor depression at higher doses. Ro25-6981 increased the mechanical nociceptive threshold in a dose-dependent manner without motor depression. NR2B expression was significantly increased on both sides at the spinal segments of L1-2 and L4-5 in the hemisection model but did not change in the contusion model. Increased expression of NR2B in the hemisection model was reduced by intrathecal ifenprodil. These results suggest that intrathecal NMDA NR2B antagonist increased the mechanical nociceptive threshold after SCI without motor depression. A selective subtype of NMDA receptor, such as NR2B, may be a more selective target for pain control because NMDA receptors play a crucial role in the development and maintenance of chronic pain.
Knowledge regarding mortality as a potential consequence of being sickness absent because of musculoskeletal diagnoses is almost nonexistent. The association between sickness absence because of musculoskeletal diagnoses and risk of premature death was examined in a prospective, nationwide, population-based cohort study based on Swedish registers. Included were all 4,760,987 individuals who were living in Sweden December 31, 2005, aged 20 to 64 years, and not on disability or old-age pension. Those sickness absent in 2005 because of musculoskeletal diagnoses were compared to those sickness absent because of non-musculoskeletal diagnoses and to those with no sickness absence. Musculoskeletal diagnoses were categorized as follows: 1) artropathies/systemic connective tissue disorders; 2) dorsopathies; and 3) soft tissue disorders/osteopathies/chondropathies/other musculoskeletal disorders. All-cause mortality was followed from 2006 to 2009 and cause-specific mortality was followed from 2006 to 2008. Hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were estimated using Cox regression. In models adjusted for socio-demographic factors, and morbidity, sickness absence because of all 3 categories of musculoskeletal diagnoses was associated with 1.3- to 1.5-fold increased risks of all-cause mortality (adjusted model, category 1 diagnoses, HR=1.50, 95% CI=1.38-1.63). Similar associations were observed among both women and men. Moreover, increased mortality risks due to tumors (HR=1.6-1.7), circulatory diseases (HR=1.2-1.5), mental disorders (HR=1.2-3.2), and suicide (HR=1.5-1.9) were observed among persons sickness absent because of musculoskeletal diagnoses. This nationwide cohort study reveals, for the first time, an increased risk of premature death among both women and men sickness absent because of musculoskeletal diagnoses after adjustment for several potential confounders.
We identified a patient with severe inherited erythromelalgia secondary to an L858F mutation in the voltage-gated sodium channel Na(v)1.7. The patient reported severe ongoing foot pain, which was exquisitely sensitive to limb cooling. We confirmed this heat hypersensitivity using quantitative sensory testing. Additionally, we employed a novel perfusion imaging technique in a simple block design to assess her baseline erythromelalgia pain vs cooling relief. Robust activations of key pain, pain-affect, and reward-related centres were observed. This combined approach allowed us to confirm the presence of a temperature-sensitive channelopathy of peripheral neurons and to investigate the neural correlates of tonic neuropathic pain and relief in a single subject.
Paul Rolan speaks to Roshaine Gunawardana, Commissioning Editor: Paul Rolan graduated in Medicine (MBBS) from the University of Adelaide, Australia, in 1979 and trained in internal medicine and clinical pharmacology. In 1987, he went to the UK to work at the Wellcome Research Laboratories where he was responsible for the exploratory development of a range of compounds, some of which became marketed (atovaquone, zolmitriptan). He was awarded an MD degree from the University of Adelaide in 1995 for novel conceptual work on the use of biomarkers in exploratory development for work performed while at Wellcome. In 1984, he was appointed Medical Director of Medeval (now part of ICON Clinical Research), a clinical pharmacology contract research organization spun out of the University of Manchester, UK. At Medeval the emphasis was on quantitative pharmacodynamics, especially in neuroscience, and increasingly focused on pain. In Manchester, his clinical practice was in management of complex headache cases and this is continued in his practice back in Australia following his return in 2005. At the University of Adelaide he continues to focus on translational research in pain especially focusing on potential immunologically directed biomarkers and therapies for pain and headache. He is a cofounder of the Pain and Anaesthesia Research Clinic at the University of Adelaide and is a member of the Australian National Medicines Policy Committee. He has been principal investigator in over 700 clinical pharmacology studies including 70 first-in-man studies.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is aetiologically complex with both familial and sporadic forms. Familial PD results from rare, highly penetrant pathogenic mutations whereas multiple variants of low penetrance may contribute to the risk of sporadic PD. Common variants implicated in PD risk appear to explain only a minor proportion of the familial clustering observed in sporadic PD. It is therefore plausible that combinations of rare and/or common variants in genes already implicated in disease pathogenesis may help to explain the genetic basis of PD. We have developed a CustomSeq Affymetrix resequencing array to enable high-throughput sequencing of 13 genes (44 kb) implicated in the pathogenesis of PD. Using the array we sequenced 269 individuals, including 186 PD patients and 75 controls, achieving an overall call rate of 96.5% and 93.6%, for two respective versions of the array, and &gt;99.9% accuracy for five samples sequenced by capillary sequencing in parallel. We identified modest associations with common variants in SNCA and LRRK2 and a trend suggestive of an overrepresentation of rare variants in cases compared to controls for several genes. We propose that this technology offers a robust and cost-effective alternative to targeted sequencing using traditional sequencing methods, and here we demonstrate the potential of this approach for either routine clinical investigation or for research studies aimed at understanding the genetic aetiology of PD.

Genes involved in familial dystonia syndromes (DYT genes) are ideal candidates for investigating whether common genetic variants influence the susceptibility to sporadic primary dystonia. To date, there have been few candidate gene studies for primary dystonia and only two DYT genes, TOR1A and THAP1, have been assessed. We therefore employed a haplotype-tagging strategy to comprehensively assess if common polymorphisms in eight DYT genes (TOR1A, TAF1, GCH1, THAP1, MR-1 (PNKD), SGCE, ATP1A3 and PRKRA) confer risk for sporadic primary dystonia. The 230 primary dystonia cases were matched for age and gender to 228 controls, recruited from movement disorder clinics in Brisbane, Australia and the Australian electoral roll. All subjects were genotyped for 56 tagging SNPs and genotype associations were investigated. Modest genotypic associations (P&lt;0.05) were observed for three GCH1 SNPs (rs12147422, rs3759664 and rs10483639) when comparing all cases against controls. Associations were also seen when the cases were stratified based on presentation. Overall, our findings do not support the hypothesis that common TOR1A variants affect susceptibility for sporadic primary dystonia, and that it is unlikely that common variants around the DYT genes confer substantial risk for sporadic primary dystonia. Further work is warranted to follow up the GCH1 SNPs and the subgroup analyses.



AMPK not only acts as a sensor of cellular energy status but also plays a critical role in the energy balance of the body. In this study, LKB1-AMPK signaling was investigated in diet-induced obese (DIO) and diet resistant (DR) rats. In hypothalamus, DIO rats had lower level of LKB1, AMPK and pAMPK than chow-fed or DR rats. Both orexigenic peptide NPY and anorexigenic peptide POMC expression were reduced in hypothalamus of DIO rats. i.c.v. injection of AICAR, an activator of AMPK, increased NPY expression but did not alter POMC expression in DIO rats. In periphery, LKB1 protein content and pAMPK level were lower in the adipose tissue of DIO rats compared to chow-fed and DR rats. Moreover, pAMPK and LKB1 protein levels obtained from epididymal fat pad were inversely correlated with epididymal fat mass. LKB1 protein content and pAMPK in skeletal muscle of DIO rats were not different from those in the muscles of chow-fed and DR rats. In summary, DIO rats, but not DR rats, have impaired LKB1-AMPK signaling in hypothalamus and adipose tissue, suggesting the disturbed energy balance observed in DIO rats is related with abnormalities of AMPK signaling in a tissue specific manner.
In rodents, the mediobasal hypothalamus and the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) are implicated in leptin signaling. Surprisingly little data is available on the human hypothalamus. We set out to study the expression of suppressor-of-cytokine-signaling 3 (SOCS3), -melanocyte stimulating hormone (MSH) and agouti-related protein (AgRP) in the infundibular nucleus (IFN) and to investigate the relationship between these neuropeptide expressions and serum leptin concentrations in a blood sample taken within 24h before death. We studied post-mortem human brain material by means of quantitative immunocytochemistry. We found that SOCS3 immunoreactivity was widely distributed throughout the hypothalamus, and most prominent in the PVN, whereas expression levels in the IFN were low. Surprisingly, SOCS3 expression in the PVN was inversely related to serum leptin. A significant positive correlation was observed between AgRP and NPY expression in the IFN. The inverse correlation between SOCS3 expression in the PVN and serum leptin was unexpected and may be related to the hypothalamic adaptation to fatal illness rather than to nutritional status, or may represent an interspecies difference.
Human gene-2 (H2) relaxin is a member of the insulin-relaxin peptide superfamily. Because of the potential clinical applications of H2 relaxin, there is a need for novel analogs that have improved biological activity and receptor specificity. In this respect, we have chemically assembled chimeric peptides consisting of the B-chain of H2 relaxin in combination with A-chains from other insulin/relaxin family members. The peptides were prepared using solid phase peptide synthesis together with regioselective disulfide bond formation and characterized by RP-HPLC, MALDI-TOF MS and amino acid analysis. Their in vitro activity was assessed in RXFP1 or RXFP2 expressing cells. Replacement of the H2 relaxin A-chain resulted in parallel losses of binding affinity and activity on RXFP1. Not surprisingly H1A-H2B demonstrated the highest activity as the H1 A-chain shares high homology with H2 relaxin whereas INSLA-H2B, which shows low homology, had very poor activity. Importantly A-chain replacements had a dramatic effect on RXFP2 activity similar to previous results demonstrating different modes of activation of A-chain variants on RXFP1 and RXFP2. H3A-H2B is particularly interesting as it displays moderate activity at RXFP1 but poor activity at RXFP2 indicating that it may be a template for specific RXFP1 agonist development. Our study confirms that the activity of H2 relaxin at both RXFP1 and RXFP2 relies on interactions with both the B- and A-chains, and also provide new biochemical insights into the mechanism of relaxin action that the A-chain needs to be in native or near-native form for strong RXFP1 or RXFP2 agonist activity.
Previous studies have shown that large increases in food intake in nondeprived animals can be induced by injections of both the GABA(A) agonist muscimol and the -opioid agonist DAMGO into the nucleus accumbens shell (AcbSh), while injections of the catecholamine agonist amphetamine have little effect. In the current study we examined whether injections of these drugs are able to increase food-reinforced lever pressing in nondeprived rats. Twelve subjects were trained to lever press on a continuous reinforcement schedule while food deprived and were then tested after being placed back on ad libitum feeding. Under these conditions, responding was markedly increased by injections of either muscimol or DAMGO, although the onset of the effects of the latter drug was delayed by 30-40 min. In contrast, amphetamine injections failed to increase reinforced lever pressing, although they did enhance responding on a non-reinforced lever, presumably reflecting alterations in behavioral activation. These results demonstrate that stimulation of GABA(A) and -opioid receptors within the AcbSh is able to promote not only food intake, but also food-directed operant behavior. In contrast, stimulation of AcbSh dopamine receptors may enhance behavioral arousal, but does not appear to specifically potentiate behaviors directed toward food procurement.
Our previous study has demonstrated that topical and systemic administration of the 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonist ketanserin attenuates neuropathic pain. To explore the mechanisms involved, we examined whether ketanserin reversed the plasticity changes associated with calcitonin gene-related peptides (CGRP) and neuropeptide Y (NPY) which may reflect distinct mechanisms: involvement and compensatory protection. Behavioral responses to thermal and tactile stimuli after spinal nerve ligation (SNL) at L5 demonstrated neuropathic pain and its attenuation in the vehicle- and ketanserin-treated groups, respectively. SNL surgery induced an increase in CGRP and NPY immunoreactivity (IR) in laminae I-II of the spinal cord. L5 SNL produced an expression of NPY-IR in large, medium and small diameter neurons in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) only at L5, but not adjacent L4 and L6. Daily injection of ketanserin (0.3 mg/kg, s.c.) for two weeks suppressed the increase in CGRP-IR and NPY-IR in the spinal cord or DRG. The present study demonstrated that: (1) the expression of CGRP was enhanced in the spinal dorsal horn and NPY was expressed in the DRG containing injured neurons, but not in the adjacent DRG containing intact neurons, following L5 SNL; (2) the maladaptive changes in CGRP and NPY expression in the spinal cord and DRG mediated the bioactivity of 5-HT/5-HT(2A) receptors in neuropathic pain and (3) the blockade of 5-HT(2A) receptors by ketanserin reversed the evoked upregulation of both CGRP and NPY in the spinal cord and DRG contributing to the inhibition of neuropathic pain.
During rest, the brain exhibits slow hemodynamic fluctuations (&lt;0.1 Hz) that are correlated across spatially segregated brain regions, defining functional networks. Resting-state functional networks of people with schizophrenia were found to have graph properties that differ from those of control subjects. Namely, functional graphs from patients exhibit reduced small-worldness, increased hierarchy, lower clustering, improved efficiency and greater robustness. Notably, most of these parameters correlate with patients' cognitive performance.To test if a brain-wide coupling deficit could be at the origin of such network reorganization, we use a model of resting-state activity where the coupling strength can be manipulated. For a range of coupling values, the simulated functional graphs obtained were characterized using graph theory.For a coupling range, simulated graphs shared properties of healthy resting-state functional graphs. On decreasing the coupling strength, the resultant functional graphs exhibited a topological reorganization, in the same way as described in schizophrenia.This work shows how complex functional graph alterations reported in schizophrenia can be accounted for by a decrease in the structural coupling strength. These results are corroborated by reports of lower white matter density in schizophrenia.
Emerging &quot;(computational) systems medicine&quot; challenges neuropsychiatry regarding the development of heuristic computational brain models which help to explore symptoms and syndromes of mental disorders. This methodology of exploratory modelling of mental functions and processes and of their pathology requires a clear and operational definition of the target variable (explanandum). In the case of schizophrenia, a complex and heterogeneous disorder, single psychopathological key symptoms such as working memory deficiency, hallucination or delusion need to be defined first. Thereafter, measures of brain structures can be used in a multilevel view as biological correlates of these symptoms. Then, in order to formally &quot;explain&quot; the symptoms, a qualitative model can be constructed. In another step, numerical values have to be integrated into the model and exploratory computer simulations can be performed. Normal and pathological functioning is to be tested in computer experiments allowing the formulation of new hypotheses and questions for empirical research. However, the crucial challenge is to point out the appropriate degree of complexity (or simplicity) of these models, which is required in order to achieve an epistemic value that might lead to new hypothetical explanatory models and could stimulate new empirical and theoretical research. Some outlines of these methodological issues are discussed here, regarding the fact that measurements alone are not sufficient to build models.
A Potts associative memory network has been proposed as a simplified model of macroscopic cortical dynamics, in which each Potts unit stands for a patch of cortex, which can be activated in one of S local attractor states. The internal neuronal dynamics of the patch is not described by the model, rather it is subsumed into an effective description in terms of graded Potts units, with adaptation effects both specific to each attractor state and generic to the patch. If each unit, or patch, receives effective (tensor) connections from C other units, the network has been shown to be able to store a large number p of global patterns, or network attractors, each with a fraction a of the units active, where the critical load p_{c} scales roughly like p_{c}CS^{2}/aln(1/a) (if the patterns are randomly correlated). Interestingly, after retrieving an externally cued attractor, the network can continue jumping, or latching, from attractor to attractor, driven by adaptation effects. The occurrence and duration of latching dynamics is found through simulations to depend critically on the strength of local attractor states, expressed in the Potts model by a parameter w. Here we describe with simulations and then analytically the boundaries between distinct phases of no latching, of transient and sustained latching, deriving a phase diagram in the plane w-T, where T parametrizes thermal noise effects. Implications for real cortical dynamics are briefly reviewed in the conclusions.
Estimating entropy from empirical samples of finite size is of central importance for information theory as well as the analysis of complex statistical systems. Yet, this delicate task is marred by intrinsic statistical bias. Here we decompose the entropy function into a polynomial approximation function and a remainder function. The approximation function is based on a Taylor expansion of the logarithm. Given n observations, we give an unbiased, linear estimate of the first n power series terms based on counting sets of k coincidences. For the remainder function we use nonlinear Bayesian estimation with a nearly flat prior distribution on the entropy that was developed by Nemenman, Shafee, and Bialek. Our simulations show that the combined entropy estimator has reduced bias in comparison to other available estimators.
There is little written about the cultural, social, and ethical challenges encountered by physiotherapists engaging in development work.This article takes a critical perspective on what it means to engage in development work as an expatriate physiotherapist, through a self-critical reflection on experiences from Afghanistan. The field notes from an ethnographic study of a development project conducted in Afghanistan were analysed to explore the transformative process of personal and professional development of the development worker. The critical reflective process entailed a change in meaning perspective, described as a shift from the position of an Idealistic Helper to an Enterprising Learner. Of importance in this process were &quot;disorienting dilemmas&quot; that challenged personal perceptions. Critical reflection over such dilemmas led to deeper understanding facilitating the process of change. The essential lesson learned is that the baseline for understanding others is an understanding of one's own meaning perspectives and manner of participation in relation to others and their context. The insights gained have implications for physiotherapists working in development contexts, for other development workers, and for physiotherapists working with patients in clinical practice in a nondevelopment context. Exploring how to collaborate in development contexts could be done using reflective groups with expatriate and local physiotherapists and/or patients. This could lead to greater understanding of oneself, each other, and the local context.
The aim of this article is to explore factors that impacted learning of Afghan physiotherapists in a development project to improve the physiotherapy services in a disability programme implemented by a Swedish nongovernmental organisation in Afghanistan. Participant observation, recorded as field notes, was used to document the process, to gain a better understanding of professional development of physiotherapists in Afghanistan. Field notes were analysed and factors affecting learning were interpreted from a perspective inspired by transformative learning. Various factors were identified: a pattern approach to treatment, linear thinking, and socially oriented decision making affected how new things learned were put into practice; concrete representations and an instrumental view of knowledge characterised learning approaches; language barriers, different interpretations of meaning, and cultural codes challenged communication; and a prescriptive, encouraging approach of the expatriate physiotherapy development worker affected teaching and learning. Working with professional development across cultural borders is challenging, and the identified factors impacting learning can help expatriate physiotherapists in adapting training to the Afghan context. Exploring meaning perspectives and communicative learning could enhance understanding of these factors for both expatriate and Afghan physiotherapists and should be a focus in future development activities.
It is well understood that maternal folate deficiency can cause abnormal fetal development. However, the extent to which placental development and function are also dependent upon folate uptake and metabolism remains unclear. To understand which trophoblast cell types may be affected by folate deficiency or abnormal folate metabolism, we completed a comprehensive spatial and temporal protein expression analysis of folate receptor (Folr), folate transporters (proton-coupled folate receptor [Slc46a1 or PCFT] and reduced folate carrier-1 [Rfc1]) and folate metabolic enzymes (5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase [Mthfr] and methionine synthase [Mtr]) in histological sections of mouse placentas from early development (E8.5) until term (E18.5). We observed that the highest level of protein expression was during early development (E8.5-E10.5), prior to the formation of the three main layers of the mature placenta suggesting that folate uptake and metabolism may be required for placental development, itself. As expected, the labyrinth trophoblast cells, which are responsible for nutrient transport, expressed these proteins throughout pregnancy, including robust expression in the sinusoidal trophoblast giant cells that line the maternal blood spaces. Other trophoblast giant cell (TGC) subtypes (parietal-TGCs and canal-TGCs), whose function does not include nutrient transport, expressed folate transporters and enzymes from E8.5 onwards. Remarkably, these proteins were also detected in glycogen trophoblast cells from E12.5-E18.5 suggesting a new role in folate uptake and metabolism for these cells. Together, these data provide evidence that folate may be necessary for normal placental development and function, and perturbations in its availability or metabolism may lead to secondary effects on fetal development.

Monkeys can easily form lasting central representations of visual and tactile stimuli, yet they seem unable to do the same with sounds. Humans, by contrast, are highly proficient in auditory long-term memory (LTM). These mnemonic differences within and between species raise the question of whether the human ability is supported in some way by speech and language, e.g., through subvocal reproduction of speech sounds and by covert verbal labeling of environmental stimuli. If so, the explanation could be that storing rapidly fluctuating acoustic signals requires assistance from the motor system, which is uniquely organized to chain-link rapid sequences. To test this hypothesis, we compared the ability of normal participants to recognize lists of stimuli that can be easily reproduced, labeled, or both (pseudowords, nonverbal sounds, and words, respectively) versus their ability to recognize a list of stimuli that can be reproduced or labeled only with great difficulty (reversed words, i.e., words played backward). Recognition scores after 5-min delays filled with articulatory-suppression tasks were relatively high (75-80% correct) for all sound types except reversed words; the latter yielded scores that were not far above chance (58% correct), even though these stimuli were discriminated nearly perfectly when presented as reversed-word pairs at short intrapair intervals. The combined results provide preliminary support for the hypothesis that participation of the oromotor system may be essential for laying down the memory of speech sounds and, indeed, that speech and auditory memory may be so critically dependent on each other that they had to coevolve.
Parkinson's disease is the second most prevalent neurodegenerative disease, yet despite this, very little is known about the underlying cellular mechanisms. Initially it was thought to be a disease primarily involving loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Recent studies, however, have focused on observations that aggregated -synuclein protein, the major component of Lewy bodies, is found throughout the nervous system. It is speculated that misfolded -synuclein transfers between cells in a prion-like manner, thereby mediating the spread of the neuropathology. In this review, we discuss the staging (according to Braak) of Parkinson pathology and the concept describing the disease progression from one region of the brain to the other. We highlight how -synuclein might be responsible for the spread of the disease. We compare the idea of a prion-like mechanism contributing to Parkinson's disease to emerging concepts that other proteins participate in similar processes in other neurodegenerative diseases. We then examine the future implications of a critical role in disease pathogenesis of -synuclein for the classification, diagnosis and treatment of Parkinson's disease in the future.
Polyglutamine diseases are neurodegenerative disorders caused by expansion of polyglutamine tracts in the coding regions of specific genes. One of the most important features of polyglutamine diseases is that, despite the widespread and in some cases ubiquitous expression of the polyglutamine proteins, specific populations of neurons degenerate in each disease. This finding has led to the idea that polyglutamine diseases are cell-autonomous diseases, in which selective neuronal dysfunction and death result from damage caused by the mutant protein within the targeted neuronal population itself. Development of animal models for conditional expression of polyglutamine proteins, along with new pharmacologic manipulation of polyglutamine protein expression and toxicity, has led to a remarkable change of the current view of polyglutamine diseases as cell-autonomous disorders. It is becoming evident that toxicity in the neighboring non-neuronal cells contributes to selective neuronal damage. This observation implies non-cell-autonomous mechanisms of neurodegeneration in polyglutamine diseases. Here, we describe cell-autonomous and non-cell-autonomous mechanisms of polyglutamine disease pathogenesis, including toxicity in neurons, skeletal muscle, glia, germinal cells, and other cell types.
The ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) is the major intracellular proteolytic mechanism controlling the degradation of misfolded/abnormal proteins. A common hallmark in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and in other neurodegenerative disorders is the accumulation of misfolded/abnormal proteins into the damaged neurons, leading to the formation of cellular inclusions that are mostly ubiquitin-positive. Although proteolysis is a complex mechanism requiring the participation of different pathways, the abundant accumulation of ubiquitinated proteins strongly suggests an important contribution of UPS to these neuropathological features. The use of cellular and animal models of ALS, particularly those expressing mutant SOD1, the gene mutation most represented in familiar ALS, has provided significant evidence for a role of UPS in protein inclusions formation and motor neuron death. This review will specifically discuss this piece of evidence and provide suggestions of potential strategies for therapeutic intervention. We will also discuss the finding that, unlike the constitutive proteasome subunits, the inducible subunits are overexpressed early during disease progression in SOD1 mice models of ALS. These subunits form the immunoproteasome and generate peptides for the major histocompatibility complex class I molecules, suggesting a role of this system in the immune responses associated with the pathological features of ALS. Since recent discoveries indicate that innate and adaptive immunity may influence the disease process, in this review we will also provide evidence of a possible connection between immune-inflammatory reactions and UPS function, in the attempt to better understand the etiopathology of ALS and to identify appropriate targets for novel treatment strategies of this devastating disease.
The tear film, lacrimal glands, corneal and conjunctival epithelia and Meibomian glands work together as a lacrimal functional unit (LFU) to preserve the integrity and function of the ocular surface. The integrity of this unit is necessary for the health and normal function of the eye and visual system. Nervous connections and systemic hormones are well known factors that maintain the homeostasis of the ocular surface. They control the response to internal and external stimuli. Our and others' studies show that immunological mechanisms also play a pivotal role in regulating the ocular surface environment. Our studies demonstrate how anti-inflammatory factors such as the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-3 (VEGFR-3) in corneal cells, immature corneal resident antigen-presenting cells, and regulatory T cells play an active role in protecting the ocular surface. Dry eye disease (DED) affects millions of people worldwide and negatively influences the quality of life for patients. In its most severe forms, DED may lead to blindness. The etiology and pathogenesis of DED remain largely unclear. Nonetheless, in this review we summarize the role of the disruption of afferent and efferent immunoregulatory mechanisms that are responsible for the chronicity of the disease, its symptoms, and its clinical signs. We illustrate current anti-inflammatory treatments for DED and propose that prevention of the disruption of immunoregulatory mechanisms may represent a promising therapeutic strategy towards controlling ocular surface inflammation.
An important challenge in visual neuroscience is to understand the physiology and pathophysiology of the intra-retinal vasculature, whose function is required for ophthalmoception by humans and most other mammals. In the quest to learn more about this highly specialized portion of the circulatory system, a newly developed method for isolating vast microvascular complexes from the rodent retina has opened the way for using techniques such as patch-clamping, fluorescence imaging and time-lapse photography to elucidate the functional organization of a capillary network and its pre-capillary arteriole. For example, the ability to obtain dual perforated-patch recordings from well-defined sites within an isolated microvascular complex permitted the first characterization of the electrotonic architecture of a capillary/arteriole unit. This analysis revealed that this operational unit is not simply a homogenous synctium, but has a complex functional organization that is dynamically modulated by extracellular signals such as angiotensin II. Another recent discovery is that a capillary and its pre-capillary arteriole have distinct physiological differences; capillaries have an abundance of ATP-sensitive potassium (K(ATP)) channels and a dearth of voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCCs) while the converse is true for arterioles. In addition, voltage transmission between abluminal cells and the endothelium is more efficient in the capillaries. Thus, the capillary network is well-equipped to generate and transmit voltages, and the pre-capillary arteriole is well-adapted to transduce a capillary-generated voltage into a change in abluminal cell calcium and thereby, a vasomotor response. Use of microvessels isolated from the diabetic retina has led to new insights concerning retinal vascular pathophysiology. For example, soon after the onset of diabetes, the efficacy of voltage transmission through the endothelium is diminished; arteriolar VDCCs are inhibited, and there is increased vulnerability to purinergic vasotoxicity, which is a newly identified pathobiological mechanism. Other recent studies reveal that K(ATP) channels not only have an essential physiological role in generating vasomotor responses, but their activation substantially boosts the lethality of hypoxia. Thus, the pathophysiology of the retinal microvasculature is closely linked with its physiology.
Griffiths, Chater, Norris, and Pouget (2012) argue that we have misunderstood the Bayesian approach. In their view, it is rarely the case that researchers are making claims that performance in a given task is near optimal, and few, if any, researchers adopt the theoretical Bayesian perspective according to which the mind or brain is actually performing (or approximating) Bayesian computations. Rather, researchers are said to adopt something more akin to what we called the methodological Bayesian approach, according to which Bayesian models are statistical tools that allow researchers to provide teleological explanations of behavior. In our reply we argue that many Bayesian researchers often appear to be make claims regarding optimality, and often appear to be making claims regarding how the mind computes at algorithmic and implementational levels of descriptions. We agree that some Bayesian theorists adopt the methodological approach, but we question the value of this approach. If Bayesian theories in psychology and neuroscience are only designed to provide insights into teleological questions, we expect that many readers have misunderstood, and hence there is a pressing need to clarify what Bayesian theories of cognition are all about.
Bowers and Davis (2012) criticize Bayesian modelers for telling &quot;just so&quot; stories about cognition and neuroscience. Their criticisms are weakened by not giving an accurate characterization of the motivation behind Bayesian modeling or the ways in which Bayesian models are used and by not evaluating this theoretical framework against specific alternatives. We address these points by clarifying our beliefs about the goals and status of Bayesian models and by identifying what we view as the unique merits of the Bayesian approach.
According to Bayesian theories in psychology and neuroscience, minds and brains are (near) optimal in solving a wide range of tasks. We challenge this view and argue that more traditional, non-Bayesian approaches are more promising. We make 3 main arguments. First, we show that the empirical evidence for Bayesian theories in psychology is weak. This weakness relates to the many arbitrary ways that priors, likelihoods, and utility functions can be altered in order to account for the data that are obtained, making the models unfalsifiable. It further relates to the fact that Bayesian theories are rarely better at predicting data compared with alternative (and simpler) non-Bayesian theories. Second, we show that the empirical evidence for Bayesian theories in neuroscience is weaker still. There are impressive mathematical analyses showing how populations of neurons could compute in a Bayesian manner but little or no evidence that they do. Third, we challenge the general scientific approach that characterizes Bayesian theorizing in cognitive science. A common premise is that theories in psychology should largely be constrained by a rational analysis of what the mind ought to do. We question this claim and argue that many of the important constraints come from biological, evolutionary, and processing (algorithmic) considerations that have no adaptive relevance to the problem per se. In our view, these factors have contributed to the development of many Bayesian &quot;just so&quot; stories in psychology and neuroscience; that is, mathematical analyses of cognition that can be used to explain almost any behavior as optimal.

Although grief has been described primarily as a psychological phenomenon, empirical evidence reveals that grief also has physiological correlates that have consequences for health. The present study investigates the diurnal cortisol production patterns in women who have been bereaved in the past 18 months. Specifically, the study compares women with Complicated Grief (n=12) from those with Non-Complicated Grief (n=12), testing whether cortisol slope distinguishes the two groups. Results demonstrate that the two groups do not differ on demographic variables (except education), but as hypothesized, those with Complicated Grief have a flatter slope across the day, controlling for education and body mass index.
Both hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis activity and serotonergic systems are commonly dysregulated in stress-related psychiatric disorders. We describe here a non-invasive rat model for hypercortisolism, as observed in major depression, and its effects on physiology, behavior, and the expression of tph2, the gene encoding tryptophan hydroxylase 2, the rate-limiting enzyme for brain serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) synthesis. We delivered corticosterone (40 g/ml, 100 g/ml or 400 g/ml) or vehicle to adrenal-intact adult, male rats via the drinking water for 3 weeks. On days 15, 16, 17 and 18, respectively, the rats' emotionality was assessed in the open-field (OF), social interaction (SI), elevated plus-maze (EPM), and forced swim tests (FST). On day 21, half of the rats in each group were killed 2h into the dark phase of a 12/12 h reversed light/dark cycle; the other half were killed 2h into the light phase. We then measured indices of HPA axis activity, plasma glucose and interleukin-6 (IL-6) availability, and neuronal tph2 expression at each time point. Chronic corticosterone intake was sufficient to cause increased anxiety- and depressive-like behavior in a dose-dependent manner. It also disrupted the diurnal pattern of plasma adrenocorticotropin (ACTH), corticosterone, and glucose concentrations, caused adrenal atrophy, and prevented regular weight gain. No diurnal or treatment-dependent changes were found for plasma concentrations of IL-6. Remarkably, all doses of corticosterone treatment abolished the diurnal variation of tph2 mRNA expression in the brainstem dorsal raphe nucleus (DR) by elevating the gene's expression during the animals' inactive (light) phase. Our data demonstrate that chronic elevation of corticosterone creates a vulnerability to a depression-like syndrome that is associated with increased tph2 expression, similar to that observed in depressed patients.





Few studies have investigated the role of the BDNF-val66met polymorphism in fear conditioning in humans, and previous results have been inconsistent. In the present study, we examined whether the BDNF-val66met was associated with differences in the acquisition and generalization of fear during a differential conditioning paradigm in a large sample of participants (N=141). Using three different indexes of fear learning (fear-potentiated startle, skin conductance response, and online risk ratings) no effects of the BDNF-val66met were found either on the acquisition or the generalization of conditioned fear. Taken together with previous data, our study suggests that the BDNF-val66met polymorphism has no effect on the acquisition or generalization of fear.
Event-related potentials (ERPs) offer unparalleled temporal sensitivity in tracing the distinct electrocortical processing stages enabling cognition and are frequently utilized in clinical and experimental investigations, yet few studies have investigated their retest reliability. We administered a battery of typical ERP paradigms to elicit a diverse range of components linked to distinct perceptual and cognitive processes (P1, N1, N170, P3a, P3b, error-related negativity, error positivity, P400). Twenty-five participants completed the battery on two occasions, 1 month apart. Analysis of component amplitudes indicated moderate-to-strong split-half and strong test-retest reliability. Peak latency reliability varied substantially across components and ranged from weak to strong. We confirm that a range of prominent ERPs provide highly stable neurophysiological indices of human cognitive function.

Alzheimer disease (AD) is one of, if not the most, feared diseases associated with aging. The prevalence of AD increases exponentially with age after 60 years. Increasing life expectancy coupled with the absence of any approved disease-modifying therapies at present position AD as a dominant public health problem. Major advances have occurred in the development of disease biomarkers for AD in the past 2 decades. At present, the most well-developed AD biomarkers are the cerebrospinal fluid analytes amyloid- 42 and tau and the brain imaging measures amyloid positron emission tomography (PET), fluorodeoxyglucose PET, and magnetic resonance imaging. CSF and imaging biomarkers are incorporated into revised diagnostic guidelines for AD, which have recently been updated for the first time since their original formulation in 1984. Results of recent studies suggest the possibility of an ordered evolution of AD biomarker abnormalities that can be used to stage the typical 20-30-year course of the disease. When compared with biomarkers in other areas of medicine, however, the absence of standardized quantitative metrics for AD imaging biomarkers constitutes a major deficiency. Failure to move toward a standardized system of quantitative metrics has substantially limited potential diagnostic usefulness of imaging in AD. This presents an important opportunity that, if widely embraced, could greatly expand the application of imaging to improve clinical diagnosis and the quality and efficiency of clinical trials.
We present a short historical review on the major institutions and figures who contributed to make Paris a renowned centre of physiology and neurology during the XIXth and the first half of the XXth century. We purposely chose to focus on the period 1800-1950, as 1800 corresponds to the actual beginning of neurosciences, and as 1950 marks their exponential rise. Our presentation is divided into four chapters, matching the main disciplines that have progressed and contributed most to the knowledge we have of the brain sciences: anatomy, physiology, neurology, and psychiatry-psychology. The present article is the fourth of the four parts of this review, which deals with the chapter on psychiatry and psychology. When the French Revolution occurred, only a few institutions were taking care of the mentally ill. In the Paris area, these included Maison Royale de Charenton, Les Petites Maisons, and one of the departments of larger hospitals such as Htel-Dieu, the Salptrire Hospital and Bictre Hospital. One of the founders of psychiatry in Paris at that time and thereafter was Philippe Pinel (1745-1826) who was the first to distinguish insane/alienated patients from misfits, beggars, and other vagabonds. During the first half of the XIXth century, his student Jean-tienne Esquirol (1772-1840) also played a major role with his treatise on mental diseases and the 1838 law and the creation of asylums in all parts of France. Alienists were in general caregivers and learned by themselves. In contrast, at the academic level, the emerging disciplines psychiatry and neurology were very close to each other in the second half of the XIXth century, the best example being Jules Baillarger (1809-1890). The actual development of psychiatry and psychology and the foundation of psychoanalysis later in the XIXth century and in the first half of the XXth century owed much to several European doctors and scientists, particularly those from British institutions and from German-speaking universities in Central Europe. In France, important advances were once again initiated in Paris by Jean-Martin Charcot (1825-1893) and some of his pupils who renewed the concept of hysteria and the use of hypnosis. Sainte-Anne Hospital was created in 1867. This new institution located in the southern part of Paris became (and is still) one of the most important places in France for the treatment, research and teaching of mental diseases. Thereafter started new disciplines such as clinical psychology and neuropsychology; the scientific basis of psychology and notably the psychopathology hypothesis were established. A major revolutionary step occurred in Paris in the early 1950s with the discovery of neuroleptics and the birth of psychopharmacology. Here we present the biographical sketches of the most important Parisian scientists of these disciplines from that era, Philippe Pinel, Jean-tienne Esquirol, Thodule Armand Ribot, Pierre Janet, Henri Louis Charles Piron, Henry Ey, Jean Delay, Henri Laborit and Henri Hcaen.
This review focuses on the use of family-based treatment (FBT) for adolescents with eating disorders, including anorexia nervosa (AN) and bulimia nervosa (BN). AN and BN are serious disorders with significant psychiatric and medical morbidity. Data support the use of family treatments for adolescents with eating disorders. Developed at the Maudsley Hospital, FBT is a theoretically agnostic approach that externalizes the illness from the patient and empowers families to actively work to bring about recovery in their relative with an eating disorder. FBT appears to be an effective treatment for adolescents with AN and support is developing for the treatment of adolescents with BN. Manual development is currently underway for the implementation of FBT for young adults with eating disorders, overweight adolescents, and those with subsyndromal AN. Further research is needed to determine the effectiveness of FBT with other populations. In this review, we will provide a critical overview of the literature by focusing upon empirical findings regarding FBT, with particular emphasis on studies conducted with adolescents.
Mobile assessment techniques have been used for nearly 3 decades in mental health research, including in investigations of individuals with schizophrenia and other severe disorders. This article reviews the benefits of these data collection strategies relative to traditional self-report or clinician-administered measures administered in hospital or laboratory settings. A detailed discussion of the technical decisions facing researchers in the field is then presented, covering study design issues, questionnaire content development, and choices in hardware and software selection. Following these points, sample recruitment and retention strategies are discussed, as well as the main statistical issues that are necessary to consider in the exploitation of repeated measures data generated by this methodology.
The ability to learn, store, and retrieve information about relationships is impaired in schizophrenia. Here, we tested 38 control and 61 schizophrenia subjects for their ability to identify the novel pairing of stimuli, based on associations learned during training. Subjects were trained on 3 sets of paired associates: 30 face-house pairs (H-F1), 30 face-house pairs (H-F2, same house with new face), and 30 face-face pairs (F3-F4). After training, participants were tested on the 3 explicitly trained pair types, as well as 30 new face-face pairs (F1-F2), which could only be linked together via the same house during the H-F1/H-F2 training blocks. Of 99 subjects tested, 37 patients with schizophrenia and 36 age-matched healthy control subjects learned the premise pairs and performed the relational memory test. Healthy control subjects were significantly more accurate in identifying the inferential (F1-F2) pairs than the noninferential (F3-F4) pairs. In contrast, schizophrenia patients were equally accurate on inferential and noninferential pairs, providing evidence for a relational memory deficit in schizophrenia. However, the current version of the associative inference paradigm, suggested by the Cognitive Neuroscience Treatment Research to Improve Cognition in Schizophrenia initiative, has limited feasibility, calling into question the generalizability of the findings for the larger schizophrenia population.
Identifying neurobiological predictors of response to antipsychotics in patients with schizophrenia is a critical goal of translational psychiatry. Few studies, however, have investigated the relationship between indices of brain structure and treatment response in the context of a controlled clinical trial. In this study, we sought to identify magnetic resonance (MR) imaging measures of the brain that predict treatment response in patients experiencing a first-episode of schizophrenia. Structural MR imaging scans were acquired in 39 patients experiencing a first-episode of schizophrenia with minimal or no prior exposure to antipsychotics participating in a double-blind 16-week clinical trial comparing the efficacy of risperidone vs olanzapine. Twenty-five patients were classified as responders by meeting operationally defined treatment response criteria on 2 consecutive study visits. Fourteen patients never responded to antipsychotic medication at any point during the clinical trial. MR imaging scans were also acquired in 45 age- and sex-matched healthy volunteers. Cortical pattern matching methods were used to compare cortical thickness and asymmetry measures among groups. Statistical mapping results, confirmed by permutation testing, indicated that responders had greater cortical thickness in occipital regions and greater frontal cortical asymmetry compared with nonresponders. Moreover, among responders, greater thickness in temporal regions was associated with less time to respond. Our findings are consistent with the hypothesis that plasticity and cortical thickness may be more preserved in responders and that MR imaging may assist in the prediction of antipsychotic drug response in patients experiencing a first-episode of schizophrenia.

Phenotypic heterogeneity within patients and controls may explain why the genetic variants contributing to schizophrenia risk explain only a fraction of the heritability. The aim of this study is to investigate quantitative and qualitative differences in psychosis symptoms in a sample including psychosis patients, their relatives, and community controls. We combined factor analysis and latent class analysis to analyze variation in Comprehensive Assessment of Symptoms and History lifetime-rated symptoms in 4286 subjects. The Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-Intelligence Quotient (N = 2663) and the Camberwell Assessment of Need rating scale (N = 625) were assessed in a subsample. Variation in 5 continuous dimensions (disorganization, positive, negative, mania, and depression) was accounted for by the presence of 7 homogeneous classes (Kraepelinian schizophrenia, affective psychosis, manic-depression, deficit nonpsychosis, depression, healthy, and no symptoms). Eighty-five percent of the schizophrenia patients was assigned to the Kraepelinian schizophrenia class (characterized by high scores on the 5 dimensions, low IQ, and poor outcome) while 15% was assigned to the affective psychosis class (relatively low disorganization and negative scores, normal IQ, and good outcome). In bipolar patients (91% bipolar I), 41% was assigned to the Kraepelinian schizophrenia class, 44% to the affective psychosis class, and 10% to the manic-depression class. Latent class membership was associated with intelligence in psychosis patients and in their relatives but not in community controls. In conclusion, symptom heterogeneity is more pronounced in bipolar disorder compared with schizophrenia. Reducing phenotypic heterogeneity within psychosis patients and controls may facilitate etiological research.


Schizophrenia is a highly heritable neurodevelopmental disorder associated with alterations in synaptic connectivity. Deleted in colorectal cancer (DCC), a receptor for the guidance cue netrin-1, plays a pivotal role in organizing neuronal circuitry by guiding growing axons and dendrites to their correct targets and by influencing synaptic connectivity. Results from experiments we previously conducted in dcc-heterozygous mice show that DCC plays a critical role in the developmental organization of the mesocorticolimbic dopamine (DA) circuitry. Furthermore we have shown that reduced expression of DCC during development and/or throughout life confers resilience to the development of schizophrenia-like DA and behavioural abnormalities. Importantly, this &quot;protective&quot; phenotype only emerges after puberty. Here we assess whether DCC may contribute to the risk of schizophrenia. We examined single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) located in the DCC gene for association with schizophrenia using a case-control sample consisting of 556 unrelated schizophrenic patients and 208 healthy controls. We found one SNP, rs2270954, to be nominally associated with schizophrenia; patients were less likely to be heterozygous at this locus and more likely to be homozygous for the minor allele ((2)=9.84, df=2, nominal p=0.0071). Intriguingly, this SNP is located within the 3' untranslated region, an area known to contain a number of regulatory sequences that determine the stability and translation efficacy of mRNA. These results, together with our previous findings from studies in rodents, point at DCC as a promising novel candidate gene that may contribute to the genetic basis behind individual differences in susceptibility to schizophrenia.
Schizophrenia is associated with poor quality of life (QOL). Whereas the effects of neurocognitive deficits and psychopathology on QOL of schizophrenia patients have recently been elucidated, little is known about social cognitive deficits in this regard. This study investigated the influence of social cognition on QOL in schizophrenia. A sample of 1032 patients, 1011 of their siblings, and 552 healthy controls was recruited from the Dutch Genetic Risk and Outcome in Psychosis (GROUP) study. Participants completed a battery of cognitive tests, including social cognitive tests on theory of mind and emotion perception. To assess QOL the World Health Organization QOL Assessment-BREF (WHOQOL-BREF) was used. Schizophrenia symptoms were assessed with the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS). Social cognitive performance was significantly worse in patients compared to siblings and healthy controls. Patients had the poorest QOL, while QOL in healthy controls was better than in siblings. Theory of mind but not emotion perception or neurocognition was associated with QOL in patients, whereas neurocognition was the only significant predictor of QOL in siblings and healthy controls. There was a significant interaction between theory of mind and symptom severity with respect to QOL. Our study indicates that social cognition is associated with QOL in schizophrenia. Theory of mind rather than emotion perception is associated with QOL, and this association is moderated by schizophrenia symptoms. In particular, patients with relatively unimpaired theory of mind and more severe schizophrenia symptoms have poor QOL and could therefore benefit from therapeutic intervention.
Synapsin II is a synaptic vesicle-associated phosphoprotein that has been implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Researchers have demonstrated reductions in synapsin II mRNA and protein in post-mortem prefrontal cortex and hippocampus samples from patients with schizophrenia. Synapsin II protein expression has been shown to be regulated by dopamine D(1) and D(2) receptor activation. Furthermore, behavioral testing of the synapsin II knockout mouse has revealed a schizophrenic-like behavioral phenotype in this mutant strain, suggesting a relationship between dysregulated and/or reduced synapsin II and schizophrenia. However, it remains unknown the specific regions of the brain of which perturbations in synapsin II play a role in the pathophysiology of this disease. The aim of this project was to evaluate animals with a selective knock-down of synapsin II in the medial prefrontal cortex through the use of siRNA technology. Two weeks after continuous infusion of synapsin II siRNAs, animals were examined for the presence of a schizophrenic-like behavioral phenotype. Our results reveal that rats with selective reductions in medial prefrontal cortical synapsin II demonstrate deficits in sensorimotor gating (prepulse inhibition), hyperlocomotion, and reduced social behavior. These results implicate a role for decreased medial prefrontal cortical synapsin II levels in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and the mechanisms of aberrant prefrontal cortical circuitry, and suggest that increasing synapsin II levels in the medial prefrontal cortex may potentially serve as a novel therapeutic target for this devastating disorder.



Presence in glioblastomas of cancer cells with normal neural stem cell (NSC) properties, tumor initiating capacity, and resistance to current therapies suggests that glioblastoma stem-like cells (GSCs) play central roles in glioblastoma development. We cultured human GSCs endowed with all features of tumor stem cells, including tumor initiation after xenograft and radio-chemoresistance. We established proteomes from four GSC cultures and their corresponding whole tumor tissues (TTs) and from human NSCs. Two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis and tandem mass spectrometry revealed a twofold increase of hepatoma-derived growth factor (HDGF) in GSCs as compared to TTs and NSCs. Western blot analysis confirmed HDGF overexpression in GSCs as well as its presence in GSC-conditioned medium, while, in contrast, no HDGF was detected in NSC secretome. At the functional level, GSC-conditioned medium induced migration of human cerebral endothelial cells that can be blocked by anti-HDGF antibodies. In vivo, GSC-conditioned medium induced neoangiogenesis, whereas HDGF-targeting siRNAs abrogated this effect. Altogether, our results identify a novel candidate, by which GSCs can support neoangiogenesis, a high-grade glioma hallmark. Our strategy illustrates the usefulness of comparative proteomic analysis to decipher molecular pathways, which underlie GSC properties.
A complex set of extrinsic and intrinsic signals acts in specific temporal and spatial orders to enable neural differentiation during development. These processes have been extensively studied in animal models, but human neural development remains much less understood. This lack of detailed information about human early neurogenesis is a hindrance for the differentiation of pluripotent stem cell lines into specific neuronal phenotypes. Therefore, it is important to strengthen the interspecies comparative approaches. We describe a novel model system in which in vitro differentiation of human and mouse embryonic stem (ES) cells are temporally aligned to each other and compared with mouse telencephalic neurogenesis in vivo. In this comparative model system, we tested the in vitro role of Hedgehog (Hh) signaling for ES cell-derived telencephalic differentiation. In vivo, Hh signaling mediates dorsal/ventral patterning during early stages of telencephalic development. We monitored the effect of pharmacological modulators of the Hh signaling pathway, purmorphamine-an agonist and cyclopamine-an antagonist of the Smoothened receptor (Smo), on the expression of region-specific transcription factors and signaling molecules relevant for telencephalic development in vivo. Purmorphamine strongly upregulated the expression of telencephalic ventral markers Nkx2.1, Nkx6.2, Lhx6, and Lhx8 in mouse and human cells, thus reflecting the in vivo process of the medial ganglionic eminence patterning and specification. Cyclopamine upregulated the expression of telencephalic dorsal markers, but at lower levels in human compared with mouse cells. Modulation of Smo in vitro differentially affected, in mouse and human cells, the expression of molecules of the Hh pathway, especially the Gli1 and Gli3 effectors, Sonic Hh ligand and Ptch receptors. These results provide evidence for the different default differentiation of mouse and human ES cells and prove the utility of the comparative system for optimizing the directed differentiation of human pluripotent stem cells.
Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have shown potential to improve treatment of renal failure. The prohealing functions of MSCs have been found to be enhanced by treatment with the lipid mediator, 14S,21R-dihydroxy-docosa4Z,7Z,10Z,12E,16Z,19Z-hexaenoic acid (14S,21R-diHDHA). In this article, using a murine model of renal ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury, we found that treatment with 14S,21R-diHDHA enhanced MSC amelioration of renal I/R injury. Treated MSCs more efficiently inhibited I/R-induced elevation of serum creatinine levels, reduced renal tubular cell death, and inhibited infiltration of neutrophils, macrophages, and dendritic cells in kidneys. Conditioned medium from treated MSCs reduced the generation of tumor necrosis factor- and reactive oxygen species by macrophages under I/R conditions. Infusion of treated MSCs more efficiently reduced I/R-damage to renal histological structures compared with untreated MSCs (injury score: 7.90.4 vs. 10.50.5). Treated MSCs were resistant to apoptosis in vivo when transplanted under capsules of I/R-injured kidneys (active caspase-3+ MSCs: 4.2%2.8% vs. 11.7%2.4% of control) and in vitro when cultured under I/R conditions. Treatment with 14S,21R-diHDHA promoted viability of MSCs through a mechanism involving activation of the phosphoinositide 3-kinase -Akt signaling pathway. Additionally, treatment of MSCs with 14S,21R-diHDHA promoted secretion of renotrophic hepatocyte growth factor and insulin growth factor-1. Similar results were obtained when 14S,21RdiHDHA was used to inhibit apoptosis of human MSCs (hMSCs) and to increase the generation of renotrophic cytokines from hMSCs. These findings provide a lead for new strategies in the treatment of acute kidney injury with MSCs.
The mammalian subependymal zone (SEZ; often called subventricular) situated at the lateral walls of the lateral ventricles of the brain contains a pool of relatively quiescent adult neural stem cells whose neurogenic activity persists throughout life. These stem cells are positioned in close proximity both to the ependymal cells that provide the cerebrospinal fluid interface and to the blood vessel endothelial cells, but the relative contribution of these 2 cell types to stem cell regulation remains undetermined. Here, we address this question by analyzing a naturally occurring example of volumetric scaling of the SEZ in a comparison of the mouse SEZ with the larger rat SEZ. Our analysis reveals that the number of stem cells in the SEZ niche is correlated with the number of ependymal cells rather than with the volume, thereby indicating the importance of ependymal-derived factors in the formation and function of the SEZ. The elucidation of the factors generated by ependymal cells that regulate stem cell numbers within the SEZ is, therefore, of importance for stem cell biology and regenerative neuroscience.
Social stress affects cognitive processes in general, and memory performance in particular. However, the direction of these effects has not been clearly established, as it depends on several factors. Our aim was to determine the impact of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and sympathetic nervous system (SNS) reactivity to psychosocial stress on short-term non-declarative memory and declarative memory performance. Fifty-two young participants (18 men, 34 women) were subjected to the Trier Social Stress Task (TSST) and a control condition in a crossover design. Implicit memory was assessed by a priming test, and explicit memory was assessed by the Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test (RAVLT). The TSST provoked greater salivary cortisol and salivary alpha-amylase (sAA) responses than the control task. Men had a higher cortisol response to stress than women, but no sex differences were found for sAA release. Stress was associated with an enhancement of priming but did not affect declarative memory. Additionally, the enhancement on the priming test was higher in those whose sAA levels increased more in response to stress (r(48)=0.339, p=0.018). Our results confirm an effect of acute stress on priming, and that this effect is related to SNS activity. In addition, they suggest a different relationship between stress biomarkers and the different memory systems.
Housing rodents in an enriched environment (EE) has been typically considered to have positive effects on well-being and cognitive functioning of the animals. However, in some strains of mice, EEs have also been reported to elicit aggression and to promote stress-related outcomes. In the current investigation, we examined whether environmental enrichment would elicit aggression among CD-1 male mice and thus sensitize responses to a subsequent mild stressor. It was first observed that mice housed in an EE for 2 weeks displayed more aggressive behaviors than did mice that had been housed in a standard environment (SE). In the second experiment, it was noted that after 4 weeks of EE or SE housing, mice exhibited comparable plasma corticosterone concentrations as well as levels of brain norepinephrine and its metabolite, 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG), in the absence of a challenge. However, upon exposure to mild stressor (placement in a novel cage), relative to their SE counterparts, EE mice were more active and displayed higher plasma corticosterone concentrations and enhanced MHPG accumulation in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. It seems that enrichment in male CD-1 mice promotes aggression, and may sensitize biological processes, possibly increasing vulnerability to stressor-related outcomes.
The medial septum (MS) of the basal forebrain contains cholinergic neurons that project to the hippocampus, support cognitive function, and are implicated in age-related cognitive decline. Hypothalamic orexin/hypocretin neurons innervate and modulate basal forebrain cholinergic neurons and provide direct inputs to the hippocampus. However, the precise role of orexin in modulating hippocampal cholinergic transmission--and how these interactions are altered in aging--is unknown. Here, orexin A was administered to CA1 and the MS of young (3-4 months) and aged (27-29 months) Fisher 344/Brown Norway rats, and hippocampal acetylcholine efflux was analyzed by in vivo microdialysis. At both infusion sites, orexin A dose-dependently increased hippocampal acetylcholine in young, but not aged rats. Moreover, immunohistochemical characterization of the MS revealed no change in cholinergic cell bodies in aged animals, but a significant decrease in orexin fiber innervation to cholinergic cells. These findings indicate that: (1) Orexin A modulates hippocampal cholinergic neurotransmission directly and transsynaptically in young animals, (2) Aged animals are unresponsive to orexin A, and (3) Aged animals undergo an intrinsic reduction in orexin innervation to cholinergic cells within the MS. Alterations in orexin regulation of septohippocampal cholinergic activity may contribute to age-related dysfunctions in arousal, learning, and memory.
Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) activities were measured in the blood and tissues of animals that are treated with a number of endotracheally aerosolized therapeutics for protection against inhalation toxicity to sarin. Therapeutics included, aerosolized atropine methyl bromide (AMB), scopolamine or combination of AMB with salbutamol, sphingosine 1-phosphate, keratinocyte growth factor, adenosine A1 receptor antisense oligonucleotide (EPI2010), 2,3-diacetyloxybenzoic acid (2,3 DABA), oxycyte, and survanta. Guinea pigs exposed to 677.4mg/m(3) or 846.5mg/m(3) (1.2 LCt(50)) sarin for 4min using a microinstillation inhalation exposure technique and treated 1min later with the aerosolized therapeutics. Treatment with all therapeutics significantly increased the survival rate with no convulsions throughout the 24h study period. Blood AChE activity determined using acetylthiocholine as substrate showed 20% activity remaining in sarin-exposed animals compare to controls. In aerosolized AMB and scopolamine-treated animals the remaining AChE activity was significantly higher (45-60%) compared to sarin-exposed animals (p&lt;0.05). Similarly, treatment with all the combination therapeutics resulted in significant increase in blood AChE activity in comparison to sarin-exposed animals although the increases varied between treatments (p&lt;0.05). BChE activity was increased after treatment with aerosolized therapeutics but was lesser in magnitude compared to AChE activity changes. Various tissues showed elevated AChE activity after therapeutic treatment of sarin-exposed animals. Increased AChE and BChE activities in animals treated with nasal therapeutics suggest that enhanced breathing and reduced respiratory toxicity/lung injury possibly contribute to rapid normalization of chemical warfare nerve agent inhibited cholinesterases.

Altered glial structure and function is implicated in several major mental illnesses and increasing evidence specifically links changes in oligodendrocytes with disrupted mood regulation. Low density and reduced expression of oligodendrocyte-specific gene transcripts in postmortem human subjects points toward decreased oligodendrocyte function in most of the major mental illnesses. Similar features are observed in rodent models of stress-induced depressive-like phenotypes, such as the unpredictable chronic mild stress and chronic corticosterone exposure, suggesting an effect downstream from stress. However, whether oligodendrocyte changes are a causal component of psychiatric phenotypes is not known. Traditional views that identify oligodendrocytes solely as nonfunctional support cells are being challenged, and recent studies suggest a more dynamic role for oligodendrocytes in neuronal functioning than previously considered, with the region adjacent to the node of Ranvier (i.e., paranode) considered a critical region of glial-neuronal interaction. Here, we briefly review the current knowledge regarding oligodendrocyte disruptions in psychiatric disorders and related animal models, with a focus on major depression. We then highlight several rodent studies, which suggest that alterations in oligodendrocyte structure and function can produce behavioral changes that are informative of mood regulatory mechanisms. Together, these studies suggest a model, whereby impaired oligodendrocyte and possibly paranode structure and function can impact neural circuitry, leading to downstream effects related to emotionality in rodents, and potentially to mood regulation in human psychiatric disorders.
Over the past 30 years hemispheric asymmetries in speech perception have been construed within a domain-general framework, according to which preferential processing of speech is due to left-lateralized, non-linguistic acoustic sensitivities. A prominent version of this argument holds that the left temporal lobe selectively processes rapid/temporal information in sound. Acoustically, this is a poor characterization of speech and there has been little empirical support for a left-hemisphere selectivity for these cues. In sharp contrast, the right temporal lobe is demonstrably sensitive to specific acoustic properties. We suggest that acoustic accounts of speech sensitivities need to be informed by the nature of the speech signal and that a simple domain-general vs. domain-specific dichotomy may be incorrect.
-Synuclein (-syn) is the most abundant protein found in Lewy bodies, a hallmark of Parkinson's disease (PD), and can aggregate to form toxic oligomers and fibrillar structures. Recent studies have shown that -syn can be transmitted between neurons and can seed the formation of toxic aggregates in recipient neurons in a prion-like manner. In addition, it is known that Lewy body pathology may spread gradually and systematically from the peripheral or enteric nervous system or olfactory bulb to specific brain regions during progression of idiopathic PD. It is therefore conceivable that -syn species could act as seeds that drive PD progression. Here, we review recent advances from studies of -syn cell-to-cell transfer, the current understanding of -syn toxicity, and how these relate to progression of PD pathology.
The assembly and function of neuronal circuits rely on selective cell-cell interactions to control axon targeting, generate pre- and postsynaptic specialization and recruit neurotransmitter receptors. In neurons, EphB receptor tyrosine kinases mediate excitatory synaptogenesis early during development, and then later coordinate synaptic function by controlling synaptic glutamate receptor localization and function. EphBs direct synapse formation and function to regulate cellular morphology through downstream signaling mechanisms and by interacting with glutamate receptors. In humans, defective EphB-dependent regulation of NMDA receptor (NMDAR) localization and function is associated with neurological disorders, including neuropathic pain, anxiety disorders and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here, we propose that EphBs act as a central organizer of excitatory synapse formation and function, and as a key regulator of diseases linked to NMDAR dysfunction.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNA transcripts expressed throughout the brain that can regulate neuronal gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. Here, we provide an overview of the role for miRNAs in brain development and function, and review evidence suggesting that dysfunction in miRNA signaling contributes to neurodevelopment disorders such as Rett and fragile X syndromes, as well as complex behavioral disorders including schizophrenia, depression and drug addiction. A better understanding of how miRNAs influence the development of neuropsychiatric disorders may reveal fundamental insights into the causes of these devastating illnesses and offer novel targets for therapeutic development.
Although public health campaigns advise pregnant women to abstain from ethanol, drinking during pregnancy is pervasive. Here, we highlight recent studies that have clearly demonstrated long-lasting neurobehavioral deficits in the offspring of laboratory animals exposed to moderate levels of ethanol during development. Alterations in learning, memory, motor coordination, social behavior, and stress responses were identified in these animals. Increased vulnerability to substance abuse was also demonstrated. These behavioral alterations have been associated with impairments in neurotransmitter systems, neuromodulators, and/or synaptic plasticity in several brain regions. With this review we hope to contribute to a better appreciation of the potential effects of developmental exposure to moderate ethanol levels, leading to better interventions aimed at relieving fetal alcohol spectrum disorders.
The interdependence of the development of the eye and oculomotor system during embryogenesis is currently unclear. The occurrence of clinical anophthalmia, where the globe fails to develop, permits us to study the effects this has on the development of the complex neuromuscular system controlling eye movements. In this study, we use very high-resolution T2-weighted imaging in five anophthalmic subjects to visualize the extraocular muscles and the cranial nerves that innervate them. The subjects differed in the presence or absence of the optic nerve, the abducens nerve, and the extraocular muscles, reflecting differences in the underlying disruption to the eye's morphogenetic pathway. The oculomotor nerve was present in all anophthalmic subjects and only slightly reduced in size compared to measurements in sighted controls. As might be expected, the presence of rudimentary eye-like structures in the socket appeared to correlate with development and persistence of the extraocular muscles in some cases. Our study supports in part the concept of an initial independence of muscle development, with its maintenance subject to the presence of these eye-like structures.
It has been argued that the human visual system is optimized for identification of broadband objects embedded in stimuli possessing orientation averaged power spectra fall-offs that obey the 1/f() relationship typically observed in natural scene imagery (i.e., =2.0 on logarithmic axes). Here, we were interested in whether individual spatial channels leading to recognition are functionally optimized for narrowband targets when masked by noise possessing naturalistic image statistics (=2.0). The current study therefore explores the impact of variable  noise masks on the identification of narrowband target stimuli ranging in spatial complexity, while simultaneously controlling for physical or perceived differences between the masks. The results show that =2.0 noise masks produce the largest identification thresholds regardless of target complexity, and thus do not seem to yield functionally optimized channel processing. The differential masking effects are discussed in the context of contrast gain control.
The experiments described here used event-related potentials (ERPs) to investigate the neural processes of the horizontal effect, in which visual performance is worst for horizontal and best for oblique orientations. EEGs were recorded while human adult subjects performed an orientation identification task with broad-band noise stimuli. The results showed that the difference between cardinal orientations and oblique orientations first occurred at P2 component around 200 ms post-stimulus onset, which is much later than the traditional oblique effect. Additionally, the P3 was much smaller and earlier for oblique orientations than for cardinal orientations. These findings indicated that, compared to the classical oblique effect, the horizontal effect with broad-band noise stimuli might occur at relatively later stages of visual information processing and might involve more complex neural mechanisms.
Brightness (perceived intensity) and lightness (perceived reflectance) matching were investigated in seven well-known visual stimuli that contain a visible shadow or transparent overlay. These stimuli are frequently upheld as evidence that low-level spatial filtering is inadequate to explain brightness/lightness illusions and that additional mid- or high-level mechanisms are required. The argument in favor of rejecting low-level spatial filtering explanations has been founded on the erroneous assumption that equating test patch and near surround luminance is sufficient to control for and rule out this type of mechanism. We tested this idea by comparing the matching behavior of four observers to the predictions of the ODOG multiscale filtering model (Blakeslee &amp; McCourt, 1999). Lightness and brightness matching differed significantly only when test patches appeared in shadow or beneath a transparency. Lightness and brightness matches were both significantly larger under these conditions; however, the lightness matches greatly exceeded the brightness matches. Lightness matches were greater for test patches in shadow or beneath a transparency because lightness matches under these conditions were based on conscious inferential (not sensory-level) judgments where observers attempted to discount the difference in illumination. The ODOG model accounted for approximately 80% of the total variance in the brightness matches (as well as in the lightness matches for targets not in shadow or beneath a transparency), and successfully predicted the relative magnitude of these matches in five of the seven stimulus sets. These results indicate that multiscale spatial filtering provides a unified and parsimonious explanation for brightness perception in these stimuli and imply that higher-level mechanisms are not required to explain them. The model was not as successful for the argyle and wall of blocks illusions in that it incorrectly rank-ordered the relative magnitude of the effects across different versions of the stimuli. It is an important question whether such model failures are due to known but corrigible limitations of the ODOG model or whether they will require other (possibly higher-level) explanations.
Many studies have used static and non-biologically related stimuli to investigate bistable perception and found that the percept is usually dominated by their intrinsic nature with some influence of voluntary control from the viewer. Here we used a dynamic stimulus of a rotating human body, the silhouette spinner illusion, to investigate how the viewers' intentions may affect their percepts. In two experiments, we manipulated observer intention (active or passive), fixation position (body or feet), and spinning velocity (fast, medium, or slow). Our results showed that the normalized alternating rate between two bistable percepts was greater when (1) participants actively attempted to switch percepts, (2) when participants fixated at the spinner's feet rather than the body, inducing as many as 25 switches of the bistable percepts within 1 min, and (3) when they watched the spinner at high velocity. These results suggest that a dynamic biologically-bistable percept can be quickly alternated by the viewers' intention. Furthermore, the higher alternating rate in the feet condition compared to the body condition suggests a role for biological meaningfulness in determining bistable percepts, where 'biologically plausible' interpretations are favored by the visual system.
Since the beginning of recorded history, humans have sought a physical means of altering disordered behavior and consciousness. This quest has spawned numerous innovations in neurosurgery and the neurosciences, from the earliest prehistoric attempts at trepanation to the electrocortical and anatomic localization of cerebral function that emerged in the 19th century. At the start of the 20th century, the overwhelming social impact of psychiatric illness intersected with the novel but imperfect understanding of frontal lobe function, establishing a decades-long venture into the modern origin of psychosurgery, the prefrontal lobotomy. The subsequent social and ethical ramifications of the widespread overuse of transorbital lobotomies drove psychosurgery to near extinction. However, as the pharmacologic treatment of psychiatric illness was established, numerous concomitant technical and neuroscientific innovations permitted the incremental development of a new paradigm of treating the disordered mind. In this article, we retrospectively examine these early origins of psychosurgery and then look to the recent past, present, and future for emerging trends in surgery of the psyche. Recent decades have seen a revolution in minimalism, noninvasive imaging, and functional manipulation of the human cerebrum that have created new opportunities and treatment modalities for disorders of the human mind and mood. Early contemporary efforts were directed at focal lesioning of abnormal pathways, but deep-brain stimulation now aims to reversibly alter and modulate those neurologic activities responsible for not only psychiatric disorders, but also to modulate and even to augment consciousness, memory, and other elements of cerebral function. As new tools become available, the social and medical impact of psychosurgery promises to revolutionize not only neurosurgery, but also humans' capability for positively impacting life and society.

Proper healing of cutaneous wounds progresses through a series of overlapping phases. Nonhealing wounds are defective in one or more of these processes and represent a major clinical problem. A critical issue in developing treatments for chronic wounds is the paucity of animal models to study the mechanisms underlying the defects in healing. Here we show that deletion of tumor necrosis factor superfamily member 14 (TNFSF14/LIGHT) leads to impaired wounds in mice that have the characteristics of nonchronic and chronic ulcers. These wounds show: (1) excessive production of cytokines, in particular three chemokines (KC/CXCL8, MCP-1/CCL2, IP-10/CXCL10), that may be key to the abnormal initiation and resolution of inflammation; (2) defective basement membranes, explaining blood vessel leakage and disruption of dermal/epidermal interactions; and (3) granulation tissue that contains high levels of Coll III, whereas Coll I is virtually absent and does not form fibrils. We also see major differences between nonchronic and chronic wounds, with the latter populated by bacterial films and producing eotaxin, a chemokine that attracts leukocytes that combat multicellular organisms (which biofilms can be considered to be). This new mouse model captures many defects observed in impaired and chronic human wounds and provides a vehicle to address their underlying cell and molecular mechanisms.
The plasticity of neural networks is a complex process determined by changes in physiological status, gene expression and phenotype of a cell. A detailed study of this process dynamics requires the simultaneous recording of electrical and genomic activities in networks of neurons. This sets up one of the tasks for modern neuroscience as development of integration of electrophysiology and molecular biology methods. In the paper we review the current approaches to such integration, as well as the choice of molecular markers for detection of genomic and synaptic plasticity of neurons by use of physiological micro-sensorial system based on neuronal cells cultured on the micro-electrode arrays.
The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of an extract from Moringa oleifera (MO) on the development of monocrotaline (MCT)-induced pulmonary hypertension (PH) in Wistar rats. An ethanol extraction was performed on dried MO leaves, and HPLC analysis identified niaziridin and niazirin in the extract. PH was induced with a single subcutaneous injection of MCT (60 mg/kg) which resulted in increases in pulmonary arterial blood pressure (Ppa) and in thickening of the pulmonary arterial medial layer in the rats. Three weeks after induction, acute administration of the MO extract to the rats decreased Ppa in a dose-dependent manner that reached statistical significance at a dose of 4.5 mg of freeze-dried extract per kg body weight. The reduction in Ppa suggested that the extract directly relaxed the pulmonary arteries. To assay the effects of chronic administration of the MO extract on PH, control, MCT and MCT+MO groups were designated. Rats in the control group received a saline injection; the MCT and MCT+MO groups received MCT to induce PH. During the third week after MCT treatment, the MCT+MO group received daily i.p. injections of the MO extract (4.5 mg of freeze-dried extract/kg of body weight). Compared to the control group, the MCT group had higher Ppa and thicker medial layers in the pulmonary arteries. Chronic treatments with the MO extract reversed the MCT-induced changes. Additionally, the MCT group had a significant elevation in superoxide dismutase activity when normalized by the MO extract treatments. In conclusion, the MO extract successfully attenuated the development of PH via direct vasodilatation and a potential increase in antioxidant activity.

Syringomyelia is a neurological disorder characterised by high pressure fluid-filled cysts within the spinal cord. As syringomyelia is associated with abnormalities of the central nervous system that obstruct cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) flow, it is thought that changes in CSF dynamics play an important role in its pathogenesis. Using three-dimensional computational models of the spinal subarachnoid space (SAS), this study aims to determine SAS obstructions, such as arachnoiditis, change in CSF dynamics in the SAS. The geometry of the SAS was reconstructed from a series of MRI images. CSF is modelled as an incompressible Newtonian fluid with a dynamic viscosity of 1 mPa s. Three computational models simulated CSF flow in either the unobstructed SAS, or with the SAS obstructed by a porous region simulating dorsal or circumferential arachnoiditis. The permeability of this porous obstruction was varied for the model with dorsal arachnoiditis. The results show that arachnoiditis increases flow resistance in the SAS and this is accompanied by a modest increase in magnitude and/or shift in timing (with respect to the cardiac cycle) of the CSF pressure drop across the region of arachnoiditis. This study suggests that syrinx formation may be related to a change in temporal CSF pulse pressure dynamics.
Central nervous system (CNS) tuberculosis (TB) is the most severe form of TB, characterized morphologically by brain granulomas and tuberculous meningitis (TBM). Experimental strategies for the study of the host-pathogen interaction through the analysis of granulomas and its intrinsic molecular mechanisms could provide new insights into the neuropathology of TB. To verify whether cerebellar mycobacterial infection induces the main features of the disease in human CNS and better understand the physiological mechanisms underlying the disease, we injected bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) into the mouse cerebellum. BCG-induced CNS-TB is characterized by the formation of granulomas and TBM, a build up of bacterial loads in these lesions, and microglial recruitment into the lesion sites. In addition, there is an enhanced expression of signaling molecules such as nuclear factor-B (NF-B) and there is a presence of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in the lesions and surrounding areas. This murine model of cerebellar CNS-TB was characterized by cellular and biochemical immune responses typically found in the human disease. This model could expand our knowledge about granulomas in TB infection of the cerebellum, and help characterize the physiological mechanisms involved with the progression of this serious illness that is responsible for killing millions people every year.
The synfire chain model of brain organization has received much theoretical attention since its introduction (Abeles, 1982, 1991). However there has been no convincing experimental demonstration of synfire chains due partly to limitations of recording technology but also due to lack of appropriate analytic methods for large scale recordings of parallel spike trains. We have previously published one such method based on intersection of the neural populations active at two different times (Schrader et al., 2008). In the present paper we extend this analysis to deal with higher firing rates and noise levels, and develop two additional tools based on properties of repeating firing patterns. All three measures show characteristic signatures if synfire chains underlie the recorded data. However we demonstrate that the detection of repeating firing patterns alone (as used in several papers) is not enough to infer the presence of synfire chains. Positive results from all three measures are needed.
Fast solution exchange techniques have revolutionized the study of synaptic transmission and promise to remain an important neuroscience research tool. Here we provide evidence for the hypothesis that using continuous, rapid transitions through an agonist solution can significantly increase the exchange rate around a cell by reducing the diffusion boundary at the membrane. This novel approach of rapid solution exchange during whole-cell recordings--described as a &quot;liquid bullet&quot; (LB) application--takes advantage of a bidirectional solution flow around the cell, allowing for a full solution exchange within a range of several milliseconds. An exchange rate (10-90% rise time) of about 2 ms could be achieved during both agonist application and washout. We recorded whole-cell currents from cells expressing the rapidly desensitizing 7 neuronal nicotinic receptor (NNR) subtype that exhibited very fast rise times of around 4-5 ms. We further demonstrated the advantages of a LB application over conventional methods by the ability of this method to elicit concentration-dependent responses for rapidly desensitizing compounds that were not measurable with conventional agonist applications. In addition, we illustrate the utility of this approach for frequency-based assays through fast, repeated agonist applications at frequencies of 1 Hz and 30 Hz. This approach could therefore be useful for the study of rapid agonist-receptor interactions that closely mimic the physiological conditions in the synaptic cleft during bursts of neuronal activity.
Neuroeconomics integrates behavioral economics and cognitive neuroscience to understand the neurobiological basis for normative and maladaptive decision making. Delay discounting is a behavioral economic index of impulsivity that reflects capacity to delay gratification and has been consistently associated with nicotine dependence. This preliminary study used functional magnetic resonance imaging to examine delay discounting for money and cigarette rewards in 13 nicotine dependent adults. Significant differences between preferences for smaller immediate rewards and larger delayed rewards were evident in a number of regions of interest (ROIs), including the medial prefrontal cortex, anterior insular cortex, middle temporal gyrus, middle frontal gyrus, and cingulate gyrus. Significant differences between money and cigarette rewards were generally lateralized, with cigarette choices associated with left hemisphere activation and money choices associated with right hemisphere activation. Specific ROI differences included the posterior parietal cortex, medial and middle frontal gyrus, ventral striatum, temporoparietal cortex, and angular gyrus. Impulsivity as measured by behavioral choices was significantly associated with both individual ROIs and a combined ROI model. These findings provide initial evidence in support of applying a neuroeconomic approach to understanding nicotine dependence.
N400, an event-related brain potential (ERP) waveform elicited by meaningful stimuli, is normally reduced by stimulus repetition (N400 repetition priming), and relatedness between the eliciting stimulus and preceding ones (relatedness priming). Schizophrenia patients' N400 relatedness priming deficits suggest impairment in using meaningful prime stimuli to facilitate processing of related concepts in semantic memory. To examine whether this deficiency arises from difficulty activating the prime concept per se, as indexed by reduced N400 repetition priming; or from impaired functional connections among concepts in semantic memory, as reflected by reduced relatedness priming but normal repetition priming; we recorded ERPs from 16 schizophrenia patients and 16 controls who viewed prime words each followed at 300- or 750-ms stimulus-onset asynchrony (SOA) by an unrelated, related or repeated target word, or a nonword, in a lexical-decision task. In both groups, N400s were largest (most negative) for unrelated, intermediate for related, and smallest for repeated targets. Schizophrenia patients exhibited subnormal N400 relatedness priming at the 300-ms SOA, but normal repetition priming at both SOAs, suggesting that their impairment in using prime words to activate related concepts results from abnormal functional connections among concepts within semantic memory, rather than inability to activate the prime concept itself.
The term sociotype has been introduced to describe the dynamic relationship of an individual with his/her social environment throughout life. The sociotype is a conceptual framework to highlight, in addition to bio-medical pathways, the psycho-social and environmental factors necessary to understand responses to life stresses and patient self-management for chronic illness. The sociotype interacts with genotype expression through mate selection and metabolic programming, and with the phenotype to determine adaptation throughout life from birth to old age. Following on the work of Antonovsky, Engel, and McEwen, and others in the life and social sciences, the sociotype details and expands the many factors generally included in the environmental influences on a person's life identified here as the domains of health, relationships, and environment. Physiological mediators for sociotypic influences include: adrenal steroids and the sympathetic nervous system (allostatic load), and oxytocin (social neuroscience). The biological pathways are multiple through nutrition (essential dietary-derived amino- and fatty acids for neurotransmitter synthesis, caloric restriction, and diet-gene interactions), epigenesis, and metabolic programming. Nutrition influences growth and development, fertility and longevity, and also determines susceptibility to non-communicable diseases such as cardiovascular disease and cancer, and particularly diabetes and obesity, through in-utero effects, the development of intestinal flora (microbiome), and chronic stress. Thus the sociotype and nutrition are reciprocally related in both health and disease.
The short-latency reflex inhibition of human inspiratory muscles produced by loading is prolonged in asthma and obstructive sleep apnoea, both diseases involving airway and systemic inflammation. Both diseases also involve repetitive inspiratory loading. Although airway mucosal afferents are not critical components of the normal reflex arc, during airway inflammation, prolongation of the reflex may be caused by altered mucosal afferent sensitivity, or altered central processing of their inputs. We hypothesised that acute viral airway inflammation would replicate the reflex abnormality. The reflex was tested in 9 subjects with a &quot;common cold&quot; during both the acute infection and when well. Surface electrodes recorded electromyographic (EMG) activity bilaterally from scalene muscles. Latencies of the inhibitory response (IR) did not differ significantly (IR peak 67 vs 70 ms (p=0.12), and IR offset 87 vs 90 ms (p=0.23), between the inflamed and well conditions, respectively). There was no difference in any measure of the size of the reflex inhibition.



The determination of whether a chemical induces cancer through a mutagenic or genotoxic mechanism frequently plays an important role in evaluating the risks associated with low dose exposure. Although various approaches are employed for making mode of action decisions, a systematic investigation to identify the major factors that influence these determinations has not been performed. To accomplish this, over 40 chemical risk assessments conducted by U.S. or international regulatory agencies and organizations were reviewed to identify components that had played a significant role, either directly or indirectly, in the decision-making process. The major factors identified included the chemical properties of the agent, its metabolites and degradation products; its metabolism and toxicokinetics; genotoxic effects seen in vivo, particularly in the target organ; structural or metabolic similarities to known mutagenic or nonmutagenic chemicals; characteristics of the tumors induced in the animal bioassays; and the origin of the observed effects. The quality of the data, the specific genotoxic endpoint and its sensitivity to assay conditions and toxicity were also important considerations. In all cases, the authoritative groups used a weight-of-evidence approach and, in most cases where evaluations were conducted by more than one authoritative body, similar conclusions were reached. In summary, a critical evaluation of the data as well as expert judgment is necessary in reaching mechanism of action conclusions. These determinations should be made within the broader context of evaluating the chemical's overall toxicity and carcinogenicity.
Ectopic pregnancy (EP) is an enigmatic reproductive disorder. Although tubal EP is difficult to predict, several hypotheses about its etiology have been proposed. In retrospective case-control studies, smoking is associated with an increased rate of EPs in the fallopian tube. Studies of experimental animals in vivo and human fallopian tubal tissues in vitro have suggested mechanisms of fallopian tubal damage and dysfunction induced by nicotine and other smoking-related chemicals that may explain this association. However, the pathogenesis of smoking-induced modulation of implantation leading to tubal EP is largely unknown. Because cigarette/tobacco smoke adversely affects the success of intrauterine implantation, there is a great need to determine how embryo implantation occurs in the fallopian tube in female smokers of reproductive age.
Zebrafish (Danio rerio) are emerging as a useful model organism for neuroscience research. Mounting evidence suggests that various traditional rodent paradigms may be adapted for testing zebrafish behavior. The open field test is a popular rodent test of novelty exploration, recently applied to zebrafish research. To better understand fish novelty behavior, we exposed adult zebrafish to two different open field arenas for 30 min, assessing the amount and temporal patterning of their exploration. While (similar to rodents) zebrafish scale their locomotory activity depending on the size of the tank, the temporal patterning of their activity was independent of arena size. These observations strikingly parallel similar rodent behaviors, suggesting that spatio-temporal strategies of animal exploration may be evolutionarily conserved across vertebrate species. In addition, we found interesting oscillations in zebrafish exploration, with the per-minute distribution of their horizontal activity demonstrating sinusoidal-like patterns. While such patterning is not reported for rodents and other higher vertebrates, a nonlinear regression analysis confirmed the oscillation patterning of all assessed zebrafish behavioral endpoints in both open field arenas, revealing a potentially important aspect of novelty exploration in lower vertebrates.
Oxytocin is important to social behavior and emotion regulation in humans. Oxytocin's role derives in part from its effect on memory performance. More specifically, previous research suggests that oxytocin facilitates recognition of social (e.g., faces), but not of non-social stimuli (e.g., words, visual objects). We conducted the first within-subject study to this hypothesis in a double-blind, placebo-controlled design. We administered oxytocin (24IU) and placebo (saline) in two separate sessions and in randomized order to healthy men. To obtain a baseline measure for session-dependent memory effects, which are caused by proactive interference, an additional group of male subjects in each session received placebo unbeknownst to them and the experimenter. After administration, participants studied faces and houses. Exactly one day after each study session, participants were asked to make memory judgments of new and old items. In the first study-test session, participants administered with oxytocin showed reduced recollection of previously studied faces and houses. Oxytocin also interacted with proactive-interference effects. By impeding memory in the first session, it reduced proactive interference in the second. But oxytocin contributed additionally to the memory-reducing effect of proactive interference when administered in the second session. These results demonstrate that oxytocin can have a memory-impairing effect on both social and non-social visual objects. The present study also emphasizes the necessity of including a non-treated, baseline group in within-subject designs when investigating oxytocin's effects on human memory.
Small RNA-mediated gene regulation during development causes long-lasting changes in cellular phenotypes. To determine whether small RNAs of the adult brain can regulate memory storage, a process that requires stable and long-lasting changes in the functional state of neurons, we generated small RNA libraries from the Aplysia CNS. In these libraries, we discovered an unexpectedly abundant expression of a 28 nucleotide sized class of piRNAs in brain, which had been thought to be germline specific. These piRNAs have unique biogenesis patterns, predominant nuclear localization, and robust sensitivity to serotonin, a modulatory transmitter that is important for memory. We find that the Piwi/piRNA complex facilitates serotonin-dependent methylation of a conserved CpG island in the promoter of CREB2, the major inhibitory constraint of memory in Aplysia, leading to enhanced long-term synaptic facilitation. These findings provide a small RNA-mediated gene regulatory mechanism for establishing stable long-term changes in neurons for the persistence of memory.
We previously showed in vitro that calcium entry through Trpc1 ion channels regulates myoblast migration and differentiation. In the present work, we used primary cell cultures and isolated muscles from Trpc1(-/-) and Trpc1(+/+) murine model to investigate the role of Trpc1 in myoblast differentiation and in muscle regeneration. In these models, we studied regeneration consecutive to cardiotoxin-induced muscle injury and observed a significant hypotrophy and a delayed regeneration in Trpc1(-/-) muscles consisting in smaller fiber size and increased proportion of centrally nucleated fibers. This was accompanied by a decreased expression of myogenic factors such as MyoD, Myf5, and myogenin and of one of their targets, the developmental MHC (MHCd). Consequently, muscle tension was systematically lower in muscles from Trpc1(-/-) mice. Importantly, the PI3K/Akt/mTOR/p70S6K pathway, which plays a crucial role in muscle growth and regeneration, was down-regulated in regenerating Trpc1(-/-) muscles. Indeed, phosphorylation of both Akt and p70S6K proteins was decreased as well as the activation of PI3K, the main upstream regulator of the Akt. This effect was independent of insulin-like growth factor expression. Akt phosphorylation also was reduced in Trpc1(-/-) primary myoblasts and in control myoblasts differentiated in the absence of extracellular Ca(2+) or pretreated with EGTA-AM or wortmannin, suggesting that the entry of Ca(2+) through Trpc1 channels enhanced the activity of PI3K. Our results emphasize the involvement of Trpc1 channels in skeletal muscle development in vitro and in vivo, and identify a Ca(2+)-dependent activation of the PI3K/Akt/mTOR/p70S6K pathway during myoblast differentiation and muscle regeneration.
Serum amyloid P component (SAP) is a non-fibrillar glycoprotein belonging to the pentraxin family of the innate immune system. SAP is present in plasma, basement membranes, and amyloid deposits. This study demonstrates, for the first time, that the Goodpasture antigen-binding protein (GPBP) binds to human SAP. GPBP is a nonconventional Ser/Thr kinase for basement membrane type IV collagen. Also GPBP is found in plasma and in the extracellular matrix. In the present study, we demonstrate that GPBP specifically binds SAP in its physiological conformations, pentamers and decamers. The START domain in GPBP is important for this interaction. SAP and GPBP form complexes in blood and partly colocalize in amyloid plaques from Alzheimer disease patients. These data suggest the existence of complexes of SAP and GPBP under physiological and pathological conditions. These complexes are important for understanding basement membrane, blood physiology, and plaque formation in Alzheimer disease.
We show that a single gene locus gives rise to two fully processed and functional miRNAs, i.e. that due to imperfect base pairing, two distinct microRNAs (miRNAs) can be produced from the fully complementary DNA strands. The antisense strand encodes miR-214, which is transcribed by its own promoter, whereas a novel miRNA, miR-3120, is co-expressed with its host gene mRNA. We also found that miR-3120 regulates important aspects of cellular function that are similar to that of its host gene, dynamin-3. miR-3120 was found to be located in neuronal cell bodies and to target Hsc70 and auxilin, and its lentivirus-mediated expression inhibited the uncoating of clathrin-coated vesicles. Finally, mirror miRNAs are likely to represent a new group of miRNAs with complex roles in coordinating gene expression.
Falcarindiol (1), a C-17 polyacetylenic diol, shows a pleiotropic profile of bioactivity, but the mechanism(s) underlying its actions are largely unknown. Large amounts of 1 co-occur in water hemlock (Oenanthe crocata) along with the convulsant polyacetylenic toxin oenanthotoxin (2), a potent GABA(A) receptor (GABA(A)R) inhibitor. Since these compounds are structurally and biogenetically related, it was considered of interest to evaluate whether 1 could affect GABAergic activity, and for this purpose a model of hippocampal cultured neurons was used. Compound 1 significantly increased the amplitude of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents, accelerated their onset, and prolonged the decay kinetics. This compound enhanced also the amplitude of currents elicited by 3 M GABA and accelerated their fading, reducing, however, currents evoked by a saturating (10 mM) GABA concentration. Moreover, kinetic analysis of responses to 10 mM GABA revealed that 1 upregulated the rate and extent of desensitization and slowed the current onset and deactivation. Taken together, these data show that 1 exerts a potent modulatory action on GABA(A)Rs, possibly by modulating agonist binding and desensitization, overall potentially decreasing the toxicity of co-occurring GABA-inhibiting convulsant toxins.
-Thujone (1a), a constituent of wormwood, has been suspected to cause adverse psychoactive reactions in addicted drinkers of absinthe. While the content of 1a in absinthe is too low for such effects, at higher doses it can indeed induce seizures and inhibit GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs). The effect of 1a on GABAergic synaptic currents and the mechanisms by which it modulates GABA(A)Rs remain unknown. To address these issues, cultured hippocampal neurons were used to investigate the action of 1a on GABAergic miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) and on responses to exogenous GABA applications. Since lipophilic compounds often show nonspecific actions related to their hydrophobicity, the action of 1a was compared to that of dihydroumbellulone (2), a configurationally pseudoenantiomeric constitutional isomer. -Thujone (1a) reduced mIPSC frequency and amplitude and also moderately affected their kinetics, indicating both pre- and postsynaptic mechanisms. Analysis of current responses to exogenous GABA revealed that 1a reduced their amplitude, affecting their onset, desensitization, and deactivation, suggesting an effect on receptor gating. In contrast, 2 caused only a weak or negligible effect on GABAergic currents, supporting the effects of 1a on GABAergic inhibition as being due to specific interactions with GABA(A)Rs.

Mescaline and phencyclidine (PCP) are potent hallucinogenic agents affecting human and animal behavior. As their psychotropic effects remain poorly understood, further research is necessary to characterize phenotypes they evoke in various animal models. Zebrafish (Danio rerio) are rapidly emerging as a new model organism for neuroscience research. Here, we examine the effects of mescaline (5-20mg/l) and PCP (0.5-3mg/l) in several zebrafish paradigms, including the novel tank, open field and shoaling tests. Mescaline and PCP dose-dependently increased top activity in the novel tank test, also reducing immobility and disrupting the patterning of zebrafish swimming, as assessed by ethograms. PCP, but not mescaline, evoked circling behavior in the open field test. At the highest doses tested, mescaline markedly increased, while PCP did not affect, zebrafish shoaling behavior. Finally, 20mg/l mescaline did not alter, and 3mg/l PCP elevated, whole-body cortisol levels. Overall, our studies indicate high sensitivity of zebrafish models to hallucinogenic compounds with complex behavioral and physiological effects.

Brief pulse electroconvulsive therapy (BP ECT; pulse width 0.5-1.5ms) is a very effective treatment for severe depression but is associated with cognitive side-effects. It has been proposed that ultrabrief pulse (UBP; pulse width 0.25-0.30ms) ECT may be as effective as BP ECT but have less cognitive effects because it is a more physiological form of neuronal stimulation. To investigate this further, we treated normal rats with a 10 session course of either BP (0.5ms), UBP (0.3ms), or sham electroconvulsive stimulation (ECS) and measured antidepressant-related changes in dentate gyrus cell proliferation and hippocampal BDNF protein levels as well as hippocampal-dependant spatial reference memory using the water plus maze and immobility time on the forced swim test. Both BP and UBP ECS induced very similar types of motor seizures. However, BP ECS but not UBP ECS treatment led to a significant, near 3-fold, increase in cell proliferation (p=0.026) and BDNF levels (p=0.01). In the forced swim test, only BP ECS treated animals had a significantly lower immobility time (p=0.046). There was a trend for similarly reduced hippocampal-dependent memory function in both BP and UBP groups but overall there was not a significant difference between treatment and control animals when tested 10 days after completing allocated treatment. These findings show that, even though both forms of ECS elicited similar motor seizures, UBP ECS was less efficient than BP ECS in inducing antidepressant-related molecular, cellular and behavioural changes.
ABSTRACT: INTRODUCTION: The low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP1) and its family members have been implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Multiple susceptibility factors converge to metabolic pathways that involve LRP1, including modulation of the processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP) and the clearance of A peptide. METHODS: We used the Cre-lox system to lower LRP1 levels in hippocampal neurons of mice that develop Alzheimer-type amyloid by crosses between mice that express Cre recombinase under the transcriptional control of the GFAP promoter, mice that harbor loxp sites in the LRP1 gene, and the APPswe/PS1dE9 transgenic model. We compared amyloid plaque numbers in APPswe/PS1dE9 mice lacking LRP1 expression in hippocampus (n = 13) to mice with normal levels of LRP1 (n = 12). Student t-test was used to test whether there were significant differences in plaque numbers and amyloid levels between the groups. A regression model was used to fit two regression lines for these groups, and to compare the rates of A accumulation. RESULTS: Immunohistochemical analyses demonstrated efficient elimination of LRP1 expression in the CA fields and dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. Within hippocampus, we observed no effect on the severity of amyloid deposition, the rate of A40/42 accumulation, or the architecture of amyloid plaques when LRP1 levels were reduced. CONCLUSIONS: Expression of LRP1 by neurons in proximity to senile amyloid plaques does not appear to play a major role in modulating the formation of these proximal deposits or in the appearance of the associated neuritic pathology.

Over-activation of AMPARs (-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid subtype glutamate receptors) is implicated in excitotoxic neuronal death associated with acute brain insults, such as ischemic stroke. However, the specific molecular mechanism by which AMPARs, especially the calcium-impermeable AMPARs, induce neuronal death remains poorly understood. Here we report the identification of a previously unrecognized molecular pathway involving a direct protein-protein interaction that underlies GluR2-containing AMPAR-mediated excitotoxicity. Agonist stimulation of AMPARs promotes GluR2/GAPDH (glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase) complex formation and subsequent internalization. Disruption of GluR2/GAPDH interaction by administration of an interfering peptide prevents AMPAR-mediated excitotoxicity and protects against damage induced by oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD), an in vitro model of brain ischemia.
During development, cortical plasticity is associated with the rearrangement of excitatory connections. While these connections become more stable with age, plasticity can still be induced in the adult cortex. Here we provide evidence that structural plasticity ofinhibitory synapses onto pyramidal neurons isa major component of plasticity in the adult neocortex. Invivo two-photon imaging was used to monitor the formation and elimination of fluorescently labeled inhibitory structures on pyramidal neurons. We find that ocular dominance plasticity in the adult visual cortex is associated with rapid inhibitory synapse loss, especially of those present on dendritic spines. This occurs not only with monocular deprivation but also with subsequent restoration of binocular vision. We propose that in the adult visual cortex the experience-induced loss of inhibition may effectively strengthen specific visual inputs with limited need for rearranging the excitatory circuitry.
p150(Glued) is the major subunit of dynactin, a complex that functions with dynein in minus-end-directed microtubule transport. Mutations within the p150(Glued) CAP-Gly microtubule-binding domain cause neurodegenerative diseases through an unclear mechanism. A p150(Glued) motor neuron degenerative disease-associated mutation introduced into the Drosophila Glued locus generates a partial loss-of-function allele (Gl(G38S)) with impaired neurotransmitter release and adult-onset locomotor dysfunction. Disruption of the p150(Glued) CAP-Gly domain in neurons causes a specific disruption of vesicle trafficking atterminal boutons (TBs), the distal-most ends of synapses. Gl(G38S) larvae accumulate endosomes along with dynein and kinesin motor proteins within swollen TBs, and genetic analyses show that kinesin and p150(Glued) function cooperatively at TBs to coordinate transport. Therefore, the p150(Glued) CAP-Gly domain regulates dynein-mediated retrograde transport at synaptic termini, and this function of dynactin is disrupted by a mutation that causes motorneuron disease.
mTOR is a regulator of cell growth and survival, protein synthesis-dependent synaptic plasticity, and autophagic degradation of cellular components. When triggered by mTOR inactivation, macroautophagy degrades long-lived proteins and organelles viasequestration into autophagic vacuoles. mTOR further regulates synaptic plasticity, and neurodegeneration occurs when macroautophagy is deficient. It is nevertheless unknown whether macroautophagy modulates presynaptic function. We find that the mTOR inhibitor rapamycin induces formation of autophagic vacuoles in prejunctional dopaminergic axons with associated decreased axonal profile volumes, synaptic vesicle numbers, and evoked dopamine release. Evoked dopamine secretion was enhanced and recovery was accelerated intransgenic mice in which macroautophagy deficiency was restricted to dopaminergic neurons; rapamycin failed to decrease evoked dopamine release in the striatum of these mice. Macroautophagy that follows mTOR inhibition in presynaptic terminals, therefore, rapidly alters presynaptic structure and neurotransmission.
The 22 -protocadherins (-Pcdhs) potentially specify thousands of distinct homophilic adhesive interactions in the brain. Neonatal lethality of mice lacking the Pcdh- gene cluster has, however, precluded analysis of many brain regions. Here, we use a conditional Pcdh- allele to restrict mutation to the cerebral cortex and find that, in contrast to other central nervous system phenotypes, loss of -Pcdhs in cortical neurons does not affect their survival or result in reduced synaptic density. Instead, mutant cortical neurons exhibit severely reduced dendritic arborization. Mutant cortices have aberrantly high levels of protein kinase C (PKC) activity and of phosphorylated (inactive) myristoylated alanine-rich C-kinase substrate, a PKC target that promotes arborization. Dendrite complexity can be rescued in Pcdh- mutant neurons by inhibiting PKC, its upstream activator phospholipase C, or the -Pcdh binding partner focal adhesion kinase. Our results reveal a distinct role for the -Pcdhs in cortical development and identifya signaling pathway through which they play this role.
The media are increasingly fascinated by neuroscience. Here, we consider how neuroscientific discoveries are thematically represented in the popular press and the implications this has for society. In communicating research, neuroscientists should be sensitive to the social consequences neuroscientific information may have once it enters the public sphere.
In this issue of Neuron, Chen etal. (2012) and van Versendaal etal. (2012) used fluorescently tagged gephyrin to track inhibitory synapses in the mouse visual cortex invivo. Their studies show that visual experience-dependent plasticity is associated with clustered and location-specific pruning of inhibitory synapses.
Polarized vesicle trafficking is mediated by small GTPase proteins, such as Rabs and Arls/Arfs. These proteins have essential roles in maintaining normal cellular function, in part, through regulating intracellular trafficking. Moreover, these families of proteins have recently been implicated in the formation and function of the primary cilium. The primary cilium, which is found on almost every cell type in vertebrates, is an organelle that protrudes from the surface of the cell and functions as a signaling center. Interestingly, it has recently been linked to a variety of human diseases, collectively referred to as ciliopathies. The primary cilium has an exceptionally high density of receptors on its membrane that are important for sensing and transducing extracellular stimuli. Moreover, the primary cilium serves as a separate cellular compartment from the cytosol, providing for unique spatial and temporal regulation of signaling molecules to initiate downstream events. Thus, functional primary cilia are essential for normal signal transduction. Rabs and Arls/Arfs play critical roles in early cilia formation but are also needed for maintenance of ciliary function through their coordination with intraflagellar transport (IFT), a specialized trafficking system in primary cilia. IFT in cilia is pivotal for the proper movement of proteins into and out of this highly regulated organelle. In this review article, we explore the involvement of polarized vesicular trafficking in cilia formation and function, and discuss how defects in these processes could subsequently lead to the abnormalities observed in ciliopathies.

Certain repetitive arrangements of luminance gradients elicit the perception of strong illusory motion. Among them, the &quot;Rotating Snakes Illusion&quot; has generated a large amount of interest in the visual neurosciences, as well as in the public. Prior evidence indicates that the Rotating Snakes illusion depends critically on eye movements, yet the specific eye movement types involved and their associated neural mechanisms remain controversial. According to recent reports, slow ocular drift--a nonsaccadic type of fixational eye movement--drives the illusion, whereas microsaccades produced during attempted fixation fail to do so. Here, we asked human subjects to indicate the presence or absence of rotation during the observation of the illusion while we simultaneously recorded their eye movements with high precision. We found a strong quantitative link between microsaccade and blink production and illusory rotation. These results suggest that transient oculomotor events such as microsaccades, saccades, and blinks, rather than continuous drift, act to trigger the illusory motion in the Rotating Snakes illusion.
The extracellular levels of excitatory amino acids are kept low by the action of the glutamate transporters. Glutamate/aspartate transporter (GLAST) and glutamate transporter-1 (GLT-1) are the most abundant subtypes and are essential for the functioning of the mammalian CNS, but the contribution of the EAAC1 subtype in the clearance of synaptic glutamate has remained controversial, because the density of this transporter in different tissues has not been determined. We used purified EAAC1 protein as a standard during immunoblotting to measure the concentration of EAAC1 in different CNS regions. The highest EAAC1 levels were found in the young adult rat hippocampus. Here, the concentration of EAAC1 was 0.013 mg/g tissue (130 molecules m), 100 times lower than that of GLT-1. Unlike GLT-1 expression, which increases in parallel with circuit formation, only minor changes in the concentration of EAAC1 were observed from E18 to adulthood. In hippocampal slices, photolysis of MNI-D-aspartate (4-methoxy-7-nitroindolinyl-D-aspartate) failed to elicit EAAC1-mediated transporter currents in CA1 pyramidal neurons, and D-aspartate uptake was not detected electron microscopically in spines. Using EAAC1 knock-out mice as negative controls to establish antibody specificity, we show that these relatively small amounts of EAAC1 protein are widely distributed in somata and dendrites of all hippocampal neurons. These findings raise new questions about how so few transporters can influence the activation of NMDA receptors at excitatory synapses.
Understanding the neural basis of social behavior has become an important goal for cognitive neuroscience and a key aim is to link neural processes observed in the laboratory to more naturalistic social behaviors in real-world contexts. Although it is accepted that mirror mechanisms contribute to the occurrence of motor resonance (MR) and are common to action execution, observation, and imitation, questions remain about mirror (and MR) involvement in real social behavior and in processing nonhuman actions. To determine whether social interaction primes the MR system, groups of participants engaged or did not engage in a social interaction before observing human or robotic actions. During observation, MR was assessed via motor-evoked potentials elicited with transcranial magnetic stimulation. Compared with participants who did not engage in a prior social interaction, participants who engaged in the social interaction showed a significant increase in MR for human actions. In contrast, social interaction did not increase MR for robot actions. Thus, naturalistic social interaction and laboratory action observation tasks appear to involve common MR mechanisms, and recent experience tunes the system to particular agent types.
Group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR)-stimulated protein synthesis and long-term synaptic depression (mGluR-LTD) are altered in the mouse model of fragile X syndrome, Fmr1 knock-out (KO) mice. Fmr1 encodes fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP), a dendritic RNA binding protein that functions, in part, as a translational suppressor. It is unknown whether and how FMRP acutely regulates LTD and/or the rapid synthesis of new proteins required for LTD, such as the activity-regulated cytoskeletal-associated protein (Arc). The protein phosphatase PP2A dephosphorylates FMRP, which contributes to translational activation of some target mRNAs. Here, we report that PP2A and dephosphorylation of FMRP at S500 are required for an mGluR-induced, rapid (5 min) increase in dendritic Arc protein and LTD in rat and mouse hippocampal neurons. In Fmr1 KO neurons, basal, dendritic Arc protein levels and mGluR-LTD are enhanced, but mGluR-triggered Arc synthesis is absent. Lentiviral-mediated expression of wild-type FMRP in Fmr1 KO neurons suppresses basal dendritic Arc levels and mGluR-LTD, and restores rapid mGluR-triggered Arc synthesis. A phosphomimic of FMRP (S500D) suppresses steady-state dendritic Arc levels but does not rescue mGluR-induced Arc synthesis. A dephosphomimic of FMRP (S500A) neither suppresses dendritic Arc nor supports mGluR-induced Arc synthesis. Accordingly, S500D-FMRP expression in Fmr1 KO neurons suppresses mGluR-LTD, whereas S500A-FMRP has no effect. These data support a model in which phosphorylated FMRP functions to suppress steady-state translation of Arc and LTD. Upon mGluR activation of PP2A, FMRP is rapidly dephosphorylated, which contributes to rapid new synthesis of Arc and mGluR-LTD.
A large amount of experimental evidence has highlighted the rapid changes in synaptic efficacy induced by high-frequency stimulation and BDNF at central excitatory synapses. We clarified the quantal mechanisms and the involvement of Synapsin I (SynI) phosphorylation in the expression of post-tetanic potentiation (PTP) and in its modulation by BDNF in mouse glutamatergic autapses. We found that PTP is associated with an elevation in the probability of release and a concomitant increase in the size of the readily releasable pool (RRP). The latter component was virtually absent in SynI knock-out (KO) neurons, which indeed displayed impaired PTP. PTP was fully rescued by the expression of wild-type SynI, but not of its dephosphomimetic mutants in the phosphorylation sites for cAMP-dependent protein kinase and Ca/calmodulin-dependent protein kinases I/II. BDNF potently enhanced PTP through a further increase in the RRP size, which was missing in SynI KO neurons. In these neurons, the BDNF-induced PTP enhancement was rescued by the expression of wild-type SynI, but not of its dephosphomimetic mutant at the mitogen-dependent protein kinase sites. The results indicate that the increase in RRP size necessary for the full expression of PTP, and its sensitivity to BDNF, involve phosphorylation of SynI at distinct sites, thus implicating SynI as an essential downstream effector for the expression of PTP and for its enhancement by BDNF.
GABA(A) receptors (GABA(A)Rs) composed of  subunits are allosterically modulated by the benzodiazepines (BDZs). Agonists at the BDZ binding site potentiate submaximal GABA responses by increasing the apparent affinity of GABA(A)Rs for GABA. Although BDZs were initially thought to affect the binding of GABA agonists, recent studies suggest an effect on receptor gating; however, the involvement of preactivation steps in the modulation by BDZs has not been considered. Consequently, we examined whether BDZ agonists could exert their modulatory effect by displacing the equilibrium between resting and preactivated states of recombinant 122 GABA(A)Rs expressed in Xenopus oocytes. For GABA and the partial agonists 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisoxazolo[5,4-c]pyridin-3-ol and piperidine-4-sulfonic acid, we examined BDZ modulation using a simple three-step model incorporating agonist binding, receptor preactivation, and channel opening. The model accounted for diazepam modulation simply by increasing the preactivation constant by approximately fourfold. To assess whether BDZs preferentially affected a specific GABA binding site, pentameric concatamers were used. This demonstrated that single GABA-binding site mutant receptors were equally sensitive to modulation by BDZs compared with wild-type counterparts. Overall, our results suggest that BDZs affect the preactivation step to cause a global conformational rearrangement of GABA(A)Rs, thereby modulating receptor function.





Recent studies have revealed additional face areas in the anterior temporal lobe in addition to the 'core' face areas (fusiform face area, occipital face area, and face area in the superior temporal sulcus). The electrocorticogram of a patient who underwent implantation of subdural grid electrodes in the right anterior ventral temporal lobe revealed a strong face-specific response both in event-related potentials (ERP) and in the induced broadband spectral power change at an electrode located on the anterior collateral sulcus, straddling the border between the perirhinal and entorhinal cortices. The ERP and induced broadband power changes were highly specific to facial stimuli, which was obvious even in a single trial analysis. The face-specific response was recorded in an area with perfect overlap of the 'anterior temporal face patch' in the anterior collateral sulcus, proposed based on human functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) results. A recent fMRI study in monkeys reported a face-specific visual response in the rhinal cortex, suggesting that the basic structural configuration of face responsive areas are preserved across species. Although the rhinal cortex has long been regarded as part of the memory system, recent data suggest that it also plays a role in perception. The face-specific response in the present study might reflect visual processing based on complex conjunctions of visual features required for facial processing.
Various lines of evidence indicate that astrocytes can undergo morphological changes that modify their relationship to adjacent neurons in response to physiological stimulation such as dehydration. Supraoptic (SON) and paraventricular (PVN) nuclei of hypothalamus represent obvious examples of activity-dependent neuro-astrocytic plasticity. In the present study, Meriones shawi is used as an animal model. Moreover, GFAP and vasopressin expressions are used as indicators successively of astrocytes and neuronal activations. In order to evaluate the reversibility of the neuro-astrocytic plasticity in SON and PVN, prolonged episode of water deprivation followed by episode of rehydration were examined. Hence, we studied the immunoreactivity in various hydration states: water ad libitum, dehydration, and rehydration of animals. Our results showed that dehydration of Meriones induced a significant decrease of GFAP immunoreactivity accompanied by a significant increase of AVP immunoreactivity, the latter concerns both cell bodies and fibers in the same hypothalamic nuclei SON and PVN. Conversely, rehydration of animals shows a reversible phenomenon leading a return of vasopressin and GFAP immunoreactivities to the control level. These results show that both astrocytes and vasopressin neurons display a remarkable structural and physiological plasticity, allowing to M. shawi, a great ability to support the hostile conditions in dry environment.
In the neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) mouse model, lovastatin, used clinically for hypercholesterolemia, improves cognitive dysfunction. While such impairment has been studied in NF1, the neural substrates remain unclear. The aim of this imaging add-on to a Phase 1 open-label trial was to examine the effect of lovastatin on Default Network (DN) resting state functional connectivity (RSFC). Seven children with NF1 (aged 11.9  2.2; 1 female) were treated with lovastatin once daily for 12 weeks. A 7-min 3-T echo-planar-imaging scan was collected one day before beginning treatment (off-drug) and the last day of treatment (on-drug) while performing a flanker task. After regressing-out task-associated variance, we used the residual time series as &quot;continuous resting-state data&quot; for RSFC analyses using 11 DN regions of interest. For qualitative comparisons, we included a group of 19 typically developing children (TDC) collected elsewhere. In the on-drug condition, lovastatin increased long-range positive RSFC within DN core regions (i.e., anterior medial prefrontal cortex and posterior cingulate cortex, PCC). In addition, lovastatin produced less diffuse local RSFC in the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex and PCC. The pattern of RSFC observed in the NF1 participants when on-drug closely resembled the RSFC patterns exhibited by the TDC. Lovastatin administration in this open trial regulated anterior-posterior long-range and local RSFC within the DN. These preliminary results are consistent with a role for lovastatin in normalization of developmental processes and with apparent benefits in a mouse NF1 model.
Neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism and fragile X syndrome were long thought to be medically untreatable, on the assumption that brain dysfunctions were immutably hardwired before diagnosis. Recent revelations that many cases of autism are caused by mutations in genes that control the ongoing formation and maturation of synapses have challenged this dogma. Antagonists of metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGluR5), which modulate excitatory neurotransmission, are in clinical trials for fragile X syndrome, a major genetic cause of intellectual disabilities. About 30% of patients with fragile X syndrome meet the diagnostic criteria for autism. Reasoning by analogy, we considered the mGluR5 receptor as a potential target for intervention in autism. We used BTBR T+tf/J (BTBR) mice, an established model with robust behavioral phenotypes relevant to the three diagnostic behavioral symptoms of autism--unusual social interactions, impaired communication, and repetitive behaviors--to probe the efficacy of a selective negative allosteric modulator of the mGluR5 receptor, GRN-529. GRN-529 reduced repetitive behaviors in three cohorts of BTBR mice at doses that did not induce sedation in control assays of open field locomotion. In addition, the same nonsedating doses reduced the spontaneous stereotyped jumping that characterizes a second inbred strain of mice, C58/J. Further, GRN-529 partially reversed the striking lack of sociability in BTBR mice on some parameters of social approach and reciprocal social interactions. These findings raise the possibility that a single targeted pharmacological intervention may alleviate multiple diagnostic behavioral symptoms of autism.
Paving the way for clinical trials, a new study shows that a glutamate receptor antagonist reduces repetitive behavior and social deficits in a mouse model of autism spectrum disorder.
To measure maraviroc total cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations and compare them with total and unbound plasma concentrations. Total maraviroc was measured by reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry, whereas ultrafiltration was used for unbound maraviroc. Maraviroc was detected in all nine CSF/plasma pairs with a median CSF total concentration of 2.4 ng/ml. CSF concentrations exceeded the 50% inhibitory concentration of wild-type CC chemokine receptor 5-tropic HIV-1 in all specimens. CSF concentrations are lower than expected based on plasma concentrations and physicochemical characteristics. Unbound maraviroc plasma concentrations may be informative in estimating concentrations in CSF.
Studies on insect olfactory learning have established the mushroom bodies as key brain structures for the formation of long-term memory (LTM). Two new neurons in the fly brain are reported now as essential sites for LTM formation, while mushroom bodies are claimed to be unnecessary to this end.
Sleep consolidates experience-dependent brain plasticity, but the precise cellular mechanisms mediating this process are unknown [1]. De novo cortical protein synthesis is one possible mechanism. In support of this hypothesis, sleep is associated with increased brain protein synthesis [2, 3] and transcription of messenger RNAs (mRNAs) involved in protein synthesis regulation [4, 5]. Protein synthesis in turn is critical for memory consolidation and persistent forms of plasticity in vitro and in vivo [6, 7]. However, it is unknown whether cortical protein synthesis in sleep serves similar functions. We investigated the role of protein synthesis in the sleep-dependent consolidation of a classic form of cortical plasticity in vivo (ocular dominance plasticity, ODP; [8, 9]) in the cat visual cortex. We show that intracortical inhibition of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR)-dependent protein synthesis during sleep abolishes consolidation but has no effect on plasticity induced during wakefulness. Sleep also promotes phosphorylation of protein synthesis regulators (i.e., 4E-BP1 and eEF2) and the translation (but not transcription) of key plasticity related mRNAs (ARC and BDNF). These findings show that sleep promotes cortical mRNA translation. Interruption of this process has functional consequences, because it abolishes the consolidation of experience in the cortex.

G protein-gated inward rectifier K+ (GIRK) channels function as cellular mediators of a wide range of hormones and neurotransmitters and are expressed in the brain, heart, skeletal muscle and endocrine tissue(1,2). GIRK channels become activated following the binding of ligands (neurotransmitters, hormones, drugs, etc.) to their plasma membrane-bound, G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). This binding causes the stimulation of G proteins (Gi and Go) which subsequently bind to and activate the GIRK channel. Once opened the GIRK channel allows the movement of K+ out of the cell causing the resting membrane potential to become more negative. As a consequence, GIRK channel activation in neurons decreases spontaneous action potential formation and inhibits the release of excitatory neurotransmitters. In the heart, activation of the GIRK channel inhibits pacemaker activity thereby slowing the heart rate. GIRK channels represent novel targets for the development of new therapeutic agents for the treatment neuropathic pain, drug addiction, cardiac arrhythmias and other disorders(3). However, the pharmacology of these channels remains largely unexplored. Although a number of drugs including anti-arrhythmic agents, antipsychotic drugs and antidepressants block the GIRK channel, this inhibition is not selective and occurs at relatively high drug concentrations(3). Here, we describe a real-time screening assay for identifying new modulators of GIRK channels. In this assay, neuronal AtT20 cells, expressing GIRK channels, are loaded with membrane potential-sensitive fluorescent dyes such as bis-(1,3-dibutylbarbituric acid) trimethine oxonol [DiBAC4(3)] or HLB 021-152 (Figure 1). The dye molecules become strongly fluorescent following uptake into the cells (Figure 1). Treatment of the cells with GPCR ligands stimulates the GIRK channels to open. The resulting K+ efflux out of the cell causes the membrane potential to become more negative and the fluorescent signal to decrease (Figure 1). Thus, drugs that modulate K+ efflux through the GIRK channel can be assayed using a fluorescent plate reader. Unlike other ion channel screening assays, such atomic absorption spectrometry(4) or radiotracer analysis(5), the GIRK channel fluorescent assay provides a fast, real-time and inexpensive screening procedure.

The significance of social situations is commonly context-embedded. Although the role of context has been extensively studied in basic sensory processing or simple stimulus-response settings, its relevance for social cognition is unknown. We propose the social context network model (SCNM), a fronto-insular-temporal network responsible for processing social contextual effects. The SCNM may 1) update the context and use it to make predictions, 2) coordinate internal and external milieus, and 3) consolidate context-target associative learning. We suggest the behavioral variant of frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD) as a specific disorder in which the reported deficits in social cognition (e.g., facial recognition, empathy, decision-making, figurative language, theory of mind) can be described as context impairments due to deficits in the SCNM. Disruption of orbitofrontal-amygdala circuit, as well as the frontal, temporal, and insular atrophy in bVFTD, suggests a relationship between context-sensitive social cognition and SCNM. In considering context as an intrinsic part of social cognition, we highlight the need for a situated cognition approach in social cognition research as opposed to an abstract, universal, and decontextualized approach. The assessment of context-dependent social cognition paradigms, the SCNM, and their possible application to neuropsychiatric disorders may provide new insight into bvFTD and other related frontal disorders.
Transcranial direct-current stimulation (tDCS) is a noninvasive brain stimulation technique that has been successfully applied for modulation of cortical excitability. tDCS is capable of inducing changes in neuronal membrane potentials in a polarity-dependent manner. When tDCS is of sufficient length, synaptically driven after-effects are induced. The mechanisms underlying these after-effects are largely unknown, and there is a compelling need for animal models to test the immediate effects and after-effects induced by tDCS in different cortical areas and evaluate the implications in complex cerebral processes. Here we show in behaving rabbits that tDCS applied over the somatosensory cortex modulates cortical processes consequent to localized stimulation of the whisker pad or of the corresponding area of the ventroposterior medial (VPM) thalamic nucleus. With longer stimulation periods, poststimulation effects were observed in the somatosensory cortex only after cathodal tDCS. Consistent with the polarity-specific effects, the acquisition of classical eyeblink conditioning was potentiated or depressed by the simultaneous application of anodal or cathodal tDCS, respectively, when stimulation of the whisker pad was used as conditioned stimulus, suggesting that tDCS modulates the sensory perception process necessary for associative learning. We also studied the putative mechanisms underlying immediate effects and after-effects of tDCS observed in the somatosensory cortex. Results when pairs of pulses applied to the thalamic VPM nucleus (mediating sensory input) during anodal and cathodal tDCS suggest that tDCS modifies thalamocortical synapses at presynaptic sites. Finally, we show that blocking the activation of adenosine A1 receptors prevents the long-term depression (LTD) evoked in the somatosensory cortex after cathodal tDCS.
Research and clinical investigations in psychiatry largely rely on the de facto assumption that the diagnostic categories identified in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM) represent homogeneous syndromes. However, the mechanistic heterogeneity that potentially underlies the existing classification scheme might limit discovery of etiology for most developmental psychiatric disorders. Another, perhaps less palpable, reality may also be interfering with progress-heterogeneity in typically developing populations. In this report we attempt to clarify neuropsychological heterogeneity in a large dataset of typically developing youth and youth with attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), using graph theory and community detection. We sought to determine whether data-driven neuropsychological subtypes could be discerned in children with and without the disorder. Because individual classification is the sine qua non for eventual clinical translation, we also apply support vector machine-based multivariate pattern analysis to identify how well ADHD status in individual children can be identified as defined by the community detection delineated subtypes. The analysis yielded several unique, but similar subtypes across both populations. Just as importantly, comparing typically developing children with ADHD children within each of these distinct subgroups increased diagnostic accuracy. Two important principles were identified that have the potential to advance our understanding of typical development and developmental neuropsychiatric disorders. The first tenet suggests that typically developing children can be classified into distinct neuropsychological subgroups with high precision. The second tenet proposes that some of the heterogeneity in individuals with ADHD might be &quot;nested&quot; in this normal variation.
Eps15 homology domain (EHD) proteins are conserved adenosine triphosphatases that are involved in membrane remodeling. EHD family members are structurally similar to the guanosine triphosphatase (GTPase) dynamin, and both are essential for the fission step of clathrin-mediated endocytosis. This Journal Club highlights a recent study by Jakobsson et al. that reports the unexpected finding that, rather than having a redundant function, EHD can regulate dynamin activity. Dynamin helices assemble around the neck of budding endocytic vesicles; as dynamin helices lengthen, the neck of the growing bud may become so long that GTP hydrolysis is no longer sufficient to promote fission. EHD increases the efficiency of dynamin-induced fission by restricting the length of dynamin helices. Furthermore, EHD is able to bind both dynamin and amphiphysin. Therefore, we propose a model whereby amphiphysin recruits both EHD and dynamin in neurons to regulate clathrin-dependent synaptic vesicle endocytosis.
Age-related increases in prevalent dementia over the next 30-40 years risk collapsing medical resources or radically altering the way we treat patients. Better prevention of dementia therefore needs to be one of our highest medical priorities. We propose a perspective on the pathological basis of dementia based on a cerebrovascular-Alzheimer disease spectrum that provides a more powerful explanatory framework when considering the impact of possible public health interventions. With this in mind, a synthesis of evidence from basic, clinical and epidemiological studies indeed suggests that the enhanced treatment of hypertension could be effective for the primary prevention of dementia of either Alzheimer or vascular etiology. In particular, we focus on candidate preventative mechanisms, including reduced cerebrovascular disease, disruption of hypoxia-dependent amyloidogenesis and the potential neuroprotective properties of calcium channel blockers. Following the successful translation of large, long-term and resource-intense trials in cardiology into improved vascular health outcomes in many countries, new multinational prevention trials with dementia-related primary outcomes are now urgently required.
The proinflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-) is well recognized as a key player in nociceptive signaling. Yet, therapeutic capitalization of this knowledge requires a better understanding of how TNF receptors (TNFR) contribute to pain. To address this question, we studied TNFR expression in the chronic sciatic nerve constriction (CCI) model of neuropathic pain. CCI and sham operated rats received two subcutaneous injections (one immediately after surgery, the other on postoperative day 5) containing either saline, GABA-reuptake inhibitor (NO-711), insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), ZVAD or thalidomide. Mechanical (using von Frey filaments) and thermal hypersensitivity (Hargreaves test) were assessed preoperatively and weekly during the first four postoperative weeks. Spinal cord dorsal horn samples were collected from animals that were sacrificed at 2 weeks and 4 weeks after surgery, and analyzed for TNFR1 and TNFR2 mRNA levels by qPCR and protein levels by Western blot. Compared to saline, all applied drug treatments resulted in a faster recovery from mechanical and thermal hypersensitivity, yet in a potency order of thalidomide&gt;ZVAD=IGF-1&gt;NO-711. CCI resulted in increased TNFR1 and TNFR2 mRNA and protein levels in the ipsilateral dorsal horn. Thalidomide was the only treatment that attenuated these increases. Finally, animals that showed a poor behavioral recovery were characterized by a significantly higher TNFR1/TNFR2 mRNA ratio. These data show that differential expression of TNFR in the dorsal horn is associated with recovery from pain in this model and suggest that the analgesic effects of thalidomide may act via this mechanism.
During Parkinson's disease (PD), compensatory regeneration or sprouting of fibers from surviving dopaminergic neurons in the striatum occurs in response to the lesion in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc). The morphological characteristics of regenerated terminal have previously been shown to differ from normal terminals. Here, we provide insights into the morphological characteristics of regenerated dopaminergic terminals in the striatum over a 16-week period after a partial SNpc lesion. The dopaminergic fibers were almost completely lost in the dorsal part of the striatum 2weeks after the lesion, but returned to normal by 16weeks with an equal degree of dopaminergic neuron lesions in the SN at both time points. Morphologically, the regenerated dopaminergic terminals in the striatum were larger in size and had more small and large vesicles with a down-regulation of D(2) dopamine receptor (D(2)R). These terminals were more frequently in contact with D(2)R bearing neurons than D(1)R bearing neurons in the striatum. Therefore, the results indicate that dopaminergic fibers did regenerate in the dorsal part of the striatum after the SNpc lesion. Their morphological characteristics intuitively indicate that they were capable of delivering larger amounts of dopamine (DA) to compensate for the depletion, and to balance the secretion and re-uptake of DA after the lesion. The targeted change in regenerated dopaminergic terminals may disrupt the balance between the direct and indirect pathways in the basal ganglia, thereby resulting in the onset of PD symptoms.
How the neuromolecular actions of ethanol translate to its observed intoxicating effects remains poorly understood. Synchrony of phase (phase locking) of event-related oscillations (EROs) within and between different brain areas has been suggested to reflect communication exchange between neural networks and as such may be a sensitive and translational measure of ethanol's effects. Using a similar auditory event-related potential paradigm in both rats and humans we investigated the phase variability of EROs collected from 38 young men who had participated in an ethanol/placebo challenge protocol, and 46 adult male rats given intraperitoneal injections of ethanol/saline. Phase locking was significantly higher in the delta frequencies in humans than in rats. Phase locking was also higher for the rare (target) tone than the frequent (non-target) tone in both species. Significant reductions in phase locking to the rare (target) tone in the delta, theta, alpha, beta and gamma frequencies, within and between brain sites, was found at 1h following ethanol as compared to placebo/saline administration in both rats and humans. Reductions in phase locking in the alpha frequencies in the parietal cortex were found to be correlated with blood ethanol concentrations. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that ethanol's intoxicating actions in the brain include reducing synchrony within and between neuronal networks, perhaps by increasing the level of noise in key neuromolecular interactions.
Acupuncture has been used for millennia to treat pain, although its efficacy and duration of action is limited. Acupuncture also has brief (1-2 h) antinociceptive effects in mice and these effects are dependent on localized adenosine A receptor (AR) activation. Intriguingly, adenosine 5'-monophosphate (AMP) is basally elevated near acupuncture points. This finding suggested that it might be possible to inhibit nociception for a longer period of time by injecting prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP, ACPP) into acupuncture points. PAP is an ectonucleotidase that dephosphorylates extracellular AMP to adenosine, has a long half-life in vivo and is endogenously found in muscle tissue surrounding acupuncture points. Here, we found that injection of PAP into the popliteal fossa--a space behind the knee that encompasses the Weizhong acupuncture point--had dose- and AR-dependent antinociceptive effects in mouse models of acute and chronic pain. These inhibitory effects lasted up to six days following a single injection, much longer than the hour-long inhibition provided by acupuncture. Antinociception could be transiently boosted with additional substrate (AMP) or transiently blocked with an AR antagonist or an inhibitor of phospholipase C. This novel therapeutic approach--which we term &quot;PAPupuncture&quot;--locally inhibits pain for an extended period of time (100x acupuncture), exploits a molecular mechanism that is common to acupuncture, yet does not require acupuncture needle stimulation.
Human cultural traits, such as languages, musics, rituals and material objects, vary widely across cultures. However, the majority of comparative analyses of human cultural diversity focus on between-culture variation without consideration for within-culture variation. In contrast, biological approaches to genetic diversity, such as the analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA) framework, partition genetic diversity into both within- and between-population components. We attempt here for the first time to quantify both components of cultural diversity by applying the AMOVA model to music. By employing this approach with 421 traditional songs from 16 Austronesian-speaking populations, we show that the vast majority of musical variability is due to differences within populations rather than differences between. This demonstrates a striking parallel to the structure of genetic diversity in humans. A neighbour-net analysis of pairwise population musical divergence shows a large amount of reticulation, indicating the pervasive occurrence of borrowing and/or convergent evolution of musical features across populations.
The discovery of a coherent set of cortical regions showing activation during rest and deactivation during task performance has reignited an old debate in the field of neuroscience, one that questions the reflexivity of the human brain and provides evidence towards a more intrinsic functional architecture. The default-mode network (DMN) comprising of such consistent cortical regions has become a topic of increasing interest in both healthy and diseased populations. In this study, using a well-examined version of the verbal n-back task, interleaved with periods of rest blocks, we investigated whether the deactivation of the cortical regions comprising the DMN moderates individual differences in behavioral performance in a group of older adults. We recruited 25 young and 25 older adults for our study and presented them with blocks of the n-back task, with varying levels of load, interleaved with periods of fixation. A direct comparison of the young and older participants revealed both a reduction in the up-regulation of the prefrontal and parietal regions in response to increasing task demands, along with a reduction in the down-regulation of DMN regions with increasing cognitive load in the elderly. Better performance in the young adults was associated with the capability to modulate the regions of the working memory network with increasing task difficulty, however enhanced performance in the older cohort was associated with greater load-induced deactivation of the posterior cingulate cortex. This study adds to the existing gamut of aging literature, providing evidence that DMN function is critical to cognitive functioning in older adults.
Most behavior is composed of action sequences. Pigeons were often used as a model to study sequence learning and execution. Yet, virtually nothing is known about the neural structures underlying sequential behavior in pigeons. We therefore applied a serial reaction time task (SRTT) that is commonly used to investigate sequential behavior. During task performance either the nidopallium caudolaterale (NCL) or the nidopallium intermedium medialis pars laterale (NIMl) was transiently inactivated with tetrodotoxin (TTX). Since prefrontal structures play a role in sequence acquisition and performance in mammals and since the NCL is functionally analogous to the prefrontal cortex, NCL was chosen a possibly critical structure of our study. The NIMl is equivalent by hodology and topology to the song nucleus LMAN. Since LMAN plays a key role in song learning and since song consists of learned vocalizatory sequences, we hypothesized that NIMl could also be a candidate for sequence performance in a non-songbird. Moreover, TTX injections into the entopallium were performed as a control. Indeed, inactivation of both the NCL and the NIMl resulted in an increase of sequence specific errors. Hence, we could identify components of neural systems in the pigeon that underlie sequence execution.
Evidence from epidemiology suggests that developmental vitamin D (DVD) deficiency is associated with an increased risk of schizophrenia. DVD deficiency in rats is associated with altered brain morphology and enhanced hyperlocomotion in response to MK-801 and amphetamine. The aim of this study was to determine if similar phenotypes were associated with DVD deficiency in two strains of mice (C57BL/6J, 129/X1SvJ). Brains from neonatal (P0) and adult (P70) mice were imaged using MRI and the volumes of the cerebrum, hippocampus, striatum, septum, cortex and ventricles measured, as well as the widths of white matter tracts. Locomotor sensitivity to 5mg/kg d-amphetamine, 0.5mg/kg MK-801 or saline was examined in a separate group of mice in an open field. DVD deficiency altered brain morphology in C57BL6/J mice, such that C57BL/6J female DVD-deficient neonatal mice had a smaller hippocampus compared to female controls. In addition, adult C57BL/6J male DVD-deficient mice had smaller lateral ventricles compared to controls, which may have been compressed by the enlarged striatum seen in these DVD-deficient mice. However, in contrast to the behavioural phenotypes found in DVD-deficient rats, there was no significant effect of maternal diet on amphetamine or MK-801-induced locomotion in either strain. These data indicate that not only species, but also strain of mouse, moderates the impact of DVD deficiency on neuroanatomical and behavioural phenotypes in rodent animal models.
We previously reported a differential effect of dopaminergic medication across the time course of motor sequence learning in early stage Parkinson's (PD) patients [1]. There was a medication-associated impairment specific to the early phase of learning. In the current study, we investigated the BOLD responses associated with this deleterious medication effect on motor sequence learning. We hypothesized that levodopa (l-DOPA) would negatively affect the recruitment of the ventral striatal circuitry during the early phase of learning. Seventeen early stage PD patients ON and OFF l-DOPA and 21 healthy control participants performed an explicit motor sequence learning task inside the MRI scanner. We observed sequence learning-specific activation during the early phase in the ventral putamen for controls and PD OFF but not for PD ON l-DOPA. A comparison of activation between PD OFF and PD ON showed that activation within the ventral putamen was decreased in PD ON compared to PD OFF. The extent of the l-DOPA associated activation decrease in the ventral putamen showed a small, positive correlation with the degree of sequence learning performance decrease in the early phase of learning (r=0.45-0.54 across measures, p&lt;0.05, one-tailed). These findings provide evidence for the negative effects of l-DOPA in PD patients on the ventral putamen circuitry involved in early motor sequence learning, and provide support for a role of this structure in the sequence learning process.
The N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) plays a critical role in glutamatergically mediated neurotransmission, and thereby affects a wide range of brain circuits and important behavioral functions, not limited to learning and memory. While glutamate is classically considered to be the brain's principal excitatory neurotransmitter, there is also evidence the NMDAR plays a &quot;functionally inhibitory&quot; role, not in that it directly hyperpolarizes neurons but rather it suppresses circuit level neural activity, including through activation of GABAergic interneurons. This paper reviews data on the NMDAR &quot;suppression&quot; hypothesis (while also examining circuit level activation), with a focus on the following 6 lines of evidence: (1) epilepsy studies, (2) neurotoxicity studies, (3) mouse knockout studies of particular receptor subunits, (4) electrophysiological studies, (5) 2-deoxyglucose studies, and (6) functional brain imaging studies. For many of these lines of evidence, the review focuses on data from two well-characterized NMDAR antagonists, ketamine and phencyclidine. Also, evidence regarding the NMDAR and schizophrenia, including the psychotomimetic properties of ketamine and phencyclidine, cuts across several of the lines of evidence. The data suggest the NMDAR participates in activation, as well as widespread suppression, of circuit level neural activity, where the suppression may be particularly prominent in limbic circuits.
The medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) is important for extinction of many behaviors including conditioned place preference (CPP). We examined the effects of intra-mPFC inactivation (with bupivacaine) on extinction of ethanol-induced CPP in mice. Injections of both bupivacaine and vehicle impaired extinction whereas no-surgery control mice extinguished normally. Consistent with recently reported effects of mPFC lesions, these data suggest that extinction was impaired by excessive mPFC damage induced by repeated intracranial infusions.
Methamphetamine (MA) use increases the likelihood of engaging in risky sexual behavior and most MA-using women are of child-bearing age. Therefore, cognitive effects following MA exposure to the developing brain are concerning. Exposure of mice to MA during hippocampal development causes cognitive impairments in adulthood. These effects are more severe in female than male mice and mimicked by the H(3) receptor antagonist thioperamide (THIO). In this study, we assessed whether neonatal exposure to MA or THIO also affects cognition in adolescence. As these effects might be associated with alterations in circadian activity, we also assessed circadian activity in a subgroup of neonatally exposed mice. Sex-dependent treatment effects were seen in the water maze. While THIO-, but not MA-treated female mice showed hippocampus-dependent spatial memory retention in the first probe trial, MA-, but not THIO-treated female mice showed spatial memory retention in the probe trial following reversal training. In contrast, MA- and THIO-treated male mice showed spatial memory retention in both probe trials. When sensorimotor gating was assessed, MA-treated male mice showed greater pre-pulse inhibition than MA-treated female mice. Regardless of sex, THIO-treated mice gained on average more weight each day and showed an enhanced startle response. In addition, MA increased the length of the circadian period, with an intermediate effect following THIO treatment were observed. No treatment effects in exploratory behavior, measures of anxiety, or contextual or cued fear conditioning. Thus, the water maze is particularly sensitive to detect sex-dependent effects of neonatal MA and THIO exposure on spatial memory retention in adolescence.
The ability to examine genetically engineered mice in a chronic intravenous (IV) nicotine self-administration paradigm will be a powerful tool for investigating the contribution of specific genes to nicotine reinforcement and more importantly, to relapse behavior. Here we describe a reliable model of nicotine-taking and -seeking behavior in male C57BL/6J mice without prior operant training or food restriction. Mice were allowed to self-administer either nicotine (0.03mg/kg/infusion) or saline in 2-h daily sessions under fixed ratio 1 (FR1) followed by FR2 schedules of reinforcement. In the nicotine group, a dose-response curve was measured after the nose-poke behavior stabilized. Subsequently, nose-poke behavior was extinguished and ability of cue presentations, priming injections of nicotine, or intermittent footshock to reinstate responding was assessed in both groups. C57BL/6J mice given access to nicotine exhibited high levels of nose-poke behavior and self-administered a high number of infusions as compared to mice given access to saline. After this acquisition phase, changing the unit-dose of nicotine resulted in a flat dose-response curve for nicotine-taking and subsequently reinstatement of nicotine-seeking behavior was achieved by both nicotine-associated light cue presentation and intermittent footshock. Nicotine priming injections only triggered significant reinstatement on the second consecutive day of priming. In contrast, mice previously trained to self-administer saline did not increase their responding under those conditions. These results demonstrate the ability to produce nicotine-taking and nicotine-seeking behavior in naive C57BL/6J mice without both prior operant training and food restriction. Future work will utilize these models to evaluate nicotine-taking and relapsing behavior in genetically-altered mice.
Sleep deprivation affects cognitive functions that depend on the prefrontal cortex (PFC) such as cognitive flexibility, and the consolidation of newly learned information. The identification of cognitive processes that are either robustly sensitive or robustly insensitive to the same experimental sleep deprivation procedure, will allow us to better focus on the specific effects of sleep on cognition, and increase understanding of the mechanisms involved. In the present study we investigate whether sleep deprivation differentially affects the two separate cognitive processes of acquisition and consolidation of a spatial reversal task. After training on a spatial discrimination between two levers in a Skinner box, male Wistar rats were exposed to a reversal of the previously learned stimulus-response contingency. We first evaluated the effect of sleep deprivation on the acquisition of reversal learning. Performance on reversal learning after 12h of sleep deprivation (n=12) was compared to performance after control conditions (n=12). The second experiment evaluated the effect of sleep deprivation on the consolidation of reversal learning; the first session of reversal learning was followed by 3h of nap prevention (n=8) or undisturbed control conditions (n=8). The experiments had sufficient statistical power (0.90 and 0.81, respectively) to detect differences with medium effect sizes. Neither the acquisition, nor the consolidation, of reversal learning was affected by acute sleep deprivation. Together with previous findings, these results help to further delineate the role of sleep in cognitive processing.
Behavioral reactivity to novel stimuli, which is greater in the adolescent than young adult population, is associated with drug abuse liability, suggesting that the increased addiction vulnerability of adolescents may be related to heightened novel stimulus reactivity and underlying cellular processes. We examined the hypothesis that adolescent animals who exhibit higher novel stimulus reactivity, exhibit greater locomotor activity in response to nicotine than adolescents who exhibit lower novel stimulus reactivity, and that this difference is associated with alterations in CREB expression and activity in the ventral striatum (vStr) and prefrontal cortex (PFC). Adolescents exhibiting high locomotor activity (HLA) in the novel open field developed tolerance to the locomotor depressant effects of nicotine with fewer exposures and at lower doses than adolescents with low locomotor activity (LLA). Further, HLA adolescents exhibited lower CREB activity in the vStr than LLA adolescents and this difference was attenuated by repeated exposure to high, but not low doses of nicotine. Thus, inherent differences in the reactivity to novel stimulation during the adolescent period appear to predict sensitivity to the behavioral and cellular effects of nicotine and may underlie differences in progression to addiction.
Tissue infiltration of activated lymphocytes isa hallmark of transplant rejection and organ-specific autoimmune diseases. Migration and activation of lymphocytes depend on DOCK2, an atypical Rac activator predominantly expressed in hematopoietic cells. Although DOCK2 does not contain Dbl homology domain typically found in guanine nucleotide exchange factors, DOCK2 mediates the GTP-GDP exchange reaction for Rac through its DHR-2 domain. Here, we have identified 4-[3'-(2-chlorophenyl)-2'-propen-1'-ylidene]-1-phenyl-3,5-pyrazolidinedione (CPYPP) as a small-molecule inhibitor of DOCK2. CPYPP bound to DOCK2 DHR-2 domain ina reversible manner and inhibited its catalytic activity invitro. When lymphocytes were treated with CPYPP, both chemokine receptor- and antigen receptor-mediated Rac activation were blocked, resulting in marked reduction of chemotactic response and Tcell activation. These results provide a rational of and a chemical scaffold for development of the DOCK2-targeting immunosuppressant.
Chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) are components of the extracellular matrix that inhibit axonal sprouting and experience-dependent plasticity. Although protein-tyrosine phosphatase  (PTP) has been proven to be a receptor for CSPGs, its downstream signaling has remained a mystery. Here, we show that CSPGs target and dephosphorylate tropomyosin-related kinase B, the receptor of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), via PTP in embryonic cortical neurons in vitro. Whereas BDNF promoted dendritic spine formation in embryonic cortical neurons, CSPGs abolished the effects of BDNF and eliminated existing dendritic spines when BDNF was present. The latter effect was dependent on the p75 receptor, presumably because BDNF binding to the p75 receptor elicits elimination of dendritic spines. These results suggest that the inhibitory activity of CSPGs on dendritic spine formation operates through the targeting of neurotrophins at the receptor level.
Methyl CpG-binding protein 2 gene (MeCP2) mutations are implicated in Rett syndrome (RTT), one of the common causes of female mental retardation. Two MeCP2 isoforms have been reported: MeCP2_e2 (splicing of all four exons) and MeCP2_e1 (alternative splicing of exons 1, 3, and 4). Their relative expression levels vary among tissues, with MeCP2_e1 being more dominant in adult brain, whereas MeCP2_e2 is expressed more abundantly in placenta, liver, and skeletal muscle. In this study, we performed specific disruption of the MeCP2_e2-defining exon 2 using the Cre-loxP system and examined the consequences of selective loss of MeCP2_e2 function in vivo. We performed behavior evaluation, gene expression analysis, using RT-PCR and real-time quantitative PCR, and histological analysis. We demonstrate that selective deletion of MeCP2_e2 does not result in RTT-associated neurological phenotypes but confers a survival disadvantage to embryos carrying a MeCP2_e2 null allele of maternal origin. In addition, we reveal a specific requirement for MeCP2_e2 function in extraembryonic tissue, where selective loss of MeCP2_e2 results in placenta defects and up-regulation of peg-1, as determined by the parental origin of the mutant allele. Taken together, our findings suggest a novel role for MeCP2 in normal placenta development and illustrate how paternal X chromosome inactivation in extraembryonic tissues confers a survival disadvantage for carriers of a mutant maternal MeCP2_e2 allele. Moreover, our findings provide an explanation for the absence of reports on MeCP2_e2-specific exon 2 mutations in RTT. MeCP2_e2 mutations in humans may result in a phenotype that evades a diagnosis of RTT.
Glypicans are a family of cell-surface proteoglycans that regulate Wnt, hedgehog, bone morphogenetic protein, and fibroblast growth factor signaling. Loss-of-function mutations in glypican core proteins and in glycosaminoglycan-synthesizing enzymes have revealed that glypican core proteins and their glycosaminoglycan chains are important in shaping animal development. Glypican core proteins consist of a stable -helical domain containing 14 conserved Cys residues followed by a glycosaminoglycan attachment domain that becomes exclusively substituted with heparan sulfate (HS) and presumably adopts a random coil conformation. Removal of the -helical domain results in almost exclusive addition of the glycosaminoglycan chondroitin sulfate, suggesting that factors in the -helical domain promote assembly of HS. Glypican-1 is involved in brain development and is one of six members of the vertebrate family of glypicans. We expressed and crystallized N-glycosylated human glypican-1 lacking HS and N-glycosylated glypican-1 lacking the HS attachment domain. The crystal structure of glypican-1 was solved using crystals of selenomethionine-labeled glypican-1 core protein lacking the HS domain. No additional electron density was observed for crystals of glypican-1 containing the HS attachment domain, and CD spectra of the two protein species were highly similar. The crystal structure of N-glycosylated human glypican-1 core protein at 2.5 , the first crystal structure of a vertebrate glypican, reveals the complete disulfide bond arrangement of the conserved Cys residues, and it also extends the structural knowledge of glypicans for one -helix and two long loops. Importantly, the loops are evolutionarily conserved in vertebrate glypican-1, and one of them is involved in glycosaminoglycan class determination.
The propensity to indulge in unhealthy eating and overconsumption of palatable food is a crucial determinant in the rising prevalence of obesity in today's society. The tendency to consume palatable foods in quantities that exceed energy requirements has been linked to an addiction-like process. Although the existence of 'food addiction' has not been conclusively proven, evidence points to alterations in the brain reward circuitry induced by overconsumption of palatable foods that are similar to those seen in drug addiction. The diet-induced obesity paradigm is a common procedure to replicate features of human obesity in rodents. Here we review data on the effect of various obesogenic diets (high-fat, Ensure, cafeteria type, sucrose) on the extent of leptin resistance, hypothalamic-neuropeptidergic adaptations and changes in feeding behavior. We also discuss to what extent such diets and properties such as macronutrient composition, physical structure, sensory stimuli, and post-ingestive effects influence the brain-reward pathways. Understanding the interaction between individual components of diets, feeding patterns, and brain reward pathways could facilitate the design of diets that limit overconsumption and prevent weight gain. Copyright  2012 S. Karger GmbH, Freiburg.
Dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase (DLDH) is a key component of 3 mitochondrial -keto acid dehydrogenase complexes including pyruvate dehydrogenase complex, -ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex, and branched chain amino acid dehydrogenase complex. It is a pyridine-dependent disulfide oxidoreductase that is very sensitive to oxidative modifications by reactive nitrogen species (RNS) and reactive oxygen species (ROS). The objective of this study was to investigate the mechanisms of DLDH modification by RNS derived from Angeli's salt. Studies were conducted using isolated rat brain mitochondria that were incubated with varying concentrations of Angeli's salt followed by spectrophotometric enzyme assays, blue native gel analysis, and 2-dimensional gel-based proteomic approaches. Results show that DLDH could be inactivated by Angeli's salt in a concentration dependent manner and the inactivation was a targeting rather than a random process as peroxynitrite did not show any detectable inhibitory effect on the enzyme's activity under the same experimental conditions. Since Angeli's salt can readily decompose at physiological pH to yield nitroxyl anion (HNO) and nitric oxide, further studies were conducted to determine the actual RNS that was responsible for DLDH inactivation. Results indicate that it was HNO that exerted the effect of Angeli's salt on DLDH. Finally, two-dimensional Western blot analysis indicates that DLDH inactivation by Angeli's salt was accompanied by formation of protein s-nitrosothiols, suggesting that s-nitrosylation is likely the cause of loss in enzyme's activity. Taken together, the present study provides insights into mechanisms of DLDH inactivation induced by HNO derived from Angeli's salt.
Fibroblast growth factor (FGF) signaling is essential for the development of the gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) system. Mice harboring deficiencies in Fgf8 or Fgf receptor 1 (Fgfr1) suffer a significant loss of GnRH neurons, but their reproductive phenotypes have not been examined. This study examined if female mice hypomorphic for Fgf8, Fgfr1, or both (compound hypomorphs) exhibited altered parameters of pubertal onset, estrous cyclicity, and fertility. Further, we examined the number of kisspeptin (KP)-immunoreactive (ir) neurons in the anteroventral periventricular/periventricular nuclei (AVPV/PeV) of these mice to assess if changes in the KP system, which stimulates the GnRH system, could contribute to the reproductive phenotypes. Single hypomorphs (Fgfr1(+/-) or Fgf8(+/-)) had normal timing for vaginal opening (VO) but delayed first estrus. However, after achieving the first estrus, they underwent normal expression of estrous cycles. In contrast, the compound hypomorphs underwent early VO and normal first estrus, but had disorganized estrous cycles that subsequently reduced their fertility. KP immunohistochemistry on Postnatal Day 15, 30, and 60 transgenic female mice revealed that female compound hypomorphs had significantly more KP-ir neurons in the AVPV/PeV compared to their wild-type littermates, suggesting increased KP-ir neurons may drive early VO but could not maintain the cyclic changes in GnRH neuronal activity required for female fertility. Overall, these data suggest that Fgf signaling deficiencies differentially alter the parameters of female pubertal onset and cyclicity. Further, these deficiencies led to changes in the AVPV/PeV KP-ir neurons that may have contributed to the accelerated VO in the compound hypomorphs.
We investigated how resting state (RS) functional connectivity (FC) of the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) correlates with cognitive rehabilitation in relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) patients. A neuropsychological assessment and RS fMRI at baseline and after 12weeks were obtained from 20 RRMS patients, who were assigned randomly to undergo treatment (n=10) (treatment group-TG), which entailed computer-assisted cognitive rehabilitation of attention/information processing and executive functions for 3days/week, or not to receive any cognitive rehabilitation (n=10) (control group-CG). Voxel-wise changes of ACC RS FC were assessed using SPM8. In both groups, at the two study time points, ACC activity was correlated with the bilateral middle and inferior frontal gyrus, basal ganglia, posterior cingulate cortex, cerebellum, precuneus, middle temporal gyrus, and inferior parietal lobule (IPL). At follow up, compared to baseline, the TG showed an increased FC of the ACC with the right middle frontal gyrus (MFG) and right IPL, while the CG showed a decreased FC of the ACC with the right cerebellum and right inferior temporal gyrus (ITG). A significant &quot;treatment  time&quot; interaction was found for the increased FC of the right IPL and for the decreased FC of the right ITG. In the TG only, significant correlations (p&lt;0.001) were found between improvement of PASAT performance and RS FC of the ACC with the right MFG (r=0.88) and right IPL (r=0.76). In MS, cognitive rehabilitation correlates with changes in RS FC of brain regions subserving the trained functions. fMRI might be useful to monitor rehabilitative strategies in MS.
Sound is detected and converted into electrical signals within the ear. The cochlea not only acts as a passive detector of sound, however, but can also produce tones itself. These otoacoustic emissions are a striking manifestation of the cochlea's mechanical active process. A controversy remains of how these mechanical signals propagate back to the middle ear, from which they are emitted as sound. Here, we combine theoretical and experimental studies to show that mechanical signals can be transmitted by waves on Reissner's membrane, an elastic structure within the cochlea. We develop a theory for wave propagation on Reissner's membrane and its role in otoacoustic emissions. Employing a scanning laser interferometer, we measure traveling waves on Reissner's membrane in the gerbil, guinea pig, and chinchilla. The results are in accord with the theory and thus support a role for Reissner's membrane in otoacoustic emissions.
Highly specialized, but exceedingly small populations of cells play important roles in many tissues. The identification of cell-type specific markers and gene expression programs for extremely rare cell subsets has been a challenge using standard whole-tissue approaches. Gene expression profiling of individual cells allows for unprecedented access to cell types that comprise only a small percentage of the total tissue(1-7). In addition, this technique can be used to examine the gene expression programs that are transiently expressed in small numbers of cells during dynamic developmental transitions(8). This issue of cellular diversity arises repeatedly in the central nervous system (CNS) where neuronal connections can occur between quite diverse cells(9). The exact number of distinct cell types is not precisely known, but it has been estimated that there may be as many as 1000 different types in the cortex itself(10). The function(s) of complex neural circuits may rely on some of the rare neuronal types and the genes they express. By identifying new markers and helping to molecularly classify different neurons, the single-cell approach is particularly useful in the analysis of cell types in the nervous system. It may also help to elucidate mechanisms of neural development by identifying differentially expressed genes and gene pathways during early stages of neuronal progenitor development. As a simple, easily accessed tissue with considerable neuronal diversity, the vertebrate retina is an excellent model system for studying the processes of cellular development, neuronal differentiation and neuronal diversification. However, as in other parts of the CNS, this cellular diversity can present a problem for determining the genetic pathways that drive retinal progenitors to adopt a specific cell fate, especially given that rod photoreceptors make up the majority of the total retinal cell population(11). Here we report a method for the identification of the transcripts expressed in single retinal cells (Figure 1). The single-cell profiling technique allows for the assessment of the amount of heterogeneity present within different cellular populations of the retina(2,4,5,12). In addition, this method has revealed a host of new candidate genes that may play role(s) in the cell fate decision-making processes that occur in subsets of retinal progenitor cells(8). With some simple adjustments to the protocol, this technique can be utilized for many different tissues and cell types.
One of the primary lines of defense against oxidative stress is the selenoprotein family, a class of proteins that contain selenium in the form of the 21st amino acid, selenocysteine. Within this class of proteins, selenoprotein P (Sepp1) is unique, as it contains multiple selenocysteine residues and is postulated to act in selenium transport. Recent findings have demonstrated that neuronal selenoprotein synthesis is required for the development of parvalbumin (PV)-interneurons, a class of GABAergic neurons involved in the synchronization of neural activity. To investigate the potential influence of Sepp1 on PV-interneurons, we first mapped the distribution of the Sepp1 receptor, ApoER2, and parvalbumin in the mouse brain. Our results indicate that ApoER2 is highly expressed on PV-interneurons in multiple brain regions. Next, to determine whether PV-interneuron populations are affected by Sepp1 deletion, we performed stereology on several brain regions in which we observed ApoER2 expression on PV-interneurons, comparing wild-type and Sepp1(-/-) mice. We observed reduced numbers of PV-interneurons in the inferior colliculus of Sepp1(-/-) mice, which corresponded with a regional increase in oxidative stress. Finally, as impaired PV-interneuron function has been implicated in several neuropsychiatric conditions, we performed multiple behavioral tests on Sepp1(-/-) mice. Our behavioral results indicate that Sepp1(-/-) mice have impairments in contextual fear extinction, latent inhibition, and sensorimotor gating. In sum, these findings demonstrate the important supporting role of Sepp1 on ApoER2-expressing PV-interneurons.
Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) is a protein widely used as a molecular marker for astroglial differentiation and mature astrocytes. We and others have shown previously that retinoic acid and specific cytokines induce the expression of GFAP in neural precursor cells by activating the phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate-3-kinase (PI3K) phosphorylation pathway. Here, we extend our previous work and show that retinoic acid also activates specifically the c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) phosphorylation pathway, which in turn inhibits GFAP expression. Our results suggest the existence of a negative self-regulatory loop in the phosphorylation pathways that regulates GFAP expression. This loop is constitutively repressed by the PI3K pathway. Our results could be relevant for disorders involving sustained GFAP overexpression in precursor cells, such as glioblastoma and Alexander disease.
The deactivation of the inhibitory mechanisms with injections of moxonidine (2-adrenoceptor/imidazoline receptor agonist) into the lateral parabrachial nucleus (LPBN) increases hypertonic NaCl intake by intra- or extracellular dehydrated rats. In the present study, we investigated the changes in the urinary sodium and volume, sodium balance, and plasma vasopressin and oxytocin in rats treated with intragastric (i.g.) 2 M NaCl load (2 ml/rat) combined with injections of moxonidine into the LPBN. Male Holtzman rats (n=5-12/group) with stainless steel cannulas implanted bilaterally into LPBN were used. Bilateral injections of moxonidine (0.5 nmol/0.2 l) into the LPBN decreased i.g. 2 M NaCl-induced diuresis (4.60.7 vs. vehicle: 7.40.6 ml/120 min) and natriuresis (1.650.29 vs. vehicle: 2.530.17 mEq/120 min), whereas the previous injection of the 2-adrenoceptor antagonist RX 821002 (10 nmol/0.2 l) into the LPBN abolished the effects of moxonidine. Moxonidine injected into the LPBN reduced i.g. 2 M NaCl-induced increase in plasma oxytocin and vasopressin (14.62.8 and 2.20.3 vs. vehicle: 25.77 and 4.30.7 pg/ml, respectively). Moxonidine injected into the LPBN combined with i.g. 2 M NaCl also increased 0.3 M NaCl intake (7.51.7 vs. vehicle: 0.50.2 mEq/2 h) and produced positive sodium balance (2.31.4 vs. vehicle: -1.20.4 mEq/2 h) in rats that had access to water and NaCl. The present results show that LPBN 2-adrenoceptor activation reduces renal and hormonal responses to intracellular dehydration and increases sodium and water intake, which facilitates sodium retention and body fluid volume expansion.
Noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) is one of the most common forms of sensorineural hearing loss and a well-known contributor to presbycusis. Based on the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the pathogenesis of NIHL, augmentation of the antioxidative defense system is a major target for pharmacological prevention. In this study, we assessed whether administration of pravastatin, an inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA (HMG-CoA) reductase, which is a rate-limiting enzyme of cholesterol synthesis, before noise exposure protects against cochlear injury in BALB/c mice. Noise exposure produced both compound threshold shift (CTS) and permanent threshold shift (PTS) over 40 dB at 16 and 32 kHz. Pretreatment with pravastatin (25 mg/kg) for 5 days significantly decreased both CTS and PTS. Pravastatin also reduced hair cell death after noise exposure in the cochlea, which was identified by surface preparation and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). It also reduced the formation of noise-induced 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE), a byproduct of lipid peroxidation. Activation of Rac1, one of the subunits of the nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase complex, which is a major superoxide generator in the cell membrane, was inhibited by the administration of pravastatin. These findings suggest that pravastatin can protect against cochlear acoustic injury by lowering ROS generation via inhibition of the formation of the NADPH oxidase complex. This study will be helpful for the development of new therapeutic strategies for NIHL and other hearing loss-related diseases caused by ROS overproduction.
Spinal neuroinflammation has been shown to play an important role in the development of morphine tolerance and morphine withdrawal-induced hyperalgesia. Lipoxins are endogenous lipoxygenase-derived eicosanoids that can function as &quot;braking signals&quot; in inflammation. The present study investigated the effect of 5 (S), 6 (R)-lipoxin A4 methyl ester (LXA4ME), a stable synthetic analog of lipoxin A4, on the expression of antinociceptive tolerance and withdrawal-induced hyperalgesia in chronic morphine-treated rats. Chronic morphine administration through repeated subcutaneous injection induced the development of hyperalgesia and the expression of spinal antinociceptive tolerance to morphine. However, LXA4ME treatment significantly attenuated the development of hyperalgesia and the expression of spinal antinociceptive tolerance to intrathecal morphine in both mechanical and thermal test. Moreover, the administration of LXA4ME during the induction of morphine tolerance inhibited the activation of microglia and astrocytes; reduced the expression of proinflammatory cytokines interleukin-1 (IL-1), IL-6, and tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-); upregulated the expression of anti-inflammatory cytokines IL-10 and transforming growth factor-1 (TGF-1); and inhibited nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-B) activation at the L5 lumbar spinal cord. These results suggest that treatment of LXA(4)ME provides a potential preventative or therapeutic approach for morphine tolerance and associated abnormal pain sensitivity.
Despite evidence that high-affinity GABA(A) receptor subunit mRNA and protein are present in dorsal root ganglia (DRG), low-affinity currents dominate those detected in acutely dissociated DRG neurons in vitro. This observation raises the possibility that high-affinity receptors are normally trafficked out of the DRG toward central and peripheral terminals. We therefore hypothesized that with time in culture, there would be an increase in high-affinity GABA(A) currents in DRG neurons. To test this hypothesis, we studied dissociated DRG neurons 2 h (acute) and 24 h (cultured) after plating with whole-cell patch-clamp techniques, Western blot, and semiquantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (sqRT-PCR) analysis. GABA(A) current density increases dramatically with time in culture in association with the emergence of two persistent currents with EC50's of 0.250.01 M and 3.20.02 M for GABA activation. In a subpopulation of neurons, there was also an increase in the potency of GABA activation of the transient current from an EC50 of 78.1610.1 M to 9.561.3 M with time in culture. A fraction of the high-affinity current was potentiated by -subunit agonist 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisoxazolo[5,4-c]pyridine-3-ol (THIP). -subunit immunoreactivity was largely restricted to the cytosolic fraction in acute, but the membrane fraction in cultured, DRG neurons, with no detectable change in -subunit mRNA. However, the emergence of a high-affinity current blocked by THIP and insensitive to bicuculline was detected in a subpopulation of cultured neurons as well in association with an increase in 2- and 3-subunit mRNA in cultured DRG neurons. Our results suggest that high-affinity -subunit-containing GABA(A) receptors are normally trafficked out of the DRG where they are targeted to peripheral and central processes. They also highlight that the interpretation of data obtained from cultured DRG neurons should be made with caution.
New neurons are continuously generated in the hippocampus and may play an important role in many physiological and pathological conditions. Here we present evidence of cell proliferation and neurogenesis after a selective and transient excitotoxic injury to the hippocampal cornu ammonis 1 (CA1) area induced by low concentrations of domoic acid (DOM) in rat organotypic hippocampal slice cultures (OHSC). DOM is an excitatory amino acid analog to kainic acid that acts through glutamate receptors to elicit a rapid and potent excitotoxic response. Exposure of slice cultures to varying concentrations of DOM for 24 h induced dose-dependent neuronal toxicity that was independent of activation of classic apoptotic markers. Treatment with 2 M DOM for 24 h caused a selective yet transient neurotoxic injury in the CA1 subfield of the hippocampus that appeared recovered after 7 days of incubation in a DOM-free medium and showed significant microgliosis but no sign of astrogliosis. The DOM insult (2 M, 24 h) resulted in a significant upregulation of cell proliferation, as assessed by 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation, and a concurrent increase of the neuronal precursor cell marker doublecortin (DCX) within the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus and area CA1. Neurogenesis occurred primarily during the first week after termination of the DOM exposure. Our study shows that exposure of OHSC to concentrations of DOM below those required to induce permanent neurotoxicity can induce proliferation and differentiation of neural progenitor cells that may contribute to recovery from mild injury and to develop abnormal circuits relevant to disease.

The central complex is a prominent set of midline neuropils in the insect brain, known to be a higher locomotor control center that integrates visual inputs and modulates motor outputs. It is composed of four major neuropil structures, the ellipsoid body (EB), fan-shaped body (FB), noduli (NO), and protocerebral bridge (PB). In Drosophila different types of central complex neurons have been shown to express multiple neuropeptides and neurotransmitters; however, the distribution of corresponding receptors is not known. Here, we have mapped metabotropic, G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) of several neurotransmitters to neurons of the central complex. By combining immunocytochemistry with GAL4 driven green fluorescent protein, we examined the distribution patterns of six different GPCRs: two serotonin receptor subtypes (5-HT(1B) and 5-HT(7)), a dopamine receptor (DopR), the metabotropic GABA(B) receptor (GABA(B)R), the metabotropic glutamate receptor (DmGluR(A)) and a short neuropeptide F receptor (sNPFR1). Five of the six GPCRs were mapped to different neurons in the EB (sNPFR1 was not seen). Different layers of the FB express DopR, GABA(B)R, DmGluR(A,) and sNPFR1, whereas only GABA(B)R and DmGluR(A) were localized to the PB. Finally, strong expression of DopR and DmGluR(A) was detected in the NO. In most cases the distribution patterns of the GPCRs matched the expression of markers for their respective ligands. In some nonmatching regions it is likely that other types of dopamine and serotonin receptors or ionotropic GABA and glutamate receptors are expressed. Our data suggest that chemical signaling and signal modulation are diverse and highly complex in the different compartments and circuits of the Drosophila central complex. The information provided here, on receptor distribution, will be very useful for future analysis of functional circuits in the central complex, based on targeted interference with receptor expression.
Dendritic spines are the basic structural units of neuronal plasticity. Intracellular signaling cascades that promote spinogenesis have centered on RhoGTPases. We found that ovarian steroids increase gene expression of RhoGTPases [Ras homolog gene family member A (RhoA), cell division control protein 42 homolog (Cdc42), and ras-related C3 botulinum toxin substrate (Rac)] in laser-captured serotonin neurons. We sought to confirm that the increases observed in gene expression translate to the protein level. In addition, a preliminary study was conducted to determine whether an increase in spines occurs via detection of the spine marker protein, postsynaptic density-95 (PSD-95). Adult ovariectomized (Ovx) monkeys were treated with estradiol (E), progesterone (P), or E+P for 1 month. Sections through the dorsal raphe nucleus were immunostained for RhoA and Cdc42 (n=3-4/group). The number and positive pixel area of RhoA-positive cells and the positive pixel area of Cdc42-positive fibers were determined. On combining E- and E+P-treated groups, there was a significant increase in the average and total cell number and positive pixel area of RhoA-positive cells. E, P, and E+P treatments, individually or combined, also increased the average and total positive pixel area of Cdc42-positive fibers. With remaining sections from two animals in each group, we conducted a preliminary examination of the regulation of PSD-95 protein expression. PSD-95, a postsynaptic scaffold protein, was examined with immunogold silver staining (n=2/group), and the total number of PSD-95-positive puncta was determined with stereology across four levels of the dorsal raphe. E, P, and E+P treatment significantly increased the total number of PSD-95-positive puncta. Together, these findings indicate that ovarian steroids act to increase gene and protein expression of two pivotal RhoGTPases involved in spinogenesis and preliminarily indicate that an increased number of spines and/or synapses result from this action. Increased spinogenesis on serotonin dendrites would facilitate excitatory glutamatergic input and in turn, increase serotonin neuronal activity throughout the brain.
We have previously shown that persistent -synuclein overexpression in ventral midbrain of marmoset leads to a distinctive neurodegenerative process and motor defects. The neurodegeneration was confined to caudate putamen dopaminergic fibers in animals overexpressing wild-type (wt) -synuclein. However, A53T -synuclein overexpression induced neurodegeneration that resulted in nigral dopaminergic cell death. Here, we analyze the microglia population in the midbrain of these animals by stereological quantification of Iba1+ cells. Our data here show that monkeys overexpressing A53T -synuclein showed a long-term increase in microglia presenting macrophagic morphology. However, wt -synuclein overexpression, despite the absence of dopaminergic cell death, resulted in a permanent robust increase of the microglia population characterized by a range of distinct morphological types that persisted after 1 year. These results confirm that the microglial response differs depending on the type of -synuclein (wt/A53T) and/or whether -synuclein expression results in cell death or not, suggesting that microglia may play different roles during disease progression. Furthermore, the microglial response is modulated by events related to -synuclein expression in substantia nigra and persists in the long term. The data presented here is in agreement with that previously observed in a recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) -synuclein rat model, thereby validating both the findings and the model, and highlighting the translational potential of the rodent model to higher species closer to humans.
Mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) have been causally linked to neuronal cell death in Parkinson's disease. LRRK2 expression has also been detected in B lymphocytes and macrophages, suggesting a role in immune responses. In the present study, we demonstrate that LRRK2 is expressed in primary microglial cells isolated from brains of adult mice. Moreover, lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-activated microglial cells from mice overexpressing the Parkinson's disease-linked LRRK2(R1441G) mutation exhibit increased expression and secretion of proinflammatory cytokines compared with wild-type control microglia. Expression of the LPS receptor Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and downstream signaling proteins did not differ between LRRK2(R1441G) transgenic microglia and wild-type controls. Consistently, conditioned medium from LPS-stimulated LRRK2(R1441G) transgenic microglia induced significant cell death when added to neuronal cultures. These findings indicate that enhanced neuroinflammation may contribute to neurodegeneration in Parkinson's disease patients carrying LRRK2 mutations.
Studies in the vertebrates have shown that the time-locking ability of central auditory neurons decreases progressively along the ascending auditory pathway. This decrease is presumably attributed to a progressive reduction in the fidelity of synaptic transmission and an increase in the influence of synaptic inhibition along the cascade. The extent to which neurons' intrinsic biophysical properties contribute to the change in time-locking ability is unclear. We carried out whole-cell patch clamp recordings from the auditory thalamus of leopard frogs and compared their biophysical properties and time-locking abilities (determined by cell's responses to depolarizing pulse trains applied intracellularly) with those of lower auditory brainstem neurons. We found that frog thalamic neurons were homogeneous, exhibiting uniformly sustained, regular firing patterns, but not having low-threshold transient Ca2+ current which mammal thalamic neurons generally possess. Furthermore, intrinsic biophysical properties of the thalamic neurons are such that the time-locking ability of these neurons was very poor. The homogeneity of thalamic auditory neurons is in contrast to the heterogeneity of lower auditory brainstem neurons, with different phenotypes exhibiting different time-locking abilities and with sustained-regular phenotype consistently showing the worst time-locking ability among all biophysical phenotypes. Auditory nuclei along the ascending auditory pathway showed a progressive increase in the population of sustained-regular phenotype-this corresponded to a systematic decrease in the overall time-locking ability, with neurons in the dorsal medullary nucleus showing the best, and thalamic neurons exhibiting the poorest time-locking ability, whereas neurons in the torus semicircularis displayed intermediate time-locking ability. These results suggest that the biophysical characteristics of single neurons also likely play a role in the change in temporal coding ability along the ascending auditory pathway.
Psychoactive bath salts (also called meph, drone, meow meow, m-CAT, bounce, bubbles, mad cow, etc.) contain a substance called mephedrone (4-methylcathinone) that may share psychostimulant properties with amphetamine and cocaine. However, there are only limited studies of the neuropharmacological profile of mephedrone. The present study used an established invertebrate (planarian) assay to test the hypothesis that acute and repeated mephedrone exposure produces psychostimulant-like behavioral effects. Acute mephedrone administration (50-1000 M) produced stereotyped movements that were attenuated by a dopamine receptor antagonist (SCH 23390) (0.3 M). Spontaneous discontinuation of mephedrone exposure (1, 10 M) (60 min) resulted in an abstinence-induced withdrawal response (i.e. reduced motility). In place conditioning experiments, planarians in which mephedrone (100, 500 M) was paired with the non-preferred environment during conditioning displayed a shift in preference upon subsequent testing. These results suggest that mephedrone produces three behavioral effects associated with psychostimulant drugs, namely dopamine-sensitive stereotyped movements, abstinence-induced withdrawal, and environmental place conditioning.
The dramatically increasing prevalence of obesity, associated with potentially life-threatening health problems, including cardiovascular diseases and type II diabetes, poses an enormous public health problem. It has been proposed that the obesity epidemic can be explained by the concept of 'food addiction'. In this review we focus on possible similarities between binge eating disorder (BED), which is highly prevalent in the obese population, and drug addiction. Indeed, both behavioral and neural similarities between addiction and BED have been demonstrated. Behavioral similarities are reflected in the overlap in DSM-IV criteria for drug addiction with the (suggested) criteria for BED and by food addiction-like behavior in animals after prolonged intermittent access to palatable food. Neural similarities include the overlap in brain regions involved in food and drug craving. Decreased dopamine D2 receptor availability in the striatum has been found in animal models of binge eating, after cocaine self-administration in animals as well as in drug addiction and obesity in humans. To further explore the neurobiological basis of food addiction, it is essential to have an animal model to test the addictive potential of palatable food. A recently developed animal model for drug addiction involves three behavioral characteristics that are based on the DSM-IV criteria: i) extremely high motivation to obtain the drug, ii) difficulty in limiting drug seeking even in periods of explicit non-availability, iii) continuation of drug-seeking despite negative consequences. Indeed, it has been shown that a subgroup of rats, after prolonged cocaine self-administration, scores positive on these three criteria. If food possesses addictive properties, then food-addicted rats should also meet these criteria while searching for and consuming food. In this review we discuss evidence from literature regarding food addiction-like behavior. We also suggest future experiments that could further contribute to our understanding of behavioral and neural commonalities and differences between obesity and drug addiction. Copyright  2012 S. Karger GmbH, Freiburg.
Electrochemical detection with carbon-fiber microelectrodes has become an established method to monitor directly the release of dopamine from neurons and its uptake by the dopamine transporter. With constant potential amperometry (CPA) the measured current provides a real time view of the rapid concentration changes, but the method lacks chemical identification of the monitored species and markedly increases the difficulty of signal calibration. Monitoring with fast-scan cyclic voltammetry (FSCV) allows species identification and concentration measurements, but often exhibits a delayed response time due to the time-dependent adsorption/desorption of electroactive species at the electrode. We sought to improve the temporal resolution of FSCV to make it more comparable to CPA by increasing the waveform repetition rate from 10 to 60 Hz with uncoated carbon-fiber electrodes. The faster acquisition led to diminished time delays of the recordings that tracked more closely with CPA measurements. The measurements reveal that FSCV at 10 Hz underestimates the normal rate of dopamine uptake by about 18%. However, FSCV collection at 10 Hz and 60 Hz provide identical results when a dopamine transporter (DAT) blocker such as cocaine is bath applied. To verify further the utility of this method, we used transgenic mice that over-express DAT. After accounting for the slight adsorption delay time, FSCV at 60 Hz adequately monitored the increased uptake rate that arose from overexpression of DAT and, again, was similar to CPA results. Furthermore, the utility of collecting data at 60 Hz was verified in an anesthetized rat by using a higher scan rate (2400 V/s) to increase sensitivity and the overall signal.
Signaling of single photons in rod photoreceptors decreases the concentration of the second messenger, cyclic GMP (cGMP), causing closure of cGMP-sensitive channels located in the plasma membrane. Whether the spatiotemporal profiles of the fall in cGMP are narrow and deep, or broad and shallow, has important consequences for the amplification and the fidelity of signaling. The factors that determine the cGMP profiles include the diffusion coefficient for cGMP, the spontaneous rate of cGMP hydrolysis, and the rate of cGMP synthesis, which is powerfully regulated by calcium feedback mechanisms. Here, using suction electrodes to record light-dependent changes in cGMP-activated current in living mouse rods lacking calcium feedback, we have determined the rate constant of spontaneous cGMP hydrolysis and the longitudinal cGMP diffusion coefficient. These measurements result in a fully constrained spatiotemporal model of phototransduction, which we used to determine the effect of feedback to cGMP synthesis in spatially constricting the fall of cGMP during the single-photon response of normal rods. We find that the spatiotemporal cGMP profiles during the single-photon response are optimized for maximal amplification and preservation of signal linearity, effectively operating within an axial signaling domain of ~2 m.



Asymmetric cell division plays an indispensable role during corticogenesis for producing new neurons while maintaining a self-renewing pool of apical progenitors. The cellular and molecular determinants favouring asymmetric division are not completely understood. Here, we identify a novel mechanism for generating cellular asymmetry through the active transportation and local translation of Cyclin D2 mRNA in the basal process. This process is regulated by a unique cis-regulatory sequence found in the 3' untranslated region (3'UTR) of the mRNA. Unequal inheritance of Cyclin D2 protein to the basally positioned daughter cell with the basal process confers renewal of the apical progenitor after asymmetric division. Conversely, depletion of Cyclin D2 in the apically positioned daughter cell results in terminal neuronal differentiation. We demonstrate that Cyclin D2 is also expressed in the developing human cortex within similar domains, thus indicating that its role as a fate determinant is ancient and conserved.
Nemo-like kinase (NLK/Nlk) is an evolutionarily conserved protein kinase involved in Wnt/-catenin signalling. However, the roles of NLK in Wnt/-catenin signalling in vertebrates remain unclear. Here, we show that inhibition of Nlk2 function in zebrafish results in decreased Lymphoid enhancer factor-1 (Lef1)-mediated gene expression and cell proliferation in the presumptive midbrain, resulting in a reduction of midbrain tectum size. These defects are related to phosphorylation of Lef1 by Nlk2. Thus, Nlk2 is essential for the phosphorylation and activation of Lef1 transcriptional activity in neural progenitor cells (NPCs). In NPC-like mammalian cells, NLK is also required for the phosphorylation and activation of LEF1 transcriptional activity. Phosphorylation of LEF1 induces its dissociation from histone deacetylase, thereby allowing transcription activation. Furthermore, we demonstrate that NLK functions downstream of Dishevelled (Dvl) in the Wnt/-catenin signalling pathway. Our findings reveal a novel role of NLK in the activation of the Wnt/-catenin signalling pathway.


The social rank of an animal is distinguished by its behavior relative to others in its community. Although social-status-dependent differences in behavior must arise because of differences in neural function, status-dependent differences in the underlying neural circuitry have only begun to be described. We report that dominant and subordinate crayfish differ in their behavioral orienting response to an unexpected unilateral touch, and that these differences correlate with functional differences in local neural circuits that mediate the responses. The behavioral differences correlate with simultaneously recorded differences in leg depressor muscle EMGs and with differences in the responses of depressor motor neurons recorded in reduced, in vitro preparations from the same animals. The responses of local serotonergic interneurons to unilateral stimuli displayed the same status-dependent differences as the depressor motor neurons. These results indicate that the circuits and their intrinsic serotonergic modulatory components are configured differently according to social status, and that these differences do not depend on a continuous descending signal from higher centers.
Damage to the hippocampal formation results in a profound temporally graded retrograde amnesia, implying that it is necessary for memory acquisition but not its long-term storage. It is therefore thought that memories are transferred from the hippocampus to the cortex for long-term storage in a process called systems consolidation (Dudai and Morris, 2000). Where in the cortex this occurs remains an open question. Recent work (Frankland et al., 2005; Vetere et al., 2011) suggests the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) as a likely candidate area, but there is little direct electrophysiological evidence to support this claim. Previously, we demonstrated object-associated firing correlates in caudal ACC during tests of recognition memory and described evidence of neuronal responses to where an object had been following a brief delay. However, long-term memory requires evidence of more durable representations. Here we examined the activity of ACC neurons while testing for long-term memory of an absent object. Mice explored two objects in an arena and then were returned 6 h later with one of the objects removed. Mice continued to explore where the object had been, demonstrating memory for that object. Remarkably, some ACC neurons continued to respond where the object had been, while others developed new responses in the absent object's location. The incidence of absent-object responses by ACC neurons was greatly increased with increased familiarization to the objects, and such responses were still evident 1 month later. These data strongly suggest that the ACC contains neural correlates of consolidated object/place association memory.
Failures of self-regulation are common, leading to many of the most vexing problems facing contemporary society, from overeating and obesity to impulsive sexual behavior and STDs. One reason that people may be prone to engaging in unwanted behaviors is heightened sensitivity to cues related to those behaviors; people may overeat because of hyperresponsiveness to food cues, addicts may relapse following exposure to their drug of choice, and some people might engage in impulsive sexual activity because they are easily aroused by erotic stimuli. An open question is the extent to which individual differences in neural cue reactivity relate to actual behavioral outcomes. Here we show that individual differences in human reward-related brain activity in the nucleus accumbens to food and sexual images predict subsequent weight gain and sexual activity 6 months later. These findings suggest that heightened reward responsivity in the brain to food and sexual cues is associated with indulgence in overeating and sexual activity, respectively, and provide evidence for a common neural mechanism associated with appetitive behaviors.
The timing of actions is critical for adaptive behavior. In this study we measured neural activity in the substantia nigra as mice learned to change their action duration to earn food rewards. We observed dramatic changes in single unit activity during learning: both dopaminergic and GABAergic neurons changed their activity in relation to behavior to reflect the learned instrumental contingency and the action duration. We found the emergence of &quot;action-on&quot; neurons that increased firing for the duration of the lever press and mirror-image &quot;action-off&quot; neurons that paused at the same time. This pattern is especially common among GABAergic neurons. The activity of many neurons also reflected confidence about the just completed action and the prospect of reward. Being correlated with the relative duration of the completed action, their activity could predict the likelihood of reward collection. Compared with the GABAergic neurons, the activity of dopaminergic neurons was more commonly modulated by the discriminative stimulus signaling the start of each trial, suggesting that their phasic activity reflected sensory salience rather than any reward prediction error found in previous work. In short, these results suggest that (1) nigral activity is highly plastic and modified by the learning of the instrumental contingency; (2) GABAergic output from the substantia nigra can simultaneously inhibit and disinhibit downstream structures, while the dopaminergic output also provide bidirectional modulation of the corticostriatal circuits; (3) dopaminergic and GABAergic neurons show similar task-related activity, although DA neurons are more responsive to the trial start signal.
The cortex is organized in vertical and horizontal circuits that determine the spatiotemporal properties of distributed cortical activity. Despite detailed knowledge of synaptic interactions among individual cells in the neocortex, little is known about the rules governing interactions among local populations. Here, we used self-sustained recurrent activity generated in cortex, also known as up-states, in rat thalamocortical slices in vitro to understand interactions among laminar and horizontal circuits. By means of intracellular recordings and fast optical imaging with voltage-sensitive dyes, we show that single thalamic inputs activate the cortical column in a preferential layer 4 (L4)  layer 2/3 (L2/3)  layer 5 (L5) sequence, followed by horizontal propagation with a leading front in supragranular and infragranular layers. To understand the laminar and columnar interactions, we used focal injections of TTX to block activity in small local populations, while preserving functional connectivity in the rest of the network. We show that L2/3 alone, without underlying L5, does not generate self-sustained activity and is inefficient propagating activity horizontally. In contrast, L5 sustains activity in the absence of L2/3 and is necessary and sufficient to propagate activity horizontally. However, loss of L2/3 delays horizontal propagation via L5. Finally, L5 amplifies activity in L2/3. Our results show for the first time that columnar interactions between supragranular and infragranular layers are required for the normal propagation of activity in the neocortex. Our data suggest that supragranular and infragranular circuits, with their specific and complex set of inputs and outputs, work in tandem to determine the patterns of cortical activation observed in vivo.
BDNF plays a critical role in the regulation of synaptic strength and is essential for long-term potentiation, a phenomenon that underlies learning and memory. However, whether BDNF acts in a diffuse manner or is targeted to specific neuronal subcompartments or synaptic sites to affect circuit function remains unknown. Here, using photoactivation of BDNF or syt-IV (a regulator of exocytosis present on BDNF-containing vesicles) in transfected rat hippocampal neurons, we discovered that distinct subsets of BDNF vesicles are targeted to axons versus dendrites and are not shared between these compartments. Moreover, syt-IV- and BDNF-harboring vesicles are recruited to both presynaptic and postsynaptic sites in response to increased neuronal activity. Finally, using syt-IV knockout mouse neurons, we found that syt-IV is necessary for both presynaptic and postsynaptic scaling of synaptic strength in response to changes in network activity. These findings demonstrate that BDNF-containing vesicles can be targeted to specific sites in neurons and suggest that syt-IV-regulated BDNF secretion is subject to spatial control to regulate synaptic function in a site-specific manner.
Injured CNS tissue often contains elevated iron and its storage protein ferritin, which may exacerbate tissue damage through pro-oxidative mechanisms. Therefore, therapeutic studies often target iron reduction as a neuroprotective strategy. However, iron may be crucial for oligodendrocyte replacement and remyelination. For instance, we previously showed that intraspinal toll-like receptor 4 macrophage activation induced the generation of new ferritin-positive oligodendrocytes, and that iron chelation significantly reduced this oligodendrogenic response. Since macrophages can secrete ferritin, we hypothesize that ferritin is a macrophage-derived signal that promotes oligodendrogenesis. To test this, we microinjected ferritin into intact adult rat spinal cords. Within 6 h, NG2+ progenitor cells proliferated and accumulated ferritin. By 3 d, many of these cells had differentiated into new oligodendrocytes. However, acute neuron and oligodendrocyte toxicity occurred in gray matter. Interestingly, ferritin-positive NG2 cells and macrophages accumulated in the area of cell loss, revealing that NG2 cells thrive in an environment that is toxic to other CNS cells. To test whether ferritin can be transferred from macrophages to NG2 cells in vivo, we loaded macrophages with fluorescent ferritin then transplanted them into intact spinal white matter. Within 3-6 d, proliferating NG2 cells migrated into the macrophage transplants and accumulated fluorescently labeled ferritin. These results show that activated macrophages can be an in vivo source of ferritin for NG2 cells, which induces their proliferation and differentiation into new oligodendrocytes. This work has relevance for conditions in which iron-mediated injury and/or repair likely occur, such as hemorrhage, stroke, spinal cord injury, aging, Parkinson's disease, and Alzheimer's disease.
Establishment of proper connectivity between peripheral sensory neurons and their central targets is required for an animal to sense and respond to various external stimuli. Dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons convey sensory signals of different modalities via their axon projections to distinct laminae in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. In this study, we found that c-Maf was expressed predominantly in the interneurons of laminae III/IV, which primarily receive inputs from mechanoreceptive DRG neurons. In the DRG, c-Maf neurons also coexpressed neurofilament-200, a marker for the medium- and large-diameter myelinated afferents that transmit non-noxious information. Furthermore, mouse embryos deficient in c-Maf displayed abnormal development of dorsal horn laminae III/IV neurons, as revealed by the marked reduction in the expression of several marker genes for these neurons, including those for transcription factors MafA and Rora, GABA(A) receptor subunit 5, and neuropeptide cholecystokinin. In addition, among the four major subpopulations of DRG neurons marked by expression of TrkA, TrkB, TrkC, and MafA/GFR2/Ret, c-Maf was required selectively for the proper differentiation of MafA/Ret/GFR2 low-threshold mechanoreceptors (LTMs). Last, we found that the central and peripheral projections of mechanoreceptive DRG neurons were compromised in c-Maf deletion mice. Together, our results indicate that c-Maf is required for the proper development of MafA/Ret/GFR2 LTMs in the DRG, their afferent projections in the dorsal horn and Pacinian corpuscles, as well as neurons in laminae III/IV of the spinal cord.

The biochemical mechanisms of explosive blast-induced traumatic brain injury and the subsequent long-term neurobehavioral abnormalities are still not completely understood. We studied the biochemical mechanism of blast traumatic brain injury using our recently reported in-vitro model system with a shock tube. Primary blast exposure of in-vitro models leads to neurobiological changes in an overpressure dose-dependent and time-dependent manner. Lactate dehydrogenase was released significantly into the extracellular medium without cell death after blast exposure, indicating compromised cell membrane integrity. We further explored the integrity of cell membrane after blast exposure by fluorescent dye uptake/release techniques in SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells. Our data indicate that blast exposure leads to an overpressure-dependent transient increase in the release of preloaded calcein AM into the culture medium with proportional intracellular decrease. Uptake of an extracellular nucleic acid-binding dye TO-PRO-3 iodide was also increased significantly after blast exposure, indicating that the increased molecular transport is bidirectional and nuclear membrane integrity is also affected by blast exposure. These results suggest that blast exposure perturbs the integrity of the neuronal cell membrane, leading to increased bidirectional transport of molecules--a potential mechanism that can lead to traumatic brain injury.
Faces are encountered across a huge range of visual conditions, including differences in light, distance and visibility. To accurately detect all faces under all these conditions, the face detection system must be suitably generalized. However, in autism spectrum conditions (ASCs), the typical generalization of perceptual learning is narrower. Here, we tested the generalization of the face detection system in a sample of adults with ASCs and a matched control group without ASCs. We recorded electroencephalography while participants viewed images of actual faces, face-like objects and non-face-like objects. Analysis of the N170 event-related potential component, which is related to the early stages of face detection, showed that the two participant groups were comparable in the activation of the N170 to actual faces and face-like objects, but that the typical control group showed an increased N170 for non-face-like objects over the group with ASCs. This indicates that the face detection system is less generalized (narrower) in ASCs than in typical development. We propose that the reduced social interest characteristic of ASCs is associated with a narrower face detection system that is less reliable in detecting all the faces in the environment.
High-frequency stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus can markedly improve motor function in patients with Parkinson's disease. However, the underlying mechanisms mediating these improvements are not well understood. In particular, whether motor function is differentially improved in distal or proximal movements is not fully determined. Also, whether reaction time is improved along with other motor parameters is still a matter of debate. Here, we test patients OFF and ON subthalamic nucleus stimulation by capturing simple ballistic movements across four joints using kinematic motion analysis. We show that velocity, but not reaction time, is significantly improved with stimulation. There was no strong differential effect between joints. These results add evidence that deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus can enhance performance of ballistic movements in Parkinson's disease, and demonstrate that the subthalamic nucleus may be important in driving parameters of motor control after the response has been initiated.
Several lines of evidence suggest an important implication of proprioceptive signals in bodily self-consciousness. By manipulating proprioceptive signals using muscle vibration, here, we investigated whether such effects depend on the vibration frequency by testing three different vibratory stimuli applied at the lower limbs (20, 40 and 80 Hz). We thus explored whether frequency-specific proprioceptive interference that has been reported in postural or motor tasks will also be found for measures of bodily self-consciousness. Self-identification (questionnaires) and visuotactile integration (asking participants to make tactile discriminations) were quantified during synchronous and asynchronous stroking conditions that are known to manipulate bodily self-consciousness. We found that even though muscle vibrations were applied at the same body location in all cases, 20 Hz vibrations did not alter the magnitude of self-identification and visuotactile integration, whereas 40 and 80 Hz vibrations did. These frequency-specific effects extend earlier vibration effects on motor and postural tasks to bodily self-consciousness. We suggest that the observed changes in bodily self-consciousness are due to altered proprioceptive signals from the lower limbs and that these changes depend on the tuning of Ia fibres to muscle vibration.
Several questions remain unanswered concerning the effects of long-term methylphenidate treatment in individuals with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). It has been speculated that repeated methylphenidate treatment may facilitate abuse of the drug or psychological dependence. In the present study, we conducted conditioned place preference (CPP) tests to investigate whether the repeated treatment of methylphenidate results to greater &quot;liking&quot; of the drug. We compared the effect of methylphenidate with that of methamphetamine, a drug with high abuse and dependence liability; also used as a treatment of ADHD. Prior to CPP tests, adolescent spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) (putative rodent model of ADHD) and Wistar rats (strain used to represent the &quot;normal&quot; heterogeneous population) were administered intraperitoneally with methylphenidate (1.25, 5 and 20 mg/kg) or methamphetamine (1.25 and 5 mg/kg) for 14 days in their home cages. CPP tests were commenced and rats were conditioned with the two stimulants at the doses stated. We found that (1) repeated administration of methylphenidate and methamphetamine was rewarding in Wistar rats (2) stimulant-treated SHR showed CPP only to methamphetamine but not to methylphenidate. The observation that Wistar rats, but not SHR showed CPP to methylphenidate indicates vulnerability of &quot;normal&quot; individuals to methylphenidate abuse and dependence following repeated exposure or administration of the drug. The findings in SHR suggest the safety of methylphenidate as an ADHD intervention insofar as its behavioral effects are compared with those of methamphetamine, and to the extent that the SHR appropriately models ADHD in humans.

Brne's proposal that erstwhile 'vulnerability' genes need to be reconsidered as 'plasticity' genes, given the potential for certain environments to yield increased positive function in the same domain as potential dysfunction, has implications for psychiatric nosology as well as a more dynamic understanding of the relationship between genes and culture. In addition to validating neuropsychiatric spectrum disorder nosologies by calling for similar methodological shifts in gene-environment-interaction studies, Brne's position elevates the importance of environmental contexts - inclusive of socio-cultural variables - as mechanisms that contribute to clinical presentation. We assert that when models of susceptibility to plasticity and neuropsychiatric spectrum disorders are concomitantly considered, a new line of inquiry emerges into the co-evolution and co-determination of socio-cultural contexts and endophenotypes. This presents potentially unique opportunities, benefits, challenges, and responsibilities for research and practice in psychiatry. Please see related manuscript: http://www.biomedcentral.com/1741-7015/10/38.
Regulation of self-renewal and differentiation of neural stem cells is still poorly understood. Here we investigate the role of a developmentally expressed protein, Botch, which blocks Notch, in neocortical development. Downregulation of Botch in vivo leads to cellular retention in the ventricular and subventricular zones, whereas overexpression of Botch drives neural stem cells into the intermediate zone and cortical plate. In vitro neurosphere and differentiation assays indicate that Botch regulates neurogenesis by promoting neuronal differentiation. Botch prevents cell surface presentation of Notch by inhibiting the S1 furin-like cleavage of Notch, maintaining Notch in the immature full-length form. Understanding the function of Botch expands our knowledge regarding both the regulation of Notch signaling and the complex signaling mediating neuronal development.
In order to interact with our environment, the human brain constructs maps of visual space. The orderly mapping of external space across the retinal surface, termed retinotopy, is maintained at subsequent levels of visual cortical processing and underpins our capacity to make precise and reliable judgments about the relative location of objects around us. While these maps, at least in the visual system, support high precision judgments about the relative location of objects, they are prone to significant perceptual distortion. Here, we ask observers to estimate the separation of two visual stimuli--a spatial interval discrimination task. We show that large stimulus sizes require much greater separation in order to be perceived as having the same separation as small stimulus sizes. The relationship is linear, task independent, and unrelated to the perceived position of object edges. We also show that this type of spatial distortion is not restricted to the object itself but can also be revealed by changing the spatial scale of the background, while object size remains constant. These results indicate that fundamental spatial properties, such as retinal image size or the scale at which an object is analyzed, exert a marked influence on spatial coding.

How the functional activity of the brain is altered during aging to cause age-related memory impairments is unknown. We used functional cellular imaging to monitor two different calcium-based memory traces that underlie olfactory classical conditioning in young and aged Drosophila. Functional imaging of neural activity in the processes of the dorsal paired medial (DPM) and mushroom body neurons revealed that the capacity to form an intermediate-term memory (ITM) trace in the DPM neurons after learning is lost with age, whereas the capacity to form a short-term memory trace in the '/' mushroom body neurons remains unaffected by age. Stimulation of the DPM neurons by activation of a temperature-sensitive cation channel between acquisition and retrieval enhanced ITM in aged but not young flies. These data indicate that the functional state of the DPM neurons is selectively altered with age to cause an age-related impairment of ITM, and demonstrate that altering the excitability of DPM neurons can restore age-related memory impairments.
When a rat moves, grid cells in its entorhinal cortex become active in multiple regions of the external world that form a hexagonal lattice. As the animal traverses one such &quot;firing field,&quot; spikes tend to occur at successively earlier theta phases of the local field potential. This phenomenon is called phase precession. Here, we show that spike phases provide 80% more spatial information than spike counts and that they improve position estimates from single neurons down to a few centimeters. To understand what limits the resolution and how variable spike phases are across different field traversals, we analyze spike trains run by run. We find that the multiple firing fields of a grid cell operate as independent elements for encoding physical space. In addition, phase precession is significantly stronger than the pooled-run data suggest. Despite the inherent stochasticity of grid-cell firing, phase precession is therefore a robust phenomenon at the single-trial level, making a theta-phase code for spatial navigation feasible.
Rhythmic motor behaviors such as feeding are driven by neural networks that can be modulated by external stimuli and internal states. In Drosophila, ingestion is accomplished by a pump that draws fluid into the esophagus. Here we examine how pumping is regulated and characterize motor neurons innervating the pump. Frequency of pumping is not affected by sucrose concentration or hunger but is altered by fluid viscosity. Inactivating motor neurons disrupts pumping and ingestion, whereas activating them elicits arrhythmic pumping. These motor neurons respond to taste stimuli and show prolonged activity to palatable substances. This work describes an important component of the neural circuit for feeding in Drosophila and is a step toward understanding the rhythmic activity producing ingestion.
Opioids create a neuroinflammatory response within the CNS, compromising opioid-induced analgesia and contributing to various unwanted actions. How this occurs is unknown but has been assumed to be via classic opioid receptors. Herein, we provide direct evidence that morphine creates neuroinflammation via the activation of an innate immune receptor and not via classic opioid receptors. We demonstrate that morphine binds to an accessory protein of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), myeloid differentiation protein 2 (MD-2), thereby inducing TLR4 oligomerization and triggering proinflammation. Small-molecule inhibitors, RNA interference, and genetic knockout validate the TLR4/MD-2 complex as a feasible target for beneficially modifying morphine actions. Disrupting TLR4/MD-2 protein-protein association potentiated morphine analgesia in vivo and abolished morphine-induced proinflammation in vitro, the latter demonstrating that morphine-induced proinflammation only depends on TLR4, despite the presence of opioid receptors. These results provide an exciting, nonconventional avenue to improving the clinical efficacy of opioids.
Exposure and/or sensitivity to stress have been implicated as conferring risk for development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although the basis for such a link remains unclear, we previously reported differential involvement of corticotropin-releasing factor receptor (CRFR) 1 and 2 in acute stress-induced tau phosphorylation (tau-P) and solubility in the hippocampus. Here we examined the role of CRFRs in tau-P induced by repeated stress and the structural manifestations of altered tau solubility. Robust tau-P responses were seen in WT and CRFR2 null mice exposed to repeated stress, which were sustained at even 24 h after the final stress exposure. A portion of phosphorylated tau in these mice was sequestered in detergent-soluble cellular fractions. In contrast, CRFR1 and CRFR double-KO mice did not exhibit repeated stress-induced alterations in tau-P or solubility. Similarly, treatment with CRFR1 antagonist attenuated repeated stress-induced tau-P. Using histochemical approaches in a transgenic CRFR1 reporter mouse line, we found substantial overlap between hippocampal CRFR1 expression and cells positive for phosphorylated tau after exposure to repeated stress. Ultrastructural analysis of negatively stained extracts from WT and CRFR2 null mice identified globular aggregates that displayed positive immunogold labeling for tau-P, as well as conformational changes in tau (MC1) seen in early AD. Given that repeated stress exposure results in chronic increases in hippocampal tau-P and its sequestration in an insoluble (and potentially prepathogenic) form, our data may define a link between stress and an AD-related pathogenic mechanism.
Dysregulation of the transcriptional repressor element-1 silencing transcription factor (REST)/neuron-restrictive silencer factor is important in a broad range of diseases, including cancer, diabetes, and heart disease. The role of REST-dependent epigenetic modifications in neurodegeneration is less clear. Here, we show that neuronal insults trigger activation of REST and CoREST in a clinically relevant model of ischemic stroke and that REST binds a subset of &quot;transcriptionally responsive&quot; genes (gria2, grin1, chrnb2, nefh, nfb2, trpv1, chrm4, and syt6), of which the AMPA receptor subunit GluA2 is a top hit. Genes with enriched REST exhibited decreased mRNA and protein. We further show that REST assembles with CoREST, mSin3A, histone deacetylases 1 and 2, histone methyl-transferase G9a, and methyl CpG binding protein 2 at the promoters of target genes, where it orchestrates epigenetic remodeling and gene silencing. RNAi-mediated depletion of REST or administration of dominant-negative REST delivered directly into the hippocampus in vivo prevents epigenetic modifications, restores gene expression, and rescues hippocampal neurons. These findings document a causal role for REST-dependent epigenetic remodeling in the neurodegeneration associated with ischemic stroke and identify unique therapeutic targets for the amelioration of hippocampal injury and cognitive deficits.

Human color constancy has been studied for over 100 years, and there is extensive experimental data for the case where a spatially diffuse light source illuminates a set of flat matte surfaces. In natural viewing, however, three-dimensional objects are viewed in three-dimensional scenes. Little is known about color constancy for three-dimensional objects. We used a forced-choice task to measure the achromatic chromaticity of matte disks, matte spheres, and glossy spheres. In all cases, the test stimuli were viewed in the context of stereoscopically viewed graphics simulations of three-dimensional scenes, and we varied the scene illuminant. We studied conditions both where all cues were consistent with the simulated illuminant change (consistent-cue conditions) and where local contrast was silenced as a cue (reduced-cue conditions). We computed constancy indices from the achromatic chromaticities. To first order, constancy was similar for the three test object types. There was, however, a reliable interaction between test object type and cue condition. In the consistent-cue conditions, constancy tended to be best for the matte disks, while in the reduced-cue conditions constancy was best for the spheres. The presence of this interaction presents an important challenge for theorists who seek to generalize models that account for constancy for flat tests to the more general case of three-dimensional objects.

To discover hypothalamic genes that might play a role in regulating energy balance, we carried out a microarray screen for genes induced by a 48-h fast in male C57Bl/6J mouse hypothalamus. One such gene was Fkbp51 (FK506 binding protein 5; Locus NP_034350). The product of this gene is of interest because it blocks glucocorticoid action, suggesting that fasting-induced elevation of this gene in the hypothalamus may reduce glucocorticoid negative feedback, leading to elevated glucocorticoid levels, thus promoting obese phenotypes. Subsequent analysis demonstrated that a 48-h fast induces Fkbp51 in ventromedial, paraventricular, and arcuate hypothalamic nuclei of mice and rats. To assess if hypothalamic Fkbp51 promotes obesity, the gene was transferred to the hypothalamus via an adeno-associated virus vector. Within 2 wk following Fkbp51 overexpression, mice on a high-fat diet exhibited elevated body weight, without hyperphagia, relative to mice receiving the control mCherry vector. Body weight remained elevated for more than 8 wk and was associated with elevated corticosterone and impaired glucose tolerance. These studies suggest that elevated hypothalamic Fkbp51 promotes obese phenotypes.
In both human and nonhuman primates the eyes are a highly salient feature of the face, conveying identity, emotion and attentional direction of conspecifics. Studies have indicated that the amygdala plays an important role in eye contact, and amygdala dysfunction may underlie social deficits in disorders such as autism through effects on eye contact. In the present study we compared the volume of the amygdala in 32 juvenile rhesus monkeys to visual fixation patterns in a social memory paradigm. Amygdala volume was determined from manual traces of structural MRIs and fixation patterns were assessed using eyetracking methodology. A significant positive relationship was found between amygdala volume and fixation on both the face and the eye region. Amygdala volume was also found to relate to habituation across multiple presentations of different photographs of the same individual monkeys indicating a role in social memory. These data provide an important linkage between structural variation of amygdala and previous demonstrations of function in a nonhuman primate model.
We investigated the contribution of the mouse prefrontal cortex and, more specifically, the prelimbic area, to a learning task that highlights a choice between two conflicting motivations, the one for food seeking and the one for novelty exploration. We used a learning paradigm in a cross maze task that targets first motivation conflict and second flexible rule adaptation following environmental changes. We show that mice with prelimbic lesions, which showed normal spatial learning, exhibit impairment in switching from one type of reward - food retrieval - to another type - novelty exploration - and sustained difficulties in adapting their behaviour when the rule is changing repeatedly. Mice, like other mammals, possess a prefrontal cortex that participates in the control of the flexible switch between concurrent natural motivations and in the rapid and flexible adaptation to external changes. These results open a way to study in mice models motivation conflict and cognitive adaptation, brain functions known to be compromised in several psychiatric conditions in humans in which the prefrontal cortex functioning is altered.

Novel aspartate and succinate CGRP full antagonists were identified through core modification of a potent lead CGRP antagonist, BMS-694153. While aspartates were much less active and had a flat SAR, some of the succinates were very potent CGRP full antagonists and matched the potency of BMS-694153. The most potency resides in the S enantiomer as demonstrated through an asymmetric synthesis.
In our continuing efforts to identify CGRP receptor antagonists that can be dosed orally for the treatment of migraine headache, we have investigated a pyridine bioisosteric replacement of a polar amide portion of a previous lead compound, BMS-694153. Pyridine derivatives were discovered and their SAR was studied. Some of them showed excellent binding potency. However, oral bioavailability was low, even for compounds with good Caco-2 cell permeability.
We report the discovery and optimization of a novel series of dihydrobenzofuran amides as -secretase modulators (GSMs). Strategies for aligning in vitro potency with drug-like physicochemical properties and good microsomal stability while avoiding P-gp mediated efflux are discussed. Lead compounds such as 35 and 43 have moderate to good in vitro potency and excellent selectivity against Notch. Good oral bioavailability was achieved as well as robust brain A42 lowering activity at 100 mg/kg po dose.

Morphological, qualitative observations allow pathologists to correlate the shape the cells acquire with the progressive, underlying neoplastic transformation they are experienced. Cell morphology, indeed, roughly scales with malignancy. A quantitative parameter for characterizing complex irregular structures is the Normalized Bending Energy (NBE). NBE provides a global feature for shape characterization correspondent to the amount of energy needed to transform the specific shape under analysis into its lowest energy state. We hypothesized that a chemotherapy resistant cancer cell line would experience a significant change in its shape, and that such a modification might be quantified by means of NBE parameterization. We checked out the usefulness of a mathematical algorithm to distinguish wild and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)-resistant colon cancer HCT-8 cells (HCT-8FUres). NBE values, as well as cellular and molecular parameters, were recorded in both cell populations. Results demonstrated that acquisition of drug resistance is accompanied by statistically significant morphological changes in cell membrane, as well as in biological parameters. Namely, NBE increased progressively meanwhile cells become more resistant to increasing 5-FU concentrations. These data indicate how tight the relationships between morphology and phenotype is, and they support the idea to follow a cell transition toward a drug-resistant phenotype by means of morphological monitoring.
Angelman syndrome (AS) is a neurodevelopmental disorder caused due to deletions or loss-of-function mutations in maternally inherited UBE3A. Ube3a functions as an ubiquitin ligase as well as a transcriptional coactivator of steroid hormone receptors. However, the mechanisms by which maternal Ube3a deficiency gives rise to phenotypic features of AS are not clear. We report here that Ube3a regulates glucocorticoid receptor (GR) transactivation and GR signaling pathway is disrupted in Ube3a-maternal-deficient mice brain. The expression of several GR-dependent genes is down-regulated in multiple brain regions of Ube3a-maternal-deficient mice. AS mice show significantly higher level of blood corticosterone, selective loss of GR and reduced number of parvalbumin-positive inhibitory interneurons in their hippocampus that could ultimately lead to increased stress. These mice also exhibit increased anxiety-like behavior, which could be due to chronic stress. Altogether, our findings suggest that chronic stress due to altered GR signaling might lead to anxiety-like behavior in a mouse of model of AS.
There has been recent motivation to search for neuroanatomical asymmetries in nonhuman primates in order to provide comparative information on how the human brain is structurally organized to support specific cognitive capabilities, such as language functions. We took the opportunity to study Broca's area homologue in a novel sample of 80 preserved postmortem chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes) cerebral hemispheres. Consistent with the only prior study documenting the morphology of Broca's area homologue in the chimpanzee (Sherwood et al. [2003] Anat Rec 271:276285), we report great interindividual variation in the structure and connections of the sulci investigated, most notably a left-sided bias in the bifurcation of the inferior precentral sulcus, an anatomical feature that occurs much more frequently in chimpanzees relative to humans. Consistent with our recent neuroimaging report (Keller et al. [2009b] J Neurosci 29:1460714616), no population-based interhemispheric asymmetries of sulcal length existed that could be considered markers of the size of Broca's area homologue. With strict anatomical guidelines, we report that the diagonal sulcus was present in 25% left and 20% right chimpanzee hemispheres studied, which is substantially less that the general prevalence in humans. Through the presentation of schematic drawings, photographs, morphological recordings and sulcal length metrics, our data illustrate the interindividual variability of Broca's area homologue in the chimpanzee and support the notion of no macroscopic asymmetry of this important homologous language brain region in one of the closest evolutionary ancestor to modern humans.
Flies recycle the photoreceptor neurotransmitter histamine by conjugating it to -alanine to form -alanyl-histamine (carcinine). The conjugation is regulated by Ebony, while Tan hydrolyses carcinine, releasing histamine and -alanine. In Drosophila, -alanine synthesis occurs either from uracil or from the decarboxylation of aspartate but detailed roles for the enzymes responsible remain unclear. Immunohistochemically detected -alanine is present throughout the fly's entire brain, and is enhanced in the retina especially in the pseudocone, pigment and photoreceptor cells of the ommatidia. HPLC determinations reveal 10.7 ng of -alanine in the wild-type head, roughly five times more than histamine. When wild-type flies drink uracil their head -alanine increases more than after drinking l-aspartic acid, indicating the effectiveness of the uracil pathway. Mutants of black, which lack aspartate decarboxylase, cannot synthesize -alanine from l-aspartate but can still synthesize it efficiently from uracil. Our findings demonstrate a novel function for pigment cells, which not only screen ommatidia from stray light but also store and transport -alanine and carcinine. This role is consistent with a -alanine-dependent histamine recycling pathway occurring not only in the photoreceptor terminals in the lamina neuropile, where carcinine occurs in marginal glia, but vertically via a long pathway that involves the retina. The lamina's marginal glia are also a hub involved in the storage and/or disposal of carcinine and -alanine.

Non-motor signs encountered in Parkinson's disease consist in a heterogeneous group of manifestations including hyposmia, pain, fatigue, sleep disorders, neuropsychic disorders. Functional imaging techniques provide an invaluable method to understand their pathophysiology, allowing us to study the abnormalities of brain metabolism or perfusion associated with these manifestations or the underlying dysfunction of different neurotransmission systems. The present paper covers the recent advances provided by functional imaging in this area.

A 55-year-old woman complained of right scapular pain, like burning, radiating down his right arm and numbness in the first three fingers of the hand. Neurologic examination showed a slight deficit of the right brachial triceps muscle. Neurophysiological assessment showed a mild involvement of the seventh right spinal root (C7). Conventional MR imaging of the cervical spine showed mild disc protrusion at level C5-C6 without spinal root compression. High resolution MR neurography with multiplanar reconstruction along the course of the right brachial plexus showed a mild increase in signal intensity and thickening of the C7 root, middle trunk and posterior cord, consistent with Parsonage-Turner Syndrome. STIR images showed increased signal intensity in the right infraspinatus muscle innervated by the suprascapular nerve. In our case, sensitivity and specificity of the new MR sequences are higher than the clinical and neurophysiological evaluations.
In the study of motor systems it is often necessary to track the movements of an experimental animal in great detail to allow for interpretation of recorded brain signals corresponding to different control signals. This task becomes increasingly difficult when analyzing complex compound movements in freely moving animals. One example of a complex motor behavior that can be studied in rodents is the skilled reaching test where animals are trained to use their forepaws to grasp small food objects, in many ways similar to human hand use. To fully exploit this model in neurophysiological research it is desirable to describe the kinematics at the level of movements around individual joints in 3D space since this permits analyses of how neuronal control signals relate to complex movement patterns. To this end, we have developed an automated system that estimates the paw pose using an anatomical paw model and recorded video images from six different image planes in rats chronically implanted with recording electrodes in neuronal circuits involved in selection and execution of forelimb movements. The kinematic description provided by the system allowed for a decomposition of reaching movements into a subset of motor components. Interestingly, firing rates of individual neurons were found to be modulated in relation to the actuation of these motor components suggesting that sets of motor primitives may constitute building blocks for the encoding of movement commands in motor circuits. The designed system will, thus, enable a more detailed analytical approach in neurophysiological studies of motor systems.
Virtually nothing is known about the effects on fetal physiology of xanthine oxidase inhibition. This is despite maternal treatment with the xanthine oxidase inhibitor allopurinol being considered in human complicated pregnancy to protect the infants brain from excessive generation of ROS.We investigated the in vivo effects of maternal treatment with allopurinol on fetal cardiovascular function in ovine pregnancy in late gestation. Under anaesthesia, pregnant ewes and their singleton fetus were instrumented with vascular catheters and flow probes around an umbilical and a fetal femoral artery at 1181 dGA (days of gestational age; termca. 145 days). Five days later, mothers were infused I.V. with either vehicle (n =11) or allopurinol (n =10). Fetal cardiovascular function was stimulated with increasing bolus doses of phenylephrine (PE) following maternal vehicle or allopurinol. The effects of maternal allopurinol on maternal and fetal cardiovascular function were also investigated following fetal NO blockade (n =6) or fetal 1-adrenergic antagonism (n =7). Maternal allopurinol led to significant increases in fetal heart rate, umbilical blood flow and umbilical vascular conductance, effects abolished by fetal 1-adrenergic antagonism but not by fetal NO blockade. Maternal allopurinol impaired fetal 1-adrenergic pressor and femoral vasopressor responses and enhanced the gain of the fetal cardiac baroreflex. These effects of maternal allopurinol were restored to control levels during fetal NO blockade. Maternal treatment with allopurinol induced maternal hypotension, tachycardia and acidbase disturbance. We conclude that maternal treatment with allopurinol alters in vivo maternal, umbilical and fetal vascular function via mechanisms involving NO and 1-adrenergic stimulation. The evidence suggests that the use of allopurinol in clinical practice should be approached with caution.
Mental health and social life are intimately inter-related, as demonstrated by the frequent social deficits of psychiatric patients and the increased rate of psychiatric disorders in people exposed to social environmental adversity. Here, we review emerging evidence that combines epidemiology, social psychology and neuroscience to bring neural mechanisms of social risk factors for mental illness into focus. In doing so, we discuss existing evidence on the effects of common genetic risk factors in social neural pathways and outline the need for integrative approaches to identify the converging mechanisms of social environmental and genetic risk in brain.
Extensive animal and recent human research have helped inform neuroendocrinological models of social cognition, motivation and behavior. In this review, we first summarize important findings regarding oxytocin, arginine vasopressin and testosterone in the domains of affiliation, social cognition, aggression and stress/anxiety. We then suggest ways in which human research can continue to profit from animal research, particularly by exploring the interactive nature of neuromodulatory effects at neurochemical, organismic and contextual levels. We further propose methods inspired by the animal literature for the ecologically valid assessment of affiliative behavior in humans. We conclude with suggestions for how human research could advance by directly assessing specific social cognitive and motivational mechanisms as intermediate variables. We advocate a more comprehensive look at the distinct networks identified by social neuroscience and the importance of a motivational state, in addition to approach and avoidance, associated with quiescence and homeostatic regulation.
Although considerable research has shown the importance of social connection for physical health, little is known about the higher-level neurocognitive processes that link experiences of social connection or disconnection with health-relevant physiological responses. Here we review the key physiological systems implicated in the link between social ties and health and the neural mechanisms that may translate social experiences into downstream health-relevant physiological responses. Specifically, we suggest that threats to social connection may tap into the same neural and physiological 'alarm system' that responds to other critical survival threats, such as the threat or experience of physical harm. Similarly, experiences of social connection may tap into basic reward-related mechanisms that have inhibitory relationships with threat-related responding. Indeed, the neurocognitive correlates of social disconnection and connection may be important mediators for understanding the relationships between social ties and health.
The last decade has witnessed enormous growth in the neuroscience of empathy. Here, we survey research in this domain with an eye toward evaluating its strengths and weaknesses. First, we take stock of the notable progress made by early research in characterizing the neural systems supporting two empathic sub-processes: sharing others' internal states and explicitly considering those states. Second, we describe methodological and conceptual pitfalls into which this work has sometimes fallen, which can limit its validity. These include the use of relatively artificial stimuli that differ qualitatively from the social cues people typically encounter and a lack of focus on the relationship between brain activity and social behavior. Finally, we describe current research trends that are overcoming these pitfalls through simple but important adjustments in focus, and the future promise of empathy research if these trends continue and expand.
Even more than in cognitive research applications, moving fMRI to the clinic and the drug development process requires the generation of stable and reliable signal changes. The performance characteristics of the fMRI paradigm constrain experimental power and may require different study designs (e.g., crossover vs. parallel groups), yet fMRI reliability characteristics can be strongly dependent on the nature of the fMRI task. The present study investigated both within-subject and group-level reliability of a combined three-task fMRI battery targeting three systems of wide applicability in clinical and cognitive neuroscience: an emotional (face matching), a motivational (monetary reward anticipation) and a cognitive (n-back working memory) task. A group of 25 young, healthy volunteers were scanned twice on a 3T MRI scanner with a mean test-retest interval of 14.6 days. FMRI reliability was quantified using the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) applied at three different levels ranging from a global to a localized and fine spatial scale: (1) reliability of group-level activation maps over the whole brain and within targeted regions of interest (ROIs); (2) within-subject reliability of ROI-mean amplitudes and (3) within-subject reliability of individual voxels in the target ROIs. Results showed robust evoked activation of all three tasks in their respective target regions (emotional task=amygdala; motivational task=ventral striatum; cognitive task=right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and parietal cortices) with high effect sizes (ES) of ROI-mean summary values (ES=1.11-1.44 for the faces task, 0.96-1.43 for the reward task, 0.83-2.58 for the n-back task). Reliability of group level activation was excellent for all three tasks with ICCs of 0.89-0.98 at the whole brain level and 0.66-0.97 within target ROIs. Within-subject reliability of ROI-mean amplitudes across sessions was fair to good for the reward task (ICCs=0.56-0.62) and, dependent on the particular ROI, also fair-to-good for the n-back task (ICCs=0.44-0.57) but lower for the faces task (ICC=-0.02-0.16). In conclusion, all three tasks are well suited to between-subject designs, including imaging genetics. When specific recommendations are followed, the n-back and reward task are also suited for within-subject designs, including pharmaco-fMRI. The present study provides task-specific fMRI reliability performance measures that will inform the optimal use, powering and design of fMRI studies using comparable tasks.
In human communication, direct speech (e.g., Mary said, &quot;I'm hungry&quot;) is perceived as more vivid than indirect speech (e.g., Mary said that she was hungry). This vividness distinction has previously been found to underlie silent reading of quotations: Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we found that direct speech elicited higher brain activity in the temporal voice areas (TVA) of the auditory cortex than indirect speech, consistent with an &quot;inner voice&quot; experience in reading direct speech. Here we show that listening to monotonously spoken direct versus indirect speech quotations also engenders differential TVA activity. This suggests that individuals engage in top-down simulations or imagery of enriched supra-segmental acoustic representations while listening to monotonous direct speech. The findings shed new light on the acoustic nature of the &quot;inner voice&quot; in understanding direct speech.

Studies on memory retrieval suggest a reactivation of cortical regions engaged during encoding, such that visual or auditory areas reactivate for visual or auditory memories. The content specificity and any emotion dependency of such reactivations are still unclear. Because distinct visual areas are specialized in processing distinct stimulus categories, we tested for face and word specific reactivations during a memory task using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Furthermore, because visual processing and memory are both modulated by emotion, we compared reactivation for stimuli encoded in a neutral or emotionally significant context. In the learning phase, participants studied pairs of stimuli that consisted of either a scene and a face, or a scene and a word. Scenes were either neutral or negative, but did not contain faces or words. In the test phase scenes were presented alone (one in turn), and participants indicated whether it was previously paired with a face, a word, or was new. Results from the test phase showed activation in a functionally defined face-responsive region in the right fusiform gyrus, as well as in a word-responsive region in the left inferior temporal gyrus, for scenes previously paired with faces and words, respectively. Reactivation tended to be larger in both the face- and word-responsive regions when the associated scene was negative as compared to neutral. However, relative to neutral context, the recall of faces and words paired with a negative context produced smaller activations in brain regions associated with social and semantic processing, respectively, as well as poorer memory performance overall. Taken together, these results support the idea of cortical memory reactivations, even at a content-specific level, and further suggest that emotional context may produce opposite effects on reactivations in early sensory areas and more elaborate processing in higher-level cortical areas.
The perception of depth from relative motion is believed to be a slow process that &quot;builds-up&quot; over a period of observation. However, in the case of motion parallax, the potential accuracy of the depth estimate suffers as the observer translates during the viewing period. Our recent quantitative model for the perception of depth from motion parallax proposes that relative object depth (d) can be determined from retinal image motion (d/dt), pursuit eye movement (d/dt), and fixation distance (f) by the formula: d/fd/d. Given the model's dynamics, it is important to know the integration time required by the visual system to recover d and d, and then estimate d. Knowing the minimum integration time reveals the incumbent error in this process. A depth-phase discrimination task was used to determine the time necessary to perceive depth-sign from motion parallax. Observers remained stationary and viewed a briefly translating random-dot motion parallax stimulus. Stimulus duration varied between trials. Fixation on the translating stimulus was monitored and enforced with an eye-tracker. The study found that relative depth discrimination can be performed with presentations as brief as 16.6 ms, with only two stimulus frames providing both retinal image motion and the stimulus window motion for pursuit (mean range=16.6-33.2 ms). This was found for conditions in which, prior to stimulus presentation, the eye was engaged in ongoing pursuit or the eye was stationary. A large high-contrast masking stimulus disrupted depth-discrimination for stimulus presentations less than 70-75 ms in both pursuit and stationary conditions. This interval might be linked to ocular-following response eye-movement latencies. We conclude that neural mechanisms serving depth from motion parallax generate a depth estimate much more quickly than previously believed. We propose that additional sluggishness might be due to the visual system's attempt to determine the maximum d/d ratio for a selection of points on a complicated stimulus.
Huntington's disease (HD) is caused by mutations that expand a polyglutamine region in the amino-terminal domain of Huntingtin (Htt), leading to the accumulation of intracellular inclusions and progressive neurodegeneration. Recent reports indicate the engagement of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress responses in human HD post mortem samples and animal models of the disease. Adaptation to ER stress is mediated by the activation of the unfolded protein response (UPR), an integrated signal transduction pathway that attenuates protein folding stress by controlling the expression of distinct transcription factors including X-Box binding protein 1 (XBP1). Here we targeted the expression of XBP1 on a novel viral-based model of HD. We delivered an active form of XBP1 locally into the striatum of adult mice using adeno-associated vectors (AAVs) and co-expressed this factor with a large fragment of mutant Htt as a fusion protein with RFP (Htt588(Q95)-mRFP) to directly visualize the accumulation of Htt inclusions in the brain. Using this approach, we observed a significant reduction in the accumulation of Htt588(Q95)-mRFP intracellular inclusion when XBP1 was co-expressed in the striatum. These results contrast with recent findings indicating a protective effect of XBP1 deficiency in neurodegeneration using knockout mice, and suggest a potential use of gene therapy strategies to manipulate the UPR in the context of HD.
Recent studies have reported the role of p53 in suppressing the pluripotency of embryonic stem (ES) cells after DNA damage and blocking the reprogramming of somatic cells into induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells. However, to date no evidence has been presented to support the function of p53 in unstressed ES cells. In this study, we investigated the effect of pifithrin (PFT)-, an inhibitor of p53-dependent transcriptional activation, on self-renewal of ES cells. Our results revealed that treatment of ES cells with PFT- resulted in the inhibition of ES cell propagation in a dose-dependent manner, as indicated by a marked reduction in the cell number and colony size. Also, PFT- caused a cell cycle arrest and significant reduction in DNA synthesis. In addition, inhibition of p53 activity reduced the expression levels of cyclin D1 and Nanog. These findings indicate that p53 pathway in ES cells rather than acting as an inactive gene, is required for ES cell proliferation and self-renewal under unstressful conditions.
Oscillatory synchronization of neuronal populations has been proposed to play a role in perceptual integration and attentional processing. However, some conflicting evidence has been found with respect to its causal relevance for sensory processing, particularly when using flickering visual stimuli with the aim of driving oscillations. We tested psychophysically whether the relative phase of gamma frequency flicker (60 Hz) between stimuli modulates well-known facilitatory lateral interactions between collinear Gabor patches (Experiment 1) or crowding of a peripheral target by irrelevant distractors (Experiment 2). Experiment 1 assessed the impact of suprathreshold Gabor flankers on detection of a near-threshold central Gabor target (&quot;Lateral interactions paradigm&quot;). The flanking stimuli could flicker either in phase or in anti-phase with each other. The typical facilitation of target detection was found with collinear flankers, but this was unaffected by flicker phase. Experiment 2 employed a &quot;crowding&quot; paradigm, where orientation discrimination of a peripheral target Gabor patch is disrupted when surrounded by irrelevant distractors. We found the usual crowding effect, which declined with spatial separation, but this was unaffected by relative flicker phase between target and distractors at all separations. These results imply that externally driven manipulations of gamma frequency phase cannot modulate perceptual integration in vision.
Behavioral flexibility is a cognitive process depending on prefrontal areas allowing adaptive responses to environmental changes. Serotonin transporter knockout (5-HTT(-/-)) rodents show improved reversal learning in addition to orbitofrontal cortex changes. Another form of behavioral flexibility, extradimensional strategy set-shifting (EDSS), heavily depends on the medial prefrontal cortex. This region shows functional changes in 5-HTT(-/-) rodents as well. Here we subjected 5-HTT(-/-) rats and their wild-type counterparts to an EDSS paradigm and a supplementary latent inhibition task. Results indicate that 5-HTT(-/-) rats also show improved EDSS, and indicate that reduced latent inhibition may contribute as an underlying mechanism.
A facile route for the synthesis of luminescent and light refractive polymers is proposed. Silole-containing diyne and halogenated tetraphenylethene derivatives are synthesized and their coupling reactions furnish poly(arylene ethynylene)s with high molecular weights in high yields. All of the polymers are soluble and film-forming and possess a high thermal stability. They emit strong green lights when their solutions and nanoparticle suspensions are photoexcited. The polymers show high refractive indices with low chromatic dispersions. Their RI values can be modulated and their thin films can be crosslinked using UV irradiation, generating negative photoresist patterns.
mRNAs can be targeted to specific neuronal subcellular domains, which enables rapid changes in the local proteome through local translation. This mRNA-based mechanism links extrinsic signals to spatially restricted cellular responses and can mediate stimulus-driven adaptive responses such as dendritic plasticity. Local mRNA translation also occurs in growing axons where it can mediate directional responses to guidance signals. Recent profiling studies have revealed that both growing and mature axons possess surprisingly complex and dynamic transcriptomes, thereby suggesting that axonal mRNA localization is highly regulated and has a role in a broad range of processes, a view that is increasingly being supported by new experimental evidence. Here, we review current knowledge on the roles and regulatory mechanisms of axonal mRNA translation and discuss emerging links to axon guidance, survival, regeneration and neurological disorders.
The brain is expensive, incurring high material and metabolic costs for its size--relative to the size of the body--and many aspects of brain network organization can be mostly explained by a parsimonious drive to minimize these costs. However, brain networks or connectomes also have high topological efficiency, robustness, modularity and a 'rich club' of connector hubs. Many of these and other advantageous topological properties will probably entail a wiring-cost premium. We propose that brain organization is shaped by an economic trade-off between minimizing costs and allowing the emergence of adaptively valuable topological patterns of anatomical or functional connectivity between multiple neuronal populations. This process of negotiating, and re-negotiating, trade-offs between wiring cost and topological value continues over long (decades) and short (millisecond) timescales as brain networks evolve, grow and adapt to changing cognitive demands. An economical analysis of neuropsychiatric disorders highlights the vulnerability of the more costly elements of brain networks to pathological attack or abnormal development.
Aims: We aimed to investigate the role of the nuclear carrier and binding proteins, transportin-1 (TRN1) and transportin-2 (TRN2), TATA-binding protein-associated factor 15 (TAF15) and Ewing's Sarcoma protein (EWS) in inclusion body formation in cases of Frontotemporal Lobar Degeneration (FTLD) associated with Fused in Sarcoma protein (FTLD-FUS). Methods: Eight cases of FTLD-FUS (5 cases of atypical FTLD-U (aFTLD-U), 2 of Neuronal Intermediate Filament Inclusion Body Disease (NIFID) and 1 of Basophilic Inclusion Body Disease (BIBD)) were immunostained for FUS, TRN1, TRN2, TAF15 and EWS. 10 cases of FTLD associated with TDP-43 inclusions served as reference cases. Results: The inclusion bodies in FTLD-FUS contained TRN1 and TAF15 and, to a lesser extent, EWS, but not TRN2. The patterns of immunostaining for TRN1 and TAF15 were very similar to that of FUS. None of these proteins was associated with tau or TDP-43 aggregations in FTLD. Conclusion: Data suggest that FUS, TRN1 and TAF15 may participate in a functional pathway in an interdependent way, and imply that the function of TDP-43 may not necessarily be in parallel with, or complementary to, that of FUS, despite each protein sharing many similar structural elements.  2012 The Authors. Neuropathology and Applied Neurobiology  2012 British Neuropathological Society.
Aims: Aquaporin-4 is the most abundant cellular water channel in brain and could be a molecular basis for a cerebrospinal fluid absorption route additional to the arachnoid villi. In the search for &quot;alternative&quot; cerebrospinal fluid absorption pathways it is important to compare experimental findings to human pathophysiology. This study compares expression of aquaporin-4 in hydrocephalic human brain with human controls and hydrocephalic rat brain. Methods: Cortical biopsies from patients with chronic hydrocephalus (n=29) were sampled secondary to planned surgical intervention. Aquaporin-4 in human hydrocephalic cortex relative to controls was quantified by western blotting (n=28). A second biopsy (n=13) was processed for immunohistochemistry (GFAP, CD68, CD34 and aquaporin-4) and double immunofluorescence (aquaporin-4+GFAP and aquaporin-4+CD34). Brain tissue from human controls and kaolin-induced hydrocephalic rats was processed in parallel. Immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence were assessed qualitatively. Results: Western blotting showed that AQP4 abundance was significantly increased (p&lt;0.05) in hydrocephalic human brain compared to controls. Aquaporin-4 immunoreactivity was present in both white and grey matter. In human brain (hydrocephalic and controls) aquaporin-4 immunoreactivity was found on the entire astrocyte membrane, unlike hydrocephalic rat brain where pronounced endfeet polarization was present. Endothelial AQP4 immunoreactivity was not observed. Conclusions: This study shows a significant increase in astrocytic aquaporin-4 in human hydrocephalic cortex compared to control. Cell type specific expression in astrocytes is conserved between rat and human, although differences of expression in specific membrane domains are seen. This study addresses direct translational aspects from rat to human, hereby emphasizing the relevance and use of models in hydrocephalus research.  2012 The Authors. Neuropathology and Applied Neurobiology  2012 British Neuropathological Society.


Primates can learn to recognize a virtually limitless number of visual objects. A candidate neural substrate for this adult plasticity is the inferior temporal cortex (ITC). Using a large stimulus set, we explored the impact that long-term experience has on the response properties of two classes of neurons in ITC: broad-spiking (putative excitatory) cells and narrow-spiking (putative inhibitory) cells. We found that experience increased maximum responses of putative excitatory neurons but had the opposite effect on maximum responses of putative inhibitory neurons, an observation that helps to reconcile contradictory reports regarding the presence and direction of this effect. In addition, we found that experience reduced the average stimulus-evoked response in both cell classes, but this decrease was much more pronounced in putative inhibitory units. This latter finding supports a potentially critical role of inhibitory neurons in detecting and initiating the cascade of events underlying adult neural plasticity in ITC.
Central neurons respond to synaptic inputs from other neurons by generating synaptic potentials. Once the summated synaptic potentials reach threshold for action potential firing, the signal propagates leading to transmitter release at the synapse. The calcium influx accompanying such signaling opens calcium-activated ion channels for feedback regulation. Here, we report a mechanism for modulating hippocampal neuronal signaling that involves calcium-activated chloride channels (CaCCs). We present evidence that CaCCs reside in hippocampal neurons and are in close proximity of calcium channels and NMDA receptors to shorten action potential duration, dampen excitatory synaptic potentials, impede temporal summation, and raise the threshold for action potential generation by synaptic potential. Having recently identified TMEM16A and TMEM16B as CaCCs, we further show that TMEM16B but not TMEM16A is important for hippocampal CaCC, laying the groundwork for deciphering the dynamic CaCC modulation of neuronal signaling in neurons important for learning and memory.
Cysteine string protein  (CSP), a presynaptic cochaperone for Hsc70, is required for synapse maintenance. Deletion of CSP leads to neuronal dysfunction, synapse loss, and neurodegeneration. We utilized unbiased, systematic proteomics to identify putative CSP protein clients. We found 22 such proteins whose levels are selectively decreased in CSP knockout synapses. Of these putative CSP protein clients, two directly bind to the CSP chaperone complex and are bona fide clients. They are the t-SNARE SNAP-25 and the GTPase dynamin 1, which are necessary for synaptic vesicle fusion and fission, respectively. Using hippocampal cultures, we show that CSP regulates the stability of client proteins and synaptic vesicle number. Our analysis of CSP-dynamin 1 interactions reveals unexpectedly that CSP regulates the polymerization of dynamin 1. CSP, therefore, participates in synaptic vesicle endocytosis and may facilitate exo- and endocytic coupling. These findings advance the understanding of how synapses are functionally and structurally maintained.
The biochemical means through which multiple signaling pathways are integrated in navigating axons is poorly understood. Semaphorins are among the largest families of axon guidance cues and utilize Plexin (Plex) receptors to exert repulsive effects on axon extension. However, Semaphorin repulsion can be silenced by other distinct cues and signaling cascades, raising questions of the logic underlying these events. We now uncover a simple biochemical switch that controls Semaphorin/Plexin repulsive guidance. Plexins are Ras/Rap family GTPase activating proteins (GAPs) and we find that the PlexA GAP domain is phosphorylated by the cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA). This PlexA phosphorylation generates a specific binding site for 14-3-3,a phospho-binding protein that we find to be necessary for axon guidance. These PKA-mediated Plexin-14-3-3 interactions prevent PlexA from interacting with its Ras family GTPase substrate and antagonize Semaphorin repulsion. Our results indicate that theseinteractions switch repulsion to adhesion and identify a point of convergence for multiple guidance molecules.
Gamma-frequency oscillations (GFOs, &gt;40Hz) are a general network signature at seizure onset at all stages of development, with possible deleterious consequences in the immature brain. At early developmental stages, the simultaneous occurrence of GFOs in different brain regions suggests the existence of a long-ranging synchronizing mechanism at seizure onset. Here, we show that hippocamposeptal (HS) neurons, which are GABA long-range projection neurons, are mandatory to drive the firing of hippocampal interneurons in a high-frequency regime at the onset of epileptiform discharges in the intact, immature septohippocampal formation. The synchronized firing of interneurons in turn produces GFOs, which are abolished after the elimination of a small number of HS neurons. Because they provide the necessary fast conduit for pacing large neuronal populations and display intra- and extrahippocampal long-range projections, HS neurons appear to belong to the class of hub cells that play a crucial role in the synchronization of developing networks.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is the most common form of inherited intellectual disability. Previous studies have implicated mGlu5 in the pathogenesis of the disease, but a crucial unanswered question is whether pharmacological mGlu5 inhibition is able to reverse an already established FXS phenotype in mammals. Here we have used the novel, potent, and selective mGlu5 inhibitor CTEP to address this issue in the Fmr1 knockout mouse. Acute CTEP treatment corrects elevated hippocampal long-termdepression, protein synthesis, and audiogenic seizures. Chronic treatment that inhibits mGlu5 within a receptor occupancy range of 81% 4% rescues cognitive deficits, auditory hypersensitivity, aberrant dendritic spine density, overactive ERK and mTOR signaling, and partially corrects macroorchidism. This study shows that a comprehensive phenotype correction in FXS is possible with pharmacological intervention starting in young adulthood, after development of the phenotype. It is of great interest how these findings may translate into ongoing clinical research testing mGlu5 inhibitors in FXS patients.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) carry out post-transcriptional control of a multitude of cellular processes. Aberrant expression of miRNA can lead to diseases, including cancer. Gliomas are aggressive brain tumors that are thought to arise from transformed glioma-initiating neural stem cells (giNSCs). With the use of giNSCs and human glioblastoma cells, we investigated the function of miRNAs in gliomas. We identified pro-neuronal miR-128 as a candidate glioma tumor suppressor miRNA. Decreased expression of miR-128 correlates with aggressive human glioma subtypes. With a combination of molecular, cellular and in vivo approaches, we characterize miR-128's tumor suppressive role. miR-128 represses giNSC growth by enhancing neuronal differentiation. miR-128 represses growth and mediates differentiation by targeting oncogenic receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) epithelial growth factor receptor and platelet-derived growth factor receptor-. Using an autochthonous glioma mouse model, we demonstrated that miR-128 repressed gliomagenesis. We identified miR-128 as a glioma tumor suppressor that targets RTK signaling to repress giNSC self-renewal and enhance differentiation.
The premise of the standard regulatory model, &quot;homeostasis&quot;, is flawed: the goal of regulation is not to preserve constancy of the internal milieu. Rather, it is to continually adjust the milieu to promote survival and reproduction. Regulatory mechanisms need to be efficient, but homeostasis (error-correction by feedback) is inherently inefficient. Thus, although feedbacks are certainly ubiquitous, they could not possibly serve as the primary regulatory mechanism. A newer model, &quot;allostasis&quot;, proposes that efficient regulation requires anticipating needs and preparing to satisfy them before they arise. The advantages: (i) errors are reduced in magnitude and frequency; (ii) response capacities of different components are matched -- to prevent bottlenecks and reduce safety factors; (iii) resources are shared between systems to minimize reserve capacities; (iv) errors are remembered and used to reduce future errors. This regulatory strategy requires a dedicated organ, the brain. The brain tracks multitudinous variables and integrates their values with prior knowledge to predict needs and set priorities. The brain coordinates effectors to mobilize resources from modest bodily stores and enforces a system of flexible trade-offs: from each organ according to its ability, to each organ according to its need. The brain also helps regulate the internal milieu by governing anticipatory behavior. Thus, an animal conserves energy by moving to a warmer place - before it cools, and it conserves salt and water by moving to a cooler one before it sweats. The behavioral strategy requires continuously updating a set of specific &quot;shopping lists&quot; that document the growing need for each key component (warmth, food, salt, water). These appetites funnel into a common pathway that employs a &quot;stick&quot; to drive the organism toward filling the need, plus a &quot;carrot&quot; to relax the organism when the need is satisfied. The stick corresponds broadly to the sense of anxiety, and the carrot broadly to the sense of pleasure. This design constrains anxieties to be non-adapting and pleasures to be brief -- fast-adapting -- to make way for the next anxiety. The stick/carrot mechanisms evolved early and expanded so that in humans they govern higher level learning and social organization. Correspondingly, the &quot;funnel&quot; widened to allow innumerable activities and experiences to each provide non-adapting anxieties and brief pleasures, their reward values depending partly on the effort expended. But modern life narrows the variety of small pleasures and reduces effort, thereby reducing their reward value and requiring larger portions for equivalent satisfaction - a cycle that generates addictive behaviors. Homeostasis and allostasis locate pathology at different levels. Homeostasis identifies proximate causes; for example, it attributes essential hypertension to excess salt water in too small a vascular reservoir. Thus it directs pharmacotherapy toward reducing salt and water, expanding the reservoir, and blocking feedbacks that would counteract these measures. Allostasis attributes essential hypertension to the brain. Chronically anticipating a need for higher pressure, the brain mobilizes all the low level mechanisms in concert: kidney to retain salt and water, vascular system to tighten, and salt appetite to rise. Correspondingly, allostasis would direct therapy toward higher levels - to reduce demand and increase sense of control -- so that the brain can down-shift its prediction and relax all the low-level mechanisms in concert. For disorders of addiction homeostasis pursues pharmacological treatments: drugs to treat drug addiction, obesity, and other compulsive behaviors. Allostasis suggests broader approaches - such as re-expanding the range of possible pleasures and providing opportunities to expend effort in their pursuit.

Several lines of evidence indicate that alterations in the structure of neural circuits and inhibitory neurotransmission underlie the physiopathogenesis of schizophrenia. Most of the studies on these parameters have been focused on cortical regions and, despite the crucial role of the amygdala in this psychiatric disorder, there is less information on this region. In order to expand this knowledge, we have studied the expression of molecules related to inhibitory neurotransmission and structural plasticity in rats subjected to post-weaning isolation rearing, an animal model that reproduces several core symptoms of schizophrenia. We have analyzed, using qRT-PCR and immunohistochemistry, the expression of synaptophysin, GAD65, GAD67, the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM), its polysialylated form (PSA-NCAM) and its synthesizing enzymes (St8siaII and St8SiaIV). Isolation-reared rats showed significant increases in the expression of GAD67 protein in the centromedial, medial and basolateral amygdaloid nuclei, but no significant changes in GAD65 or synaptophysin expression were found in these regions. The expression of PSA-NCAM and NCAM was significantly increased in the basolateral and medial nuclei respectively. Our results indicate that isolation-rearing influences positively inhibitory neurotransmission and neuronal structural plasticity in the amygdala, probably through PSA-NCAM. These findings are in contrast to reports describing decreased expression of molecules related to inhibitory neurotransmission in the amygdala of schizophrenic patients. Consequently, although the social isolation rearing model can reproduce some of the behavioral traits of schizophrenics it may fail to reproduce some of the neurobiological features of this disorder, particularly in the amygdala.
The early proinflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor (TNF) is released in significant quantities by the activated immune system in response to infection, leukemia, autoimmune disorders, and radiation sickness. Nausea, emesis, and anorexia are common features of these disorders. TNF action on vagal afferent terminals in the brainstem is a likely cause of the malaise associated with these disorders. Our previous work has shown that TNF action to excite vagal afferents occurs as a result of sensitization of ryanodine channels in afferent nerve terminals. For millennia, cannabinoids (CB) have been used to combat the visceral malaise associated with chronic disease, although the mechanism of action has not been clear. Previous work in culture systems suggests that CB1 agonists can suppress neurotransmission by downregulating ryanodine channels through a protein kinase A (PKA)-dependent mechanism. Laser confocal calcium imaging methods were used to directly examine effects of CB1 cannabinoid agonists and TNF on visceral afferent signaling in the rat hindbrain. CB1 agonists blocked the effects of TNF to amplify vagal afferent responsiveness; blockade of PKA with H89 also eliminated the TNF amplification effect. These results help to explain the effectiveness of cannabinoids in blocking the malaise generated by TNF-releasing disease processes by opposing effects on ryanodine channels.
Both exogenous and endogenous cannabinoids can allosterically modulate glycine receptors (GlyRs). However, little is known about the molecular basis of cannabinoid-GlyR interactions. Here we report that sustained incubation with the endocannabinoid anandamide (AEA) substantially increased the amplitude of glycine-activated current in both rat cultured spinal neurons and in HEK-293 cells expressing human 1, rat 2 and 3 GlyRs. While the 1 and 3 subunits were highly sensitive to AEA-induced potentiation, the 2 subunit was relatively insensitive to AEA. Switching a serine at 296 and 307 in the TM3 (transmembrane domain 3) of the 1 and 3 subunits with an alanine (A) at the equivalent position in the 2 subunit converted the 1/3 AEA-sensitive receptors to sensitivity resembling that of 2. The S296 residue is also critical for exogenous cannabinoid-induced potentiation of I(Gly). The magnitude of AEA potentiation decreased with removal of either the hydroxyl or oxygen groups on AEA. While desoxy-AEA was significantly less efficacious in potentiating I(Gly), desoxy-AEA inhibited potentiation produced by both (9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), a major psychoactive component of marijuana, and AEA. Similarly, didesoxy-THC, a modified THC with removal of both hydroxyl/oxygen groups, did not affect I(Gly) when applied alone but inhibited the potentiation of I(Gly) induced by AEA and THC. These findings suggest that exogenous and endogenous cannabinoids potentiate GlyRs via a hydrogen bonding-like interaction. Such a specific interaction likely stems from a common molecular basis involving the S296 residue in the TM3 of the 1 and 3 subunits.
Information processing and exchange between brain nuclei are made through spike series sent by individual neurons in highly irregular temporal patterns. Synchronization in cell assemblies, proposed as a network language for internal neural representations, still has little experimental support. We use a novel technique to extract pathway-specific local field potentials (LFPs) in the hippocampus to explore the ongoing temporal structure of a single presynaptic input, the CA3 Schaffer pathway, and its contribution to the spontaneous output of CA1 units in anesthetized rat. We found that Schaffer-specific LFPs are composed of a regular succession of pulse-like excitatory packages initiated by spontaneous clustered firing of CA3 pyramidal cells to which individual units contribute variably. A fraction of these packages readily induce firing of CA1 pyramidal cells and interneurons, the so-called Schaffer-driven spikes, revealing the presynaptic origin in the output code of single CA1 units. The output of 70% of CA1 pyramidal neurons contains up to 10% of such spikes. Our results suggest a hierarchical internal operation of the CA3 region based on sequential oscillatory activation of pyramidal cell assemblies whose activity partly gets in the output code at the next station. We conclude that CA1 output may directly reflect the activity of specific ensembles of CA3 neurons. Thus, the fine temporal structure of pathway-specific LFPs, as an accurate readout of the activity of a presynaptic population, is useful in searching for hidden presynaptic code in irregular spikes series of individual neurons and assemblies.
The final motor output underlying behavior arises from an appropriate balance between excitation and inhibition within neural networks. Retrograde signaling by endocannabinoids adapts synaptic strengths and the global activity of neural networks. In the spinal cord, endocannabinoids are mobilized postsynaptically from network neurons and act retrogradely on presynaptic cannabinoid receptors to potentiate the locomotor frequency. However, it is still unclear whether mechanisms exist within the locomotor networks that determine the sign of the modulation by cannabinoid receptors to differentially regulate excitation and inhibition. In this study, using the lamprey spinal cord in vitro, we first report that 2-AG (2-arachidonyl glycerol) is mobilized by network neurons and underlies a form of modulation that is embedded within the locomotor networks. We then show that the polarity of the endocannabinoid modulation is gated by nitric oxide to enable simultaneously potentiation of excitation and depression of inhibition within the spinal locomotor networks. Our results suggest that endocannabinoid and nitric oxide systems interact to mediate inversion of the polarity of synaptic plasticity within the locomotor networks. Thus, endocannabinoid and nitric oxide shift in the excitation-inhibition balance to set the excitability of the spinal locomotor network.
The actin-binding protein plastin 3 (PLS3) has been identified as a modifier of the human motoneuron disease spinal muscular atrophy (SMA). SMA is caused by decreased levels of the survival motor neuron protein (SMN) and in its most severe form causes death in infants and young children. To understand the mechanism of PLS3 in SMA, we have analyzed pls3 RNA and protein in zebrafish smn mutants. We show that Pls3 protein levels are severely decreased in smn(-/-) mutants without a reduction in pls3 mRNA levels. Moreover, we show that both pls3 mRNA and protein stability are unaffected when Smn is reduced. This indicates that SMN affects PLS3 protein production. We had previously shown that, in smn mutants, the presynaptic protein SV2 is decreased at neuromuscular junctions. Transgenically driving human PLS3 in motoneurons rescues the decrease in SV2 expression. To determine whether PLS3 could also rescue function, we performed behavioral analysis on smn mutants and found that they had a significant decrease in spontaneous swimming and turning. Driving PLS3 transgenically in motoneurons rescued both of these defects. These data show that PLS3 protein levels are dependent on SMN and that PLS3 is able to rescue the neuromuscular defects and corresponding movement phenotypes caused by low levels of Smn suggesting that decreased PLS3 contributes to SMA motor phenotypes.

Previous studies have shown that administration of nicotine modifies the expression and secretion of amyloid precursor protein (APP) in various cell lines. The present study investigated the extent to which chronic subcutaneous nicotine administration influences APP levels and processing in cerebral cortex, striatum and hippocampus of young and old rat brains. The results showed that constant nicotine infusion (0.25 or 4.00mg/kg/day) increased the levels of particulate APP (APPp) but not secreted APP (APPs) in the hippocampus of young rats in vivo. This response to nicotine was not observed in the striatum or cerebral cortex of young rats or in any of the brain regions examined in old animals. Subsequent in vitro analysis demonstrated that nicotine enhanced the release of APPs from hippocampal slice preparations and that this increase was attenuated by mecamylamine, a non-selective nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) antagonist. The in vitro effect of nicotine on APPs was age-related, being only detected from hippocampal slices derived from the young but not the older animals. These results suggest that nicotine modulates APP expression and secretion in the hippocampus and that the responses observed to the drug are age-dependent being only detected in younger rats.
End binding protein 1 (EB1) and cytoplasmic linker protein of 170 kDa (CLIP-170) are two well-studied microtubule plus-end-tracking proteins (+TIPs) that target growing microtubule plus ends in the form of comet tails and regulate microtubule dynamics. However, the mechanism by which they regulate microtubule dynamics is not well understood. Using full-length EB1 and a minimal functional fragment of CLIP-170 (ClipCG12), we found that EB1 and CLIP-170 cooperatively regulate microtubule dynamic instability at concentrations below which neither protein is effective. By use of small-angle X-ray scattering and analytical ultracentrifugation, we found that ClipCG12 adopts a largely extended conformation with two noninteracting CAP-Gly domains and that it formed a complex in solution with EB1. Using a reconstituted steady-state mammalian microtubule system, we found that at a low concentration of 250 nM, neither EB1 nor ClipCG12 individually modulated plus-end dynamic instability. Higher concentrations (up to 2 M) of the two proteins individually did modulate dynamic instability, perhaps by a combination of effects at the tips and along the microtubule lengths. However, when low concentrations (250 nM) of EB1 and ClipCG12 were present together, the mixture modulated dynamic instability considerably. Using a pulsing strategy with [(32)P]GTP, we further found that unlike EB1 or ClipCG12 alone, the EB1-ClipCG12 mixture partially depleted the microtubule ends of stably bound (32)P(i). Together, our results suggest that EB1 and ClipCG12 act cooperatively to regulate microtubule dynamics. They further indicate that stabilization of microtubule plus ends by the EB1-ClipCG12 mixture may involve modification of an aspect of the stabilizing cap.

Two recent studies report changes in human brain responses after exposure topsilocybin, the active ingredient of hallucinogenic mushrooms. Psilocybin increased sensory cortex responses during emotional recollection, but decreased resting-state blood flow in prefrontal cortex, with potential implications for treating depression.
Late-term thrombosis associated with drug-eluting stents may be due to the non-selective actions of antimitogenic drugs on endothelial cells, leading to delayed vascular healing after stenting angioplasty. Currently, there is a need for stent-based therapies that can both attenuate neointimal hyperplasia and promote re-endothelialization. The aim of this study was to compare the effects of a resveratrol (R)- and quercetin (Q)-eluting stent with that of a bare metal stent (BMS) on neointimal hyperplasia and re-endothelialization in a rat model of arterial angioplasty and stenting. Miniature stents (2.51.25mm) were sprayed with nanocomposite coatings containing two concentrations of R:Q (50:25g/cm(2) (RQ1) or 150:75g/cm(2) (RQ2)). The stents were deployed into the common carotid artery of rats and their impact on vascular remodeling was compared to that of BMS. Luminal stenosis in arteries stented with RQ2-eluting stents was reduced by 64.6% (p&lt;0.05) compared to arteries stented with BMS. Accompanying this effect was a 59.8% reduction in macrophage infiltration (p&lt;0.05). There were no differences found between RQ1 and BMS. Finally, the RQ2-coated stent accelerated re-endothelialization by 50% compared with BMS (p&lt;0.05). Thus, compared with BMS, local delivery of R and Q from a stent platform significantly reduced in-stent stenosis, while promoting re-endothelialization. These data suggest that R and Q may be favorable candidates for novel stent coatings, potentially reducing the risk of late thrombosis associated with drug-eluting stents.
A penetrating traumatic brain injury (pTBI) occurs when an object impacts the head with sufficient force to penetrate the skin, skull, and meninges, and inflict injury directly to the brain parenchyma. This type of injury has been notoriously difficult to model in small laboratory animals such as rats or mice. To this end, we have established a novel non-fatal model for pTBI based on a modified air rifle that accelerates a pellet, which in turn impacts a small probe that then causes the injury to the experimental animal's brain. In the present study, we have focused on the acute phase and characterized the tissue destruction, including increasing cavity formation, white matter degeneration, hemorrhage, edema, and gliosis. We also used a battery of behavioral models to examine the neurological outcome, with the most noteworthy finding being impairment of reference memory function. In conclusion, we have described a number of events taking place after pTBI in our model. We expect this model will prove useful in our efforts to unravel the biological events underlying injury and regeneration after pTBI and possibly serve as a useful animal model in the development of novel therapeutic and diagnostic approaches.
In sporadic age-related forms of Alzheimer's disease (AD), it is unclear why amyloid- (A) peptides accumulate. Here we show that soluble amyloid precursor protein- (sAPP-) decreases A generation by directly associating with -site APP-converting enzyme (BACE)1, thereby modulating APP processing. Whereas specifically targeting sAPP- using antibodies enhances A production; in transgenic mice with AD-like pathology, sAPP- overexpression decreases -amyloid plaques and soluble A. In support, immunoneutralization of sAPP- increases APP amyloidogenic processing in these mice. Given our current findings, and because a number of risk factors for sporadic AD serve to lower levels of sAPP- in brains of AD patients, inadequate sAPP- levels may be sufficient to polarize APP processing towards the amyloidogenic, A-producing route. Therefore, restoration of sAPP- or enhancement of its association with BACE may be viable strategies to ameliorate imbalances in APP processing that can lead to AD pathogenesis.
The accumulation of amyloid- in the brain is an essential feature of Alzheimer's disease. However, the impact of amyloid--accumulation on neuronal dysfunction on the single cell level in vivo is poorly understood. Here we investigate the progression of amyloid- load in relation to neuronal dysfunction in the visual system of the APP23PS45 mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. Using in vivo two-photon calcium imaging in the visual cortex, we demonstrate that a progressive deterioration of neuronal tuning for the orientation of visual stimuli occurs in parallel with the age-dependent increase of the amyloid- load. Importantly, we find this deterioration only in neurons that are hyperactive during spontaneous activity. This impairment of visual cortical circuit function also correlates with pronounced deficits in visual-pattern discrimination. Together, our results identify distinct stages of decline in sensory cortical performance in vivo as a function of the increased amyloid--load.
Neuronal computation of object distance from echo delay is an essential task that echolocating bats must master for spatial orientation and the capture of prey. In the dorsal auditory cortex of bats, neurons specifically respond to combinations of short frequency-modulated components of emitted call and delayed echo. These delay-tuned neurons are thought to serve in target range calculation. It is unknown whether neuronal correlates of active space perception are established by experience-dependent plasticity or by innate mechanisms. Here we demonstrate that in the first postnatal week, before onset of echolocation and flight, dorsal auditory cortex already contains functional circuits that calculate distance from the temporal separation of a simulated pulse and echo. This innate cortical implementation of a purely computational processing mechanism for sonar ranging should enhance survival of juvenile bats when they first engage in active echolocation behaviour and flight.
Human brain functional networks are embedded in anatomical space and have topological properties--small-worldness, modularity, fat-tailed degree distributions--that are comparable to many other complex networks. Although a sophisticated set of measures is available to describe the topology of brain networks, the selection pressures that drive their formation remain largely unknown. Here we consider generative models for the probability of a functional connection (an edge) between two cortical regions (nodes) separated by some Euclidean distance in anatomical space. In particular, we propose a model in which the embedded topology of brain networks emerges from two competing factors: a distance penalty based on the cost of maintaining long-range connections; and a topological term that favors links between regions sharing similar input. We show that, together, these two biologically plausible factors are sufficient to capture an impressive range of topological properties of functional brain networks. Model parameters estimated in one set of functional MRI (fMRI) data on normal volunteers provided a good fit to networks estimated in a second independent sample of fMRI data. Furthermore, slightly detuned model parameters also generated a reasonable simulation of the abnormal properties of brain functional networks in people with schizophrenia. We therefore anticipate that many aspects of brain network organization, in health and disease, may be parsimoniously explained by an economical clustering rule for the probability of functional connectivity between different brain areas.
Language is a uniquely human trait, which poses limitations on animal models for discovering biological substrates and pathways. Despite this challenge, rapidly developing biotechnology in the field of genomics has made human genetics studies a viable alternative route for defining the molecular neuroscience of human language. This is accomplished by studying families that transmit both normal and disordered language across generations. The language disorder reviewed here is specific language impairment (SLI), a developmental deficiency in language acquisition despite adequate opportunity, normal intelligence, and without any apparent neurological etiology. Here, we describe disease gene discovery paradigms as applied to SLI families and review the progress this field has made. After review the evidence that genetic factors influence SLI, we discuss methods and findings from scans of the human chromosomes, including the main replicated regions on chromosomes 13, 16 and 19 and two identified genes, ATP2C2 and CMIP that appear to account for the language variation on chromosome 16. Additional work has been done on candidate genes, i.e., genes chosen a priori and not through a genome scanning studies, including several studies of CNTNAP2 and some recent work implicating BDNF as a gene x gene interaction partner of genetic variation on chromosome 13 that influences language. These recent developments may allow for better use of post-mortem human brain samples functional studies and animal models for circumscribed language subcomponents. In the future, the identification of genetic variation associated with language phenotypes will provide the molecular pathways to understanding human language.
The increasing ubiquity of web-based social networking services is a striking feature of modern human society. The degree to which individuals participate in these networks varies substantially for reasons that are unclear. Here, we show a biological basis for such variability by demonstrating that quantitative variation in the number of friends an individual declares on a web-based social networking service reliably predicted grey matter density in the right superior temporal sulcus, left middle temporal gyrus and entorhinal cortex. Such regions have been previously implicated in social perception and associative memory, respectively. We further show that variability in the size of such online friendship networks was significantly correlated with the size of more intimate real-world social groups. However, the brain regions we identified were specifically associated with online social network size, whereas the grey matter density of the amygdala was correlated both with online and real-world social network sizes. Taken together, our findings demonstrate that the size of an individual's online social network is closely linked to focal brain structure implicated in social cognition.
Recent genome-wide association studies have identified a number of susceptibility loci for Alzheimer disease (AD). To understand the functional consequences and potential interactions of the associated loci, we explored large-scale data sets interrogating the human genome for evidence of positive natural selection. Our findings provide significant evidence for signatures of recent positive selection acting on several haplotypes carrying AD susceptibility alleles; interestingly, the genes found in these selected haplotypes can be assembled, independently, into a molecular complex via a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network approach. These results suggest a possible coevolution of genes encoding physically-interacting proteins that underlie AD susceptibility and are coexpressed in different tissues. In particular, PICALM, BIN1, CD2AP, and EPHA1 are interconnected through multiple interacting proteins and appear to have coordinated evidence of selection in the same human population, suggesting that they may be involved in the execution of a shared molecular function. This observation may be AD-specific, as the 12 loci associated with Parkinson disease do not demonstrate excess evidence of natural selection. The context for selection is probably unrelated to AD itself; it is likely that these genes interact in another context, such as in immune cells, where we observe cis-regulatory effects at several of the selected AD loci.
Joubert syndrome (JBTS) is an autosomal-recessive disorder characterized by a distinctive mid-hindbrain malformation, developmental delay with hypotonia, ocular-motor apraxia, and breathing abnormalities. Although JBTS was first described more than 40 years ago in French Canadian siblings, the causal mutations have not yet been identified in this family nor in most French Canadian individuals subsequently described. We ascertained a cluster of 16 JBTS-affected individuals from 11 families living in the Lower St. Lawrence region. SNP genotyping excluded the presence of a common homozygous mutation that would explain the clustering of these individuals. Exome sequencing performed on 15 subjects showed that nine affected individuals from seven families (including the original JBTS family) carried rare compound-heterozygous mutations in C5ORF42. Two missense variants (c.4006C&gt;T [p.Arg1336Trp] and c.4690G&gt;A [p.Ala1564Thr]) and a splicing mutation (c.7400+1G&gt;A), which causes exon skipping, were found in multiple subjects that were not known to be related, whereas three other truncating mutations (c.6407del [p.Pro2136Hisfs*31], c.4804C&gt;T [p.Arg1602*], and c.7477C&gt;T [p.Arg2493*]) were identified in single individuals. None of the unaffected first-degree relatives were compound heterozygous for these mutations. Moreover, none of the six putative mutations were detected among 477 French Canadian controls. Our data suggest that mutations in C5ORF42 explain a large portion of French Canadian individuals with JBTS.
Diethylenetriamine pentaacetic acid (DTPA) is a popular chelator agent for enabling the labeling of peptides for their use in structure-activity relationship study and biodistribution analysis. Solid phase peptide synthesis was employed to couple this commercially available chelator at the N-terminus of either the A-chain or B-chain of H2 relaxin. The coupling of the DTPA chelator at the N-terminus of the B-chain and subsequent loading of a lanthanide (europium) ion into the chelator led to a labeled peptide (Eu-DTPA-(B)-H2) in low yield and having very poor water solubility. On the other hand, coupling of the DTPA and loading of Eu at the N-terminus of the A-chain led to a water-soluble peptide (Eu-DTPA-(A)-H2) with a significantly improved final yield. The conjugation of the DTPA chelator at the N-terminus of the A-chain did not have any impact on the secondary structure of the peptide determined by circular dichroism spectroscopy (CD). On the other hand, it was not possible to determine the secondary structure of Eu-DTPA-(B)-H2 because of its insolubility in phosphate buffer. The B-chain labeled peptide Eu-DTPA-(B)-H2 required solubilization in DMSO prior to carrying out binding assays, and showed lower affinity for binding to H2 relaxin receptor, RXFP1, compared to the water-soluble A-chain labeled peptide Eu-DTPA-(A)-H2. The mono-Eu-DTPA labeled A-chain peptide, Eu-DTPA-(A)-H2, thus can be used as a valuable probe to study ligand-receptor interactions of therapeutically important H2 relaxin analogs. Our results show that it is critical to choose an approriate site for incorporating chelators such as DTPA. Otherwise, the bulky size of the chelator, depending on the site of incorporation, can affect yield, solubility, structure and pharmacological profile of the peptide.
In this issue of Cell Stem Cell, Ma etal. (2012) report a differentiation protocol for generating striatal projection neurons from human embryonic stem cells with high efficiency. The cells survive transplantation, reconnect striatal circuitry, and restore motor function in a mouse model of striatal neurodegeneration that mimics the central pathohology of Huntington's disease.
Aquaporins (AQPs) are transmembrane water channels ubiquitously expressed in mammalian tissues. They play prominent roles in maintaining cellular fluid balance. Although expression of AQP1, -3, -4, -5, -8, -9, and -11 has been reported in the central nervous system, it is AQP4 that is predominately expressed. Its importance in fluid regulation in cerebral edema conditions has been highlighted in several studies, and we have also shown that translational regulation of AQP4 by miR-320a could prove to be useful in infarct volume reduction in middle cerebral artery occluded rat brain. There is evidence for the existence of two AQP4 transcripts (M1 and M23) in the brain arising from two alternative promoters. Because the AQP4 M1 isoform exhibits greater water permeability, in this study, we explored the possibility of microRNA-based transcriptional regulation of the AQP4 M1 promoter. Using RegRNA software, we identified 34 microRNAs predicted to target the AQP4 M1 promoter region. MicroRNA profiling, quantitative stem-loop PCR, and luciferase reporter assays revealed that miR-130a, -152, -668, -939, and -1280, which were highly expressed in astrocytes, could regulate the promoter activity. Of these, miR-130a was identified as a strong transcriptional repressor of the AQP4 M1 isoform. In vivo studies revealed that LNA(TM) anti-miR-130a could up-regulate the AQP4 M1 transcript and its protein to bring about a reduction in cerebral infarct and promote recovery.
-Secretase-mediated cleavage of amyloid precursor protein (APP) results in the production of Alzheimer disease-related amyloid- (A) peptides. The A42 peptide in particular plays a pivotal role in Alzheimer disease pathogenesis and represents a major drug target. Several -secretase modulators (GSMs), such as the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (R)-flurbiprofen and sulindac sulfide, have been suggested to modulate the Alzheimer-related A production by targeting the APP. Here, we describe novel GSMs that are selective for A modulation and do not impair processing of Notch, EphB2, or EphA4. The GSMs modulate A both in cell and cell-free systems as well as lower amyloidogenic A42 levels in the mouse brain. Both radioligand binding and cellular cross-competition experiments reveal a competitive relationship between the AstraZeneca (AZ) GSMs and the established second generation GSM, E2012, but a noncompetitive interaction between AZ GSMs and the first generation GSMs (R)-flurbiprofen and sulindac sulfide. The binding of a (3)H-labeled AZ GSM analog does not co-localize with APP but overlaps anatomically with a -secretase targeting inhibitor in rodent brains. Combined, these data provide compelling evidence of a growing class of in vivo active GSMs, which are selective for A modulation and have a different mechanism of action compared with the original class of GSMs described.
A GABA(A) receptor 3 subunit mutation, G32R, has been associated with childhood absence epilepsy. We evaluated the possibility that this mutation, which is located adjacent to the most N-terminal of three 3 subunit N-glycosylation sites, might reduce GABAergic inhibition by increasing glycosylation of 3 subunits. The mutation had three major effects on GABA(A) receptors. First, coexpression of 3(G32R) subunits with 1 or 3 and 2L subunits in HEK293T cells reduced surface expression of 2L subunits and increased surface expression of 3 subunits, suggesting a partial shift from ternary 32L receptors to binary 3 and homomeric 3 receptors. Second, 3(G32R) subunits were more likely than 3 subunits to be N-glycosylated at Asn-33, but increases in glycosylation were not responsible for changes in subunit surface expression. Rather, both phenomena could be attributed to the presence of a basic residue at position 32. Finally, 13(G32R)2L receptors had significantly reduced macroscopic current density. This reduction could not be explained fully by changes in subunit expression levels (because 2L levels decreased only slightly) or glycosylation (because reduction persisted in the absence of glycosylation at Asn-33). Single channel recording revealed that 13(G32R)2L receptors had impaired gating with shorter mean open time. Homology modeling indicated that the mutation altered salt bridges at subunit interfaces, including regions important for subunit oligomerization. Our results suggest both a mechanism for mutation-induced hyperexcitability and a novel role for the 3 subunit N-terminal -helix in receptor assembly and gating.
The scaffolding protein PICK1 (protein interacting with C kinase 1) contains an N-terminal PSD-95/Discs large/ZO-1 (PDZ) domain and a central lipid-binding Bin/amphiphysin/Rvs (BAR) domain. PICK1 is thought to regulate trafficking of its PDZ binding partners but different and even opposing functions have been suggested. Here, we apply ELISA-based assays and confocal microscopy in HEK293 cells with inducible PICK1 expression to assess in an isolated system the ability of PICK1 to regulate trafficking of natural and engineered PDZ binding partners. The dopamine transporter (DAT), which primarily sorts to degradation upon internalization, did not form perinuclear clusters with PICK1, and PICK1 did not affect DAT internalization/recycling. However, transfer of the PICK1-binding DAT C terminus to the (2)-adrenergic receptor, which sorts to recycling upon internalization, led to formation of PICK1 co-clusters in Rab11-positive compartments. Furthermore, PICK1 inhibited Rab11-mediated recycling of the receptor in a BAR and PDZ domain-dependent manner. In contrast, transfer of the DAT C terminus to the -opioid receptor, which sorts to degradation, did not result in PICK1 co-clusters or any change in internalization/recycling. Further support for a role of PICK1 determined by its PDZ cargo was obtained for the PICK1 interaction partner prolactin-releasing peptide receptor (GPR10). GPR10 co-localized with Rab11 and clustered with PICK1 upon constitutive internalization but co-localized with the late endosomal marker Rab7 and did not cluster with PICK1 upon agonist-induced internalization. Our data suggest a selective role of PICK1 in clustering and reducing the recycling rates of PDZ domain binding partners sorted to the Rab11-dependent recycling pathway.
Solid-supported organotrifluoroborates were prepared in high yields by ion exchange with Amberlyst resins. The reactivity of solid supported aryltrifluoroborates was evaluated in Suzuki-Miyaura couplings with numerous aryl bromide partners. Electron-rich and -poor substituents were tolerated on both substrates, providing yields up to 90%. Examples of alkyl-, alkenyl-, alkynyl-, and heteroaryltrifluoborates were also successfully cross-coupled to aryl halides.
Abnormalities in the regulation of the hypothalamic stress hormone corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) are thought to play a critical role in mood disorders. Consequently, CRF receptor antagonists have been proposed as potential novel therapeutic agents of these conditions. Sleep disturbance is common in depressed patients and changed sleep-wake architecture is considered as potential predictor or surrogate marker of response to treatment. The aim of our study was to characterise the effects of oral administration of the corticotropin-releasing factor CRF(1) receptor antagonist R278995/CRA0450 (3 and 10mg/kg) on sleep-wake organization and electroencephalographic (EEG) components in Sprague-Dawley rats, and to determine whether the changes observed in the sleep-EEG pattern resemble those seen with antidepressants. At 3mg/kg, R278995/CRA0450 produced minor changes in sleep behaviour, while an overall reduction in power spectra was observed during deep slow wave sleep. At 10mg/kg, R278995/CRA0450 consistently reduced rapid eye movement (REM) sleep (-75.4%) and increased the REM sleep onset latency (+67%, 92.14.9min for vehicle vs. 153.824min for R278995/CRA0450), in the absence of systematic changes in spectral EEG pattern, which are characteristic anti-depressant-like effects. These findings in rats indicate that the corticotropin-releasing factor CRF(1) receptor antagonist R278995/CRA0450 is centrally active under standard conditions as it inhibits REM sleep and promotes wakefulness. The characteristic changes found in the sleep EEG model further support the hypothesis that R278995/CRA0450 could exert a non-sedative, antidepressant-like action.


The repeated and well-understood cellular architecture of the cerebellum make it an ideal model system for exploring brain topography. Underlying its relatively uniform cytoarchitecture is a complex array of parasagittal domains of gene and protein expression. The molecular compartmentalization of the cerebellum is mirrored by the anatomical and functional organization of afferent fibers. To fully appreciate the complexity of cerebellar organization we previously refined a wholemount staining approach for high throughput analysis of patterning defects in the mouse cerebellum. This protocol describes in detail the reagents, tools, and practical steps that are useful to successfully reveal protein expression patterns in the adult mouse cerebellum by using wholemount immunostaining. The steps highlighted here demonstrate the utility of this method using the expression of zebrinII/aldolaseC as an example of how the fine topography of the brain can be revealed in its native three-dimensional conformation. Also described are adaptations to the protocol that allow for the visualization of protein expression in afferent projections and large cerebella for comparative studies of molecular topography. To illustrate these applications, data from afferent staining of the rat cerebellum are included.

Receptors for the calcium-regulating glycoprotein hormone stanniocalcin-1 (STC-1) have been found within the CNS and whether these receptors exist within the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), and their possible role in the regulation of arterial pressure (AP) is unknown. Experiments were done in the rat to: (1) map the distribution of STC-1 receptors throughout NTS using in situ ligand binding that uses a stanniocalcin-alkaline phosphatase (STC-AP) fusion protein; (2) determine whether protein and gene expression for STC-1 exists within NTS using immunohistochemistry, Western blot and real time qPCR; (3) determine the effect of microinjection of STC-1 into NTS on AP and the baroreflex. Cells exhibiting STC-1 binding sites were found mainly within the caudal medial (Sm), gelantinous and commissural subnuclei of NTS. Cells containing STC-1 immunoreactivity were found to overlap those regions of NTS that contained STC-1 receptors. STC-1 protein and gene expression were also found within caudal NTS. In chloralose-urethane-anesthetized rats, microinjections of STC-1 (1.76-176 nM; 20 nl) into the caudal Sm elicited a dose-related decrease in AP. In contrast, injections of a nonbioactive form of STC-1 (STC-1+guanosine 5'-triphosphate [GTP]), the vehicle (0.9% saline), or GTP alone did not elicit cardiovascular responses. Additionally, injection of STC-1 into Sm potentiated the AP responses to electrical stimulation of the ipsilateral aortic depressor nerve. Finally, bilateral injection of STC-1 primary antiserum (1:1000; 100 nl) into Sm elicited a long lasting increase in AP, whereas microinjection of heat inactivated STC-1 antiserum did not alter AP. Taken together these data suggest that endogenous STC-1 signaling in NTS is involved in regulating the excitability of neurons that normally function as components of the baroreceptor reflex controlling AP.
The vagus nerves supply the major cholinergic tone to airway smooth muscles physiologically and play critical roles in the genesis of airway hyperreactivity under some pathological conditions. Postganglionic airway cholinergic tone relies largely on the ongoing activity of medullary airway vagal preganglionic neurons (AVPNs), of which the tracheobronchial-projecting ones are primarily located in the external formation of the nucleus ambiguus (eNA). AVPNs are regulated by 5-HT, and 5-HT(1A/7) and 5-HT(2) receptors have been indicated to be involved. But the mechanisms at synaptic level are unknown. In the present study, tracheobronchial-projecting AVPNs (T-AVPNs) were retrogradely labeled from the trachea wall; fluorescently labeled T-AVPNs in the eNA were recorded with whole-cell voltage patch clamp; and the effects of 5-HT(1A/7) receptor agonist ()-8-Hydroxy-2-(dipropylamino) tetralin hydrobromide (8-OH-DPAT) (1 mol L(-1)) and 5-HT(2) receptor agonist 1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI) (10 mol L(-1)) on the synaptic inputs were examined. 8-OH-DPAT significantly inhibited the GABAergic and glycinergic spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs) of T-AVPNs in both the frequency and amplitude but had no effect on the GABAergic and glycinergic miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs). The 8-OH-DPAT inhibition of the GABAergic and glycinergic sIPSCs was prevented by 5-HT(1A/7) receptor antagonist N-[2-[4-(2-Methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl] ethyl]-N-2-pyridinylcyclohexanecarboxamide maleate salt (WAY-100635) (1 mol L(-1)). 8-OH-DPAT had no effect on the glutamatergic spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (sEPSCs) and caused no alterations in the baseline current and input resistance of T-AVPNs. DOI had no effect on any types of the synaptic inputs of T-AVPNs. These results suggest that 5-HT(1A/7) receptor agonist causes &quot;disinhibition&quot; of T-AVPNs, which might, in part, account for the reflex increase of airway resistance.
We previously reported that the anti-inflammatory cytokine interleukin (IL)-4 induced selective clearance of oligomeric -amyloid (A(1-42)) in rat primary type 2 microglial cells. For the present study, we investigated whether IL-4 and IL-13 could activate microglial cells to induce A clearance in vivo and improve cognitive deficits in APP23 mice, which are amyloid precursor protein transgenic mice. We administered an intracerebral microinjection of a mixture of IL-4 and IL-13 or of saline vehicle into one hemisphere of APP23 mice and their wild-type littermates, 4.5 and 9 months old, after which we evaluated the effects of these treatments on spatial learning and memory by Morris Water Maze test and on accumulated amounts of A. The cytokine injection significantly improved memory deficits of 4.5-month-old APP23 mice, but did not do so in 9-month-old APP23 mice, even though similar A reductions were observed in both age groups of APP23 mice in the ipsilateral neocortex. The cytokine injection improved memory impairment of 9-month-old wild-type (WT) mice in the probe trial. Immunohistochemical analysis of the 4.5-month-old APP23 mice revealed the presence of increased numbers of microglial cells at 2 days after the cytokine injection. In addition to induced CD36 expression in the activated microglia, increased expression of neprilysin, mainly in neurons, suggested that the cytokines improved the cognitive deficits via degradation and clearance of intra- and extraneuronal A peptides, of buffer-extractable nonplaque form. Double immunostaining also revealed that most of the activated microglia had the M2-like phenotype. This unique mechanism of IL-4/IL-13-induced clearance of A may provide an additional strategy to prevent and/or cure Alzheimer's disease at early stage.
We investigated the role of inositol 1, 4, 5-trisphosphate receptors (IP3Rs) that were activated during preconditioning low-frequency afferent stimulation (LFS) in the subsequent induction of synaptic plasticity in CA1 neurons in hippocampal slices from mature guinea pigs. In standard perfusate, long-term potentiation (LTP) was induced in the field excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) by the delivery of LFS (80 pulses at 1 Hz), and was reversed by an identical LFS applied 20 min later. However, when CA1 synapses were preconditioned in the presence of an IP3R antagonist and stimulated by the second LFS in the absence of the antagonist, LTP was not reversed, but was increased, by the second LFS. In addition, when CA1 synapses were preconditioned in standard solution, but stimulated by the second LFS in the presence of an N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) antagonist, LTP was again not reversed, but increased. The excitatory postsynaptic current (EPSC) through NMDARs recorded from CA1 pyramidal neurons increased significantly 20 min after a single LFS and this increase was inhibited when the LFS was delivered in the presence of an IP3R antagonist or a Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II inhibitor. These results suggest that activation of IP3Rs by a preconditioning LFS results in postsynaptic protein phosphorylation and/or enhancement of NMDAR activation during a subsequent LFS, leading to reversal of LTP in the field EPSP in hippocampal CA1 neurons.
The present study sought to investigate if p53 mediates autophagy activation and mitochondria dysfunction in primary striatal neurons in kainic acid (KA)-induced excitotoxicity. The excitotoxic model of primary striatal neurons was established with KA. The levels of p53, microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 (LC3), Beclin1, and p62 were examined by Western blot and immunostaining. Autophagy activation was also determined with electron microscope. To evaluate the contribution of p53 to autophagy activation and mitochondria dysfunction in KA-induced excitotoxicity, the protein levels of LC3, Beclin1, and p62, the mitochondrial transmembrane potential and the mitochondrial Reactive oxygen species (ROS) after pretreatment with the p53 inhibitor pifithrin-alpha (PFT-) and the autophagy inhibitor 3-methyladenine (3-MA) were analyzed. Excitotoxic neuronal injury was induced after KA treatment as demonstrated by increases in lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) leakage and was significantly inhibited by PFT-. Western blot and immunostaining showed that the induction of p53 protein occurred in the cytosol and the nucleus. Increases in autophagic proteins LC3 and Beclin1 were observed, whereas the protein levels of p62 decreased after KA treatment. Electron microscope analysis showed increased autophagosomes in the cytoplasm. The changes in LC3, Beclin1, and p62 levels were blocked by PFT-, PFT-, 3-MA, and E64d but not Z-DEVD-FMK. JC-1 staining showed the depolarization of mitochondrial membrane potential after excitotoxic insult. Mito-tracker and RedoxSensor Red CC-1 staining showed an increased production of mitochondrial ROS after excitotoxic insult. These effects were significantly suppressed after pretreatment with PFT- and 3-MA. This study suggests that p53 mediates KA-induced autophagy activation and mitochondrial dysfunction in striatal neurons.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR) can control neuronal excitability by modulating several ionic channels. In hippocampal pyramidal cells, groups I/II mGluR are located extrasynaptically, suggesting that their endogenous activation is dependent on the glutamate clearance rate and therefore on excitatory amino-acid transporters (EAAT) efficiency. Deficiency of glutamate uptake can generate seizures in rodents and has been suggested as a mechanism of seizure generation in some human epileptic syndromes. However, the cellular mechanisms linking EAAT dysfunction and pathological cortical activities remain elusive. Here, we investigate the possible role of mGluR on paroxysmal burst of multiple unit activities (MUA) generated in the CA1 region of developing hippocampal slices using an EAAT inhibitor, TBOA. These bursts are generated by a synaptic release of glutamate and involve extrasynaptic NMDA receptors (NMDAR) activated by transmitter spillover. Here, we show that postsynaptic mGluR (groups I/II) are tonically activated by the rise in ambient glutamate concentration after EAAT inhibition and strongly contribute to paroxysmal burst genesis. The inhibition of mGluR with broad spectrum antagonists or addition of a glutamate scavenger strongly reduced the occurrence of paroxysmal burst and the frequency/number of MUA during the burst. Moreover, this endogenous activation of groups I/II mGluR leads to (i) the reduction of the slow afterhyperpolarization current (I(sAHP)), increasing the firing pattern of pyramidal cells, and (ii) the potentiation of extrasynaptic NMDAR-mediated responses, enabling glutamate spillover to generate a suprathreshold depolarization for several seconds. Our data show that an insufficient buffering of extracellular glutamate enables a cross talk between groups I/II mGluR and NMDAR, which, combined with a decrease of I(sAHP), leads to the hyperexcitability of the hippocampal network, facilitating the genesis of epileptical-like activity in response to glutamate release. These findings highlight the importance of the control exerted by EAAT on mGluR.
Interleukin-10 (IL-10) has important anti-inflammatory effects and can be protective in inflammatory conditions, such as chronic pain and infection. Exploring factors that modulate IL-10 levels may provide insight into pathomechanisms of inflammatory conditions and may provide a method of neuroprotection during these conditions. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation of astrocytes is a source of IL-10; hence, it is of interest to investigate factors that modulate this process. Glutamate is present in increased concentrations in inflammatory conditions, and astrocytes also express glutamate receptors. The present study, therefore, investigated whether glutamate modulates LPS stimulation of IL-10 release from neonatal spinal cord astrocytes. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) were used to quantify IL-10 release from cultured neonatal spinal cord astrocytes, and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was used to measure IL-10 mRNA expression. Glutamate (1 mM) significantly increased LPS (1 g/ml)-stimulated IL-10 release from astrocytes by 166% and significantly upregulated IL-10 mRNA levels. Glutamate synergistically signaled through metabotropic glutamate receptor subgroups and the phospholipase C signaling pathway. Spinal cord astrocytes may, therefore, play a larger anti-inflammatory role than first thought in situations where glutamate and a high concentration of Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) agonists are present.
We tested the hypothesis that antagonism of progesterone receptor (PR) in newborn rats alters carotid body and respiratory responses to hypoxia and nicotinic receptor agonists. Rats were treated with the PR antagonist mifepristone (daily oral gavage 40 g/g/d) or vehicle between postnatal days 3 and 15. In 11-14-day-old rats, we used in vitro carotid body/carotid sinus nerve preparation and whole body plethysmography to assess the carotid body and ventilatory responses to hypoxia (65 mmHg in vitro, 10% O2 in vivo) and to nicotinic receptor agonists (as an excitatory modulator of carotid body activity-nicotine 100 M for in vitro studies, and epibatidine 5 g/kg, i.p., which mainly acts on peripheral nicotinic receptors, for in vivo studies). The carotid body responses to hypoxia and nicotine were drastically reduced by mifepristone. Compared with vehicle, mifepristone-treated rats had a reduced body weight. The ventilatory response to epibatidine was attenuated; however, the hypoxic ventilatory response was similar between vehicle and mifepristone-treated pups. Immunohistochemical staining revealed that mifepristone treatment did not change carotid body morphology. We conclude that PR activity is a critical factor ensuring proper carotid body function in newborn rats.
Many patients suffer from secondary muscle hyperalgesia after experiencing angina pectoris. In this study, we examined the role of the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) and glutamate receptors in modulating cardiac-evoked muscle hyperalgesia induced by pericardial capsaicin, which was monitored by recording electromyogram (EMG) activity from the spinotrapezius muscle in the anesthetized rat. Unilateral chemical lesioning of the commissural NTS with the neurotoxin ibotenic acid significantly depressed the cardiac-somatic reflex; the EMG responses decreased to 56.4  6.9% of that of the controls (5 of 5). Microinjection of the excitatory amino acid glutamate, at 10, 20, and 50 nmol, into the commissural NTS increased the EMG response, in a dose-dependent manner, to 116.9  4.9%, 143.9  10.2%, and 214.2  15.8% (n=8), respectively, of that of the controls. In contrast, microinjection of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist (+)-5-methyl-10, 11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo [a, d]-cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate (MK-801) at 4 and 6 nmol, decreased the EMG response to 45.2  10.6% and 36.8  14.3%, respectively, of that of the controls (n=8 for each dose). Similarly, the metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) antagonist (RS)-a-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine (MCPG), at 2.5 and 5 nmol, decreased the EMG response to 65.2  16.3% and 57.0  4.2%, respectively, of that of the controls. When a combination of MK-801 and MCPG was administrated, the EMG response further decreased to 22.5  13.2% (n=6) of that of the controls. However, administration of a non-NMDA receptor antagonist 6, 7-dinitroquinoxaline-2, 3-dione (DNQX), at 2 and 5 nmol, had no effect on the EMG response. These results suggest that the NTS is involved in the facilitation of the cardiac-somatic reflex, and that the NMDA receptor and mGluRs play an important role in mediating this effect.
-synuclein (-Syn) is a chaperone-like protein that is highly implicated in Parkinson's disease (PD) as well as in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Rare forms of PD occur in individuals with mutations of -Syn or triplication of wild type -Syn, and in both PD and DLB the intraneuronal inclusions known as Lewy bodies contain aggregated -Syn that is highly phosphorylated on serine 129. In neuronal cells and in the brains of -Syn overexpressing transgenic mice, soluble -Syn stimulates the activity of protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A), a major serine/threonine phosphatase. Serine 129 phosphorylation of -Syn attenuates its stimulatory effects on PP2A and also accelerates -Syn aggregation; however, it is unknown if aggregation of -Syn into Lewy bodies impairs PP2A activity. To assess for this, we measured the impact of -Syn aggregation on PP2A activity in vitro and in vivo. In cell-free assays, aggregated -Syn had 50% less PP2A stimulatory effects than soluble recombinant -Syn. Similarly in DLB and -Syn triplication brains, which contain robust -Syn aggregation with high levels of serine 129 phosphorylation, PP2A activity was also 50% attenuated. As -Syn normally stimulates PP2A activity, our data suggest that overexpression of -Syn or sequestration of -Syn into Lewy bodies has the potential to alter the phosphorylation state of key PP2A substrates; raising the possibility that all forms of synucleinopathy will benefit from treatments aimed at optimizing PP2A activity.
Neonatal ventral hippocampal lesions (NVHL) in rats are considered a potent developmental model of schizophrenia. After NVHL, rats appear normal during their preadolescent time, whereas in early adulthood, they develop behavioral deficits paralleling symptomatic aspects of schizophrenia, including hyperactivity, hypersensitivity to amphetamine (AMPH), prepulse and latent inhibition deficits, reduced social interactions, and spatial working and reference memory alterations. Surprisingly, the question of the consequences of NVHL on postnatal neurobehavioral development has not been addressed. This is of particular importance, as a defective neurobehavioral development could contribute to impairments seen in adult rats. Therefore, at several time points of the early postsurgical life of NVHL rats, we assessed behaviors accounting for neurobehavioral development, including negative geotaxis and grip strength (PD11), locomotor coordination (PD21), and open-field (PD25). At adulthood, the rats were tested for anxiety levels, locomotor activity, as well as spatial reference memory performance. Using a novel task, we also investigated the consequences of the lesions on procedural-like memory, which had never been tested following NVHL. Our results point to preserved neurobehavioral development. They also confirm the already documented locomotor hyperactivity, spatial reference memory impairment, and hyperresponsiveness to AMPH. Finally, our rseults show for the first time that NVHL disabled the development of behavioral routines, suggesting dramatic procedural memory deficits. The presence of procedural memory deficits in adult rats subjected to NHVL suggests that the lesions lead to a wider range of cognitive deficits than previously shown. Interestingly, procedural or implicit memory impairments have also been reported in schizophrenic patients.
The 7* nicotinic acetylcholine receptor encoded by CHRNA7 (human)/Chrna7 (mice) regulates the release of both the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA and the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate in the hippocampal formation. A heterozygous (Het) deletion at 15q13.3 containing CHRNA7 is associated with increased risk for schizophrenia, autism, and epilepsy. Each of these diseases are characterized by abnormalities in excitatory and inhibitory hippocampal circuit function. Reduced Chrna7 expression results in decreased hippocampal 7* receptor density, abnormal hippocampal auditory sensory processing, and increased hippocampal CA3 pyramidal neuron activity in C3H mice Het for a null mutation in Chrna7. These abnormalities demonstrate that decreased Chrna7 expression alters hippocampal inhibitory circuit function. The current study examined the specific impact of reduced Chrna7 expression on hippocampal inhibitory circuits by measuring the levels of GABA, GABA(A) receptors, the GABA synthetic enzyme l-glutamic acid decarboxylase-65 (GAD-65), and the vesicular GABA transporter 1 (GAT-1) in wild-type (Chrna7 +/+) and Het (Chrna7 +/-) C3H 7 mice of both genders. GAD-65 levels were significantly decreased in male and female Het C3H 7 mice, whereas GABA(A) receptors were significantly reduced only in male Het C3H 7 mice. No changes in GABA and GAT-1 levels were detected. These data suggest that reduced CHRNA7 expression may contribute to the abnormalities in hippocampal inhibitory circuits observed in schizophrenia, autism, and/or epilepsy.
In the present study, the effect of medroxyprogesterone (MPA) is evaluated for its effect on pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) kindling model of epileptogenesis in mice followed by evaluation on kindling-induced changes in cognitive and motor functions. To explore whether the effects are mediated via progesterone receptors, a selective antagonist of progesterone (mifepristone, MIF) was also taken. Kindling was induced by once every 2 days treatment with PTZ (25 mg/kg, i.p.) for 5 weeks. The seizure severity during induction of kindling and % incidence of animals kindled at the end of 5 weeks were recorded. The motor function was assessed using a grip strength meter, whereas spatial memory was assessed in a cross maze. MPA (5 and 10 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly reduced the seizure severity scores and produced a significant decrease in the incidence of animals kindled at the end of 5 weeks (P&lt;0.01). A higher efficacy was observed against male mice as compared with females following MPA. MIF neither reduced nor delayed the development of PTZ-induced kindling in mice. Also, it couldn't reverse the antiepileptogenic effects of MPA. On grip strength test (GST) and spontaneous alternation behavior (SAB), a significant decline in GST and % alternation was observed in kindled mice which was reversed by pre-treatment with MPA. MIF, however, could reverse only the reduced % alternation and not grip strength (GS) in PTZ-kindled animals. The study shows that MPA has antiepileptogenic effects against development of PTZ-induced kindling in mice that may not be mediated via progesterone receptors.
Yokukansan (YKS), a traditional Japanese medicine, is composed of seven kinds of dried herbs. It is widely prescribed in clinical situation for treating psychiatric disorders such as aggressiveness in patients with dementia. We previously demonstrated that YKS and Uncaria hook (UH), which is a constituent herb of YKS, had a partial agonistic effect to 5-HT(1A) receptors in vitro. However, it has still been unclear whether this in vitro effect is reflected in in vivo, and what the active ingredients are. The purpose of the present study is to find the active ingredient in YKS and to demonstrate the effect in in vivo. In the present study, we first studied the effect of YKS and UH on aggressiveness and sociality in socially isolated mice. YKS and UH ameliorated the isolation-induced increased aggressiveness and decreased sociality, and these ameliorative effects were counteracted by coadministration of 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonist WAY-100635, or disappeared by eliminating UH from YKS. These results suggest that the effect of YKS is mainly attributed to UH, and the active ingredient is contained in UH. To find the candidate ingredients, we examined competitive binding assay and [(35)S] guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) (GTPS) binding assay of seven major alkaloids in UH using Chinese hamster ovary cells expressing 5-HT(1A) receptors artificially. Only geissoschizine methyl ether (GM) among seven alkaloids potently bound to 5-HT(1A) receptors and acted as a partial agonist. This in vitro result on GM was further demonstrated in the socially isolated mice. As did YKS and UH, GM ameliorated the isolation-induced increased aggressiveness and decreased sociality, and the effect was counteracted by coadministration of WAY-100635. These lines of results suggest that GM in UH is potent 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist and a candidate for pharmacological effect of YKS on aggressiveness and sociality in socially isolated mice.
We have recently found that the combination of ovariectomy (OVX) and chronic restraint stress (CS) causes hippocampal pyramidal cell loss and cognitive dysfunction in female rats and that estrogen replacement prevents the OVX/CS-induced morphological and behavioral changes. In this study, to clarify the mechanisms underlying the OVX/CS-mediated memory impairment further, we examined the roles of cholinergic systems in the OVX/CS-induced memory impairment in mice. Female Slc:ICR strain mice were randomly divided into two groups: OVX and sham-operated groups. Two weeks after the operation, the mice of each group were further assigned to CS (6 h/day) or non-stress group. Following the 3-week-stress period, all mice were subjected to contextual fear conditioning, and context- and tone-dependent memory tests were conducted 1 or 24 h after the conditioning. Overburden with 3 weeks of CS from 2 weeks after OVX impaired context- and tone-dependent freezing and the OVX/CS caused significant Nissl-stained neuron-like cell loss in the hippocampal CA3 region, although OVX and CS alone did not cause such behavioral and histological changes. Replacement of 17-estradiol for 5 weeks after OVX suppressed OVX/CS-induced memory impairment and hippocampal Nissl-positive cell loss. Furthermore, the OVX/CS mice exhibited a significant decrease in choline acetyltransferase in the hippocampus compared with other groups. The cholinesterase inhibitors donepezil and galantamine ameliorated OVX/CS-induced memory impairment. These data suggest that cholinergic dysfunction may be involved in the OVX/CS-induced conditioned fear memory impairment. Overall, our findings suggest that the OVX/CS mouse model is useful to study the mechanisms underlying estrogen loss-induced memory deficits.
Human movements are quickly adjusted to variations of inertial load. However, this adjustment does not always imply a full compensation, so that kinematic movement characteristics vary. The present experiment served to explore the consequences of a complex dynamic transformation, implemented by a sliding first-order lever, on the endpoint distributions of goal-directed movements. Whereas the endpoint distributions were clearly affected by the inertial anisotropy of the arm, there was no effect of the dynamic transformation of the lever, neither on the parameters of endpoint distributions nor on the covariations of endpoints of successive movements (error propagation). However, when the lever was used, the effect of the inertial anisotropy of the arm on movement amplitudes was reduced, accompanied by a longer movement time overall, in particular for movements with higher inertial load of the arm. These observations suggest an interaction of the use of internal models and impedance control in the presence of variable inertial loads. Most likely the influence of the dynamic transformation of the sliding lever is absorbed by increased joint impedance, which also reduces the influence of the inertial anisotropy of the arm which otherwise is (incompletely) compensated based on an internal model of the dynamic transformation of the arm.
Thyroid hormone plays an essential role in brain development, so its deficiency during a critical developmental period has been associated with profound neurological deficits, including irreversible mental retardation. Despite the importance of the disorder, the cellular mechanisms underlying these deficits remain largely unexplored. The aim of this study was to examine the effects of the absence of thyroid hormone on the postnatal development of membrane excitability of CA1 hippocampal pyramidal cells. Current clamp recordings in the whole cell patch clamp configuration showed that the action potential of cells from hypothyroid animals presented shorter width, slower depolarization, and faster repolarization rates compared with controls both in early postnatal and pre-weanling ages. Additionally, thyroid hormone deficiency reduced the intrinsic membrane excitability as measured by the reduced number of evoked action potentials for a given depolarizing slope and by the more depolarized firing threshold observed in hypothyroid animals. Then we analyzed the fast-repolarizing A- and D-type potassium currents, as they constitute one of the major factors underlying intrinsic membrane excitability. Hypothyroid rats showed increased A-current density and a reduced isolated I(D)-like current, accompanied by parallel changes in the expression of the channels responsible for these currents in the CA1 region: Kv4.2, Kv4.3, and Kv1.2. Therefore, we suggest that the increased A-current density, subsequent to an increment in its channel expression, together with the decrease of Na(+)-currents, might help explain the functional alterations in the neuronal discharge, in the firing threshold, and in the action potential repolarization of hypothyroid pyramidal neurons.
In animals, chronic stress leads to the development of depression-like behavior and decreases neurogenesis and blood vessel density in hippocampus, whereas antidepressants increase adult neurogenesis in hippocampus. Regular exercise training also has antidepressant action and increases hippocampal neurogenesis; however, whether exercise-induced antidepressant action is related to hippocampal microvasculature is unclear. To address this issue, we compared depression-like behavior, blood vessel density, and neurogenesis in hippocampal dentate gyrus between stressed and exercised mice with or without administration of inhibitor of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptor. Chronic stress led to the development of depression-like behavior, decreased blood vessel density, and neurogenesis in hippocampus. Regular exercise training improved depression-like behavior, the decrease of hippocampal blood vessel density, and neurogenesis in the stress state, whereas the combination of regular exercise and administration of SU1498, VEGF receptor Flk-1 inhibitor, canceled the exercise-induced antidepressant effect. These findings suggested that the improvement of hippocampal blood vessel and adult neurogenesis via VEGF signaling pathway is necessary for exercise-induced antidepressant effect.
Sensory input from the airways to suprapontine brain regions contributes to respiratory sensations and the regulation of respiratory function. However, relatively little is known about the central organization of this higher brain circuitry. We exploited the properties of the H129 strain of herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) to perform anterograde transneuronal tracing of the central projections of airway afferent nerve pathways. The extrathoracic trachea in Sprague-Dawley rats was inoculated with HSV-1 H129, and tissues along the neuraxis were processed for HSV-1 immunoreactivity. H129 infection appeared in the vagal sensory ganglia within 24 h and the number of infected cells peaked at 72 h. Brainstem nuclei, including the nucleus of the solitary tract and trigeminal sensory nuclei were infected within 48 h, and within 96 h infected cells were evident within the pons (lateral and medial parabrachial nuclei), thalamus (ventral posteromedial, ventral posterolateral, submedius, and reticular nuclei), hypothalamus (paraventricular and lateral nuclei), subthalamus (zona incerta), and amygdala (central and anterior amygdala area). At later times H129 was detected in cortical forebrain regions including the insular, orbital, cingulate, and somatosensory cortices. Vagotomy significantly reduced the number of infected cells within vagal sensory nuclei in the brainstem, confirming the main pathway of viral transport is through the vagus nerves. Sympathetic postganglionic neurons in the stellate and superior cervical ganglia were infected by 72 h, however, there was no evidence for retrograde transynaptic movement of the virus in sympathetic pathways in the central nervous system (CNS). These data demonstrate the organization of key structures within the CNS that receive afferent projections from the extrathoracic airways that likely play a role in the perception of airway sensations.
Cardiorespiratory control neurons in the brainstem nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) undergo dramatic expansion of dendritic arbors during the early postnatal period, when functional remodeling takes place within the NTS circuitry. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms of morphological maturation of NTS neurons are largely unknown. Our previous studies point to the neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), which is abundantly expressed by NTS-projecting primary sensory neurons, as a candidate mediator of NTS dendritogenesis. In the current study, we used neonatal rat NTS neurons in vitro to examine the role of BDNF in the dendritic development of neurochemically identified subpopulations of NTS neurons. In the presence of abundant glia, BDNF promoted NTS dendritic outgrowth and complexity, with the magnitude of the BDNF effect dependent on neuronal phenotype. Surprisingly, BDNF switched from promoting to inhibiting NTS dendritogenesis upon glia depletion. Moreover, glia depletion alone led to a significant increase in NTS dendritic outgrowth. Consistent with this result, astrocyte-conditioned medium (ACM), which promoted hippocampal dendritogenesis, inhibited dendritic growth of NTS neurons. The latter effect was abolished by heat-inactivation of ACM, pointing to a diffusible astrocyte-derived negative regulator of NTS dendritic growth. Together, these data demonstrate a role for BDNF in the postnatal development of NTS neurons, and reveal novel effects of glia on this process. Moreover, previously documented dramatic increases in NTS glial proliferation in victims of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) underscore the importance of our findings and the need to better understand the role of glia and their interactions with BDNF during NTS circuit maturation. Furthermore, while it has previously been demonstrated that the specific effects of BDNF on dendritic growth are context-dependent, the role of glia in this process is unknown. Thus, our data carry important implications for mechanisms of dendritogenesis likely beyond the NTS.
Early-life stress has been shown to increase susceptibility to anxiety and substance abuse. Disrupted activity within the anterior insular cortex (AIC) has been shown to play a role in both of these disorders. Altered serotonergic processing is implicated in controlling the activity levels of the associated cognitive networks. We therefore investigated changes in both serotonin receptor expression and glutamatergic synaptic activity in the AIC of alcohol-drinking rhesus monkeys. We studied tissues from male rhesus monkeys raised under two conditions: Male rhesus monkeys (1) &quot;mother reared&quot; (MR) by adult females (n=9) or (2) &quot;Nursery reared&quot; (NR), that is, separated from their mothers and reared as a separate group under surrogate/peer-reared conditions (n=9). The NR condition represents a long-standing and well-validated nonhuman primate model of early life stress. All monkeys were trained to self-administer ethanol (4% w/v) or an isocaloric maltose-dextrin control solution. Subsets from each rearing condition were then given daily access to ethanol, water, or maltose-dextrin for 12 months. Tissues were collected at necropsy and were further analyzed. Using real time RT-PCR we found that ethanol-naive, NR monkeys had lower AIC levels of 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(2A) receptor mRNA compared with ethanol-naive, MR animals. Although NR monkeys consumed more ethanol over the 12-month period compared with MR animals, both MR and NR animals expressed greater 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(2A) receptor mRNA levels following chronic alcohol self-administration. The interaction between nursery-rearing conditions and alcohol consumption resulted in a significant enhancement of both 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(2A) receptor mRNA levels such that lower expression levels observed in nursery-rearing conditions were not found in the alcohol self-administration group. Using voltage clamp recordings in the whole cell configuration we recorded excitatory postsynaptic currents in both ethanol-naive and chronic self-administration groups of NR and MR monkeys. Both groups that self-administered ethanol showed greater glutamatergic activity within the AIC. This AIC hyperactivity in MR alcohol-consuming monkeys was accompanied by an increased sensitivity to regulation by presynaptic 5-HT(1A) receptors that was not apparent in the ethanol-naive, MR group. Our data indicate that chronic alcohol consumption leads to greater AIC activity and may indicate a compensatory upregulation of presynaptic 5-HT(1A) receptors. Our results also indicate that AIC activity may be less effectively regulated by 5-HT in ethanol-naive NR animals than in NR monkeys in response to chronic ethanol self-administration. These data suggest possible mechanisms for increased alcohol seeking and possible addiction potential among young adults who had previously experienced early-life stress that include disruptions in both AIC activity and serotonin system dynamics.
Recent studies suggest that the main olfactory bulb (OB) represents a functional circadian pacemaker. In many altricial mammals, during pre-visual stages of development the olfactory system plays a vital role in their survival. One remarkable example is the European rabbit; the newborns are normally raised in a dark nursery burrow, and the lactating female briefly visits her young approximately once every 24 h. Under these conditions, newborn rabbits depend on the circadian system to anticipate the arrival of the lactating doe as well as on pheromonal cues on the mother's ventrum to locate nipples and suckle efficiently. To investigate the development of the rabbit's circadian system, we characterized the 24-h pattern of expression of clock genes in the OB and suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of pre-visual week-old rabbits and compared this with the pattern of expression in visual juvenile rabbits several weeks after weaning. We report for the first time that Per1, Cry1, and Bmal1 are expressed in the OB of newborn and juvenile rabbits. In addition, the diurnal pattern of clock gene expression develops earlier in the OB than in the SCN of newborn rabbits. Given the early maturation of the molecular clockwork and the biological relevance of this structure during development, it is possible that the OB plays an important role in temporal regulation during pre-visual life in rabbits.
In spite of the initial and pivotal findings that the newly identified neuropeptide S (NPS) promotes arousal associated with locomotor and anxiolytic-like effects, the mechanisms through which NPS acts to modulate sleep-waking states remain unclear. The present study was undertaken to investigate in the rat the effects of i.c.v. injection of NPS on the EEG, sleep-wake cycle, and brain c-Fos expression. NPS at 0.1 and 1 nmol increased significantly wakefulness (W) during the first 2 h (54.7  3.2 and 64.9  2.1 min, respectively, vs. 41.4  2.5 min seen with saline injections, P&lt;0.01 and P&lt;0.001), accompanied by an increase in EEG high frequency activities (14.5-60 Hz). In the meanwhile, slow wave sleep (SWS) and paradoxical sleep (PS) decreased significantly. Ex-vivo Fos immunohistochemistry in the posterior hypothalamus revealed that, as compared with saline-treated rats, NPS enhanced c-Fos expression in histaminergic neurons by 76.0% in the ventral tuberomammillary nucleus (TMN) and 57.8% in the dorsal TMN, and in orexinergic neurons by 28.2% in the perifornical nucleus (PeF), 24.3% in the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus (DMH), and 13.7% in the lateral hypothalamic area (LH) of the posterior hypothalamus. The NPS-induced c-Fos expression in histaminergic neurons and orexinergic neurons where NPS receptor (NPSR) mRNA is highly expressed, suggests that NPS activates histaminergic and orexinergic neurons to promote W.
Cocaine's multiple pharmacological substrates are ubiquitously present in the peripheral and central nervous system. Thus, upon its administration, cocaine acts in the periphery before directly acting in the brain. We determined whether cocaine alters ventral tegmental area (VTA) neuronal activity via its peripheral actions. In urethane-anesthetized rats, we recorded VTA neuron's responses to intravenous injections of two cocaine analogs: cocaine-hydrochloride (HCl, 0.25 mg/kg), which readily cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB), and cocaine-methiodide (MI, 0.33 mg/kg), which does not cross the BBB. Both cocaine analogs produced sustained changes in discharge rates that began 5 s after the initiation of a 10-s drug infusion. Within the first 90 s post-injection, the magnitudes of neuronal responsiveness of both cocaine analogs were comparable, but later the effects of cocaine-HCl were stronger and persisted longer than those of cocaine-MI. The proportion of neurons responsive to cocaine-HCl was twice that of cocaine-MI (74% and 35%, respectively). Both analogs also differed in their response onsets. Cocaine-MI rarely evoked responses after 1 min, whereas cocaine-HCl continued to evoke responses within 3 min post-injection. VTA neurons were either excited or inhibited by both cocaine analogs. Most units responsive to cocaine-MI, regardless of whether they were excited or inhibited, had electrophysiological characteristics of putative dopamine (DA) neurons. Units inhibited by cocaine-HCl also had characteristics of DA neurons, whereas excited neurons had widely varying action potential durations and discharge rates. Cocaine-MI and cocaine-HCl each produced changes in VTA neuron activity under full DA receptor blockade. However, the duration of inhibition was shortened and the number of excitations increased, and they occurred with an earlier onset during DA receptor blockade. These findings indicate that cocaine acts peripherally with a short latency and alters the activity of VTA neurons before its well-known direct actions in the brain.
Background: Freezing of gait (FOG) is one of the most disabling symptoms in Parkinson's disease (PD), and cueing has been reported to improve FOG during straight-line walking. Studies on how cueing affects FOG during turning are lacking. Given the asymmetrical nature of turning and the asymmetrical disease expression, we aimed to gain a new perspective on how unilateral cueing may alleviate FOG. Objective: To explore disease dominance and turning side as contributing factors to turning problems and FOG and to investigate the effect of unilateral cueing. Methods: In the first study, 13 PD patients with FOG (freezers) and 13 without FOG (nonfreezers) turned toward their disease-dominant and nondominant side (off medication). During the second study, 16 freezers and 14 nonfreezers turned with and without a unilateral auditory cue at -10% of preferred cadence. Total number of steps, turn duration, cadence, and FOG episodes were measured using VICON. Results: Cadence, but not FOG frequency, was higher when turning toward the disease-dominant side. FOG started more frequently (64.9%) on the inner side of the turning cycle. Unilateral cueing seemed to prevent FOG in most patients, irrespective of the side at which the cue was offered. A carryover effect was found for cadence during turning, but the effect on FOG disappeared when the cue was removed. Conclusions: The occurrence of FOG is not influenced by turning toward the disease-dominant or nondominant side, which is confirmed by the fact that it does not make a difference at which side unilateral cueing is applied. Cueing reduces FOG during turning, but these effects disappear dramatically after cue removal. This raises further questions as to the influence of training on cue dependency and on the feasibility of either continuous application of cues or using cognitive strategies as an alternative.
Cannabinoids have emerged as brain protective agents under neurodegenerative conditions. Many neuroprotective actions of cannabinoids depend on the activation of specific receptors, cannabinoid receptor type 1 (CB1R) and type 2 (CB2R). The aim of the present study was to determine whether the CB2R and CB1R agonist WIN 55,212-2 (WIN) protects neonatal brain against focal cerebral ischemia-reperfusion and whether anti-inflammatory mechanisms play a role in protection. Seven-day-old rats were subjected to 90-min middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO), and injured rats were identified by diffusion-weighted MRI during the occlusion. After reperfusion, rats were subcutaneously administered 1 mg/kg of WIN or vehicle twice daily until sacrifice. MCAO led to increased mRNA expression of CB2R (but not CB1R), chemokine receptors (CCR2 and CX3CR1), and cytokines (IL-1 and TNF), as well as increased protein expression of chemokines MCP-1 and MIP-1 and microglial activation 24 h after MCAO. WIN administration significantly reduced microglial activation at this point and attenuated infarct volume and microglial accumulation and proliferation in the injured cortex 72 h after MCAO. Cumulatively, our results show that the cannabinoid agonist WIN protects against neonatal focal stroke in part due to inhibitory effects on microglia.
Diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging provides a way of assessing the asymmetry of white matter (WM) connectivity, the degree of anisotropic diffusion within a given voxel being a marker of coherently bundled myelinated fibers. Voxel-based statistical analysis was performed on fractional anisotropy (FA) images of 42 right- and 40 left-handers, to assess differences in underlying WM anisotropy and FA asymmetry across the whole brain. Right-handers show greater anisotropy than left-handers in the uncinate fasciculus (UF) within the limbic lobe, and WM underlying prefrontal cortex, medial and inferior frontal gyri. Significantly greater leftward FA asymmetry in cerebellum posterior lobe is seen in left- than right-handers, and males show significantly greater rightward (right-greater-than-left) FA asymmetry in regions of middle occipital lobe, medial temporal gyrus, and a region of the superior longitudinal fasciculus underlying the supramarginal gyrus. Leftward (left-greater-than-right) anisotropy is found in regions of the arcuate fasciculus (AF), UF, and WM underlying pars triangularis in both handedness groups, with right-handers alone showing additional leftward FA asymmetry along the length of the superior temporal gyrus. Overall results indicate that although both handedness groups show anisotropy in similar WM regions, greater anisotropy is observed in right-handers compared with left-handers. The largest differences in FA asymmetry are found between males and females, suggesting a greater effect of sex than handedness on FA asymmetry.
The effect of visual deprivation followed by light exposure on the tangential organisation of dendritic bundles passing through layer 4 of the rat visual cortex was studied quantitatively in the light microscope. Four groups of animals were investigated: (I) rats reared in an environment illuminated normally--group 52 dL; (II) rats reared in the dark until 21 days postnatum (DPN) and subsequently light exposed for 31 days-group 21/31; (III) rats dark reared until 52 DPN and then subsequently light exposed for 3 days--group 3 dL; and (IV) rats totally dark reared until 52 DPN--group 52 DPN. Each group contained five animals. Semithin 0.5-1-m thick resin-embedded sections were collected from tangential sampling levels through the middle of layer 4 in area 17 and stained with Toluidine Blue. These sections were used to quantitatively analyse the composition and distribution of dendritic clusters in the tangential plane. The key result of this study indicates a significant reduction in the mean number of medium- and small-sized dendritic profiles (diameter less than 2 m) contributing to clusters in layer 4 of groups 3 dL and 52 dD compared with group 21/31. No differences were detected in the mean number of large-sized dendritic profiles composing a bundle in these experimental groups. Moreover, the mean number of clusters and their tangential distribution in layer 4 did not vary significantly between all four groups. Finally, the clustering parameters were not significantly different between groups 21/31 and the normally reared group 52 dL. This study demonstrates, for the first time, that extended periods of dark rearing followed by light exposure can alter the morphological composition of dendritic bundles in thalamorecipient layer 4 of rat visual cortex. Because these changes occur in the primary region of thalamocortical input, they may underlie specific alterations in the processing of visual information both cortically and subcortically during periods of dark rearing and light exposure.
This study examines the causes of hypothermia and rewarming injury in CA1, CA3, and dentate neurons in rat hippocampal slice cultures. Neuronal death, assessed with propidium iodide or Sytox fluorescence, Fluoro-Jade labeling, and Cresyl Violet staining, depended on the severity and duration of hypothermia. More than 6 h at temperatures less than 12 C followed by rewarming to 37 C (profound hypothermia and rewarming, PH/RW) caused swelling and death in large number of neurons in CA1, CA3, and dentate. During PH, [ATP] decreased and [Ca(2+)](I) and extracellular [glutamate] increased, with neuron rupture and nuclear condensation following RW. The data support the hypothesis that neuronal death from PH/RW is excitotoxic, due to ATP loss, glutamate receptor activation and Ca(2+) influx. We found that antagonism of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, but not 2-amino-3-(5-methyl-3-oxo-1,2- oxazol-4-yl) propanoic acid or metabotropic glutamate receptors, decreased neuron death and prevented increases in [Ca(2+)](I) caused by PH/RW. Chelating extracellular Ca(2+) decreased PH/RW injury, but inhibiting L- and T-type voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels, K+ channels, Ca(2+) release from the endoplasmic reticulum, and reverse Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchange did not affect the Ca(2+) changes or cell death. We conclude that the mechanism of PH/RW neuronal injury in hippocampal slices primarily involves intracellular Ca(2+) accumulation mediated by NMDA receptors that activates necrotic, but not apoptotic processes.
Auditory stream segregation involves linking temporally separate acoustic events into one or more coherent sequences. For any non-trivial sequence of sounds, many alternative descriptions can be formed, only one or very few of which emerge in awareness at any time. Evidence from studies showing bi-/multistability in auditory streaming suggest that some, perhaps many of the alternative descriptions are represented in the brain in parallel and that they continuously vie for conscious perception. Here, based on a predictive coding view, we consider the nature of these sound representations and how they compete with each other. Predictive processing helps to maintain perceptual stability by signalling the continuation of previously established patterns as well as the emergence of new sound sources. It also provides a measure of how well each of the competing representations describes the current acoustic scene. This account of auditory stream segregation has been tested on perceptual data obtained in the auditory streaming paradigm.
Human paraoxonase 1 (PON1), a 45kDa arylesterase associated with circulating high density lipoproteins (HDL), has been described as an anti-atherogenic element in cardiovascular disorders. The efficacy of PON1 as a catalytic bioscavenger against OP and CWNA toxicity has been on debate for the last few decades. Hydrolysis of various organophosphates (OPs) and chemical warfare nerve agents (CWNAs) by PON1 has been demonstrated in both in vitro and in vivo experiments. Recently, we established the protective efficacy of human and rabbit serum purified PON1 as well as human recombinant PON1 expressed in Trichoplusia ni larvae against nerve agent toxicity in guinea pigs. Exogenous administration of purified PON1 was effective in protecting against 1.2 X LCt(50) of sarin and soman administered endotracheally with microinstillation technology. However, the short half-life of exogenously administered PON1, probably due to poor association with circulating HDL, warrant alternative approaches for successful utility of PON1 in the treatment of OP/CWNA toxicity. In this mini review, we address the pros and cons of current PON1 prophylaxis and propose potential solutions for successful development of PON1 as an effective catalytic bioscavenger.
OBJECTIVE:: Early onset dementia (EOD) poses specific challenges and issues for both the patient and (in)formal care. This study explores the use of (in)formal care prior to institutionalization, and its association with patient and caregiver characteristics. DESIGN/SETTING:: Participants were part of a community-based prospective longitudinal study of 215 patients and their informal caregivers. PARTICIPANTS:: Baseline data of a subsample of 215 patient-caregiver dyads were analyzed. MEASUREMENTS:: Analyses of covariance were performed to determine correlates of (in)formal care use assessed with the Resource Utilization in Dementia (RUD)-Lite questionnaire. RESULTS:: Informal care had a 3:1 ratio with formal care. Supervision/surveillance constituted the largest part of informal care. In more than half of cases, patients had only one informal caregiver. The amount of informal care was associated with disease severity, showing more informal care hours in advanced disease stages. Fewer informal care hours were related to more caregiver working hours, especially in younger patients. The amount of formal care was related to disease severity, behavioral problems, and initiative for activities of daily living. CONCLUSION:: In EOD, it appears that family members provide most of the care. However, other social roles still have to be fulfilled. Especially in spousal caregivers of younger patients in advanced disease stages, there is a double burden of work and care responsibilities. This finding also indicates that even within the EOD group there might be important age-related differences. The relatively higher amount of formal care use during advanced disease stages suggests a postponement in the use of formal care.
One's own first-name is a special stimulus: one's attention is more likely captured by hearing one's own first-name than by hearing another first-name. Previous event-related potential (ERP) studies demonstrated that this special stimulus produces differential responses both in active and in passive condition. Such results suggest that passively hearing one's own first-name triggers processing levels generally activated by the explicit detection of stimuli. This questions about the particular power of the own first-name to automatically orient attention, but no study investigated the specific response to this special stimulus in a paradigm designed to study automatic attention orienting. In this ERP study, we compared the responses elicited by the own first-name (OWN) and one unfamiliar first-name (OTHER) presented, rarely, randomly and at the same frequency among repetitive tones (i.e., as novel stimuli in an oddball paradigm) while subjects (N=36) were watching a silent movie with subtitles. We tested at what latency the responses to OWN and OTHER diverge, and whether OWN modulates the brain orienting response (novelty P3). Data analysis showed specific responses to OWN after 300 ms. OWN only evoked a central negativity (320 ms) and a parietal positivity (550 ms). However, OWN had no significant effect on the brain orienting response (260 ms). Our results confirm that the own first-name does elicit a late specific brain response. However, they challenge the idea that in passive condition, the own first-name is systematically more powerful than another first-name to orient attention when it is heard unexpectedly.
In humans, exposure to contexts previously associated with heroin use can provoke relapse. In rats, exposure to heroin-paired contexts after extinction of drug-reinforced responding in different contexts reinstates heroin seeking. This effect is attenuated by inhibition of glutamate or dopamine transmission in nucleus accumbens shell, or inactivation of ventral medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Here, we used an anatomical asymmetrical disconnection procedure to demonstrate that an interaction between glutamatergic projections from ventral mPFC to accumbens shell and local dopamine D(1) postsynaptic receptors contributes to context-induced reinstatement of heroin seeking. We also combined the marker of neuronal activity, Fos, with the retrograde tracer Fluoro-Gold to assess activation in this pathway during context-induced reinstatement. Rats were trained to self-administer heroin for 12 d; drug infusions were paired with a discrete tone-light cue. Lever pressing was subsequently extinguished in a nondrug-associated context in the presence of the discrete cue. Rats were then tested in the heroin- or extinction-associated contexts under extinction conditions. Injections of muscimol + baclofen into ventral mPFC in one hemisphere and D(1)-family receptor antagonist SCH 23390 into the contralateral or ipsilateral accumbens shell decreased context-induced reinstatement. Unilateral injections of muscimol + baclofen into ventral mPFC or SCH 23390 into the accumbens shell had no effect. Context-induced reinstatement was associated with increased Fos expression in ventral mPFC neurons, including those projecting to accumbens shell, with higher double-labeling in the ipsilateral projection than in the contralateral projection. Our results demonstrate that activation of glutamatergic projections from ventral mPFC to accumbens shell, previously implicated in inhibition of cocaine relapse, promotes heroin relapse.
One of the greatest challenges of modern neuroscience is to discover the neural mechanisms of consciousness and to explain how they produce the conscious state. We sought the underlying neural substrate of human consciousness by manipulating the level of consciousness in volunteers with anesthetic agents and visualizing the resultant changes in brain activity using regional cerebral blood flow imaging with positron emission tomography. Study design and methodology were chosen to dissociate the state-related changes in consciousness from the effects of the anesthetic drugs. We found the emergence of consciousness, as assessed with a motor response to a spoken command, to be associated with the activation of a core network involving subcortical and limbic regions that become functionally coupled with parts of frontal and inferior parietal cortices upon awakening from unconsciousness. The neural core of consciousness thus involves forebrain arousal acting to link motor intentions originating in posterior sensory integration regions with motor action control arising in more anterior brain regions. These findings reveal the clearest picture yet of the minimal neural correlates required for a conscious state to emerge.
Neurons in a variety of species, both vertebrate and invertebrate, encode the kinematics of objects approaching on a collision course through a time-varying firing rate profile that initially increases, then peaks, and eventually decays as collision becomes imminent. In this temporal profile, the peak firing rate signals when the approaching object's subtended size reaches an angular threshold, an event which has been related to the timing of escape behaviors. In a locust neuron called the lobula giant motion detector (LGMD), the biophysical basis of this angular threshold computation relies on a multiplicative combination of the object's angular size and speed, achieved through a logarithmic-exponential transform. To understand how this transform is implemented, we modeled the encoding of angular velocity along the pathway leading to the LGMD based on the experimentally determined activation pattern of its presynaptic neurons. These simulations show that the logarithmic transform of angular speed occurs between the synaptic conductances activated by the approaching object onto the LGMD's dendritic tree and its membrane potential at the spike initiation zone. Thus, we demonstrate an example of how a single neuron's dendritic tree implements a mathematical step in a neural computation important for natural behavior.
A central tenet of motor neuroscience is that the cerebellum learns from sensory prediction errors. Surprisingly, neuroimaging studies have not revealed definitive signatures of error processing in the cerebellum. Furthermore, neurophysiologic studies suggest an asymmetry, such that the cerebellum may encode errors arising from unexpected sensory events, but not errors reflecting the omission of expected stimuli. We conducted an imaging study to compare the cerebellar response to these two types of errors. Participants made fast out-and-back reaching movements, aiming either for an object that delivered a force pulse if intersected or for a gap between two objects, either of which delivered a force pulse if intersected. Errors (missing the target) could therefore be signaled either through the presence or absence of a force pulse. In an initial analysis, the cerebellar BOLD response was smaller on trials with errors compared with trials without errors. However, we also observed an error-related decrease in heart rate. After correcting for variation in heart rate, increased activation during error trials was observed in the hand area of lobules V and VI. This effect was similar for the two error types. The results provide evidence for the encoding of errors resulting from either the unexpected presence or unexpected absence of sensory stimulation in the human cerebellum.
Hypertension, a powerful risk factor for stroke and dementia, has damaging effects on the brain and its vessels. In particular, hypertension alters vital cerebrovascular control mechanisms linking neural activity to cerebral perfusion. In experimental models of slow-developing hypertension, free radical signaling in the subfornical organ (SFO), one of the forebrain circumventricular organs, is critical for the hormonal release and sympathetic activation driving the elevation in arterial pressure. However, the contribution of this central mechanism to the cerebrovascular alterations induced by hypertension remains uncertain. We tested the hypothesis that free radical production in the SFO is involved in the alterations in cerebrovascular regulation produced by hypertension. In a mouse model of gradual hypertension induced by chronic administration of subpressor doses of angiotensin II (AngII), suppression of free radicals in the SFO by overexpression of CuZn-superoxide dismutase (CuZnSOD) prevented the alteration in neurovascular coupling and endothelium-dependent responses in somatosensory cortex induced by hypertension. The SFO mediates the dysfunction via two signaling pathways. One involves SFO-dependent activation of the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus, elevations in plasma vasopressin, upregulation of endothelin-1 in cerebral resistance arterioles and activation of endothelin type A receptors. The other pathway depends on activation of cerebrovascular AngII type 1 (AT1) receptors by AngII. Both pathways mediate vasomotor dysfunction by inducing vascular oxidative stress. The findings implicate for the first time the SFO and its efferent hypothalamic pathways in the cerebrovascular alterations induced by AngII, and identify vasopressin and endothelin-1 as potential therapeutic targets to counteract the devastating effects of hypertension on the brain.
How iron is delivered to the CNS for myelination is not well understood. We assessed whether astrocytes can provide iron to cells in the CNS for remyelination. To study this we generated a conditional deletion of the iron efflux transporter ferroportin (Fpn) in astrocytes, and induced focal demyelination in the mouse spinal cord dorsal column by microinjection of lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC). Remyelination assessed by electron microscopy was reduced in astrocyte-specific Fpn knock-out mice compared with wild-type controls, as was proliferation of oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs). Cell culture work showed that lack of iron reduces the ability of microglia to express cytokines (TNF- and IL-1) involved in remyelination. Furthermore, astrocytes in culture express high levels of FGF-2 in response to IL-1, and IGF-1 in response to TNF- stimulation. FGF-2 and IGF-1 are known to be important for myelination. Reduction in IL-1 and IGF-1 were also seen in astrocyte-specific Fpn knock-out mice after LPC-induced demyelination. These data suggest that iron efflux from astrocytes plays a role in remyelination by either direct effects on OPCs or indirectly by affecting glial activation.
The glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) system is a recently established target for type 2 diabetes treatment. In addition to regulating glucose homeostasis, GLP-1 also reduces food intake. Previous studies demonstrate that the anorexigenic effects of GLP-1 can be mediated through hypothalamic and brainstem circuits which regulate homeostatic feeding. Here, we demonstrate an entirely novel neurobiological mechanism for GLP-1-induced anorexia in rats, involving direct effects of a GLP-1 agonist, Exendin-4 (EX4) on food reward that are exerted at the level of the mesolimbic reward system. We assessed the impact of peripheral, central, and intramesolimbic EX4 on two models of food reward: conditioned place preference (CPP) and progressive ratio operant-conditioning. Food-reward behavior was reduced in the CPP test by EX4, as rats no longer preferred an environment previously paired to chocolate pellets. EX4 also decreased motivated behavior for sucrose in a progressive ratio operant-conditioning paradigm when administered peripherally. We show that this effect is mediated centrally, via GLP-1 receptors (GLP-1Rs). GLP-1Rs are expressed in several key nodes of the mesolimbic reward system; however, their function remains unexplored. Thus we sought to determine the neurobiological substrates underlying the food-reward effect. We found that the EX4-mediated inhibition of food reward could be driven from two key mesolimbic structures-ventral tegmental area and nucleus accumbens-without inducing concurrent malaise or locomotor impairment. The current findings, that activation of central GLP-1Rs strikingly suppresses food reward/motivation by interacting with the mesolimbic system, indicate an entirely novel mechanism by which the GLP-1R stimulation affects feeding-oriented behavior.
Sensory experience in early postnatal life shapes neuronal connections in the brain. Here we report that the local synthesis of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in dendrites plays an important role in this process. We found that dendritic spines of layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons of the visual cortex in mutant mice lacking dendritic Bdnf mRNA and thus local BDNF synthesis were normal at 3 weeks of age, but thinner, longer, and more closely spaced (morphological features of immaturity) at 4 months of age than in wild-type (WT) littermates. Layer 2/3 of the visual cortex in these mutant animals also had fewer GABAergic presynaptic terminals at both ages. The overall size and shape of dendritic arbors were, however, similar in mutant and WT mice at both ages. By using optical imaging of intrinsic signals and single-unit recordings, we found that mutant animals failed to recover cortical responsiveness following monocular deprivation (MD) during the critical period, although they displayed normally the competitive loss of responsiveness to an eye briefly deprived of vision. Furthermore, MD still induced a loss of responsiveness to the closed eye in adult mutant mice, but not in adult WT mice. These results indicate that dendritic BDNF synthesis is required for spine pruning, late-phase spine maturation, and recovery of cortical responsiveness following sensory deprivation. They also suggest that maturation of dendritic spines is required for the maintenance of cortical responsiveness following sensory deprivation in adulthood.
The medial temporal lobes (MTL) are known to play a crucial role in memory processes. Anatomical findings from animal studies suggest partially segregated MTL pathways converge in the hippocampus, with a posterior stream including parahippocampal and medial lateral entorhinal cortex and an anterior stream including perirhinal and lateral entorhinal cortex. These streams may operate on spatial and nonspatial information, respectively. In humans, such a functional dissociation has been suggested between parahippocampal and perirhinal cortex. Data from rodents and nonhuman primates suggest a similar dissociation between medial and lateral entorhinal cortex, which are reciprocally connected to parahippocampal and perirhinal cortex, but evidence for functional subregions within entorhinal cortex in humans is lacking. We addressed this issue using high-resolution fMRI with improved spatial normalization. Volunteers (n = 28) performed a working memory paradigm involving the retrieval of spatial (scenes) and nonspatial (faces) information after distraction. A clear dissociation between MTL subcircuits emerged. A perirhinal-lateral entorhinal pathway was more involved in the retrieval of faces after distraction, whereas a parahippocampal-medial entorhinal pathway was more involved in the retrieval of scenes after distraction. A cluster in posterior hippocampus showed a deactivation for the retrieval of faces after distraction. Our data thus provide direct evidence for a functional specialization within human entorhinal cortex and thereby strongly support MTL models that emphasize the importance of partially segregated parallel processing streams.


Aims: Frontotemporal lobar degeneration with Pick bodies (Pick's disease) is characterized by the presence of tau immunoreactive spherical structures in the cytoplasm of neurons. In view of confusion about the molecular pathology of Pick's disease, we aimed to evaluate the spectrum of tau pathology and concomitant neurodegeneration-associated protein depositions in the characteristically affected hippocampus. Methods: We evaluated immunoreactivity for tau (AT8, 3R, 4R), -synuclein, TDP43, p62, and ubiquitin in the hippocampus, entorhinal and temporal cortex in 66 archival cases diagnosed neuropathologically as Pick's disease. Results: Mean age at death was 68.2 years (range 49 to 96). Fifty-two (79%) brains showed 3R immunoreactive spherical inclusions in the granule cells of the dentate gyrus. These typical cases presented mainly with the behavioural variant of FTD, followed by progressive aphasia, mixed syndromes or early memory disturbance. -Synuclein immunoreactivity was seen only in occasional spherical tau-positive inclusions, TDP-43 IR was absent, and 4R IR was present only as neurofibrillary tangles in pyramidal neurons. A immunoreactivity was observed in 16 cases; however, the overall level of Alzheimer's disease-related alterations was mainly low or intermediate (n = 3). Furthermore, we identified six cases with unclassifiable tauopathy. Conclusions: 1) Pick's disease may occur also in elderly patients and is characterized by a relatively uniform pathology with 3R tau inclusions particularly in the granule cells of dentate gyrus; 2) even minor deviation from these morphological criteria suggests a different disorder; and 3) immunohistological revision of archival cases expands the spectrum of tauopathies that require further classification.  2012 The Authors. Neuropathology and Applied Neurobiology  2012 British Neuropathological Society.
Enhanced oxidative stress and inflammation play important roles in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Amyloid -peptide (A), a major component of amyloid plaques, is considered to have a causal role in the development and progress of AD by being the initiator of a pathological cascade leading to oxidative stress. The present study investigated the effect of N-trans-feruloyltyramine (NTF) purified from Polyalthia suberosa, an alkaloid shown to protect against oxidative stress and cell death. Pre-treatment of rat primary cortical cell cultures with 25-250M NTF significantly attenuated 10M A(1-42)-induced neuronal death in a dose-dependent manner. Apoptotic cell death was demonstrated morphologically as well as by detection of the presence of activated caspase-3 and Bax, levels of which could be reduced by NTF pre-treatment. NTF also reduced production of reactive oxygen species induced by A(1-42). These findings suggest that the protective effect of NTF against A(1-42)-induced neuronal death might be due to its antioxidative property.
The deposition of -amyloid peptides (A) is commonly reported in the nasal cavity of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, although the pathological significance of this finding is unknown. This study compared A concentrations in the nasal area with those in the brain, blood, and cerebrospinal fluid, respectively. Immunohistochemical analysis identified A deposits in the nasal epithelium of Tg2576 mice. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay measurements revealed a correlation between the content of A42 in the nasal area and that in the brain, but not with that in the blood. These results suggest that the highly accessible nasal cavity could be a useful site for diagnostic analysis of AD based on A content.
Bkkon's hypothesis that photons released from chemical processes within the brain produce biophysical pictures during visual imagery has been supported experimentally. In the present study measurements by a photomultiplier tube also demonstrated significant increases in ultraweak photon emissions (UPEs) or biophotons equivalent to about 510(-11)W/m(2) from the right sides of volunteer's heads when they imagined light in a very dark environment compared to when they did not. Simultaneous variations in regional quantitative electroencephalographic spectral power (V(2)/Hz) and total energy in the range of 10(-12)J from concurrent biophoton emissions were strongly correlated (r=0.95). The calculated energy was equivalent to that associated with action potentials from about 10(7) cerebral cortical neurons. We suggest these results support Bkkon's hypothesis that specific visual imagery is strongly correlated with ultraweak photon emission coupled to brain activity.
The spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB) in rodents is a neuromuscular system consisting of lumbar motoneurons and the perineal muscles they innervate, the bulbocavernosus and levator ani. This system is present prenatally in both males and females but degenerates postnatally in females because of the lack of perinatal androgens. Whether androgens act on the motoneurons or muscles in the SNB system to promote survival is a longstanding question. Evidence in rats suggests androgens act primarily on the muscles in development, given that the muscles express androgen receptor (AR) before the critical period of androgen-dependent cell rescue, whereas motoneurons develop AR after this period. We now report, based on a novel AR-reporter mouse model, that AR is expressed in the bulbocavernosus muscles of C57/BL6(J) mice as early as embryonic day 15, while, based on AR-immunocytochemistry, SNB motoneurons do not express AR until postnatal day 4. These results indicate that the ontogeny of AR expression in the mouse SNB system resembles that found in rats, suggesting that androgens may also act on perineal muscles in mice to rescue the SNB system.
Cell therapy studies in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) have been confined to intrastriatal transplantation of dopamine-rich fetal mesencephalic tissue in efforts to improve motor performance. Although some PD patients receiving the dopamine-rich grafts showed improvements in motor symptoms due to replacement of dopaminergic neurons, they still suffered from nonmotor symptoms including depression, fatigue, visual hallucinations, and sleep problems. Using functional imaging and clinical evaluation of motor and nonmotor symptoms in three PD patients transplanted with intrastriatal fetal grafts 13 to 16 years previously, we assessed whether reestablishment of dopaminergic neuronal networks is sufficient to improve a broad range of symptoms. At 13 to 16 years after transplantation, dopaminergic innervation was restored to normal levels in basal ganglia and preserved in a number of extrabasal ganglia areas. These changes were associated with long-lasting relief of motor symptoms. Then, we assessed the integrity of their serotonergic and norepinephrine neuronal systems using [C]DASB {[C]3-amino-4-(2-dimethylaminomethylphenylthio) benzonitrile} positron emission tomography (PET) and F-dopa PET, respectively. F-dopa uptake in the locus coeruleus was within the normal range. In contrast, [C]DASB uptake in the raphe nuclei and regions receiving serotonergic projections was markedly reduced. These results indicate ongoing degeneration of serotonergic raphe nuclei and their projections to regions involved in the regulation of sleep, arousal, feeding, satiety, mood, and emotion. Our findings indicate that future cell-based therapies using fetal tissue or stem cells in PD patients may require additional grafts of serotonergic neurons to relieve nonmotor symptoms by restoring serotonergic neurotransmission in specific cerebral targets.
Determination of radio-metabolites in plasma samples taken during a positron emission tomography (PET) study is an important component in the pharmacokinetic evaluation of PET radioligands. We have developed and validated a new analytical procedure for the plasma metabolite analysis of PET radioligands based on micellar liquid chromatography using an anionic surfactant mobile phase. Chromatographic separation was performed on an octadecyl semipreparative column (10 mm I.D.  160 mm, 10 m) using 100 mM sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) and 1-butanol in 10 mM sodium-phosphate (pH 7.2) at a flow rate of 5 mL/min. The samples taken from monkey or human plasma during PET measurements were directly injected into a liquid chromatographic (LC) system coupled to an online radiometric detector under micellar conditions using 1-2% (v/v) 1-butanol mobile phase to remove plasma proteins and concentrate the analytes at the column head. At 2 min, mobile phase was changed to elute and separate PET radioligand and its radiometabolites with high peak capacity under high submicellar conditions (10-25% 1-butanol). This procedure allowed direct plasma injection (up to 2 mL) into the LC column without any pretreatment with a short analysis-time of 8-10 min. Satisfactory reproducibility, linearity, sensitivity, accuracy and recovery were obtained in the validation study. The developed method was successfully applied to study the metabolism for diverse groups of PET radioligands and provided reliable determination of PET radioligands in human and monkey plasma. This method is advantageous in terms of simplifying and shortening the processes required to analyze short-lived radioligands as well as in providing a more accurate estimation of the metabolite corrected input function, especially for the radioligands with lower recoveries or degradation potential during the deproteination process in a conventional procedure.


Effects of gentle skin stimulation of various segmental areas on the micturition contractions of the urinary bladder were examined in anesthetized male rats. The bladder was expanded by infusing saline via urethral cannula until the bladder produced rhythmic micturition contractions as a consequence of rhythmic burst discharges of vesical pelvic efferent nerves. Gentle stimulation was applied for 1 min by slowly rolling on top of skin with an elastomer &quot;roller&quot;. Rolling on the perineal area inhibited both micturition contractions and pelvic efferent discharges during and after stimulation. Stimulation of the hindlimb, abdomen and forelimb inhibited micturition contractions after stimulation ended, in this order of effectiveness. During stimulation of the perineal skin, the reflex increase in pelvic efferent discharges in response to bladder distension to a constant pressure was also inhibited up to 45% of its control response. The inhibition of the micturition contractions induced by perineal stimulation was abolished, to a large extent by the opioid receptor antagonist naloxone and completely by severing cutaneous nerves innervating the perineal skin. We recorded unitary afferent activity from cutaneous branches of the pudendal nerve and found that the fibers excited by stimulation were low-threshold mechanoreceptive A, A and C fibers. Discharge rates of afferent C fibers (7.9 Hz) were significantly higher than those of A (2.2 Hz) and A (2.9 Hz) afferents. The results suggest that low frequency excitation of low threshold cutaneous mechanoreceptive myelinated and unmyelinated fibers inhibits a vesico-pelvic parasympathetic reflex, mainly via release of opioids, leading to inhibition of micturition contraction.





Neural circuits in the spinal cord transform instructive signals from the brain into well-coordinated locomotor movements by virtue of rhythm-generating components. Although evidence suggests that excitatory interneurons are the essence of locomotor rhythm generation, their molecular identity and the assessment of their necessity have remained unclear. Here we show, using larval zebrafish, that V2a interneurons represent an intrinsic source of excitation necessary for the normal expression of the locomotor rhythm. Acute and selective ablation of these interneurons increases the threshold of induction of swimming activity, decreases the burst frequency, and alters the coordination of the rostro-caudal propagation of activity. Thus, our results argue that V2a interneurons represent a source of excitation that endows the spinal circuit with the capacity to generate locomotion.

Netrin is a chemotrophic factor known to regulate a number of neurodevelopmental processes, including cell migration, axon guidance, and synaptogenesis. Although the role of Netrin in synaptogenesis is conserved throughout evolution, the mechanisms by which it instructs synapse assembly are not understood. Here we identify a mechanism by which the Netrin receptor UNC-40/DCC instructs synaptic vesicle clustering in vivo. UNC-40 localized to presynaptic regions in response to Netrin. We show that UNC-40 interacted with CED-5/DOCK180 and instructed CED-5 presynaptic localization. CED-5 in turn signaled through CED-10/Rac1 and MIG-10/Lamellipodin to organize the actin cytoskeleton in presynaptic regions. Localization of this signaling pathway to presynaptic regions was necessary for synaptic vesicle clustering during synapse assembly but not for the subcellular localization of active zone proteins. Thus, vesicle clustering and localization of active zone proteins are instructed by separate pathways downstream of Netrin. Our data indicate that signaling modules known to organize the actin cytoskeleton during guidance can be co-opted to instruct synaptic vesicle clustering.
Neurobiologists and immunologists study concepts often signified with identical terminology. Scientists in both fields study a structure known as the synapse, and each group analyzes a subject called memory. Is this a quirk of human language, or are there real similarities between these two physiological systems? Not only are the linguistic concepts expressed in the words &quot;synapse&quot; and &quot;memory&quot; shared between the fields, but the actual molecules of physiologic importance in one system play parallel roles in the other: complement, the major histocompatibility molecules, and even &quot;neuro&quot;-transmitters all have major impacts on health and on disease in both the brain and the immune system. Not only are the same molecules found in diverse roles in each system, but we have learned that there is real &quot;hard-wired&quot; crosstalk between nerves and lymphoid organs. This issue of the JCI highlights some of the lessons learned from experts who are working at this scintillating intersection between immunology and neuroscience.
The hallmark of the movement disorder Parkinson's disease (PD) is progressive degeneration of dopaminergic neurons. Mitochondrial dysfunction, impaired ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis of -synuclein, and ER stress are each implicated in the complex and poorly understood sequence of events leading to dopaminergic neuron demise. In this issue of the JCI, Selvaraj et al. report that in a mouse neurotoxin-based model of PD, reduced Ca2+ influx through transient receptor potential C1 (TRPC1) channels in the plasma membrane of dopaminergic neurons triggers a cell death-inducing ER stress response. These new findings suggest that TRPC1 channels normally function in Ca2+-mediated signaling pathways that couple adaptive/neurotrophic responses to metabolic and oxidative stress and suggest that disruption of these pathways may contribute to PD.


More than two dozen clinical syndromes known as amyloid diseases are characterized by the buildup of extended insoluble fibrillar deposits in tissues. These amorphous Congo red staining deposits known as amyloids exhibit a characteristic green birefringence and cross- structure. Substantial evidence implicates oligomeric intermediates of amyloids as toxic species in the pathogenesis of these chronic disease states. A growing body of data has suggested that these toxic species form ion channels in cellular membranes causing disruption of calcium homeostasis, membrane depolarization, energy drainage, and in some cases apoptosis. Amyloid peptide channels exhibit a number of common biological properties including the universal U-shape -strand-turn--strand structure, irreversible and spontaneous insertion into membranes, production of large heterogeneous single-channel conductances, relatively poor ion selectivity, inhibition by Congo red, and channel blockade by zinc. Recent evidence has suggested that increased amounts of amyloids not only are toxic to its host target cells but also possess antimicrobial activity. Furthermore, at least one human antimicrobial peptide, protegrin-1, which kills microbes by a channel-forming mechanism, has been shown to possess the ability to form extended amyloid fibrils very similar to those of classic disease-forming amyloids. In this paper, we will review the reported antimicrobial properties of amyloids and the implications of these discoveries for our understanding of amyloid structure and function.
Longitudinal brain morphometric studies designed for data acquisition at a single MRI field strength can be seriously limited by system replacements from lower to higher field strength. Merging data across field strengths has not been endorsed for a variety of reasons, yet the ability to combine such data would broaden longitudinal investigations. To determine whether structural T1-weighted MRI data acquired across MR field strengths could be merged, parcellations of archival SPGR data acquired in 114 individuals at 1.5 T and at 3.0 T within 3 weeks of each other were compared. The first set of analyses examined 1) the correspondence between regional tissue volumes derived from data collected at 1.5 T and 3.0 T and 2) whether there were systematic differences for which a correction factor could be determined and applied to improve measurement agreement. Comparability of regional volume determination at 1.5 T and 3.0 T was assessed with intraclass correlation (ICC) computed on volumes derived from the automated and unsupervised SRI24 atlas registration and parcellation method. A second set of analyses measured the reliability of the registration and quantification using the same approach on longitudinal data acquired in 69 healthy adults at a single field strength, 1.5 T, at an interval &lt; 2 years. The mainstay of the analyses was based on the SRI24 method; to examine the potential of merging data across field strengths and across image analysis packages, a secondary set of analyses used FreeSurfer instead of the SRI24 method. For both methods, a regression-based linear correction function significantly improved correspondence. The results indicated high correspondence between most selected cortical, subcortical, and CSF-filled spaces; correspondence was lowest in the globus pallidus, a region rich in iron, which in turn has a considerable field-dependent effect on signal intensity. Thus, the application of a regression-based correction function that improved the correspondence in regional volume estimations argues well for the proposition that selected T1-weighted regional anatomical brain data can be reliably combined across 1.5 T and 3.0 T field strengths with the application of an appropriate correction procedure.
Patients suffering from obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) are characterized by dysregulated neuronal processing of disorder-specific and also unspecific affective stimuli. In the present study, we investigated whether generic fear-inducing, disgust-inducing, and neutral stimuli can be decoded from brain patterns of single fMRI time samples of individual OCD patients and healthy controls. Furthermore, we tested whether differences in the underlying encoding provide information to classify subjects into groups (OCD patients or healthy controls). Two pattern classification analyses were conducted. In analysis 1, we used a classifier to decode the category of a currently viewed picture from extended fMRI patterns of single time samples (TR=3s) in individual subjects for several pairs of categories. In analysis 2, we used a searchlight approach to predict subjects' diagnostic status based on local brain patterns. In analysis 1, we obtained significant accuracies for the separation of fear-eliciting from neutral pictures in OCD patients and healthy controls. Separation of disgust-inducing from neutral pictures was significant in healthy controls. In analysis 2, we identified diagnostic information for the presence of OCD in the orbitofrontal cortex, and in the caudate nucleus. Accuracy obtained in these regions was 100% (p&lt;10(-6)). To summarize our findings, by using multivariate pattern classification techniques we were able to identify neurobiological markers providing reliable diagnostic information about OCD. The classifier-based fMRI paradigms proposed here might be integrated in future diagnostic procedures and treatment concepts.
With its unparalleled ability to safely generate high-contrast images of soft tissues, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has remained at the forefront of diagnostic clinical medicine. Unfortunately due to resolution limitations, clinical scans are most useful for detecting macroscopic structural changes associated with a small number of pathologies. Moreover, due to a longstanding inability to directly observe magnetic resonance (MR) signal behavior at the cellular level, such information is poorly characterized and generally must be inferred. With the advent of the MR microscope in 1986 came the ability to measure MR signal properties of theretofore unobservable tissue structures. Recently, further improvements in hardware technology have made possible the ability to visualize mammalian cellular structure. In the current study, we expand upon previous work by imaging the neuronal cell bodies and processes of human and porcine -motor neurons. Complimentary imaging studies are conducted in pig tissue in order to demonstrate qualitative similarities to human samples. Also, apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) maps were generated inside porcine -motor neuron cell bodies and portions of their largest processes (mean=1.7  0.5 m/ms based on 53 pixels) as well as in areas containing a mixture of extracellular space, microvasculature, and neuropil (0.59  0.37 m/ms based on 33 pixels). Three-dimensional reconstruction of MR images containing -motor neurons shows the spatial arrangement of neuronal projections between adjacent cells. Such advancements in imaging portend the ability to construct accurate models of MR signal behavior based on direct observation and measurement of the components which comprise functional tissues. These tools would not only be useful for improving our interpretation of macroscopic MRI performed in the clinic, but they could potentially be used to develop new methods of differential diagnosis to aid in the early detection of a multitude of neuropathologies.
Since several years, neuroscience research started to focus on multimodal approaches. One such multimodal approach is the combination of electroencephalography (EEG) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). However, no standard integration procedure has been established so far. One promising data-driven approach consists of a joint decomposition of event-related potentials (ERPs) and fMRI maps derived from the response to a particular stimulus. Such an algorithm (joint independent component analysis or JointICA) has recently been proposed by Calhoun et al. (2006). This method provides sources with both a fine spatial and temporal resolution, and has shown to provide meaningful results. However, the algorithm's performance has not been fully characterized yet, and no procedure has been proposed to assess the quality of the decomposition. In this paper, we therefore try to answer why and how JointICA works. We show the performance of the algorithm on data obtained in a visual detection task, and compare the performance for EEG recorded simultaneously with fMRI data and for EEG recorded in a separate session (outside the scanner room). We perform several analyses in order to set the necessary conditions that lead to a sound decomposition, and to give additional insights for exploration in future studies. In that respect, we show how the algorithm behaves when different EEG electrodes are used and we test the robustness with respect to the number of subjects in the study. The performance of the algorithm in all the experiments is validated based on results from previous studies.
Recent evidence has shown that patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) often display deficits in executive functions, such as planning for future behavior, and these deficits may stem from pathologies in prefrontal cortex and basal ganglia circuits that are critical to executive control. Using the antisaccade task (look away from a visual stimulus), we show that when the preparatory 'readiness' to perform a given action is dissociated from the actual execution of that action, PD patients off and on dopamine medication display behavioral impairments and reduced cortical brain activation that cannot be explained by a pathology related to dysfunction in movement execution. Rather, they show that the appropriate task set signals were not in place in motor regions prior to execution, resulting in impairments in the control of subsequent voluntary movement. This is the first fMRI study of antisaccade deficits in Parkinson's disease, and importantly, the findings point to a critical role of the basal ganglia in translating signals related to rule representation (executive) into those governing voluntary motor behavior.
Estradiol has been shown to affect cholinergic modulation of cognition in human and nonhuman animal models. This study examined the brain-based interaction of estradiol treatment and anticholinergic challenge in postmenopausal women during the performance of a working memory task and functional MRI. Twenty-four postmenopausal women were randomly and blindly placed on 1mg oral 17- estradiol or matching placebo pills for three months after which they participated in three anticholinergic challenge sessions. During the challenge sessions, subjects were administered the antimuscarinic drug scopolamine, the antinicotinic drug mecamylamine, or placebo. After drug administration, subjects completed an fMRI session during which time they performed a visual verbal N-back test of working memory. Results showed that scopolamine increased activation in the left medial frontal gyrus (BA 10) and mecamylamine increased activation in the left inferior frontal gyrus (BA 46). Estradiol treatment compared to placebo treatment significantly reduced the activation in this left medial frontal region during scopolamine challenge. Estradiol treatment also increased activation in the precuneus (BA 31) during mecamylamine challenge. These data are the first to show that estradiol modulated antimuscarinic- and anitnicotinic-induced brain activity and suggest that estradiol affected cholinergic system regulation of cognition-related brain activation in humans.
Feedback connections among auditory cortical regions may play an important functional role in processing naturalistic speech, which is typically considered a problem solved through serial feed-forward processing stages. Here, we used fMRI to investigate whether activity within primary auditory cortex (PAC) is sensitive to the perceived clarity of degraded sentences. A region-of-interest analysis using probabilistic cytoarchitectonic maps of PAC revealed a modulation of activity, in the most primary-like subregion (area Te1.0), related to the intelligibility of naturalistic speech stimuli that cannot be driven by stimulus differences. Importantly, this effect was unique to those conditions accompanied by a perceptual increase in clarity. Connectivity analyses suggested sources of input to PAC are higher-order temporal, frontal and motor regions. These findings are incompatible with feed-forward models of speech perception, and suggest that this problem belongs amongst modern perceptual frameworks in which the brain actively predicts sensory input, rather than just passively receiving it.
A recent breakthrough in understanding brain-language mechanisms is the discovery of local motor cortex activations that index specific meaning features of words, phrases and sentences. The words &quot;talk&quot; and &quot;walk&quot; activate different parts of the motor cortex, reflecting the body part relationship of actions the linguistic items are typically used to speak about. It has been suggested that such semantic motor mapping can be explained by behaviorist theories, based on conditioning mechanisms also effective in Pavlov's dog when it salivates to bell sounds. In contrast, a neurobiological approach to language predicts modulation of semantic activation by grammatical, including inflectional-morphological, information. Here, we test these competing predictions by putting action words into different phrasal contexts invoking morphosyntactic and morphophonological processes and demonstrate that semantic motor mappings are modulated by grammatical sentence properties, especially the presence of overtly realized inflectional affixes on nouns or verbs embedded in grammatical phrases. Mechanistic neuroscience theories taking into account both meaning and grammar, including morphology and syntax, are required to explain these observations. A direct comparison between phrases containing nouns and verbs revealed a tendency towards greater activation to noun phrases in left-inferior premotor cortex and posterior Broca's region (BA 44), thus questioning previous suggestions that left inferiorfrontal areas might be dedicated to verb processing per se.




WHO grade II glioma, i.e. diffuse low-grade glioma, is a pre-malignant tumour, usually revealed by seizures in young patients with a normal life. This tumour has a constant growth, and will inescapably become anaplastic. Surgical resection significantly increases the overall survival by delaying the malignant transformation. Thus, the dilemma is to perform early surgery in order to optimise the extent of resection (and thus the median survival) by removing smaller tumours while preserving the quality of life. To this end, the new concept proposed in this review is to achieve surgical resection according to functional and not to oncological boundaries. In other words, the principle is to first understand the cerebral anatomo-functional organisation at the individual level (because of a major inter-individual variability), with the aim of resecting a part of the brain invaded by a diffuse chronic disease, on the condition nonetheless that this part of the brain can be functionally compensated-i.e. with no consequences on the quality of life. To this end, in addition to the preoperative functional neuroimaging and the intraoperative electrical cortical mapping in awake patients, it is also crucial to map both horizontal cortico-cortical connectivity (long-distance association fibres) as well as vertical cortico-subcortical connectivity (projection fibres), with the aim to preserve the networks underlying the minimal common core of the brain. Interestingly, this &quot;hodotopical&quot; workframe, based on the study of both cortical epicentres and subcortical pathways, opens the door to mechanisms of functional reshaping. These recent technical and conceptual advances in the hodotopical and plastic view of brain processing have allowed a dramatic improvement of the benefit-to-risk ratio of surgery, concerning both oncological and functional outcomes. In summary, it is time to move towards &quot;functional neurooncology&quot; and &quot;preventive neurosurgery&quot; in low-grade gliomas. Stronger interactions with fundamental neurosciences should be developed, in order (1) to build updated models of cognition and brain plasticity; (2) to elaborate biomathematical models of low-grade glioma growth and migration; (3) to study in silico the dynamic interactions between the natural course of this disease and the adaptative behaviour of its host (the brain), with the goal to adapt the best individualised therapeutic strategy.

The relationship between voice and posture has been previously investigated. The aim of this study was to evaluate postural alterations in subjects with dysfunctional dysphonia and to analyse their variations after rehabilitation. Forty subjects with hypokinetic dysfunctional dysphonia were submitted to posturographic analysis with alternatively open and closed eyes; subjects were invited to stand upright and breath normally so that the vestibular-spinal reflex could be assessed. The following variables were considered: pressure centre coordinates on frontal and sagittal planes and standard deviations (SD), length and surface of the tract, mean velocity of the oscillations and SD, spectral frequency analysis of oscillations, statokinesigram and stabilogram. At baseline, the parameters showing the highest alterations were surface and velocity SD. All parameters improved after rehabilitation, particularly SD(X) and SD(Y), surface, velocity and relative SD; the centre of pressure shifted backwards in all patients. These results confirm that in subjects with dysfunctional dysphonia, the greater proprioceptive awareness acquired through speech therapy permits improvement in postural performance. Static stabilometry is a fundamental test for demonstrating basal postural alterations and for evaluating improvement after rehabilitation.



The stress dampening model (Marlatt, 1987; Sayette, 1993; Sher, 1987) suggests certain individuals may use alcohol to escape from their negative life experiences. Pathological reasons for drinking (e.g., using alcohol as a means to cope) reflect the degree to which individuals are motivated to use alcohol in order to dampen or alleviate the stress they are experiencing (Johnson, Schwitters, Wilson, Nagoshi, &amp; McClearn, 1985). Direct and mediational links among parental bonds (rejection, care, overprotection, autonomy, and neglect), self-esteem, stress, pathological reasons for drinking, and alcohol-related problems were explored. A Structural Equation Model with (405 students; 164 women, 241 men) college students was examined. Three path mediational analyses revealed several mediated pathways. Greater feelings of perceived father/mother neglectfulness (i.e., offspring feeling parents do not show up for them) were indirectly linked to more alcohol-related problems (e.g., indicative of alcohol use or dependence in emerging adulthood) through increased stress and pathological reasons for drinking. Furthermore, higher levels of father rejection (i.e., perception of feeling unwanted) were indirectly linked to more pathological reasons for drinking through low self-esteem and increased stress. However, greater feelings of mother care (affectionate and attentive) were indirectly linked to fewer pathological reasons for drinking through higher self-esteem and lower levels of stress. Moreover, high self-esteem was found to be indirectly linked to fewer alcohol-related problems through decreased stress and pathological reasons for drinking. These findings suggest several specific pathways for using alcohol to self-medicate (i.e., consume alcohol for a specific purpose) or dampen feelings of stress.
It is still an open question whether subjective memory complaints (SMC) can actually be considered to be clinically relevant predictors for the development of an objective memory impairment and even dementia. There is growing evidence that suggests that SMC are associated with an increased risk of dementia and with the presence of biological correlates of early Alzheimer's disease. In this paper, in order to shed some light on this issue, we try to discern whether subjects with SMC showed a different profile of functional connectivity compared with subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and healthy elderly subjects. In the present study, we compare the degree of synchronization of brain signals recorded with magnetoencephalography between three groups of subjects (56 in total): 19 with MCI, 12 with SMC and 25 healthy controls during a memory task. Synchronization likelihood, an index based on the theory of nonlinear dynamical systems, was used to measure functional connectivity. Briefly, results show that subjects with SMC have a very similar pattern of connectivity to control group, but on average, they present a lower synchronization value. These results could indicate that SMC are representing an initial stage with a hypo-synchronization (in comparison with the control group) where the brain system is still not compensating for the failing memory networks, but behaving as controls when compared with the MCI subjects.
This paper reviews findings in three subcomponents of social cognition (i.e., Theory of Mind, facial emotion recognition, empathy) during ageing. Changes over time in social cognition were evaluated in normal ageing and in patients with various neurodegenerative pathologies, such as Alzheimer's disease, mild cognitive impairment, frontal and temporal variants of frontotemporal lobar degeneration and Parkinson's disease. Findings suggest a decline in social cognition with normal ageing, a decline that is at least partially independent of a more general cognitive or executive decline. The investigation of neurodegenerative pathologies showing specific deficits in Theory of Mind in relation to damage to specific cerebral regions led us to suggest a neural network involved in Theory of Mind processes, namely a fronto-subcortical loop linking the basal ganglia to the regions of the frontal lobes.
Oxidative stress (OS) resulting from an imbalance between antioxidant defenses and the intracellular accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) contributes to age-related memory deficits. While impaired synaptic plasticity in neuronal networks is thought to underlie cognitive deficits during aging, whether this process is targeted by OS and what the mechanisms involved are still remain open questions. In this study, we investigated the age-related effects of the reducing agent N-acetyl-L-cysteine (L-NAC) on the activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDA-R) by its co-agonist D-serine, because alterations in this mechanism contribute greatly to synaptic plasticity deficits in aged animals. Long-term dietary supplementation with L-NAC prevented oxidative damage in the hippocampus of aged rats. Electrophysiological recordings in the CA1 of hippocampal slices indicated that NMDA-R-mediated synaptic potentials and theta-burst-induced long-term potentiation (LTP) were depressed in aged animals, deficits that could be reversed by exogenous D-serine. Chronic treatment with L-NAC, but not acute application of the reducing agent, restored potent D-serine-dependent NMDA-R activation and LTP induction in aged rats. In addition, it is also revealed that the age-related decrease in D-serine levels and in the expression of the synthesizing enzyme serine racemase, which underlies the decrease in NMDA-R activation by the amino acid, was rescued by long-term dietary treatment with L-NAC. Our results indicate that protecting redox status in aged animals could prevent injury to the cellular mechanisms underlying cognitive aging, in part by maintaining potent NMDA-R activation through the D-serine-dependent pathway.
Neurotransmitters are chemical substances that, by definition, allow communication between neurons and permit most neuronal-glial interactions in the CNS. Approximately 80% of all neurons use glutamate, and almost all interneurons use GABA. A third neurotransmitter, NAAG, modulates glutamatergic neurotransmission. Concentration changes in these molecules due to defective synthetic machinery, receptor expression, or errors in their degradation and metabolism are accepted causes of several neurologic disorders. Knowledge of changes in neurotransmitter concentrations in the brain can add useful information in making a diagnosis, helping to pick the right drug of treatment, and monitoring patient response to drugs in a more objective manner. Recent advances in (1)H-MR spectroscopy hold promise in providing a more reliable in vivo detection of these neurotransmitters. In this article, we summarize the essential biology of 3 major neurotransmitters: glutamate, GABA, and NAAG. Finally we illustrate possible applications of (1)H-MR spectroscopy in neuroscience research.



Pain is a serious health care problem and there is growing evidence to support the use of hypnosis and cognitive-behavioral interventions for pain management. This article reviews clinical techniques and methods of cognitive hypnotherapy for pain management. Current research with emphasis given to randomized, controlled trials is presented and the efficacy of hypnotherapy for pain management is discussed. Evidence for cognitive hypnotherapy in the treatment in chronic pain, cancer, osteoarthritis, sickle cell disease, temporomandibular disorder, fibromyalgia, non-cardiac chest pain, and disability related chronic pains are identified. Implications for clinical practice and research are discussed in light of the accumulating evidence in support of the efficacy and effectiveness of cognitive hypnotherapy for pain management.
Myofibrillar myopathy (MFM) is a group of disorders that are pathologically defined by the disorganization of the myofibrillar alignment associated with the intracellular accumulation of Z-disk-associated proteins. MFM is caused by mutations in genes encoding Z-disk-associated proteins, including myotilin. Although a number of MFM mutations have been identified, it has been difficult to elucidate the precise roles of the mutant proteins. Here, we present a useful method for the characterization of mutant proteins associated with MFM. Expression of mutant myotilins in mouse tibialis anterior muscle by in vivo electroporation recapitulated both the pathological changes and the biochemical characteristics observed in patients with myotilinopathy. In mutant myotilin-expressing muscle fibers, myotilin aggregates and is costained with polyubiquitin, and Z-disk-associated proteins and myofibrillar disorganization were commonly seen. In addition, the expressed S60C mutant myotilin protein displayed marked detergent insolubility in electroporated mouse muscle, similar to that observed in human MFM muscle with the same mutation. Thus, in vivo electroporation can be a useful method for evaluating the pathogenicity of mutations identified in MFM.
Tumor necrosis factor-like weak inducer of apoptosis (TWEAK) and its receptor Fn14 exert pleiotropic effects, including regulation of myogenesis. Sporadic inclusion-body myositis (IBM) is the most common muscle disease of the elderly population and leads to severe disability. IBM mesoangioblasts, different from mesoangioblasts in other inflammatory myopathies, display a myogenic differentiation defect. The objective of the present study was to investigate TWEAK-Fn14 expression in IBM and other inflammatory myopathies and explore whether TWEAK modulation affects myogenesis in IBM mesoangioblasts. TWEAK, Fn14, and NF-B expression was assessed by immunohistochemistry and Western blot in cell samples from both muscle biopsies and primary cultures. Mesoangioblasts isolated from samples of IBM, dermatomyositis, polymyositis, and control muscles were treated with recombinant human TWEAK, Fn14-Fc chimera, and anti-TWEAK antibody. TWEAK-RNA interference was performed in IBM and dermatomyositis mesoangioblasts. TWEAK levels in culture media were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. In IBM muscle, we found increased TWEAK-Fn14 expression. Increased levels of TWEAK were found in differentiation medium from IBM mesoangioblasts. Moreover, TWEAK inhibited myogenic differentiation of mesoangioblasts. Consistent with this evidence, TWEAK inhibition by Fn14-Fc chimera or short interfering RNA induced myogenic differentiation of IBM mesoangioblasts. We provide evidence that TWEAK is a negative regulator of human mesoangioblast differentiation. Dysregulation of the TWEAK-Fn14 axis in IBM muscle may induce progressive muscle atrophy and reduce activation and differentiation of muscle precursor cells.
The effect of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) on body weight in postmenopausal women is controversial, with studies reporting an increase, a decrease, and no change in body weight. To examine estrogen receptor actions on body weight, we investigated the effects of treatment with a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) on body weight, food intake, and activity and metabolic rate in a nonhuman primate model. Eighteen ovariectomized female rhesus monkeys were treated with a nonsteroidal SERM (GSK232802A, 5 mg/kg po) for 3 mo. GSK232802A decreased lutenizing hormone (P &lt; 0.0001) and follicle-stimulating hormone levels (P &lt; 0.0001), consistent with the estrogenic action of the compound. GSK232802A treatment produced a small but sustained weight loss (4.6  1.0%, P &lt; 0.0001) and reduced adiposity (P &lt; 0.0001), which was due at least in part to a suppression of food intake (3.6  3.7%, P &lt; 0.0001). Physical activity increased during the 3rd mo of treatment (P = 0.04). Baseline activity level and the change in activity due to treatment were correlated, with the most sedentary individuals exhibiting increased physical activity during the 1st mo of treatment (P = 0.02). Metabolic rate did not change (P = 0.58). These results indicate that GSK232802A treatment reduces body weight and adiposity in ovariectomized nonhuman primates by suppressing food intake and increasing activity, particularly in the most sedentary individuals. These findings suggest that SERM treatment may counteract weight gain in postmenopausal women.
Cell-surface-associated annexin A2 (CS-ANXA2) is a nonconventional &quot;receptor&quot; for progastrin; expression levels of both are elevated in colon cancers, and downregulation of either reduces tumorigenic potential of cells. We recently reported internalization of progastrin in target cells. Here, mechanisms mediating internalization of progastrin were examined. Initially, we confirmed that cell-surface ANXA2 mediates binding and internalization of progastrin in intestinal cells. Progastrin, covalently linked to sepharose beads, failed to activate p38MAPK/ERKs, suggesting internalization of progastrin was required for eliciting biological effects; importantly annexin A2 expression and availability of CS-ANXA2 were required for internalization of progastrin. Clathrin expression and formation of clathrin-coated pits were critically required for endocytotic internalization of progastrin; in the absence of clathrin, progastrin failed to activate p38MAPK/ERKs. Downregulation of caveolin had no effect on binding or internalization of progastrin. We therefore demonstrate for the first time that progastrin binds CS-ANXA2 and is rapidly internalized via clathrin-mediated endocytotic pathway, resulting in activation of MAPKinases. Targeting clathrin-mediated endocytosis of progastrin may thus inhibit previously reported co-carcinogenic/tumorigenic effects of progastrin on intestinal cells.
In synesthesia, stimulation of one sensory or cognitive pathway leads to additional, involuntary experiences in a second sensory or cognitive pathway. We here review previous surveys on this neurologically based phenomenon and report the results of 63 synesthetes who completed our Internet and paper questionnaire on synesthesia. In addition to asking for personal data and information on the participant's synesthesia, the questionnaire focused on the components of the inducer that elicit or modulate synesthesia. Synesthesia was most often developmental (92%) and of the grapheme-color type (86%). Sixty-two percent of the participants perceived time-related words in a spatial configuration. Music-color synesthesia was common (41%), and synesthesia for natural and artificial sounds (33%) was higher than in previous estimates. Eighty-one percent of participants experienced more than one form of synesthesia. Multimodal synesthesia, in which inducer and concurrent belong to 2 different sensory modalities, occurred in 92% of the participants. Overall, auditory stimuli were most often reported as inducers, and visual concurrents were most common. Modulations of the synesthetic experiences such as changes of the concurrent color, expansion within the same or to a different sensory modality, or reduction of the number of inducers over time were reported by 17% of participants. This challenges the presumed consistency of synesthesia and the adequacy of the test-retest consistency score still most commonly used to assess the veracity of reported synesthesia. Implications of the high prevalence of cross-modal synesthesia and the variability of synesthesia are discussed.
Lipids are important in several biological processes because they act as signalling and regulating molecules, or, locally, as membrane components that modulate protein function. This paper reports the pattern of lipid composition of dendritic cells (DCs), a cell type of critical importance in inflammatory and immune responses. After activation by antigens, DCs undergo drastic phenotypical and functional transformations, in a process known as maturation. To better characterize this process, changes of lipid profile were evaluated by use of a lipidomic approach. As an experimental model of DCs, we used a foetal skin-derived dendritic cell line (FSDC) induced to mature by treatment with lipopolysaccharide (LPS). The results showed that LPS treatment increased ceramide (Cer) and phosphatidylcholine (PC) levels and reduced sphingomyelin (SM) and phosphatidylinositol (PI) content. Mass spectrometric analysis of a total lipid extract and of each class of lipids revealed that maturation promoted clear changes in ceramide profile. Quantitative analysis enabled identification of an increase in the total ceramide content and enhanced Cer at m/z 646.6, identified as Cer(d18:1/24:1), and at m/z 648.6, identified as Cer(d18:1/24:0). The pattern of change of these lipids give an extremely rich source of data for evaluating modulation of specific lipid species triggered during DC maturation.
Psychiatric co-morbidity is very frequently associated with psoriasis and depression is observed in numerous patients with psoriasis. Early detection and treatment are very important. The links between psoriasis and depression are not only psychopathological. Biological factors could also explain this association. There is a vicious circle psoriasis-alteration of quality of life-depression, but psoriasis improvement is not always followed by an improvement of depression. A contrario, it is obvious that a depressive patient has a bad observance of treatment.

Glycoprotein glycan chains, by virtue of structure, topology of presentation and connection to signal-inducing units, are functional galectin counterreceptors. As example, cross-linking of the (5)(1) integrin by galectin-1 on carcinoma cells leads to G(1) arrest or anoikis. Contact-dependent switching from proliferation to differentiation in cultured neuroblastoma cells (SK-N-MC) also utilizes galectin-1. Activity enhancement of a cell surface sialidase underlies the shift in glycan display to ganglioside GM1. Its pentasaccharide within microdomains becomes the target. Similarly, this recognition pair is upregulated upon T cell activation. Cross-linking of GM1 along with associated (4)/(5)(1) integrins elicits Ca(2+)-influx via TRPC5 channels as the relevant response for T effector cell (T(eff)) suppression. Unlike T(eff) cells from wild-type mice, those from genetically altered mice lacking GM1 are not suppressed by galectin-1 or regulatory T cells. Similarly, in the context of GM1 deficiency in NOD mice, T(eff) cells are associated with resistance to regulatory T cell suppression, which is reversed by applied GM1. The broad array of glycosphingolipid structures suggests the possible existence of several novel counterreceptors targeted to endogenous lectins, with sulfatide-galectin-4 interplay within apical delivery serving as recent example.
The acquisition of both speech and music uses general principles: learners extract statistical regularities present in the environment. Yet, individuals who suffer from congenital amusia (commonly called tone-deafness) have experienced lifelong difficulties in acquiring basic musical skills, while their language abilities appear essentially intact. One possible account for this dissociation between music and speech is that amusics lack normal experience with music. If given appropriate exposure, amusics might be able to acquire basic musical abilities. To test this possibility, a group of 11 adults with congenital amusia, and their matched controls, were exposed to a continuous stream of syllables or tones for 21-minute. Their task was to try to identify three-syllable nonsense words or three-tone motifs having an identical statistical structure. The results of five experiments show that amusics can learn novel words as easily as controls, whereas they systematically fail on musical materials. Thus, inappropriate musical exposure cannot fully account for the musical disorder. Implications of the results for the domain specificity of statistical learning are discussed.
Musical knowledge is ubiquitous, effortless, and implicitly acquired all over the world via exposure to musical materials in one's culture. In contrast, one group of individuals who show insensitivity to music, specifically the inability to discriminate pitches and melodies, is the tone-deaf. In this study, we asked whether difficulties in pitch and melody discrimination among the tone-deaf could be related to learning difficulties, and, if so, what processes of learning might be affected in the tone-deaf. We investigated the learning of frequency information in a new musical system in tone-deaf individuals and matched controls. Results showed significantly impaired learning abilities in frequency matching in the tone-deaf. This impairment was positively correlated with the severity of tone deafness as assessed by the Montreal Battery for Evaluation of Amusia. Taken together, the results suggest that tone deafness is characterized by an impaired ability to acquire frequency information from pitched materials in the sound environment.
Congenital amusia is a neurodevelopmental disorder of musical perception and production. Much research has focused on characterizing the deficits within this special population; however, it is also important from both a psychological and educational perspective to determine which aspects of the disorder may be subject to change because this will also constrain theorizing about the nature of the disorder, as well as facilitating possible future remediation programs. In this small-scale study, a professional singing teacher used a broad-brush intervention approach with five individuals diagnosed with congenital amusia. The compensatory elements were designed to enhance vocal efficiency and health, singing technique, musical understanding, pitch perception, and production. Improvements were observed in most individuals in perception, indexed via the Montreal Battery for the Evaluation of Amusia scale subtest and in the vocal performance of familiar songs. The workshop setting gave a unique opportunity for observation and discussion to inform further investigations of this disorder.
The ability to carry a tune, natural for the majority, is underpinned by a complex functional system (i.e., the vocal sensorimotor loop, VSL). The VSL involves various components, including perceptual mechanisms, auditory-motor mapping, motor control, and memory. The malfunction of one of these components can bring about poor-pitch singing. So far, disturbed perception and deficient sensorimotor mapping have been treated as important causes of poor singing. Yet, memory has been paid relatively little attention. Here, we review results obtained from both occasional singers and individuals suffering from congenital amusia, who were asked to produce from memory or imitate a well-known melody under conditions with different memory loads. The findings point to memory as a relevant source of impairment in poor-pitch singing and to imitation as a useful aid for poor singers.
Despite the fact that as many as 25% of the children diagnosed with autism spectrum disorders are nonverbal, surprisingly little research has been conducted on this population. In particular, the mechanisms that underlie their absence of speech remain unknown. Using diffusion tensor imaging, we compared the structure of a language-related white matter tract (the arcuate fasciculus, AF) in five completely nonverbal children with autism to that of typically developing children. We found that, as a group, the nonverbal children did not show the expected left-right AF asymmetry--rather, four of the five nonverbal children actually showed the reversed pattern. It is possible that this unusual pattern of asymmetry may underlie some of the severe language deficits commonly found in autism, particularly in children whose speech fails to develop. Furthermore, novel interventions (such as auditory-motor mapping training) designed to engage brain regions that are connected via the AF may have important clinical potential for facilitating expressive language in nonverbal children with autism.
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a complex neurodevelopmental condition characterized by atypical social and communication skills, repetitive behaviors, and atypical visual and auditory perception. Studies in vision have reported enhanced detailed (&quot;local&quot;) processing but diminished holistic (&quot;global&quot;) processing of visual features in ASD. Individuals with ASD also show enhanced processing of simple visual stimuli but diminished processing of complex visual stimuli. Relative to the visual domain, auditory global-local distinctions, and the effects of stimulus complexity on auditory processing in ASD, are less clear. However, one remarkable finding is that many individuals with ASD have enhanced musical abilities, such as superior pitch processing. This review provides a critical evaluation of behavioral and brain imaging studies of auditory processing with respect to current theories in ASD. We have focused on auditory-musical processing in terms of global versus local processing and simple versus complex sound processing. This review contributes to a better understanding of auditory processing differences in ASD. A deeper comprehension of sensory perception in ASD is key to better defining ASD phenotypes and, in turn, may lead to better interventions.
Understanding emotions is fundamental to our ability to navigate the complex world of human social interaction. Individuals with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) experience difficulties with the communication and understanding of emotions within the social domain. Their ability to interpret other people's nonverbal, facial, and bodily expressions of emotion is strongly curtailed. However, there is evidence to suggest that many individuals with ASD show a strong and early preference for music and are able to understand simple and complex musical emotions in childhood and adulthood. The dissociation between emotion recognition abilities in musical and social domains in individuals with ASD provides us with the opportunity to consider the nature of emotion processing difficulties characterizing this disorder. There has recently been a surge of interest in musical abilities in individuals with ASD, and this has motivated new behavioral and neuroimaging studies. Here, we review this new work. We conclude by providing some questions for future directions.
In music therapy for nonfluent aphasia patients who have difficulty producing meaningful words, phrases, and sentences, various benefits of singing have been identified: strengthened breathing and vocal ability, improved articulation and prosody of speech, and increased verbal and nonverbal communicative behaviors. This paper will introduce these various techniques used in clinical music therapy, and summarize findings based on our recent study to illustrate the strength of different techniques emphasizing rhythm, pitch, memory, and vocal/oral motor components dealing with different symptoms. The efficacy of each component is enhanced or diminished by the choice of music and the way it is interactively delivered. This indicates that neural mechanisms underlying speech improvement vary greatly with available acoustic and social cues in aphasic brain.
A common long-term consequence of stroke is impaired arm function, which affects independence and quality of life in a considerable proportion of stroke survivors. There is a growing need for self-management strategies that enable stroke survivors to continue their recovery after rehabilitation has ceased. Interventions with high-intensity, repetitive task training and feedback are most likely to improve function. Achieving the required amount of self-practice is challenging, however. Innovative approaches are required to translate therapies into rewarding activities that can be undertaken independently. This paper describes the key principles and development of a novel intervention that integrates individuals' preferred music with game technology in upper limb rehabilitation. The &quot;tap tempo&quot; paradigm, which uses rhythmic auditory cueing, provides repetitive upper limb task training, which can be tailored to individual goals and progress (e.g., in terms of movement range and complexity), while providing sensitive quantitative feedback to promote skill acquisition and enhance self-management.
Precise timing of sound is crucial in music for both performing and listening. Indeed, listening to rhythmic sound sequences activates not only the auditory system but also the sensorimotor system. Previously, we showed the significance of neural beta-band oscillations (15-30 Hz) for the timing processing that involves such auditory-motor coordination. Thus, we hypothesized that motor rehabilitation training incorporating music playing will stimulate and enhance auditory-motor interaction in stroke patients. We examined three chronic patients who received Music-Supported Therapy following the protocols practiced by Schneider. Neuromagnetic beta-band activity was remarkably alike during passive listening to a metronome and during finger tapping, with or without the metronome, for either the paretic or nonparetic hand, suggesting a shared mechanism of the beta modulation. In the listening task, the magnitude of the beta decrease after the tone onset was more pronounced at the posttraining time point and was accompanied by improved arm and hand skills. The present case data give insight into the neural underpinnings of rehabilitation with music making and rhythmic auditory stimulation.
Music-supported therapy (MST) has been developed recently to improve the use of the affected upper extremity after stroke. MST uses musical instruments, an electronic piano and an electronic drum set emitting piano sounds, to retrain fine and gross movements of the paretic upper extremity. In this paper, we first describe the rationale underlying MST, and we review the previous studies conducted on acute and chronic stroke patients using this new neurorehabilitation approach. Second, we address the neural mechanisms involved in the motor movement improvements observed in acute and chronic stroke patients. Third, we provide some recent studies on the involvement of auditory-motor coupling in the MST in chronic stroke patients using functional neuroimaging. Finally, these ideas are discussed and focused on understanding the dynamics involved in the neural circuit underlying audio-motor coupling and how functional connectivity could help to explain the neuroplastic changes observed after therapy in stroke patients.
Music is an enjoyable leisure activity that also engages many emotional, cognitive, and motor processes in the brain. Here, we will first review previous literature on the emotional and cognitive effects of music listening in healthy persons and various clinical groups. Then we will present findings about the short- and long-term effects of music listening on the recovery of cognitive function in stroke patients and the underlying neural mechanisms of these music effects. First, our results indicate that listening to pleasant music can have a short-term facilitating effect on visual awareness in patients with visual neglect, which is associated with functional coupling between emotional and attentional brain regions. Second, daily music listening can improve auditory and verbal memory, focused attention, and mood as well as induce structural gray matter changes in the early poststroke stage. The psychological and neural mechanisms potentially underlying the rehabilitating effect of music after stroke are discussed.
Musician's cramp is a task-specific movement disorder that presents itself as muscular incoordination or loss of voluntary motor control of extensively trained movements while a musician is playing the instrument. It is characterized by task specificity and gender bias, affecting significantly more males than females. The etiology is multifaceted: a combination of a genetic predisposition, termed endophenotype, and behavioral triggering factors being the leading features for the manifestation of the disorder. We present epidemiological data from 591 musician patients from our outpatient clinic demonstrating an influence of fine-motor requirements on the manifestation of dystonia. Brass, guitar, and woodwind players were at greater risk than other instrumentalists. High temporospatial precision of movement patterns, synchronous demands on tonic and phasic muscular activation, in combination with fine-motor burdens of using the dominant hand in daily life activities, constitute as triggering factors for the disorder and may explain why different body parts are affected.
Music has increasingly been used as a tool for investigation of human cognition and its underlying brain mechanisms. However, music can be used also for neurorehabilitation. Chronic tinnitus is a symptom with high prevalence, especially in industrialized countries. There is evidence that the tinnitus perception is related to unfavorable cortical plastic changes. Maladaptive auditory cortex reorganization may contribute to the generation and maintenance of tinnitus. Because cortical organization can be modified by behavioral training, potentially via reversing maladaptive auditory cortex reorganization, we attempted to reduce tinnitus loudness by exposing chronic tinnitus patients to self-chosen, enjoyable music that was modified (&quot;notched&quot;) to contain no energy in the frequency range surrounding the individual tinnitus frequency and thus attracting lateral inhibition to the brain area generating tinnitus. On this basis, we have developed and evaluated a customized music training strategy that appears capable of both reducing cortical tinnitus-related neuronal activity and alleviating subjective tinnitus perception.
This paper reports a preliminary study based on the theoretical assumption that continuous closed-loop audio-motor control could be disadvantageous for pianists. It is argued that the functional relationship between the intracerebral electrical activations in the auditory and premotor cortex should be rhythmically decreased and increased. To test this hypothesis, intracerebral electrical activations for the auditory and premotor cortex were estimated using scalp EEG and standardized low-resolution electrical tomography (sLORETA). The extracted times series were subjected to a Granger causality analysis, revealing a causal relationship from the auditory cortex to the premotor cortex that was considerably stronger during piano playing and weaker during rest. Importantly, this relationship varied rhythmically during the course of piano playing, with lags (obtained with cross-correlations) between 666 ms and 820 milliseconds. This study thus delivers evidence that the functional coupling between the auditory and premotor cortex varies during piano playing.
The present paper reviews behavioral and neuroimaging findings on similarities and differences between verbal and tonal working memory (WM), the influence of musical training, and the effect of strategy use on WM for tones. Whereas several studies demonstrate an overlap of core structures (Broca's area, premotor cortex, inferior parietal lobule), preliminary findings are discussed that imply, if confirmed, the existence of a tonal and a phonological loop in musicians. This conclusion is based on the findings of partly differing neural networks underlying verbal and tonal WM in musicians, suggesting that functional plasticity has been induced by musical training. We further propose a strong link between production and auditory WM: data indicate that both verbal and tonal auditory WM are based on the knowledge of how to produce the to-be-remembered sounds and, therefore, that sensorimotor representations are involved in the temporary maintenance of auditory information in WM.
Musical imagery is associated with neural activity in auditory cortex, but prior studies have not examined musical imagery tasks requiring mental transformations. This paper describes functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies requiring manipulation of musical information. In one set of experiments, listeners were asked to mentally reverse a familiar tune when presented backwards. This manipulation consistently elicits neural activity in the intraparietal sulcus (IPS). Separate experiments requiring judgments about melodies that have been transposed from one musical key to another also elicit IPS activation. Conjunction analyses indicate that the same portions of the IPS are recruited in both tasks. The findings suggest that the dorsal pathway of auditory processing is involved in the manipulation and transformation of auditory information, as has also been shown for visuomotor and visuospatial tasks. As such, it provides a substrate for the creation of new mental representations that are based on manipulation of previously experienced sensory events.
Singing in one's mind or forming expectations about upcoming notes both require that mental images of one or more pitches will be generated. As with other musical abilities, the acuity with which such images are formed might be expected to vary across individuals and may depend on musical training. Results from several behavioral tasks involving intonation judgments indicate that multiple memory systems contribute to the formation of accurate mental images for pitch, and that the functionality of each is affected by musical training. Electrophysiological measures indicate that the ability to form accurate mental images is associated with greater engagement of auditory areas and associated error-detection circuitry when listeners imagine ascending scales and make intonation judgments about target notes. A view of auditory mental images is espoused in which unified mental image representations are distributed across multiple brain areas. Each brain area helps shape the acuity of the unified representation based on current behavioral demands and past experience.
This paper examines the role of mental imagery in music performance. Self-reports by musicians, and various other sources of anecdotal evidence, suggest that covert auditory, motor, and/or visual imagery facilitate multiple aspects of music performance. The cognitive and motor mechanisms that underlie such imagery include working memory, action simulation, and internal models. Together these mechanisms support the generation of anticipatory images that enable thorough action planning and movement execution that is characterized by efficiency, temporal precision, and biomechanical economy. In ensemble performance, anticipatory imagery may facilitate interpersonal coordination by enhancing online predictions about others' action timing. Overlap in brain regions subserving auditory imagery and temporal prediction is consistent with this view. It is concluded that individual differences in anticipatory imagery may be a source of variation in expressive performance excellence and the quality of ensemble cohesion. Engaging in effortful musical imagery is therefore justified when artistic perfection is the goal.
Auditory imagery can represent many aspects of music, such as the starting pitches of a tune or the instrument that typically plays it. In this paper, I concentrate on more dynamic, or time-sensitive aspects of musical imagery, as demonstrated in two recently published studies. The first was a behavioral study that examined the ability to make emotional judgments about both heard and imagined music in real time. The second was a neuroimaging study on the neural correlates of anticipating an upcoming tune, after hearing a cue tune. That study found activation of several sequence-learning brain areas, some of which varied with the vividness of the anticipated musical memory. Both studies speak to the ways in which musical imagery allows us to judge temporally changing aspects of the represented musical experience. These judgments can be quite precise, despite the complexity of generating the rich internal representations of imagery.
Musician's dystonia (MD) is a task-specific movement disorder characterized by a loss of voluntary motor control in highly trained movements like piano playing. Its underlying pathophysiology is defined by deficient functioning of neural pathways at different levels of the central nervous system. However, a few studies have examined the brain responses associated with executive functions such as error monitoring in MD. We recorded the electroencephalogram (EEG) in professional pianists during the performance of memorized music sequences at fast tempi. Event-related potentials (ERPs) locked to pitch errors were investigated in MD and a control group. In MD patients, significantly larger error-related brain responses before and following errors were observed as compared with healthy pianists. Our results suggest that in MD, the generalized degraded neural activity at all levels of the central nervous system is manifested in specific neural correlates of the executive functions that monitor an overlearned sensorimotor performance.
Even expert musicians make errors occasionally, and overt responses that are correct may be accompanied by partial-error behavior that can be indicative of online error detection processes. We compare pianists' production of correct pitches, pitch errors, and partial errors (correct pitches with incorrect force or duration) by examining events prior to errors. Errors tended to be produced with slower durations and softer intensities (associated with force reduction) than correct events. In addition, pre-error events tended to have durations and intensities that fell between those of errors and correct responses, presumably due to response competition with upcoming errors that resulted in partial-error outcomes. These findings support the inference that partial information about upcoming (planned) sequence events is used to guide current responses, consistent with cascade models of activation during sequence production.
Recent research has shown that music training enhances music-related sensorimotor associations, such as the relationship between a key press on the keyboard and its associated musical pitch (auditory feedback). Such results suggest that the role of auditory feedback in performance may be based on learned associations that are task specific. Here, results from various studies will be presented that suggest that the real state of affairs is more complex. Several recent studies have shown similar effects of altered auditory feedback during piano performance for pianists and individuals with no piano training. Other recent research suggests dramatic differences between pianists and nonmusicians concerning the influence of auditory feedback on melody switching that suggest greater influence of auditory feedback among nonmusicians than pianists. Taken together, results suggest that musical training refines preexisting sensorimotor associations.
The experiences we engage in during childhood can stay with us well into our adult years. The idea of a sensitive period--a window during maturation when our brains are most influenced by behavior--has been proposed. Work from our laboratory has shown that early-trained musicians (ET) performed better on visual-motor and auditory-motor synchronization tasks than late-trained musicians (LT), even when matched for total musical experience. Although the groups of musicians showed no cognitive differences, working memory scores correlated with task performance. In this study, we have replicated these findings in a larger sample of musicians and included a group of highly educated nonmusicians (NM). Participants performed six woodblock rhythms of varying levels of metrical complexity and completed cognitive subtests measuring verbal abilities, working memory, and pattern recognition. Working memory scores correlated with task performance across all three groups. Interestingly, verbal abilities were stronger among the NM, while nonverbal abilities were stronger among musicians. These findings are discussed in context of the sensitive period hypothesis as well as the debate surrounding cognitive differences between musicians and NM.
The auditory system functions in the context of everyday life and the cultural environment in which we live. Although cultural-invariant, universal principles certainly contribute to sound processing, cultural factors play a role as well. In this review paper, we discuss two potential sources of cultural influence on auditory perception. We term the first type bottom-up, and use it to refer to the way that increased exposure to particular kinds of sound could shape our auditory and auditory-neural responses. The second type we term top-down, and use it to refer to the way our cultural upbringing broadly shapes how we think, which may in turn have an impact on how we perceive the world. An important consideration regarding cultural influences is that many individuals grow up with exposure to environmental stimulations of more than one culture. In our discussion, we will consider both mono- and bicultural experiences.
In this preliminary study, we measured event-related potentials (ERPs) to melodic expectancy violations in a cross-cultural context. Subjects (n= 10) were college-age students born and raised in the United States. Subjects heard 30 short melodies based in the Western folk tradition and 30 from North Indian classical music. Each melody was presented in its original and deviation form, and subjects were asked to judge the congruence of the melody. Results indicated that subjects found the Indian melodies less congruous overall and were less sensitive to deviations in the Indian melody condition. ERP data were partly consistent with the behavioral data with significant P600 responses to deviations in both cultural conditions, but less robust in the Indian context. Results are interpreted in light of previous research on listeners' abilities to generate expectancies in unfamiliar cultures and the possibility of overlap in the scale systems influencing the findings.
In various paradigms of modern neurosciences of music, experts of Western classical music have displayed superior brain architecture when compared with individuals without explicit training in music. In this paper, we show that chord violations embedded in musical cadences were neurally processed in a facilitated manner also by musicians trained in Finnish folk music. This result, obtained by using early right anterior negativity (ERAN) as an index of harmony processing, suggests that tonal processing is advanced in folk musicians by their long-term exposure to both Western and non-Western music.
Musicians' processing of sounds depends highly on instrument, performance practice, and level of expertise. Here, we measured the mismatch negativity (MMN), a preattentive brain response, to six types of musical feature change in musicians playing three distinct styles of music (classical, jazz, and rock/pop) and in nonmusicians using a novel, fast, and musical sounding multifeature MMN paradigm. We found MMN to all six deviants, showing that MMN paradigms can be adapted to resemble a musical context. Furthermore, we found that jazz musicians had larger MMN amplitude than all other experimental groups across all sound features, indicating greater overall sensitivity to auditory outliers. Furthermore, we observed a tendency toward shorter latency of the MMN to all feature changes in jazz musicians compared to band musicians. These findings indicate that the characteristics of the style of music played by musicians influence their perceptual skills and the brain processing of sound features embedded in music.
Musical enculturation is a complex, multifaceted process that includes the development of perceptual processing specialized for the pitch and rhythmic structures of the musical system in the culture, understanding of esthetic and expressive norms, and learning the pragmatic uses of music in different social situations. Here, we summarize the results of a study in which 6-month-old Western infants were randomly assigned to 6 months of either an active participatory music class or a class in which they experienced music passively while playing. Active music participation resulted in earlier enculturation to Western tonal pitch structure, larger and/or earlier brain responses to musical tones, and a more positive social trajectory. Furthermore, the data suggest that early exposure to cultural norms of musical expression leads to early preferences for those norms. We conclude that musical enculturation begins in infancy and that active participatory music making in a positive social setting accelerates enculturation.
Recent research suggests that musical training enhances the neural encoding of speech. Why would musical training have this effect? The OPERA hypothesis proposes an answer on the basis of the idea that musical training demands greater precision in certain aspects of auditory processing than does ordinary speech perception. This paper presents two assumptions underlying this idea, as well as two clarifications, and suggests directions for future research.
The present manuscript summarizes and discusses the implications of recent neuroimaging studies, which have investigated the relationship between musical expertise and structural, as well as functional, changes in an auditory-related association cortex, namely, the planum temporale (PT). Since the bilateral PT is known to serve as a spectrotemporal processor that supports perception of acoustic modulations in both speech and music, it comes as no surprise that musical expertise corresponds to functional sensitivity and neuroanatomical changes in cortical architecture. In this context, we focus on the following question: To what extent does musical expertise affect the functioning of the left and right plana temporalia? We discuss the relationship between behavioral, hemodynamic, and neuroanatomical data obtained from musicians in light of maturational and developmental issues. In particular, we introduce two studies of our group that show to what extent brains of musicians are more proficient in phonetic task performance.
Both speech and music are constituted by sequences of sound elements that unfold in time and require listeners to engage cognitive functions such as sequencing, attention, and memory. We recently ran a set of experiments with the aim of testing the effect of musical expertise on a rather high cognitive function: speech segmentation. Here, we will present the main concepts underlying the investigation of speech segmentation as well as its link to music and musical expertise. Interestingly, our results seem to show that musical training and expertise have effects on brain plasticity that may go beyond primary regions. Moreover, to facilitate and improve future research in this domain, we will here describe several delicate methodological precautions that need to be taken into account (e.g., the choice of stimuli, participants, data analyses). Finally, we will give some possible future directions to better understand the impact that music may have on speech processing.
Musicians benefit from real-life advantages, such as a greater ability to hear speech in noise and to remember sounds, although the biological mechanisms driving such advantages remain undetermined. Furthermore, the extent to which these advantages are a consequence of musical training or innate characteristics that predispose a given individual to pursue music training is often debated. Here, we examine biological underpinnings of musicians' auditory advantages and the mediating role of auditory working memory. Results from our laboratory are presented within a framework that emphasizes auditory working memory as a major factor in the neural processing of sound. Within this framework, we provide evidence for music training as a contributing source of these abilities.
Rhythm and meter are fundamental components of music that are universal yet also culture specific. Although simple, isochronous meters are preferred and more readily discriminated than highly complex, nonisochronous meters, moderately complex nonisochronous meters do not pose a problem for listeners who are exposed to them from a young age. The present work uses a behavioral task to examine the ease with which listeners of various ages acquire knowledge of unfamiliar metrical structures from passive exposure. We examined perception of familiar (Western) rhythms with an isochronous meter and unfamiliar (Balkan) rhythms with a nonisochronous meter. We compared discrimination by American children (5 to 11 years) and adults before and after a 2-week period of at-home listening to nonisochronous meter music from Bulgaria. During the first session, listeners of all ages exhibited superior discrimination of isochronous than in nonisochronous melodies. Across sessions, this asymmetry declined for young children but not for older children and adults.
Beat induction (BI) is the cognitive skill that allows us to hear a regular pulse in music to which we can then synchronize. Perceiving this regularity in music allows us to dance and make music together. As such, it can be considered a fundamental musical trait that, arguably, played a decisive role in the origins of music. Furthermore, BI might be considered a spontaneously developing, domain-specific, and species-specific skill. Although both learning and perception/action coupling were shown to be relevant in its development, at least one study showed that the auditory system of a newborn is able to detect the periodicities induced by a varying rhythm. A related study with adults suggested that hierarchical representations for rhythms (meter induction) are formed automatically in the human auditory system. We will reconsider these empirical findings in the light of the question whether beat and meter induction are fundamental cognitive mechanisms.
Increasing evidence shows that the neural circuits involved in beat perception overlap with motor circuitry even in the absence of overt movement. This study investigated effects of tempo on beat-based processing by combining functional magnetic resonance imaging with a perceptual timing paradigm where participants made simple temporal judgments about short rhythmic sequences. Of central interest were judgments about ambiguous test rhythms where the perceived direction of a timing deviation (&quot;speeding up&quot; vs. &quot;slowing down&quot;) depended on the induction of an implied beat. Successful beat induction was reduced when the implied beat was at a slower tempo (1,500 ms) than when it was at a faster tempo (600 ms). Decreased beat induction was accompanied by decreased functional activity in the basal ganglia, premotor and supplementary motor regions, and thalamus. Findings support the conclusion that rhythms presented at a slow tempo reduce involvement of a striato-thalamo-cortico network in beat-based processing.
Recent developments in music neuroscience are considered a source for reflection on, and evaluation and development of, musical therapeutic practice in the field, in particular, in relation to traumatized children and postconflict societies. Music neuroscience research is related to practice within a broad biopsychosocial framework. Here, examples are detailed of work from North Uganda, Palestine, and South Thailand.
Structural and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has been used increasingly to investigate typical and atypical brain development. However, in contrast to studies in school-aged children and adults, MRI research in young pediatric age groups is less common. Practical and technical challenges occur when imaging infants and children, which presents clinicians and research teams with a unique set of problems. These include procedural difficulties (e.g., participant anxiety or movement restrictions), technical obstacles (e.g., availability of child-appropriate equipment or pediatric MR head coils), and the challenge of choosing the most appropriate analysis methods for pediatric imaging data. Here, we summarize and review pediatric imaging and analysis tools and present neuroimaging protocols for young nonsedated children and infants, including guidelines and procedures that have been successfully implemented in research protocols across several research sites.
The neuroscientific study of musical behavior has become a significant field of research during the last decade, and reports of this research in the popular press have caught the imagination of the public. This enterprise has also made it evident that studying the development of musical behavior can make a significant contribution to important questions in the field, such as the evolutionary origins of music, cross-cultural similarity and diversity, the effects of experience on musical processing, and relations between music and other domains. Studying musical development brings a unique set of methodological issues. We discuss a select set of these related to measurement of the electroencephalogram (EEG) and magnetoencephalogram (MEG). We use specific examples from our laboratory to illustrate the types of questions that can be answered with different data analysis techniques.
The conference entitled &quot;The Neurosciences and Music-IV: Learning and Memory'' was held at the University of Edinburgh from June 9-12, 2011, jointly hosted by the Mariani Foundation and the Institute for Music in Human and Social Development, and involving nearly 500 international delegates. Two opening workshops, three large and vibrant poster sessions, and nine invited symposia introduced a diverse range of recent research findings and discussed current research directions. Here, the proceedings are introduced by the workshop and symposia leaders on topics including working with children, rhythm perception, language processing, cultural learning, memory, musical imagery, neural plasticity, stroke rehabilitation, autism, and amusia. The rich diversity of the interdisciplinary research presented suggests that the future of music neuroscience looks both exciting and promising, and that important implications for music rehabilitation and therapy are being discovered.



Antiretrovirals that reach higher concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) are associated with better control of HIV in CSF and possibly better neurocognitive performance. The objective of this study was to determine whether amprenavir (APV) concentrations in CSF are in the therapeutic range. Individuals were selected based on the use of regimens that included fosamprenavir (FPV), a prodrug of APV, and the availability of stored CSF and matched plasma. Total APV was measured in 119 matched CSF-plasma pairs from 75 subjects by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) (plasma) or liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) (CSF). Concentrations were compared to the 50% inhibitory concentration (IC) for wild-type HIV (5.6 ng/ml). Subjects were predominantly middle-aged (median 44 years) white (57%) men (78%) with AIDS (77%). APV was detected in all but 4 CSF specimens, with a median concentration of 24.8 ng/ml (interquartile range [IQR], 16.2 to 44.0). The median CSF-to-plasma ratio was 0.012 (IQR, 0.008 to 0.018). CSF concentrations correlated with plasma concentrations (rho = 0.61; P &lt; 0.0001) and with postdose sampling interval (rho = -0.29; P = 0.0019). APV concentrations in CSF exceeded the median IC for wild-type HIV in more than 97% of CSF specimens with detectable APV by a median of 4.4-fold (IQR, 2.9 to 7.9). We conclude that administration of fosamprenavir should contribute to control of HIV replication in the central nervous system (CNS) as a component of effective antiretroviral regimens.
The marine snail Aplysia californica produces escapin, an L-amino acid oxidase, in its defensive ink. Escapin uses L-lysine to produce diverse products called escapin intermediate products of L-lysine (EIP-K), including -amino--caproic acid, -piperidine-2-carboxylic acid, and -piperidine-2-carboxylic acid. EIP-K and HO together, but neither alone, is a powerful bactericide. Here, we report bactericidal mechanisms of escapin products on Escherichia coli. We show that EIP-K and HO together cause rapid and long-lasting DNA condensation: 2-min treatment causes significant DNA condensation and killing, and 10-min treatment causes maximal effect, lasting at least 70 h. We isolated two mutants resistant to EIP-K plus HO, both having a single missense mutation in the oxidation regulatory gene, oxyR. A complementation assay showed that the mutated gene, oxyR(A233V), renders resistance to EIP-K plus HO, and a gene dosage effect leads to reduction of resistance for strains carrying wild-type oxyR. Temperature stress with EIP-K does not produce the bactericidal effect, suggesting the effect is due to a specific response to oxidative stress. The null mutant for any single DNA-binding protein--Dps, H-NS, Hup, Him, or MukB--was not resistant to EIP-K plus HO, suggesting that no single DNA-binding protein is necessary to mediate this bactericidal effect, but allowing for the possibility that EIP-K plus HO could function through a combination of DNA-binding proteins. The bactericidal effect of EIP-K plus HO was eliminated by the ferrous ion chelator 1,10-phenanthroline, and it was reduced by the hydroxyl radical scavenger thiourea, suggesting hydroxyl radicals mediate the effects of EIP-K plus HO.
Controversy exists over whether exposure to artificial sweeteners degrades the predictive relationship between sweet taste and its post-ingestive consequences. Here we tested whether brain response to caloric sucrose is influenced by individual differences in self-reported artificial sweetener use. Twenty-six subjects participated in fMRI scanning while consuming sucrose solutions. A negative correlation between artificial sweetener use and amygdala response to sucrose ingestion was observed. This finding supports the hypothesis that artificial sweetener use may be associated with brain changes that could influence eating behavior.



Little is known about the ability of persons with severe mental disorders to give consent to sexual activity. A possible reason for this shortcoming is the absence of specific criteria and tools to measure sexual consent in psychiatric clinical settings. We developed a clinician oriented semi-structured interview, the Sexual Consent Assessment Scale (SCAS), and investigated sexual consent capacity in a sample of hospitalized patients with bipolar disorder (n = 54, M (age) = 38.1 years, 48% males) and schizophrenic spectrum disorders (n = 31, M (age) = 38.4 years, 29% males). The SCAS items were derived from the criteria proposed by Kennedy and Niederbuhl (Am J Ment Retard, 106:503-510, 2001). The full scale and a shorter scale comprising 10 items (SCAS-10) achieved good initial validity. Patients with schizophrenic spectrum disorders had worse sexual consent capacity than patients with bipolar disorder. This difference was unexpectedly independent from patients' symptomatology, as measured by the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale. Conversely, poor cognitive functioning measured by the Raven's Standard Progressive matrices was associated with reduced capacity to give sexual consent in both groups. Subjects in the schizophrenic spectrum disorders group were more frequently judged incapable in basic knowledge of birth control methods and in domains underlying metacognitive abilities. Principal component analysis revealed two SCAS-10 interpretable factors: &quot;appropriateness-recognition&quot; and &quot;consequences-metacognition.&quot; Our study suggests that patients with severe psychiatric disorders, especially those with cognitive dysfunction, might be at risk of incapacity to give valid sexual consent.
The role of estrogens in schizophrenia has been proposed from the observation of schizophrenia occurring later and with symptom severity being lesser in women. Utility of estrogens in treatment of psychoses, though seen to be useful, comes with inherent risks of neoplasias, given its agonistic action on breast and endometrium. This risk can be overcome with use of selective estrogen receptor modulators, like raloxifene. Raloxifene has been used in schizophrenia, with improvement in symptoms and cognitive functions. We report the use of raloxifene as an adjunctive treatment, with risperidone, in treatment-resistant form of schizophrenia. The patient, a 29-year-old woman, over a 7-month followup period, showed significant improvement in sociooccupational functioning, with reduction in symptom severity.
The autoimmune encephalopathies are a group of conditions that are associated with autoantibodies against surface neuronal proteins, which are likely to mediate the disease. They are established as a frequent cause of encephalitis. Characteristic clinical features in individual patients often allow the specificity of the underlying antibody to be confidently predicted. Antibodies against the VGKC-complex, mainly LGI1(leucine-rich glioma-inactivated 1), CASPR2 (contactin-associated protein 2), and contactin-2, and NMDA (N-methyl, D-aspartate) -receptor are the most frequently established serological associations. In the minority of cases, an underlying tumour can be responsible. Early administration of immunotherapies, and tumour removal, where it is relevant, offer the greatest chance of improvement. Prolonged courses of immunotherapies may be required, and clinical improvements often correlate well with the antibody levels. In the present article, we have summarised recent developments in the clinical and laboratory findings within this rapidly expanding field.

More than 30 neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer disease (AD), frontotemporal lobe dementia (FTD), and some forms of Parkinson disease (PD) are characterized by the accumulation of an aggregated form of the microtubule-binding protein tau in neurites and as intracellular lesions called neurofibrillary tangles. Diseases with abnormal tau as part of the pathology are collectively known as the tauopathies. Methylthioninium chloride, also known as methylene blue (MB), has been shown to reduce tau levels in vitro and in vivo and several different mechanisms of action have been proposed. Herein we demonstrate that autophagy is a novel mechanism by which MB can reduce tau levels. Incubation with nanomolar concentrations of MB was sufficient to significantly reduce levels of tau both in organotypic brain slice cultures from a mouse model of FTD, and in cell models. Concomitantly, MB treatment altered the levels of LC3-II, cathepsin D, BECN1, and p62 suggesting that it was a potent inducer of autophagy. Further analysis of the signaling pathways induced by MB suggested a mode of action similar to rapamycin. Results were recapitulated in a transgenic mouse model of tauopathy administered MB orally at three different doses for two weeks. These data support the use of this drug as a therapeutic agent in neurodegenerative diseases.
The fact that there is a complex and bidirectional communication between the immune and nervous systems has been well demonstrated. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a component of gram-negative bacteria, is widely used to systematically stimulate the immune system and generate profound physiological and behavioural changes, also known as 'sickness behaviour' (e.g. anhedonia, lethargy, loss of appetite, anxiety, sleepiness). Different ethological tools have been used to analyse the behavioural modifications induced by LPS; however, many researchers analysed only individual tests, a single LPS dose or a unique ethological parameter, thus leading to disagreements regarding the data. In the present study, we investigated the effects of different doses of LPS (10, 50, 200 and 500 g/kg, i.p.) in young male Wistar rats (weighing 180-200 g; 8-9 weeks old) on the ethological and spatiotemporal parameters of the elevated plus maze, light-dark box, elevated T maze, open-field tests and emission of ultrasound vocalizations. There was a dose-dependent increase in anxiety-like behaviours caused by LPS, forming an inverted U curve peaked at LPS 200 g/kg dose. However, these anxiety-like behaviours were detected only by complementary ethological analysis (stretching, grooming, immobility responses and alarm calls), and these reactions seem to be a very sensitive tool in assessing the first signs of sickness behaviour. In summary, the present work clearly showed that there are resting and alertness reactions induced by opposite neuroimmune mechanisms (neuroimmune bias) that could lead to anxiety behaviours, suggesting that misunderstanding data could occur when only few ethological variables or single doses of LPS are analysed. Finally, it is hypothesized that this bias is an evolutionary tool that increases animals' security while the body recovers from a systemic infection.
Prolonged consumption of ethanol produces prefrontal cortex (PFC) dysfunction in patients, and this has been demonstrated using structural, physiological and psychological measurements. We therefore wanted to develop an animal model of PFC dysfunction to study whether this state changes sensitivity for ethanol or other behavioural/motivational measures. Adolescent Wistar rats were first screened in the novel object recognition task to establish a pre-treatment baseline measure of locomotor activity, anxiety-like behaviour and PFC function. Animals were divided into four treatment groups [saline, 5 mg/kg phencyclidine (PCP), 2.5g/kg ethanol, ethanol + PCP] and injected i.p. for 5 days followed by a 2-day washout. On the 8th day, animals were allowed to explore a Y-maze for 10 min. and spontaneous alternations were recorded using the ANY-maze tracking system. PCP, a classic drug used to induce PFC dysfunction in animals, did not significantly reduce the % correct alternations relative to the 70% level achieved by the saline group. Ethanol and the combination of Ethanol + PCP, however, significantly reduced alternations to approximately 30%. The combined dose was not additive in terms of Y-maze impairment, and these animals had less total distance travelled and greater time immobile relative to the other groups. We therefore concluded that injection of 2.5 g/kg ethanol for 5 days in Wistar rats produces a more substantial, consistent and valid PFC dysfunction than 5 mg/kg PCP.
In radical behaviorism, the difference between overt and covert responses does not depend on properties of the behavior but on the sensitivity of the measurement tools employed by the experimenter. Current neuroscientific research utilizes technologies that allow measurement of variables that are undetected by the tools typically used by behavior analysts. Data from a specific neuroscientific technique, event-related potential (ERP), suggest that emission of otherwise covert responses can be indexed and that such covert responses are sensitive to stimulus control and selection by consequences. The P3 ERP effect is proposed as indicative of emission. Moreover, ERP results in semantic priming experiments suggest that operants are sensitive to changes in stimulus control even when they are not emitted (latent responses). Changes in response strength of latent responses as a function of stimulus control can in fact be measured by reaction time data and an ERP dependent variable called the N400 effect. If the interpretations provided in this paper are accurate, an index of covertly emitted operants (P3 effect) constitutes experimental evidence suggesting the validity of a Skinnerian radical behaviorist perspective on behavior. Moreover, in a Skinnerian paradigm, measured fluctuations in the response strength of latent operants as a function of environmental changes (N400 effect) would validate Palmer's (2009) concept of the repertoire.
Ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs) are emitted by rodents and can signal either negative or positive affective states in social and nonsocial contexts. Our recent work has utilized selective breeding based upon the emission of 50 kHz USVs in response to standard cross species hand play-namely experimenters 'tickling' rats. Previous work has shown that high-tickle responsive animals (i.e., rats emitting abundant 50 kHz USVs) are gregarious and express enhanced positive emotional behaviors relative to animals exhibiting low 50 kHz USVs. The present study extends this work by examining the developmental profile of play behavior and the suppression of play behavior by predator (cat) odor in juvenile high-line and low-line animals. Results support dissociations in key play measures between these groups, with high-line animals emitting more dorsal contacts during play and low-line animals emitting more pinning behavior. For cat-odor induced play suppression, we found that high-line animals exhibit elevated suppression of play for a prolonged period compared to low-line rats. In contrast, low-line animals returned to normal levels of play just 1 day post-predator odor experience. These findings support the idea that emotional arousal may differ between these selectively bred groups, and extends previous work by demonstrating a possible influence of altered emotional learning and conditioning in these phenotypically different animals. One possibility is that high-line animals exhibit enhanced associative learning abilities leading to stronger negative contextual conditioning. These findings suggest that selection for positive or negative social-emotional phenotypes may also segregate genes that control emotional learning abilities in unanticipated ways.
This study aims to investigate the relative contribution of remote mechanoreceptors to perception of roughness and spatial acuity. We examined two unilateral pathological conditions affecting differently innervation of the index finger: unilateral carpal tunnel syndrome (n=12) and surgically repaired complete traumatic median nerve section at the wrist following surgical repair (n=4). We employed a control condition consisting of ring-block anesthesia of the entire index in 10 healthy subjects to model pathological denervation of the fingertip. Spatial acuity and the ability to discern roughness were assessed using a grating orientation task and a roughness discrimination task, respectively. In patients with carpal tunnel syndrome, we observed a significant reduction of spatial resolution acuity but an intact ability to discriminate roughness with the fingertip. For patients with traumatic median nerve section there was no recovery with the grating orientation task up to 20 months post surgery but a progressive and full recovery with the roughness discrimination task between 6 and 9 months. Finally, in the anesthetic ring bloc group, the nerve block completely disrupted performances in grating orientation task, but unexpectedly left unaffected performances in the roughness discrimination task. Taken together, these lines of evidence support the view that the neural mechanisms underlying tactile roughness discrimination differ from those involved in spatial resolution acuity. Vibrotaction is necessary and sufficient for the perception of fine textures and, when the innervation of the fingerpad is compromised, information about textures can be captured and encoded by remote mechanoreceptors located in more proximal tissues where the innervation is intact.
Focal cortical injuries generate various behavioral deficits associated with different morphological changes. The age and the area of the injury determine the nature and extent of recovery represented by the level of performance in various behavioral tasks. Previously, we have shown that motor cortex injury in early (but not late) adolescence leads to behavioral deficits that do not recover spontaneously with time. Considering the fact that the pace of brain maturation differs in different brain areas, we undertook to examine the pattern of spontaneous recovery following medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) lesion in early or late adolescence. A battery of motor tasks (postural asymmetry, skilled reaching, sunflower seed manipulation, forepaw inhibition in swimming) was used to investigate the pattern of behavioral recovery following mPFC lesions. Golgi-Cox analysis was used to examine dendritic reorganization of the relevant brain areas. The results indicated that rats perform poorly when receiving mPFC injuries in late adolescence in contrast to when they receive the lesion in early adolescence. Almost opposite pattern of recovery following motor cortex and medial prefrontal injuries in early and late adolescence will be discussed as an age-area dependent model for prognosis of brain injury during adolescence.
The fundamental cognitive-control function of inhibitory control over motor behavior has been extensively investigated using the Stop-signal task. The critical behavioral parameter describing stopping efficacy is the Stop-signal response time (SSRT), and correlations with estimates of this parameter are commonly used to establish that other variables (e.g., other behavioral measures or brain activity measures) are closely related to inhibitory motor control. Recently, however, it has been argued that SSRT estimates can be strongly distorted if participants strategically slow down their responses over the course of the experiment, resulting in the SSRT no longer reliably representing response-inhibition efficacy. Here, we performed new analyses on behavioral and functional data from an fMRI version of the Stop-signal task to gauge the consequences of using different SSRT estimation approaches that are differentially prone to the influence of strategic response slowing. The results indicate that the SSRT estimation approach can dramatically change behavior-behavior correlations. Specifically, a correlation between the SSRT and Go-trial accuracy that was highly significant with one estimation approach, virtually disappeared for the other. Additional analyses indeed supported that this effect was related to strategic response slowing. Concerning brain-behavior correlations, only the left anterior insula was found to be significantly correlated with the SSRT within the set of areas tested here. Interestingly, this brain-behavior correlation differed little for the different SSRT-estimation procedures. In sum, the current results highlight that different SSRT-estimation procedures can strongly influence the distribution of SSRT values across subjects, which in turn can ramify into correlational analyses with other parameters.
Sub-concussive brain injuries may result in neurophysiological changes, cumulative effects, and neurodegeneration. The current study investigated the effects of a mild lateral fluid percussion injury (0.50-0.99 atm) on rat behavior and neuropathology to address the need to better understand sub-concussive brain injury. Male Long-Evans rats received either a single mild lateral fluid percussion injury or a sham-injury, followed by either a short (24 h) or long (4 weeks) recovery period. After recovery, rats underwent extensive behavioral testing consisting of tasks for rodent cognition, anxiety- and depression-like behaviors, social behavior, and sensorimotor function. At the completion of behavioral testing rats were sacrificed and brains were examined immunohistochemically with markers for neuroinflammation and axonal injury. No significant group differences were found on behavioral and axonal injury measures. However, rats given one mild fluid percussion injury displayed an acute neuroinflammatory response, consisting of increased microglia/macrophages and reactive astrogliosis, at 4 days post-injury. Neuroinflammation is a mechanism with the potential to contribute to the cumulative and neurodegenerative effects of repeated sub-concussive injuries. The current findings are consistent with findings in humans experiencing a sub-concussive blow, and provide support for the use of mild lateral fluid percussion injury in the rat as a model of sub-concussive brain injury.
Memory processes are mainly studied with subjective rating procedures. We used a morphing procedure to objectively manipulate the similarity of target stimuli. While undergoing functional magnetic resonance imaging, nineteen subjects performed a encoding and recognition task on face and scene stimuli, varying the degree of manipulation of previously studied targets at 0%, 20%, 40% or 60%. Analyses were performed with parametric modulations for objective stimulus status (morphing level), subjective memory (confidence rating), and reaction times (RTs). Results showed that medial temporal lobe (MTL) activity can be best explained by a combination of subjective and objective factors. Memory success is associated with activity modulation in the hippocampus both for faces and for scenes. Memory failures correlated with lower hippocampal activity for scenes, but not for faces. Activity changed during retrieval on similar areas activated during encoding. There was a considerable impact of RTs on memory-related areas. Objective perceptual identity correlated with activity in the left MTL, while subjective memory experience correlated with activity in the right MTL for both types of material. Overall, the results indicate that MTL activity is heterogeneous, showing both linear and non-linear activity, depending on the factor analyzed.
In clinical populations, sex differences in disease prevalence, symptoms and outcome have been established. Despite this, female rats are frequently omitted from preclinical research; growing preclinical evidence, however, illustrates meaningful sex differences in behavioural, neurochemical and neuroanatomical endpoints. This review outlines the effects of sex on tests of depression- and anxiety-like symptoms, learning and memory, and responses to stress in rats. In addition, sexual dimorphisms in monoamine neurotransmitter and neurotrophic factor levels, neurogenesis and plasticity, and responsiveness to drugs of abuse are reviewed. Female rats display greater baseline activity levels compared to males, test-specific sex differences also exist in learning and memory protocols as females respond more actively in conditioning paradigms and are somewhat impaired in tests of spatial memory compared to males. Differential baseline and stress-induced hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis responses between male and female rats depend on the nature of the stressor. Females are more responsive to the effects of psychomotor stimulant drugs; sexual dimorphisms in response to psychotropic drugs are likely mediated by neurochemical differences between male and female rats. Differences exist in neurotransmitter activity, transporter and receptor expression between the sexes. Studies of ovariectomised and intact female rats demonstrate a potent impact of elevated estrogen during the estrous cycle on behaviour, neurochemistry, dendritic growth and drug response. Sex differences in baseline behaviours and the methodological procedures employed can influence behavioural pharmacology result interpretation. In addition, the inclusion of both male and female rats in studies investigating neurochemistry and neuromorphology may enhance the validity of drug or rehabilitative treatments.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are coupled to second messenger pathways via G proteins and modulate synaptic transmission. Of the eight different types of mGluRs (mGluR1-mGluR8), mGluR4, mGluR6, mGluR7, and mGluR8 are members of group III. Group III receptors are generally located presynaptically, where they regulate neurotransmitter release. Because of their role in modulating neurotransmission, mGluRs are attractive targets for therapies aimed at treating anxiety disorders. Previously we showed that the mGluR4-selective allosteric agonist VU 0155041 reduces anxiety-like behavior in wild-type male mice. Here, we explore the role of mGluR4 in adult (6-month old) and middle-aged (12-month old) male and female mice lacking this receptor. Compared to age- and sex-matched wild-type mice, middle-aged mGluR4(-/-) male mice showed increased measures of anxiety in the open field and elevated zero maze and impaired sensorimotor function on the rotarod. These changes were not seen in adult 6-month-old male mice. In contrast to the male mice, mGluR4(-/-) female mice showed reduced measures of anxiety in the open field and elevated zero maze and enhanced rotarod performance. During the hidden platform training sessions of the water maze, mGluR4(-/-) mice swam farther away from the platform than wild-type mice at 6, but not at 12, months of age. mGluR4(-/-) mice also showed enhanced amygdala-dependent cued fear conditioning. No genotype differences were seen in hippocampus-dependent contextual fear conditioning. These data indicate that effects of mGluR4 on sensorimotor function and measures of anxiety, but not cued fear conditioning, are critically modulated by sex and age.
In the present study, we investigated the influence of intra-medial septum (intra-MS) injections of dopamine D1 receptor agents on amnesia induced by intra-CA1 injections of a muscarinic acetylcholine receptor antagonist, scopolamine. This study used a step-through inhibitory (passive) avoidance task to assess memory in adult male Wistar rats. The results showed that in the animals that received post-training intra-MS injections of saline, intra-CA1 administrations of scopolamine (0.75, 1, and 2 g/rat) decreased inhibitory avoidance (IA) memory consolidation as evidenced by a decrease in step-through latency on the test day, which was suggestive of drug-induced amnesia. Post-training intra-MS injections of a dopamine D1 receptor agonist, SKF38393 at doses of 0.1, 0.15, and 0.3 g/rat had no effect, but at dose of 0.5 g/rat impaired IA memory consolidation. Interestingly, intra-MS injections of SKF38393 (0.15, 0.3 and 0.5 g/rat) significantly prevented amnesia induced by intra-CA1 injections of scopolamine (1 g/rat). Intra-MS injections of a dopamine D1 receptor antagonist, SCH23390 (0.5 and 0.75 g/rat) by itself impaired IA memory consolidation, and also at dose of 0.75 g/rat increased amnesia induced by intra-CA1 administrations of an ineffective dose of scopolamine (0.5 g/rat). Post-training intra-MS injections of ineffective doses of SCH23390 (0.1, 0.3 and 0.5 g/rat) prevented an effective dose of SKF38393 response to the impaired effect of scopolamine. These results suggest that dopamine D1 receptors in the MS via projection neurons to the hippocampus affect impairment of memory consolidation induced by intra-CA injections of scopolamine.
Although the thalamus and/or mammillary bodies are the primary sites of neuropathology in cases of diencephalic amnesia such as Wernicke Korsakoff Syndrome (WKS), there is also functional deactivation of certain cortical regions that contribute to the cognitive dysfunction. Acetylcholine (ACh) is a key neurotransmitter that modulates neural processing within the cortex and between the thalamus and cortex. In the pyrithiamine-induced thiamine deficiency (PTD) rat model of WKS, there are significant reductions in cholinergic innervation and behaviorally stimulated ACh efflux in the frontal (FC) and retrosplenial (RSC) cortices. In the present study, ACh released levels were site-specifically amplified with physostigmine (0.5 g, 1.0 g) in the FC and the RSC, which was confirmed with in vivo microdialysis. Although physostigmine sustained high ACh levels in both cortical regions, the effects on spatial memory, assessed by spontaneous alternation, were different as a function of region (FC, RSC) and treatment (PTD, pair-fed [PF]). Higher ACh levels in the FC recovered the rate of alternation in PTD rats as well as reduced arm-reentry perseverative errors. However, higher ACh levels within the FC of PF rats exacerbated arm-reentry perseverative errors without significantly affecting alternation rates. Maintaining high ACh levels in the RSC had no procognitive effects in PTD rats, but rather impaired alternation behavior in PF rats. These results demonstrate that diverse cortical regions respond differently to intensified ACh levels-and the effects are dependent on thalamic pathology. Thus, pharmacotherapeutics aimed at enhancing cognitive functions must account for the unique features of cortical ACh stimulation and the connective circuitry with the thalamus.
Dietary essential fatty acids have been shown to regulate behavioral and cognitive functions in rodents. However, the long-term effect on behavior, besides memory and learning, of essential fatty acid deficiency (EFAD), i.e., lack of n-3 and n-6 fatty acids, during the perinatal period has not been investigated. Therefore, pregnant C57Bl/6 mice were given either an EFAD or an isoenergetic control diet from gestational day 16 and throughout lactation. The female offspring were given standard chow from 3 weeks of age, and at 12 to 14 weeks of age, open-field, object recognition, light-dark transition, elevated plus maze, and social interaction tests were performed. The brain glycerophospholipid fatty acid composition was investigated in 3-week-old and adult offspring by gas chromatography. The differences observed in behavior were indicative of lower anxiety in the EFAD mice compared to controls illustrated by more time spent in the open arms of the elevated plus maze (+ 41%, p &lt; .05) and in the light compartment in the light-dark transition test (+ 63%, p &lt; .05). The proportion of total n-3 fatty acids, especially 22:6n-3 in the brain, was lower with a compensatory increase in the proportion of total n-6 fatty acids, foremost 22:5n-6, in the EFAD mice compared to controls at 3 weeks of age. In the adult brains the fatty acid composition was normalized. In conclusion, our data show that EFAD during the perinatal period results in short-term alterations of fatty acid composition in brain and decreased anxiety in adult life.
Regulation of dopamine neurotransmission is essential for cognitive processes. In humans and rodents, the relationship between dopamine signaling and cognitive performance is described as a dose-dependent, inverted-U curve whereby excess or insufficiency of dopamine in prefrontal cortex has detrimental effects. Previous studies have indicated that prefrontal dopamine levels are associated with genetic variation in catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT), a regulatory enzyme that controls dopamine availability. Furthermore, smokers who carry the high-activity COMT-Val allele are more prone to cognitive deficits and have an increased risk of smoking relapse. The present study employed transgenic mice expressing the human COMT-Val variant to determine the effects of the high-activity COMT allele on electrophysiological markers, including the P20, N40, and P80 components of the auditory event-related potential, as well as baseline and auditory event-related power and phase-synchrony in theta and gamma ranges. We also examined the effects of nicotine on these measures to investigate the potential effects of smoking on COMT-mediated electrophysiological activity. COMT-Val-tg mice displayed increased N40 latency and decreased P80 amplitude as well as reduced baseline theta and gamma power. Nicotine increased P20 and P80 amplitudes, decreased N40 amplitude, increased P20 and N40 latencies, and reduced P80 latency. Nicotine also increased the event-related power and phase synchrony, yielding an increase in signal-to-noise ratio across theta and gamma ranges. COMT activity specifically alters long-latency components of the event-related response. Nicotine restored normal event-related activity among COMT-Val-tg mice, suggesting one mechanism through which nicotine may normalize cognitive function among people with the high-activity allele.
Both olanzapine and sibutramine target serotonergic and noradrenergic neurotransmission and influence body weight, but in opposite ways. The second-generation antipsychotic olanzapine, an antagonist at serotonergic and noradrenergic receptors, frequently induces weight gain as a side-effect, whereas sibutramine, a noradrenaline/serotonin reuptake inhibitor, is known as a weight-reducing agent. To investigate whether altered motivation for palatable food influences the effect of these drugs on body weight, we determined their effects on responding for sucrose pellets under a progressive ratio schedule of reinforcement in rats. We found that a low dose of olanzapine selectively increased responding to sucrose, without affecting free-feeding intake of sucrose. In contrast, sibutramine dose-dependently reduced responding to sucrose and similarly reduced free-feeding intake. Furthermore, coadministration of a dose of sibutramine that failed to affect responding to sucrose when administered alone prevented the increase in motivation by the effective dose of olanzapine. These data show that increased motivation for palatable food is likely to be a significant contributor to olanzapine-induced weight gain. Moreover, the ability of sibutramine to reduce this motivation for palatable food may play an important role in the efficacy of sibutramine as an add-on treatment to counteract olanzapine-induced weight gain.

Oxidative and nitrosative stress underlie the pathogenesis of a broad range of human diseases, in particular neurodegenerative disorders. Within the brain, neurons are the cells most vulnerable to excess reactive oxygen and nitrogen species; their survival relies on the antioxidant protection promoted by neighbouring astrocytes. However, neurons are also intrinsically equipped with a biochemical mechanism that links glucose metabolism to antioxidant defence. Neurons actively metabolize glucose through the pentose phosphate pathway, which maintains the antioxidant glutathione in its reduced state, hence exerting neuroprotection. This process is tightly controlled by a key glycolysis-promoting enzyme and is dependent on an appropriate supply of energy substrates from astrocytes. Thus brain bioenergetic and antioxidant defence is coupled between neurons and astrocytes. A better understanding of the regulation of this intercellular coupling should be important for identifying novel targets for future therapeutic interventions.
PITPs (phosphatidylinositol transfer proteins) are characterized by the presence of the PITP domain whose biochemical properties of binding and transferring PI (phosphatidylinositol) are well studied. Despite their wide-spread expression in both unicellular and multicellular organisms, they remain functionally uncharacterized. An emerging theme is that individual PITPs play highly specific roles in either membrane trafficking or signal transduction. To identify specific roles for PITPs, identification of interacting molecules would shed light on their molecular function. In the present paper, we describe binding partners for the class IIB PITP RdgB (retinal degeneration typeB). RdgB is a soluble PITP but is unique in that it contains a region of disorder at its C-terminus following its defining N-terminal PITP domain. The C-terminus of RdgB is phosphorylated at two serine residues, Ser274 and Ser299, which form a docking site for 14-3-3 proteins. Binding to 14-3-3 proteins protects RdgB from degradation that occurs at the proteasome after ubiquitination. In addition to binding 14-3-3, the PITP domain of RdgB interacts with the Ang II (angiotensin II)-associated protein ATRAP (Ang II receptor-associated protein). ATRAP is also an interacting partner for the AT1R (Ang II type1 receptor). We present a model whereby RdgB functions by being recruited to the membrane by ATRAP and release of 14-3-3 from the C-terminus allows the disordered region to bind a second membrane to create a membrane bridge for lipid transfer, possibly under the control of Ang II.
The present study investigated the effects of 902.4 MHz global system for mobile communications (GSM) mobile phone radiation on cerebral blood flow using positron emission tomography (PET) with the (15) O-water tracer. Fifteen young, healthy, right-handed male subjects were exposed to phone radiation from three different locations (left ear, right ear, forehead) and to sham exposure to test for possible exposure effects on brain regions close to the exposure source. Whole-brain [O]HO-PET images were acquired 12 times, 3 for each condition, in a counterbalanced order. Subjects were exposed for 5 min in each scan while performing a simple visual vigilance task. Temperature was also measured in the head region (forehead, eyes, cheeks, ear canals) during exposure. The exposure induced a slight temperature rise in the ear canals but did not affect brain hemodynamics and task performance. The results provided no evidence for acute effects of short-term mobile phone radiation on cerebral blood flow.
Balancing self-renewal and differentiation of stem cells is an important issue in stem cell and cancer biology. Recently, the Drosophila neuroblast (NB), neural stem cell has emerged as an excellent model for stem cell self-renewal and tumorigenesis. It is of great interest to understand how defects in the asymmetric division of neural stem cells lead to tumor formation. Here, we review recent advances in asymmetric division and the self-renewal control of Drosophila NBs. We summarize molecular mechanisms of asymmetric cell division and discuss how the defects in asymmetric division lead to tumor formation. Gain-of-function or loss-of-function of various proteins in the asymmetric machinery can drive NB overgrowth and tumor formation. These proteins control either the asymmetric protein localization or mitotic spindle orientation of NBs. We also discuss other mechanisms of brain tumor suppression that are beyond the control of asymmetric division.


Transplantation of human neural stem cells (hNSCs) is emerging as a viable treatment for stroke related brain injury. However, intraparenchymal grafts do not regenerate lost tissue, but rather integrate into the host parenchyma without significantly affecting the lesion cavity. Providing a structural support for the delivered cells appears important for cell based therapeutic approaches. The non-invasive monitoring of therapeutic methods would provide valuable information regarding therapeutic strategies but remains a challenge. Labeling transplanted cells with metal-based (1)H-magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) contrast agents affects the visualization of the lesion cavity. Herein, we demonstrate that a (19)F-MRI contrast agent can adequately monitor the distribution of transplanted cells, whilst allowing an evaluation of the lesion cavity and the formation of new tissue on (1)H-MRI scans. Twenty percent of cells labeled with the (19)F agent were of host origin, potentially reflecting the re-uptake of label from dead transplanted cells. Both T(2)- and diffusion-weighted MRI scans indicated that transplantation of hNSCs suspended in a gel form of a xenogeneic extracellular matrix (ECM) bioscaffold resulted in uniformly distributed cells throughout the lesion cavity. However, diffusion MRI indicated that the injected materials did not yet establish diffusion barriers (i.e. cellular network, fiber tracts) normally found within striatal tissue. The ECM bioscaffold therefore provides an important support to hNSCs for the creation of de novo tissue and multi-nuclei MRI represents an adept method for the visualization of some aspects of this process. However, significant developments of both the transplantation paradigm, as well as regenerative imaging, are required to successfully create new tissue in the lesion cavity and to monitor this process non-invasively.
Histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors represent a novel class of drugs that selectively induce cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in transformed cells. This study examined, for the first time, the effects of the relatively new HDAC inhibitor, M344 [4-dimethylamino-N-(6-hydroxycarbamoylhexyl)-benzamide], on the proliferation of MCF-7 breast cancer cells. MTT [3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide] assays revealed significant concentration- and time-dependent decreases in MCF-7 cell proliferation following treatment with M344 (1-100M). In contrast to the significant induction of p21(waf1/cip1) mRNA expression following treatment with M344 (10M) for 1 or 3 days, there was a significant decrease in p53 mRNA expression, although p53 protein levels were unchanged. Similar treatment with M344 also induced expression of the pro-apoptotic genes, Puma and Bax, together with the morphological features of apoptosis, in MCF-7 cells. The results of this study reinforce previous findings indicating that HDAC inhibitors are an important group of oncostatic drugs, and show that M344 is a potent suppressor of breast cancer cell proliferation.
Neuroepigenetics, which includes nuclear DNA modifications such as 5-methylcytosine and 5-hydoxymethylcytosine and modifications of nuclear proteins such as histones, is emerging as the leading field in molecular neuroscience. Historically, a functional role for epigenetic mechanisms, including in neuroepigenetics, has been sought in the area of the regulation of nuclear transcription. However, one important compartment of mammalian cell DNA, different from nuclear but equally important for physiological and pathological processes (including in the brain), mitochondrial DNA has for the most part not had a systematic epigenetic characterization. The importance of mitochondria and mitochondrial DNA (particularly its mutations) in central nervous system physiology and pathology has long been recognized. Only recently have mechanisms of mitochondrial DNA methylation and hydroxymethylation, including the discovery of mitochondrial DNA-methyltransferases and the presence and the functionality of 5-methylcytosine and 5-hydroxymethylcytosine in mitochondrial DNA (e.g., in modifying the transcription of mitochondrial genome), been unequivocally recognized as a part of mammalian mitochondrial physiology. Here we summarize for the first time evidence supporting the existence of these mechanisms and we propose the term &quot;mitochondrial epigenetics&quot; to be used when referring to them. Currently, neuroepigenetics does not include mitochondrial epigenetics - a gap that we expect to close in the near future.
Non-compliance has received significant attention in medicine, yet few studies have examined its correlates in autologous hematopoietic SCT (AHSCT) patients. This study examined predictors of non-compliance in a sample of 151 AHSCT patients treated in an outpatient setting. Before AHSCT, participants completed a validated measure of mood and retrospective chart reviews were conducted to assess non-compliance during AHSCT, defined as refusal of oral hygiene, prescribed exercise programs, oral nutrition and/or prescribed medications. We found 121 patients (80%) were non-compliant with an aspect of the AHSCT regimen on 1 or more days; mean percentage of non-compliant days was 16.6 (s.d. 15.6). Men were more likely than women to be non-compliant (P&lt;0.05); as were participants with an elevated depression score (P&lt;0.05). Stepwise regression models identified significant predictors of non-compliance: gender, depression, global distress and nausea and vomiting severity (P-values all &lt;0.01). Further analysis revealed that the interaction of the psychological variables with gender was a more robust predictor of non-compliance (P&lt;0.001). For outpatient AHSCT, our findings suggest the need to broaden conceptualizations of risk factors for non-compliance and the importance of assessing patient barriers to compliance to ensure optimal treatment outcome.






Preclinical studies have attributed neuroprotective properties to the antibiotic minocycline. Animal studies and early clinical trials support its use in several neurological diseases. In animal spinal cord injury models, minocycline improved neurological and histological outcomes, reduced neuronal and oligodendroglial apoptosis, decreased microglial activation and reduced inflammation. A single-centre, human, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study of minocycline administration after spinal cord injury was undertaken for the purposes of dose optimization, safety assessment and to estimate outcome changes and variance. Neurological, functional, pharmacological and adverse event outcomes were compared between subjects administered 7 days of intravenous minocycline (n = 27) or placebo (n = 25) after acute traumatic spinal cord injury. The secondary outcome used to assess neurological differences between groups that may warrant further investigation was motor recovery over 1 year using the American Spinal Cord Injury Association examination. Recruitment and analyses were stratified by injury severity and injury location a priori given the expected influence of these on the sensitivity of the motor exam. Minocycline administered at higher than previously reported human doses produced steady-state concentrations of 12.7 g/ml (95% confidence interval 11.6-13.8) in serum and 2.3 g/ml (95% confidence interval 2.1-2.5) in cerebrospinal fluid, mimicking efficacious serum levels measured in animal studies. Transient elevation of serum liver enzymes in one patient was the only adverse event likely related to the study drug. Overall, patients treated with minocycline experienced six points greater motor recovery than those receiving placebo (95% confidence interval -3 to 14; P = 0.20, n = 44). No difference in recovery was observed for thoracic spinal cord injury (n = 16). A difference of 14 motor points that approached significance was observed in patients with cervical injury (95% confidence interval 0-28; P = 0.05, n = 25). Patients with cervical motor-incomplete injury may have experienced a larger difference (results not statistically significant, n = 9). Functional outcomes exhibited differences that lacked statistical significance but that may be suggestive of improvement in patients receiving the study drug. The minocycline regimen established in this study proved feasible, safe and was associated with a tendency towards improvement across several outcome measures. Although this study does not establish the efficacy of minocycline in spinal cord injury the findings are encouraging and warrant further investigation in a multi-centre phase III trial. ClinicalTrials.gov number NCT00559494.
Brain injury that results in an initial behavioural deficit is frequently followed by spontaneous recovery. The intrinsic mechanism of this functional recovery has never been fully understood. Here, we show that reorganization of the corticospinal tract induced by target-derived brain-derived neurotrophic factor is crucial for spontaneous recovery of motor function following brain injury. After destruction of unilateral sensorimotor cortex, intact-side corticospinal tract formed sprouting fibres into the specific lamina of the denervated side of the cervical spinal cord, and made new contact with two types of spinal interneurons-segmental and propriospinal neurons. Anatomical and electrophysiological analyses revealed that this rewired corticospinal tract functionally linked to motor neurons and forelimb muscles. This newly formed corticospinal circuit was necessary for motor recovery, because transection of the circuit led to impairment of recovering forelimb function. Knockdown of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the spinal neurons or its receptor in the intact corticospinal neurons diminished fibre sprouting of the corticospinal tract. Our findings establish the anatomical, functional and molecular basis for the intrinsic capacity of neurons to form compensatory neural network following injury.
Patients with Parkinson's disease suffer from significant motor impairments and accompanying cognitive and affective dysfunction due to progressive disturbances of basal ganglia-cortical gating loops. Parkinson's disease has a long presymptomatic stage, which indicates a substantial capacity of the human brain to compensate for dopaminergic nerve degeneration before clinical manifestation of the disease. Neuroimaging studies provide evidence that increased motor-related cortical activity can compensate for progressive dopaminergic nerve degeneration in carriers of a single mutant Parkin or PINK1 gene, who show a mild but significant reduction of dopamine metabolism in the basal ganglia in the complete absence of clinical motor signs. However, it is currently unknown whether similar compensatory mechanisms are effective in non-motor basal ganglia-cortical gating loops. Here, we ask whether asymptomatic Parkin mutation carriers show altered patterns of brain activity during processing of facial gestures, and whether this might compensate for latent facial emotion recognition deficits. Current theories in social neuroscience assume that execution and perception of facial gestures are linked by a special class of visuomotor neurons ('mirror neurons') in the ventrolateral premotor cortex/pars opercularis of the inferior frontal gyrus (Brodmann area 44/6). We hypothesized that asymptomatic Parkin mutation carriers would show increased activity in this area during processing of affective facial gestures, replicating the compensatory motor effects that have previously been observed in these individuals. Additionally, Parkin mutation carriers might show altered activity in other basal ganglia-cortical gating loops. Eight asymptomatic heterozygous Parkin mutation carriers and eight matched controls underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging and a subsequent facial emotion recognition task. As predicted, Parkin mutation carriers showed significantly stronger activity in the right ventrolateral premotor cortex during execution and perception of affective facial gestures than healthy controls. Furthermore, Parkin mutation carriers showed a slightly reduced ability to recognize facial emotions that was least severe in individuals who showed the strongest increase of ventrolateral premotor activity. In addition, Parkin mutation carriers showed a significantly weaker than normal increase of activity in the left lateral orbitofrontal cortex (inferior frontal gyrus pars orbitalis, Brodmann area 47), which was unrelated to facial emotion recognition ability. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that compensatory activity in the ventrolateral premotor cortex during processing of affective facial gestures can reduce impairments in facial emotion recognition in subclinical Parkin mutation carriers. A breakdown of this compensatory mechanism might lead to the impairment of facial expressivity and facial emotion recognition observed in manifest Parkinson's disease.
Although cognitive neuroscience has made remarkable progress in understanding the involvement of the prefrontal cortex in executive control, the broader functional networks that support high-level cognition and give rise to general intelligence remain to be well characterized. Here, we investigated the neural substrates of the general factor of intelligence (g) and executive function in 182 patients with focal brain damage using voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping. The Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale and Delis-Kaplan Executive Function System were used to derive measures of g and executive function, respectively. Impaired performance on these measures was associated with damage to a distributed network of left lateralized brain areas, including regions of frontal and parietal cortex and white matter association tracts, which bind these areas into a coordinated system. The observed findings support an integrative framework for understanding the architecture of general intelligence and executive function, supporting their reliance upon a shared fronto-parietal network for the integration and control of cognitive representations and making specific recommendations for the application of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale and Delis-Kaplan Executive Function System to the study of high-level cognition in health and disease.
Muscle acetylcholine receptor ion channels mediate neurotransmission by depolarizing the postsynaptic membrane at the neuromuscular junction. Inherited disorders of neuromuscular transmission, termed congenital myasthenic syndromes, are commonly caused by mutations in genes encoding the five subunits of the acetylcholine receptor that severely reduce endplate acetylcholine receptor numbers and/or cause kinetic abnormalities of acetylcholine receptor function. We tracked the cause of the myasthenic disorder in a female with onset of first symptoms at birth, who displayed mildly progressive bulbar, respiratory and generalized limb weakness with ptosis and ophthalmoplegia. Direct DNA sequencing revealed heteroallelic mutations in exon 8 of the acetylcholine receptor -subunit gene. Two alleles were identified: one with the missense substitution p.P282R, and the second with a deletion, c.798_800delCTT, which result in the loss of a single amino acid, residue F266, within the M2 transmembrane domain. When these acetylcholine receptor mutations were expressed in HEK 293 cells, the p.P282R mutation caused severely reduced expression on the cell surface, whereas p.F266 gave robust surface expression. Single-channel analysis for p.F266 acetylcholine receptor channels showed the longest burst duration population was not different from wild-type acetylcholine receptor (4.390.6ms versus 4.680.7ms, n=5 each) but that the amplitude of channel openings was reduced. Channel amplitudes at different holding potentials showed that single-channel conductance was significantly reduced in p.F266 acetylcholine receptor channels (42.71.4 pS, n=8, compared with 70.91.6 pS for wild-type, n=6). Although a phenylalanine residue at this position within M2 is conserved throughout ligand-gated excitatory cys-loop channel subunits, deletion of equivalent residues in the other subunits of muscle acetylcholine receptor did not have equivalent effects. Modelling the impact of p.F266 revealed only a minor alteration to channel structure. In this study we uncover the novel mechanism of reduced acetylcholine receptor channel conductance as an underlying cause of congenital myasthenic syndrome, with the 'low conductance' phenotype that results from the p.F266 deletion mutation revealed by the coinheritance of the low-expressor mutation p.P282R.
Effects of dual-responding on tracking performance after 49-h of sleep deprivation (SD) were evaluated behaviorally and with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Continuous visuomotor tracking was performed simultaneously with an intermittent color-matching visual detection task in which a pair of color-matched stimuli constituted a target and non-matches were non-targets. Tracking error means were binned time-locked to stimulus onset of the detection task in order to observe changes associated with dual-responding by comparing the error during targets and non-targets. Similar comparison was made with fMRI data. Our result showed that despite a significant increase in the overall tracking error post SD, from 20 pixels pre SD to 45 pixels post SD, error decreased to a minimum of about 25 pixels 0-6s after dual-response. Despite an overall reduced activation post SD, greater activation difference between targets and non-targets was found post SD in task-related regions, such as the left cerebellum, the left somatosensory cortex, the left extrastriate cortex, bilateral precuneus, the left middle frontal gyrus, and the left motor cortex. Our results suggest that dual-response helps to alleviate performance impairment usually associated with SD. The duration of the alleviation effect was on the order of seconds after dual-responding.
This article follows the culmination of the scientific thought of the neurobiologist Christfried Jakob (1866-1956) during the later part of his career, based on publications from 1930 to 1949, when he was between 64 and 83 years of age. Jakob emphasized the necessity of bridging philosophy to the biological sciences, neurobiology in particular. Thus, we consider him as one of the early protagonists in the emergence of neurophilosophy in the 20th century. The topics that occupied his mind were the foundations for a future philosophy of the brain, and the 'neurobiogenetic', 'neurodynamic', and 'neuropsychogenetic' problems in relation to how consciousness emerges. Jakob's views have many elements in common with great thinkers of philosophy and psychology, including Immanuel Kant, William James, Edmund Husserl, Henri Bergson, Jean Piaget and Willard Quine. A common denominator can also be discerned between Jakob's dynamic approach and certain aspects of cybernetics and neurophenomenology. Jakob propounded the interdisciplinarity of sciences as an indispensable tool for ultimately solving the enigma of consciousness.
Impairment on standard tests of delayed recall is often already maximal in the aMCI stage of Alzheimer's Disease. Neuropathological work shows that the neural substrates of memory function continue to deteriorate throughout the progression of the disease, hinting that further changes in memory performance could be tracked by a more sensitive test of delayed recall. Recent work shows that retention in aMCI patients can be raised well above floor when the delay period is devoid of further material - 'Minimal Interference'. This memory enhancement is thought to be the result of improved memory consolidation. Here we used the minimal interference/interference paradigm (word list retention following 10 min of quiet resting vs. picture naming) in a group of 17 AD patients, 25 aMCI patients and 25 controls. We found (1) that retention can be improved significantly by minimal interference in patients with aMCI and patients with mild to moderate AD; (2) that the minimal interference paradigm is sensitive to decline in memory function with disease severity, even when performance on standard tests has reached floor; and (3) that this paradigm can differentiate well (80% sensitivity and 100% specificity) between aMCI patients who progress and do not progress to AD within 2 years. Our findings support the notion that the early memory dysfunction in AD is associated with an increased susceptibility to memory interference and are suggestive of a gradual decline in consolidation capacity with disease progression.
Recent cognitive neuroscience studies indicate that noninvasive brain stimulation can modulate a wide spectrum of behaviors in healthy individuals. Such modulation of behaviors provides novel insights into the fundamentals and neurobiology of cognitive functions in the healthy brain, but also suggests promising prospects for translational applications into clinical populations. One type of behavior that can be modulated with noninvasive brain stimulation is decision-making. For instance, brain stimulation can induce more cautious or riskier behaviors. The capacity of influencing processes involved in decision-making is of particular interest because such processes are at the core of human social and emotional functioning (or dysfunctioning). We review cognitive neuroscience studies that have successfully modulated processes involved in decision-making with transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) or transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), including risk taking, reward seeking, impulsivity, and fairness consideration. We also discuss potential clinical relevance of these findings for patients who have still unmet therapeutic need and whose alterations in decision-making represent hallmarks of their clinical symptomatology, such as individuals with addictive disorders.

Empathy is a multi-dimensional concept allowing humans to understand the emotions of others and respond adaptively from a social perspective. This mental process, essential to social interactions, has attracted the attention of many scholars from different fields of study but the blooming interest for empathy in cognitive neurosciences has rekindled this interest. This paper reviews the growing literature stemming from studies using brain stimulation techniques that have investigated directly or indirectly the different components of empathy, including resonance, self-other discrimination, and mentalizing. Some studies have also ventured toward the modulation of this complex process and toward the investigation of different components in populations that show reduced empathic skills. We argue that brain stimulation techniques have the potential to make a unique contribution to the field of empathy research with their exclusive capacity, compared to other brain imaging techniques, to modulate the neural systems involved in the distinct components of this process. Provided the development of innovative ecological paradigms that will put people in actual social interactions as well as comprehensive and adaptive models that can integrate research from different domains, the ultimate goal of this research domain is to devise protocols that can modulate empathy in people with developmental, neurological and psychiatric disorders.
Transcranial magnetic and electric stimulation studies examining episodic memory in young participants have established the role of the left prefrontal cortex during encoding and the right prefrontal cortex during episodic retrieval. Furthermore, these techniques have been used to verify the reduction in functional asymmetry in the prefrontal cortex that occurs with ageing, at least during encoding, suggesting the existence of compensatory adjustments for the structural and neurotransmitter loss that occurs with physiological ageing. Nevertheless, it has been shown that several factors can modulate performance based on the type of material or strategy used. It is important to note that although numerous studies have addressed the role of the prefrontal cortex in episodic memory, a number of studies have also demonstrated the involvement of a more distributed neural network sustaining this function involving the temporal lobes and parietal cortices. Finally, it is evident that the use of transcranial stimulation techniques might represent a powerful tool not only for investigating the involvement of cerebral areas in a specific cognitive task but also for designing interventional therapies for individuals with memory impairment.
Probing brain functions by brain stimulation while simultaneously recording brain activity allows addressing major issues in cognitive neuroscience. We review recent studies where electroencephalography (EEG) has been combined with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) in order to investigate possible neuronal substrates of visual perception and attention. TMS-EEG has been used to study both pre-stimulus brain activity patterns that affect upcoming perception, and also the stimulus-evoked and task-related inter-regional interactions within the extended visual-attentional network from which attention and perception emerge. Local processes in visual areas have been probed by directly stimulating occipital cortex while monitoring EEG activity and perception. Interactions within the attention network have been probed by concurrently stimulating frontal or parietal areas. The use of tasks manipulating implicit and explicit memory has revealed in addition a role for attentional processes in memory. Taken together, these studies helped to reveal that visual selection relies on spontaneous intrinsic activity in visual cortex prior to the incoming stimulus, their control by attention, and post-stimulus processes incorporating a re-entrant bias from frontal and parietal areas that depends onthe task.
Inhibitory control mechanisms are important in a range of behaviours to prevent execution of motor acts which, having been planned, are no longer necessary or appropriate. Examples of this can be seen in a range of sports, such as cricket and baseball, where the choice between execution and inhibition of a bat swing must be made in a very brief time window. Deficits in inhibitory control have been associated with problems in behavioural regulation in impulsive violence as well as a range of clinical disorders. The roles of various areas, including the frontal eye fields (FEF), the pre-supplementary motor area (pre-SMA) and the inferior frontal gyrus, in inhibitory control have been investigated using an inhibitory control task and both transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS). Typically effects on response inhibition but no effects on response generation have been seen. The contributions of these areas to performance seem to differ with, for example, pre-SMA being involved when the task is relatively novel whereas this is not the case for FEF. The findings from brain stimulation studies offer both insight into which areas are necessary for effective inhibitory control and recent extension of findings for the role of the inferior frontal gyrus illustrate how the specific functions by which these areas contribute may be further clarified. Future work, including making use of the temporal specificity of TMS and combination of TMS/tDCS with other neuroimaging techniques, may further clarify the nature and functions played by the network of areas involved in inhibitory control.
Decision making is a cognitive function relaying on a complex neural network. In particular, the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) plays a key role within this network. We used positron emission tomography (PET) combined with continuous theta burst transcranial magnetic stimulation (cTBS) to investigate neuronal and behavioral changes in normal volunteers while performing a delay discounting (DD) task. We aimed to test whether stimulation of right DLPFC would modify the activation pattern of the neural circuit underlying decision making during the DD task and influence discounting behavior. We found that cTBS of the right DLPFC influenced decision making by reducing impulsivity and inducing participants to favor large but delayed rewards instead of immediate but small rewards. Stimulation also affected activation in several prefrontal areas associated with DD. In particular, we observed a reduced regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in the ipsilateral DLPFC (BA 46) extending into the rostral part of the prefrontal cortex (BA 10) as well as a disrupted relationship between impulsivity (k-value) and rCBF in these and other prefrontal areas. These findings suggest that transcranial magnetic stimulation of the DLPFC influences the neural network underlying impulsive decision making behavior.

Although morphometric studies of fixed mammalian brains are an integral part of neuroscience, the nature of fixation-related morphometric artifacts is not well understood beyond assessments of size changes over fixation time. This study is the first to quantitatively co-evaluate the effects of the most common brain tissue fixative--formalin--on brain shape, size, and weight, using two-dimensional landmark analysis of mouse brains fixed in unbuffered, non-saline formalin from fresh specimens up to 213 days of preservation. The brains show a typical swelling reaction with subsequent decline in size and weight. Weight initially under- and later over-estimates size, so that the practice of using weight to estimate volume can be problematic. Time to recovery of original size resembled that of much larger brained mammals, suggesting that the slow reaction of formalin with tissue components mainly determines recovery times. Non-size related (anisotropic) distortion of different brain areas accounted for around a quarter of overall change suggesting that the use of &quot;all-brain&quot; fixation correction factors can introduce considerable error. Distortion occurs mostly after the first day of fixation, and extended fixation times impact mostly on size, not shape. Fixation effects relatively wider and stouter brain dimensions, except the cerebellum whose shape changes less. Evidence from the literature suggests that this pattern may be common to mammals due to structural commonalities.
Commonly, in lesion-behaviour studies structural changes in brain matter are depicted and analysed. However, in addition to these structural changes, brain areas might be structurally intact but non-functional due to malperfusion. These changes may be detected using perfusion-weighted MRI (PWI). Perfusion parameters most commonly used [e.g. time-to-peak (TTP)] are semi-quantitative and perfusion is evaluated in relation to a non-affected reference area. Traditionally, the mean of a larger region in the non-affected hemisphere or the cerebellum has been used [&quot;mean contra-region of interest (ROI) comparison&quot;]. Our results suggest that this method is prone to biases (in particular in periventricular regions) because perfusion differs between different parts of the brain, for example, between grey and white matter. We reduced such potential biases with voxelwise inter-hemispheric comparisons. Each voxel is compared with its homologous voxel and thus white matter with white matter and grey matter with grey matter. This automated method seems to correspond with results deriving from manual delineation of perfusion deficits. The TTP delay maps with a threshold of 3 s seem to be best comparable to manual delineation. Our method avoids the observer-dependent choice of a reference region and involves the spatial normalisation of perfusion maps. It is well suited for whole-brain analysis of abnormal perfusion in neuroscience studies as well as in clinical contexts.
Neurofilament medium (NF-M) and heavy (NF-H) chain proteins have been used as markers for maturity in the developing brain since their accumulation in axons leads to an increase in conduction velocity. Earlier studies have demonstrated immunoreactivity of neurofilaments in Layer I of the human auditory cortex at 22 gestation weeks (GW), whereas that in other layers developed between 1 and 12 postnatal years, suggesting a gradual increase in the processing of sounds. However, third trimester fetuses and infants are fairly sophisticated in their ability to discern different aspects of complex sounds. Given these contradictory findings, we decided to study the expression of neurofilaments in human auditory cortex between 15 GW and adulthood. We found that mRNA and protein for both NF-M and NF-H were present in the presumptive human auditory cortex in the second trimester and during the postnatal period (1 year--adulthood). Axons in all layers of the auditory cortex were immunoreactive for neurofilaments by 25 GW and the density of the neurofilament-rich plexus in the cortical wall became adult-like during the first postnatal year in humans (9 postnatal months). Our results suggest that in terms of neurofilament expression, axons within the preterm human auditory cortex may be more mature than previously thought.
The three main dopamine cell groups of the brain are located in the substantia nigra (A9), ventral tegmental area (A10), and retrorubral field (A8). Several subdivisions of these cell groups have been identified in rats and humans but have not been well described in mice, despite the increasing use of mice in neurodegenerative models designed to selectively damage A9 dopamine neurons. The aim of this study was to determine whether typical subdivisions of these dopamine cell groups are present in mice. The dopamine neuron groups were analysed in 15 adult C57BL/6J mice by anatomically localising tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), dopamine transporter protein (DAT), calbindin, and the G-protein-activated inward rectifier potassium channel 2 (GIRK2) proteins. Measurements of the labeling intensity, neuronal morphology, and the proportion of neurons double-labeled with TH, DAT, calbindin, or GIRK2 were used to differentiate subregions. Coronal maps were prepared and reconstructed in 3D. The A8 cell group had the largest dopamine neurons. Five subregions of A9 were identified: the reticular part with few dopamine neurons, the larger dorsal and smaller ventral dopamine tiers, and the medial and lateral parts of A9. The latter has groups containing some calbindin-immunoreactive dopamine neurons. The greatest diversity of dopamine cell types was identified in the seven subregions of A10. The main dopamine cell groups in the mouse brain are similar in terms of diversity to those observed in rats and humans. These findings are relevant to models using mice to analyse the selective vulnerability of different types of dopamine neurons.
We studied the organization and spinal projection of the mouse red nucleus with a range of techniques (Nissl stain, immunofluorescence, retrograde tracer injections into the spinal cord, anterograde tracer injections into the red nucleus, and in situ hybridization) and counted the number of neurons in the red nucleus (3,200.9  230.8). We found that the rubrospinal neurons were mainly located in the parvicellular region of the red nucleus, more lateral in the rostral part and more medial in the caudal part. Labeled neurons were least common in the rostral and caudal most parts of the red nucleus. Neurons projecting to the cervical cord were predominantly dorsomedially placed and neurons projecting to the lumbar cord were predominantly ventrolaterally placed. Immunofluorescence staining with SMI-32 antibody showed that ~60% of SMI-32-positive neurons were cervical cord-projecting neurons and 24% were lumbar cord-projecting neurons. SMI-32-positive neurons were mainly located in the caudomedial part of the red nucleus. A study of vGluT2 expression showed that the number and location of glutamatergic neurons matched with those of the rubrospinal neurons. In the anterograde tracing experiments, rubrospinal fibers travelled in the dorsal portion of the lateral funiculus, between the lateral spinal nucleus and the calretinin-positive fibers of the lateral funiculus. Rubrospinal fibers terminated in contralateral laminae 5, 6, and the dorsal part of lamina 7 at all spinal cord levels. A few fibers could be seen next to the neurons in the dorsolateral part of lamina 9 at levels of C8-T1 (hand motor neurons) and L5-L6 (foot motor neurons), which is consistent with a view that rubrospinal fibers may play a role in distal limb movement in rodents.
The cerebellum receives sensory signals from spinocerebellar (lower limbs) and dorsal column nuclei (upper limbs) mossy fibers. In the cerebellum, mossy fibers terminate in bands that are topographically aligned with stripes of Purkinje cells. While much is known about the molecular heterogeneity of Purkinje cell stripes, little is known about whether mossy fiber compartments have distinct molecular profiles. Here, we show that the vesicular glutamate transporters VGLUT1 and VGLUT2, which mediate glutamate uptake into synaptic vesicles of excitatory neurons, are expressed in complementary bands of mossy fibers in the adult mouse cerebellum. Using a combination of immunohistochemistry and anterograde tracing, we found heavy VGLUT2 and weak VGLUT1 expression in bands of spinocerebellar mossy fibers. The adjacent bands, which are in part comprised of dorsal column nuclei mossy fibers, strongly express VGLUT1 and weakly express VGLUT2. Simultaneous injections of fluorescent tracers into the dorsal column nuclei and lower thoracic-upper lumbar spinal cord revealed that upper and lower limb sensory pathways innervate adjacent VGLUT1/VGLUT2 parasagittal bands. In summary, we demonstrate that VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 are differentially expressed by dorsal column nuclei and spinocerebellar mossy fibers, which project to complementary cerebellar bands and respect common compartmental boundaries in the adult mouse cerebellum.
The mesencephalic locomotor region (MLR) plays an important role in the control of locomotion, but there is ongoing debate about the anatomy of its connections with the spinal cord. In this study, we have examined the spinal projections of the mouse precuneiform nucleus (PrCnF), which lies within the boundaries of the presumptive MLR. We used both retrograde and anterograde labeling techniques. Small clusters of labeled neurons were seen in the medial portion of the PrCnF following fluoro-gold injections in the upper cervical spinal cord. Fewer labeled neurons were seen in the PrCnF after upper thoracic injections. Following the injection of anterograde tracer (biotinylated dextran amine) into the PrCnF, labeled fibers were clearly observed in the spinal cord. These fibers traveled in the ventral and lateral funiculi, and terminated mainly in the medial portions of laminae 7, 8, and 9, as well as area 10, with an ipsilateral predominance. Our observations indicate that projections from the PrCnF to the spinal cord may provide an anatomical substrate for the role of the MLR in locomotion.
Congenital malignant gliomas are rare brain tumors about which few reports have been published. We present the clinical course and genetic alterations in an infant with a congenital malignant glioma detected incidentally by ultrasonography at 36weeks. The tumor occupied the right temporoparietal region, extended to the posterior fossa, and significantly compressed surrounding structures. The female infant was entirely normal without macrocrania, tense fontanel, or sucking difficulties. The tumor was subtotally resected by two-stage surgery; pathological diagnosis was anaplastic astrocytoma. Immunohistochemical staining was positive for p53 and negative for epidermal growth factor receptor. There was no O(6)-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) gene promoter methylation, no 1p/19q loss of heterozygosity, and no isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1) mutation. She underwent postoperative chemotherapy and is alive and well 12months after surgery.
The mammalian stress response is an integrated physiological and psychological reaction to real or perceived adversity. Glucocorticoids are an important component of this response, acting to redistribute energy resources to both optimize survival in the face of challenge and to restore homeostasis after the immediate challenge has subsided. Release of glucocorticoids is mediated by the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, driven by a neural signal originating in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN). Stress levels of glucocorticoids bind to glucocorticoid receptors in multiple body compartments, including the brain, and consequently have wide-reaching actions. For this reason, glucocorticoids serve a vital function in negative feedback inhibition of their own secretion. Negative feedback inhibition is mediated by a diverse collection of mechanisms, including fast, non-genomic feedback at the level of the PVN, stress-shut-off at the level of the limbic system, and attenuation of ascending excitatory input through destabilization of mRNAs encoding neuropeptide drivers of the HPA axis. In addition, there is evidence that glucocorticoids participate in stress activation via feed-forward mechanisms at the level of the amygdala. Feedback deficits are associated with numerous disease states, underscoring the necessity for adequate control of glucocorticoid homeostasis. Thus, rather than having a single, defined feedback 'switch', control of the stress response requires a wide-reaching feedback 'network' that coordinates HPA activity to suit the overall needs of multiple body systems.
In the present review, the phenomenon of ultrasonic vocalization in rats will be outlined, including the three classes of vocalizations, namely 40-kHz calls of pups, and 22- and 50-kHz calls of juvenile and adult rats, their general relevance to behavioral neuroscience, and their special relevance to research on anxiety, fear, and defense mechanisms. Here, the emphasis will be placed on 40- and 22-kHz calls, since they are typical for various situations with aversive properties. Among other topics, we will discuss whether such behavioral signals can index a certain affective state, and how these signals can be used in social neuroscience, especially with respect to communication. Furthermore, we will address the phenomenon of inter-individual variability in ultrasonic calling and what we currently know about the mechanisms, which may determine such variability. Finally, we will address the current knowledge on the neural and pharmacological mechanisms underlying 22-kHz ultrasonic vocalization, which show a substantial overlap with mechanisms known from other research on fear and anxiety, such as those involving the periaqueductal gray or the amygdala.
The osmotic stress is a potent stimulus that can trigger several peripheral as well as central impairments. The brain is a vulnerable target of the osmotic stress and particularly circumventricular organs (CVOs) regarding their strategic localization as sensory organs of biochemical changes in the blood and cerebrospinal fluid circulations. The subcommissural organ (SCO) is a CVO which releases doubly in the CSF and blood circulation a glycoprotein called Reissner's fiber (RF) that has been associated to several functions including electrolyte and water balances. The present work was aimed on the assessment of the secretory activity of the SCO and its serotoninergic innervation following 2 weeks of total water restriction in Wistar rat. Using the immunohistochemistry of RF and serotonin (5HT), our data showed a significant overall reduction of RF immunoreactivity within both ependymal and hypendymal cells of the SCO of dehydrated rats compared to their corresponding controls, this decrease was concomitant with an enhancement of fibers 5HT immunoreactivity in the SCO as well as in the classical ependyma and in the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN), constituting the origin of this innervation. The present findings support the possible involvement of the SCO in the response to prolonged water deprivation by decreasing its secretory materials which may result from either a direct peripheral hormonal control and/or the consequence of the enhanced 5HT innervation of the SCO.
Vincristine, an anticancer drug, is known to induce neuronal cell damage. We have elucidated the alteration in performance of the hippocampus and cerebellum following chronic vincristine treatment (0.2mg(kg body mass)(-1)week(-1)) in male and female rats. Intraperitoneal injection of vincristine in adolescent rats caused impairment of motor and cognitive behavior. In the probe test, the length of path traveled and percent swimming time for vincristine-treated rats in the correct quadrant was significantly less than for the saline-treated (control) groups. The path length and time latency at the 2nd and 3rd blocks of trials for the male vincristine-treated group was significantly higher than that for the female saline- and the vincristine-treated rats. In the rod test, vincristine exposure impaired the motor coordination in both male and female rats. Exposure to vincristine caused a significant decrease in hanging time in male rats, compared with the saline- and the vincristine-treated female rats, while there were no differences between the female vincristine-treated rats and the saline-treated rats of both sexes. The rearing frequency, total distance moved, and velocity for both male and female rats were dramatically affected by exposure to vincristine. We have observed that the hippocampal and cerebellar functions of male and female rats were profoundly affected by exposure to vincristine, especially the male rats, suggesting a sexual dimorphism in the developing central nervous system that is affected by chemicals such as anticancer drugs.
The term &quot;neurocardiology&quot; refers to physiologic and pathophysiological interplays of the nervous and cardiovascular systems. This selective review provides an update about cardiovascular therapeutic implications of neurocardiology, with emphasis on disorders involving primary or secondary abnormalities of catecholamine systems. Concepts of scientific integrative medicine help understand these disorders. Scientific integrative medicine is not a treatment method or discipline but a way of thinking that applies systems concepts to acute and chronic disorders of regulation. Some of these concepts include stability by negative feedback regulation, multiple effectors, effector sharing, instability by positive feedback loops, allostasis, and allostatic load. Scientific integrative medicine builds on systems biology but is also distinct in several ways. A large variety of drugs and non-drug treatments are now available or under study for neurocardiologic disorders in which catecholamine systems are hyperfunctional or hypofunctional. The future of therapeutics in neurocardiology is not so much in new curative drugs as in applying scientific integrative medical ideas that take into account concurrent chronic degenerative disorders and interactions of multiple drug and non-drug treatments with each other and with those disorders.
Several replication-initiation proteins are assembled stepwise onto replicators to form pre-replicative complexes (pre-RCs) to license eukaryotic DNA replication. We performed a yeast functional proteomic screen and identified the Rix1 complex members (Ipi1p-Ipi2p/Rix1-Ipi3p) as pre-RC components and critical determinants of replication licensing and replication-initiation frequency. Ipi3p interacts with pre-RC proteins, binds chromatin predominantly at ARS sequences in a cell cycle-regulated and ORC- and Noc3p-dependent manner and is required for loading Cdc6p, Cdt1p and MCM onto chromatin to form pre-RC during the M-to-G transition and for pre-RC maintenance in G phase-independent of its role in ribosome biogenesis. Moreover, Ipi1p and Ipi2p, but not other ribosome biogenesis proteins Rea1p and Utp1p, are also required for pre-RC formation and maintenance, and Ipi1p, -2p and -3p are interdependent for their chromatin association and function in pre-RC formation. These results establish a new framework for the hierarchy of pre-RC proteins, where the Ipi1p-2p-3p complex provides a critical link between ORC-Noc3p and Cdc6p-Cdt1p-MCM in replication licensing.
The p21-activated kinases (PAKs) are a family of Ser/Thr protein kinases that are represented by six genes in humans (PAK 1-6), and are found in all eukaryotes sequenced to date. Genetic and knockdown experiments in frogs, fish and mice indicate group I PAKs are widely expressed, required for multiple tissue development, and particularly important for immune and nervous system function in the adult. The group II PAKs (human PAKs 4-6) are more enigmatic, but their restriction to metazoans and presence at cell-cell junctions suggests these kinases emerged to regulate junctional signaling. Studies of protozoa and fungal PAKs show that they regulate cell shape and polarity through phosphorylation of multiple cytoskeletal proteins, including microtubule binding proteins, myosins and septins. This chapter discusses what we know about the regulation of PAKs and their physiological role in different model organisms, based primarily on gene knockout studies.
Mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress occur in Parkinson's disease (PD), but little is known about the molecular mechanisms controlling these events. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator-1 (PGC-1) is a transcriptional coactivator that is a master regulator of oxidative stress and mitochondrial metabolism. We show here that transgenic mice overexpressing PGC-1 in dopaminergic neurons are resistant against cell degeneration induced by the neurotoxin MPTP. The increase in neuronal viability was accompanied by elevated levels of mitochondrial antioxidants SOD2 and Trx2 in the substantia nigra of transgenic mice. PGC-1 overexpression also protected against MPTP-induced striatal loss of dopamine, and mitochondria from PGC-1 transgenic mice showed an increased respiratory control ratio compared with wild-type animals. To modulate PGC-1, we employed the small molecular compound, resveratrol (RSV) that protected dopaminergic neurons against the MPTP-induced cell degeneration almost to the same extent as after PGC-1 overexpression. As studied in vitro, RSV activated PGC-1 in dopaminergic SN4741 cells via the deacetylase SIRT1, and enhanced PGC-1 gene transcription with increases in SOD2 and Trx2. Taken together, the results reveal an important function of PGC-1 in dopaminergic neurons to combat oxidative stress and increase neuronal viability. RSV and other compounds acting via SIRT1/PGC-1 may prove useful as neuroprotective agents in PD and possibly in other neurological disorders.
To investigate the contribution of parietal cortex to perceptual decisions, we trained monkeys on a perceptual decision task that allowed simultaneous experimental control over how much sensory evidence was provided for each of 3 possible alternative choices and recorded single unit activity and local field potentials (LFPs) from the lateral intraparietal area (LIP). While both the behavior and the spiking activity were largely determined by the difference between how much supporting sensory evidence was provided for a particular choice (pro evidence) and how much sensory evidence was provided for the other alternatives (anti evidence), the LFP reflected roughly the sum of these 2 components. Furthermore, the firing rates showed an earlier influence of the anti evidence than the pro evidence. These observations indicate that LIP does not simply receive already precomputed decision signals but that it plays an active role in computing the decision-relevant net sensory evidence and that this local computation is reflected in the LFP. The results further demonstrate that the competition between the different alternatives cannot solely be mediated by lateral or feedback inhibition, as proposed by a major class of decision models but that feedforward inhibition makes an important contribution.
Motion processing regions apart from V5+/MT+ are still relatively poorly understood. Here, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to perform a detailed functional analysis of the recently described cingulate sulcus visual area (CSv) in the dorsal posterior cingulate cortex. We used distinct types of visual motion stimuli to compare CSv with V5/MT and MST, including a visual pursuit paradigm. Both V5/MT and MST preferred 3D flow over 2D planar motion, responded less yet substantially to random motion, had a strong preference for contralateral versus ipsilateral stimulation, and responded nearly equally to contralateral and to full-field stimuli. In contrast, CSv had a pronounced preference to 2D planar motion over 3D flow, did not respond to random motion, had a weak and nonsignificant lateralization that was significantly smaller than that of MST, and strongly preferred full-field over contralateral stimuli. In addition, CSv had a better capability to integrate eye movements with retinal motion compared with V5/MT and MST. CSv thus differs from V5+/MT+ by its unique preference to full-field, coherent, and planar motion cues. These results place CSv in a good position to process visual cues related to self-induced motion, in particular those associated to eye or lateral head movements.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) techniques allow definition of cortical nodes that are presumed to be components of large-scale distributed brain networks involved in cognitive processes. However, very few investigations examine whether such functionally defined areas are in fact structurally connected. Here, we used combined fMRI and diffusion MRI-based tractography to define the cortical network involved in saccadic eye movement control in humans. The results of this multimodal imaging approach demonstrate white matter pathways connecting the frontal eye fields and supplementary eye fields, consistent with the known connectivity of these regions in macaque monkeys. Importantly, however, these connections appeared to be more prominent in the right hemisphere of humans. In addition, there was evidence of a dorsal frontoparietal pathway connecting the frontal eye field and the inferior parietal lobe, also right hemisphere dominant, consistent with specialization of the right hemisphere for directed attention in humans. These findings demonstrate the utility and potential of using multimodal imaging techniques to define large-scale distributed brain networks, including those that demonstrate known hemispheric asymmetries in humans.
This article discusses recent findings on the neurobiology of pediatric depression as well as the interplay between genetic and environmental factors in determining the risk for the disorder. Utilizing data from both animal and human studies, the authors focus on the evolving understanding of the developmental neurobiology of emotional regulation, cognitive function and social behavior as it applies to the risk and clinical course of depression. Treatment implications and directions for future research are also discussed.
Some infants show a free-running rhythm in their rest-activity. We do not know why, nor do we know exactly what the entrainment factors are for the development of the normal 24-h rest-activity rhythm. Actigraphic recordings on 10 primiparae during late pregnancy and these mothers and their infants during the 2nd, 6th, and 12th wks after birth were made over 3-5 continuous days to investigate maternal and infant entrainment. One infant showed a free-running rest-activity circadian rhythm. In late pregnancy, the period in the autocorrelogram of the mother with the free-running infant was longer than the significant period of the mean autocorrelogram of the mothers with non-free-running infants. The finding of this study indicates the free-running rhythm of infant is not reset by maternal entrainment factors.
Exposure to shiftwork has been associated with multiple health disorders and cognitive impairments in humans. We tested if we could replicate metabolic and cognitive consequences of shiftwork, as reported in humans, in a rat model comparable to 5 wks of non-rotating night shifts. The following hypotheses were addressed: (i) shiftwork enhances body-weight gain, which would indicate metabolic effects; and (ii) shiftwork negatively affects learning of a simple goal-directed behavior, i.e., the association of lever pressing with food reward (instrumental learning), which would indicate cognitive effects. We used a novel method of forced locomotion to model work during the animals' normal resting period. We first show that Wistar rats, indeed, are active throughout a shiftwork protocol. In contrast with previous findings, the shiftwork protocol attenuated the normal weight gain to 76  8 g in 5 wks as compared to 123  15 g in the control group. The discrepancy with previous work may be explained by the concurrent observation that with our shiftwork protocol rats did not adjust their between-work circadian activity pattern. They maintained a normal level of activity during the &quot;off-work&quot; periods. In the control experiment, rats were kept active during the dark period, normally dominated by activity. This demonstrated that forced activity, per se, did not affect body-weight gain (mean  SEM: 85  11 g over 5 wks as compared to 84  11 g in the control group). Rats were trained on an instrumental learning paradigm during the fifth week of the protocol. All groups showed equivalent increases in lever pressing from the first (3.8  .7) to the sixth (21.3  2.4) session, and needed a similar amount of sessions (5.1  .3) to reach a learning criterion ( 27 out of 30 lever presses). These results suggest that while on prolonged non-rotating shiftwork, not fully reversing the circadian rhythm might actually be beneficial to prevent body-weight gain and cognitive impairments.
Death rules our lives. In this short paper, we summarize new insights into molecular mechanisms of neurodegeneration. Here we review the most important processes of cell death: apoptosis and oncosis. We focus on autophagy, which is pivotal for neuronal homeostasis, in the context of neurodegeneration, infection and immunity. Its dysfunction has been linked to several neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's, Huntington's and Alzheimer's diseases. Our understanding is still incomplete, but may highlight attractive new avenues for the development of treatment strategies to combat neurodegenerative diseases.








Cavernous haemangiomas (CH) are relatively uncommon non-shunting vascular malformations of the central nervous system and can present with seizures or with neurological deficits due to haemorrhage. Radiologists can often suggest the diagnosis of CH based on characteristic magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) features, thus avoiding further invasive procedures such as digital subtraction angiography or surgical biopsy. Although typical MRI appearance combined with the presence of multiple focal low signal lesions on T2*-weighted images or the presence of one or more developmental venous anomaly within the brain can improve the diagnostic confidence, serial imaging studies are often required if a solitary CH presents at a time when the imaging appearances had not yet matured to the typical &quot;popcorn&quot; appearance.

Calcium (Ca(2+)) is a ubiquitous signaling molecule that accumulates in the cytoplasm in response to diverse classes of stimuli and, in turn, regulates many aspects of cell function. In neurons, Ca(2+) influx in response to action potentials or synaptic stimulation triggers neurotransmitter release, modulates ion channels, induces synaptic plasticity, and activates transcription. In this article, we discuss the factors that regulate Ca(2+) signaling in mammalian neurons with a particular focus on Ca(2+) signaling within dendritic spines. This includes consideration of the routes of entry and exit of Ca(2+), the cellular mechanisms that establish the temporal and spatial profile of Ca(2+) signaling, and the biophysical criteria that determine which downstream signals are activated when Ca(2+) accumulates in a spine. Furthermore, we also briefly discuss the technical advances that made possible the quantitative study of Ca(2+) signaling in dendritic spines.
We report here for the first time a comparison of the beneficial effects of different cationic surfactants - cetyl trimethyl ammonium bromide (CTAB), benzethonium chloride (BZT) and cetylpyridinium chloride (CPC) - for the electrochemical synthesis of Prussian Blue (PB) films, using cyclic voltammetry (CV), on screen-printed carbon electrodes (SPCEs). Their electrochemical properties were investigated, paying special attention to parameters such as the amount of PB deposited, film thickness, charge transfer rate, permeability, reversibility, stability and sensitivity to hydrogen peroxide detection. All surfactant-enhanced PB-modified SPCEs displayed a significant improvement in their electrochemical properties compared with PB-modified SPCEs formed in the absence of surfactants. Surfactant-modified electrodes displayed a consistently higher PB surface concentration value of 2.10.410(-8) mol cm(-2) (meanSD, n=3) indicating that PB deposition efficiency was improved 2-3 fold. K(+) and Na(+) permeability properties of the films were also studied, as were kinetic parameters, such as the surface electron transfer rate constant (k(s)) and the transfer coefficient (). The hydrogen peroxide sensitivity of surfactant-modified PB films generated by 10 electro-deposition CV cycles gave values of 0.63 A M(-1) cm(-2), which is higher than those reported previously for SPCEs by other authors. Finally, the first lactate microbiosensor described in the literature based on BZT-modified PB-coated carbon fiber electrodes is presented. Its very small cross-section (~10 m diameter) makes it particularly suitable for neuroscience studies in vivo.
A cohort of rhesus macaques used in neuroscience research was found at routine examinations to have chronic anemia (spun Hct less than 30%). Four anemic (Hct, 24.8%  3.4%) and 10 control (39.6%  2.9%) macaques were assessed to characterize the anemia and determine probable cause(s); some animals in both groups had cephalic implants. Diagnostic tests included CBC, bone marrow evaluations, iron panels, and serum erythropoietin and hepcidin concentrations. Serum iron and ferritin were 15.8  11.1 g/dL and 103.8  53.1 ng/mL, respectively, for the anemic group compared with 109.8  23.8 L/dL and 88.5  41.9 ng/mL, respectively, for the control group. Erythropoietin levels were 16.2 to over 100 mU/mL for the anemic macaques compared with 0 to 1.3 mU/mL for the control group. Hepcidin results were similar in both groups. Because the findings of low iron, high erythropoietin, and normal hepcidin in the anemic macaques supported iron-deficiency anemia or anemia of chronic disease combined with iron-deficiency anemia, a regimen of 4 doses of iron dextran was provided. In treated macaques, Hct rose to 36.3%  6.8%, serum iron levels increased to 94.0  41.9 g/dL, and erythropoietin levels fell to 0.15 to 0.55 mU/mL. Maintenance of normal Hct was variable between macaques and reflected individual ongoing clinical events.
Control and modulation of electrical signaling is vital to normal physiology, particularly in neurons, cardiac myocytes, and skeletal muscle. The orchestrated activities of variable sets of ion channels and transporters, including voltage-gated ion channels (VGICs), are responsible for initiation, conduction, and termination of the action potential (AP) in excitable cells. Slight changes in VGIC activity can lead to severe pathologies including arrhythmias, epilepsies, and paralyses, while normal excitability depends on the precise tuning of the AP waveform. VGICs are heavily posttranslationally modified, with upward of 30% of the mature channel mass consisting of N- and O-glycans. These glycans are terminated typically by negatively charged sialic acid residues that modulate voltage-dependent channel gating directly. The data indicate that sialic acids alter VGIC activity in isoform-specific manners, dependent in part, on the number/location of channel sialic acids attached to the pore-forming alpha and/or auxiliary subunits that often act through saturating electrostatic mechanisms. Additionally, cell-specific regulation of sialylation can affect VGIC gating distinctly. Thus, channel sialylation is likely regulated through two mechanisms that together contribute to a dynamic spectrum of possible gating motifs: a subunit-specific mechanism and regulated (aberrant) changes in the ability of the cell to glycosylate. Recent studies showed that neuronal and cardiac excitability is modulated through regulated changes in voltage-gated Na(+) channel sialylation, suggesting that both mechanisms of differential VGIC sialylation contribute to electrical signaling in the brain and heart. Together, the data provide insight into an important and novel paradigm involved in the control and modulation of electrical signaling.

BRCA1, a multi-domain protein, is mutated in a large percentage of hereditary breast and ovarian cancers. BRCA1 is most often mutated in three domains or regions: the N-terminal RING domain, exons 11-13, and the BRCT domain. The BRCA1 RING domain is responsible for the E3 ubiquitin ligase activity of BRCA1 and mediates interactions between BRCA1 and other proteins. BRCA1 ubiquitinates several proteins with various functions. The BRCA1 BRCT domain binds to phosphoproteins with specific sequences recognized by both BRCA1 and ATM/ATR kinases. Structural studies of the RING and BRCT domains have revealed the molecular basis by which cancer causing mutations impact the functions of BRCA1. While no structural data is available for the amino acids encoded by exons 11-13, multiple binding sites and functional domains exist in this region. Many mutations in exons 11-13 have deleterious effects on the function of these domains. In this mini-review, we examine the structure-function relationships of the BRCA1 protein and the relevance to cancer progression.
Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is a clinically and pathologically heterogeneous spectrum of disorders. In the last few years, neuroimaging has contributed to the phenotypic characterisation of these patients. Complementary to the clinical and neuropsychological evaluations, structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and functional techniques provide important pieces of information for the diagnosis of FTLD. They also appear to be useful in distinguishing FTLD from patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Preliminary studies in pathologically proven cases suggested that distinct patterns of tissue loss could assist in predicting invivo the pathological subtype. Recent years have also witnessed impressive advances in the development of novel imaging approaches. Diffusion tensor MRI and functional MRI have improved our understanding of the pathophysiology of the disease, and this should lead to the identification of additional useful markers of disease progression. This reviews discusses comprehensively the state-of-the-art of neuroimaging in the study of FTLD spectrum of disorders, and attempts to envisage which will be new neuroimaging biomarkers that could serve as surrogate measures of the underlying pathology. This will be central in the design of treatment trials of experimental drugs, which are likely to emerge in the near future, to target the pathological processes associated with this condition.
The evoked responses to transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) have been previously demonstrated to be on average greater at the beginning of a session; however the physiological reason for this remains uncertain. In order to investigate a possible hemodynamic mechanism for this phenomenon, changes in oxy-hemoglobin (HbO) following trains of single pulse TMS was investigated using near infra-red spectroscopy (NIRS). TMS was delivered in trains of two and four pulses to left pre-frontal cortex (PFC) at a typical intensity and frequency (.2 Hz) used in neuroscience research. Both trains resulted in significant drops of HbO that remained after the cessation of TMS. The changes observed imply that arterial supply drops following suprathreshold TMS and oxygen consumption outstrips supply, resulting in a net drop of HbO. This study provides evidence that at typical TMS delivery frequencies, local HbO levels remain at a sustained lower level than at the beginning of the session, potentially explaining changes in sensitivity to stimulation with repeated TMS pulses.
Working memory deficits are a recognised feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD). They are commonly ascribed to central executive impairment and assumed to relate to frontal lobe dysfunction. Performance failures on standard tests of attention and executive function reinforce this interpretation. Nevertheless, early-onset AD patients do not show the frank behavioural changes indicative of frontal lobe dysfunction, and the characteristic functional neuroimaging changes are in posterior hemispheres rather than frontal lobes. We explored this anomaly through a comparison of working memory, attention and executive test performance in patients with AD (a 'typical' early-onset group with deficits in memory, language and perceptuospatial function and an 'amnesic' group) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Typical-AD and FTD patients both showed impaired performance, whereas amnesic-AD patients performed well. Despite similar quantitative performance measures, typical-AD and FTD patients showed qualitatively distinct performance profiles. Impairments in FTD patients were interpreted in 'frontal' executive terms as deficits in attention, set shifting and response inhibition. AD patients' performance appeared to be influenced by information load and was interpreted in terms of working memory capacity. In keeping with these different interpretations, neuroimaging showed characteristic frontal lobe abnormalities in FTD and temporoparietal change in typical-AD. The findings highlight the importance of the posterior hemispheres in working memory and point to a need for caution in the automatic attribution of working memory, attention and executive test failures to frontal lobe failure. They underline also the phenotypic variation within AD.
The aim of this experiment was two-fold. Our first goal was to determine whether linguistic expertise influences the pre-attentive [as reflected by the Mismatch Negativity - (MMN)] and the attentive processing (as reflected by behavioural discrimination accuracy) of non-speech, harmonic sounds. The second was to directly compare the effects of linguistic and musical expertise. To this end, we compared non-musician native speakers of a quantity language, Finnish, in which duration is a phonemically contrastive cue, with French musicians and French non-musicians. Results revealed that pre-attentive and attentive processing of duration deviants was enhanced in Finn non-musicians and French musicians compared to French non-musicians. By contrast, MMN in French musicians was larger than in both Finns and French non-musicians for frequency deviants, whereas no between-group differences were found for intensity deviants. By showing similar effects of linguistic and musical expertise, these results argue in favor of common processing of duration in music and speech.

Mitochondria are considered the powerhouses of the cell playing an important role in energy metabolism. However, they are highly vulnerable to inhibition or uncoupling of the energy harnessing process and run a high risk of causing catastrophic damage to the cell. Several anesthetics or drugs commonly given during anesthesia interact with mitochondria and affect their structure or impair respiratory chain functioning with decreased ATP production. Mitochondria, in fact, are a potential site of action of general and local anesthetics. The purpose of this review is to update present knowledge and describe the effects and molecular mechanisms of the action of the most used drugs of anesthesia on mitochondria.

The cerebral cortex is composed of hundreds of different types of neurons, which underlie its ability to perform highly complex neural processes. How cortical neurons are generated during development constitutes a major challenge in developmental neurosciences with important implications for brain repair and diseases. Cortical neurogenesis is dependent on intrinsic and extrinsic cues, which interplay to generate cortical neurons at the right number, time and place. While the role of intrinsic factors such as proneural and Notch genes has been well established, recent evidence indicate that most classical morphogens, produced by various neural and non-neural sources throughout embryonic development, contribute to the master control and fine tuning of cortical neurogenesis. Here we review some recent advances in the dissection of the molecular logic underlying neurogenesis in the cortex, with special emphasis on the roles of morphogenic cues in this process.
This paper reexamines neurophysiological results from echolocating big brown bats to propose a new perspective on FM biosonar processing in the auditory system. Individual auditory neurons are frequency-tuned and respond to brief, 2-10 ms FM sweeps with an average of one spike per sound to register their tuned frequencies, to detect echo arrival, or to register a local null in the echo spectrum. When initiated by the broadcast, these responses comprise a cascade of single spikes distributed across time in neurons tuned to different frequencies that persists for 30-50 ms, long after the sound has ended. Their progress mirrors the broadcast's propagation away from the bat and the return of echoes for distances out to 5-8 m. Each returning echo evokes a similar pattern of single spikes that coincide with ongoing responses to the broadcast to register the target's distance and shape. The hypothesis advanced here is that this flow of responses over time acts as an internal model of sonar acoustics that the bat executes using neuronal computations distributed across many neurons to accumulate a dynamic image of the bat's surroundings.
Despite being equipped with low-resolution eyes and tiny brains, many insects show exquisite abilities to detect and pursue targets even in highly textured surrounds. Target tracking behavior is subserved by neurons that are sharply tuned to the motion of small high-contrast targets. These neurons respond robustly to target motion, even against self-generated optic flow. A recent model, supported by neurophysiology, generates target selectivity by being sharply tuned to the unique spatiotemporal profile associated with target motion. Target neurons are likely connected in a complex network where some provide more direct output to behavior, whereas others serve an inter-regulatory role. These interactions may regulate attention and aid in the robust detection of targets in clutter observed in behavior.
The hippocampus has long been associated with navigation and spatial representations, but it has been difficult to link directly the neurophysiological correlates of hippocampal place cells with navigational planning and action. In recent years, large-scale population recordings of place cells have revealed that spatial sequences are stored and activated in ways that may support navigational strategies. Plasticity mechanisms allow the hippocampus to store learned sequences of locations that may allow predictions of future locations based on past experience. These sequences can also be activated during navigational behavior in ways that may allow the animal to learn trajectories toward goals. Task-dependent alterations in place cell firing patterns may reflect the operation of the hippocampus in associating locations with navigationally relevant decision variables.
Echolocating bats detect prey using ultrasonic pulses, and many nocturnally flying insects effectively detect and evade these predators through sensitive ultrasonic hearing. Many eared insects can use the intensity of the predator-generated ultrasound and the stereotyped progression of bat echolocation pulse rate to assess risk level. Effective responses can vary from gentle turns away from the threat (low risk) to sudden random flight and dives (highest risk). Recent research with eared moths shows that males will balance immediate bat predation risk against reproductive opportunity as judged by the strength and quality of conspecific pheromones present. Ultrasound exposure may, in fact, bias such decisions for up to 24 hours through plasticity in the CNS olfactory system. However, brain processing of ultrasonic stimuli to yield adaptive prey behaviors remains largely unstudied, so possible mechanisms are not known.
Facial interactions are prominent behaviors in primates. Primate facial signaling, which includes the expression of emotions, mimicking of facial movements, and gaze interactions, is visually dominated. Correspondingly, in primate brains an elaborate network of face processing areas exists within visual cortex. But other mammals also communicate through facial interactions using additional sensory modalities. In rodents, multisensory facial interactions are involved in aggressive behaviors and social transmission of food preferences. The eusocial naked mole-rat, whose face is dominated by prominent incisors, uses facial aggression to enforce reproductive suppression. In burrow-living mammals like the naked mole-rat in particular, and in rodents in general, somatosensory face representations in cortex are enlarged. Diversity of sensory domains mediating facial communication might belie underlying common mechanisms. As a case in point, neurogenetics has revealed strongly heritable traits in face processing and identified gene defects that disrupt facial interactions both in humans and rodents.
Sniffing and whisking are two rhythmic orofacial motor activities that enable rodents to localize and track objects in their environment. They have related temporal dynamics, possibly as a result of both shared musculature and shared sensory tasks. Sniffing and whisking also constitute the overt expression of an animal's anticipation of a reward. Yet, the neuronal mechanisms that underlie the control of these behaviors have not been established. Here, we review the similarities between sniffing and whisking and suggest that such similarities indicate a mechanistic link between these two rhythmic exploratory behaviors.

Trafficking of neurotransmitter receptors between intracellular and cell surface compartments is important for regulating neurotransmission. We developed a method for determining if an in vivo treatment has altered receptor distribution in a particular region of rodent brain. After the treatment, brain slices are rapidly prepared from the region of interest. Then, cell surface-expressed proteins are covalently cross-linked using the membrane-impermeable, bifunctional cross-linker bis(sulfosuccinimidyl)suberate (BS(3)). This increases the apparent molecular weight of surface receptors, while intracellular receptors are not modified. Thus, surface and intracellular receptor pools can be separated and quantified using SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting. This method is particularly useful for analyzing AMPA receptor subunits, offering advantages in accuracy, efficiency, and cost compared to biotinylation. A disadvantage is that some antibodies no longer recognize their target protein after cross-linking. We have used this method to quantify changes in receptor distribution after acute and chronic exposure to psychomotor stimulants.
Molecular imaging tools such as Positron Emission Tomography (PET) are increasingly being used in the drug development process. The unrivaled sensitivity of PET coupled with a solid experience in developing highly targeted molecular probes makes this technique a very valuable tool at all stages from pre-clinical development to the clinical phases. Positron emitting tracers allow us to measure, quantitatively, molecular processes and interactions between a candidate drug and its molecular targets. This information can save time and money by directing development towards the most promising compounds and excluding molecules with unfavorable properties that would otherwise only be recognized as failures in latter stages of the process. In this paper we review the application of positron emitting tracers in the pre-clinical stages of the drug development process in the areas of oncology, cardiology, neurosciences and inflammatory diseases. PET tracers provide an important support for drug development in the areas of: discovery of new drug targets, clarification of pathophysiology, identification of potential drug candidates and validation of drug effectiveness, as well as the evaluation of pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic parameters in vivo.
Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is associated with significant morbidity in children and adolescents, yet only recently have the neuropharmacology and neurophysiology of this condition been studied in youth. Accumulating data suggest structural and functional abnormalities within the brain's fear networks in youth with GAD. Additionally, seven studies examined the efficacy of medications that modulate this system and, in some cases, the direct effects of these medications on structures within these networks (e.g. amygdala, ventrolateral prefrontal cortex [VLPFC]). In this review, we summarize the extant functional, functional connectivity, and structural neuroimaging data in children and adolescents with GAD. In addition, data concerning selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), selective serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SSNRIs), atypical anxiolytics, benzodiazepines, and psychotherapy are reviewed in the context of the neurophysiology of pediatric GAD. The existing data suggest abnormal activity within the amygdala, VLPFC, and anterior cingulate cortex, as well as the possibility of impaired connectivity among these brain regions. In addition to numerous cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) trials, five randomized, controlled psychopharmacologic trials primarily in youth with GAD suggest that SSRIs and SSNRIs are effective for this condition. These findings also raise the possibility that functional activity within the amygdala and VLPFC may be altered following successful treatment.

The past two decades have brought dramatic progress in the neuroscience of anxiety due, in no small part, to animal findings specifying the neurobiology of Pavlovian fear-conditioning. Fortuitously, this neurally mapped process of fear learning is widely expressed in humans, and has been centrally implicated in the etiology of clinical anxiety. Fear-conditioning experiments in anxiety patients thus represent a unique opportunity to bring recent advances in animal neuroscience to bear on working, brain-based models of clinical anxiety. The current presentation details the neural basis and clinical relevance of fear conditioning, and highlights generalization of conditioned fear to stimuli resembling the conditioned danger cue as one of the more robust conditioning markers of clinical anxiety. Studies testing such generalization across a variety of anxiety disorders (panic, generalized anxiety disorder, and social anxiety disorder) with systematic methods developed in animals will next be presented. Finally, neural accounts of overgeneralization deriving from animal and human data will be described with emphasis given to implications for the neurobiology and treatment of clinical anxiety.
Research on attention provides a promising framework for studying anxiety pathophysiology and treatment. The study of attention biases appears particularly pertinent to developmental research, as attention affects learning and has down-stream effects on behavior. This review summarizes recent findings about attention orienting in anxiety, drawing on findings in recent developmental psychopathology and affective neuroscience research. These findings generate specific insights about both development and therapeutics. The review goes beyond a traditional focus on biased processing of threats and considers biased processing of rewards. Building on this work, we then turn to the treatment of pediatric anxiety, where manipulation of attention to threat and/or reward may serve a therapeutic role as a component of Attention Bias Modification Therapy.

While major depressive disorder has been shown to be a significant mental health issue for school-age children, recent research indicates that depression can be observed in children as early as the preschool period. Yet, little work has been done to explore the neurobiological factors associated with this early form of depression. Given research suggesting a relation between adult depression and anomalies in emotion-related neural circuitry, the goal of the current study was to elucidate changes in functional activation during negative mood induction and emotion regulation in school-age children with a history of preschool-onset depression. The results suggest that a history of depression during the preschool period is associated with decreased activity in prefrontal cortex during mood induction and regulation. Moreover, the severity of current depressed mood was associated with increased activity in limbic regions, such as the amygdala, particularly in children with a history of depression. Similar to results observed in adult depression, the current findings indicate disruptions in emotion-related neural circuitry associated with preschool-onset depression.
During the first year, infants begin to exhibit initial evidence of working memory and inhibitory control in conjunction with substantial maturation of the frontal cortex and corresponding neural circuitry. Currently, relatively little is known about the neural and autonomic resources that are recruited in response to increased executive demands during the first year of development. To this end, we recorded electroencephalogram (EEG; 6-9 Hz) and electrocardiogram from 10-month-olds during a working memory and inhibitory control task (looking A-not-B). Analyses compared measures of frontal functioning (EEG power, EEG coherence, heart rate) during nonreversal (working memory) and reversal (working memory+inhibitory control) trials. The increased cognitive demand of inhibitory control processing was associated with increases in heart rate and frontal coherence (medial frontal-lateral frontal, medial frontal-temporal, medial frontal-medial parietal, and medial frontal-occipital electrode pairs). Thus, synchronized activity across distributed cortical regions appeared to be essential to inhibitory control processes during infancy. The addition of inhibitory control processes, however, was not associated with any changes in neuronal activity (EEG power). These findings are discussed in relation to other neuroscience findings and provide insight into the development of integrated frontal functioning in infancy.

In the nervous system, there are hundreds to thousands of neuronal cell types that have morphologically, physiologically, and histochemically different characteristics and this diversity may enable us to elicit higher brain function. A better understanding of the molecular machinery by which neuron subtype specification occurs is thus one of the most important issues in brain science. The dorsal hindbrain, including the cerebellum, is a good model system to study this issue because a variety of types of neurons are produced from this region. Recently developed genetic lineage-tracing methods in addition to gene-transfer technologies have clarified a fate map of neurons produced from the dorsal hindbrain and accelerated our understanding of the molecular machinery of neuronal subtype specification in the nervous system.

Using in vivo rapid and long-interval two-photon time-lapse imaging of brain neuronal growth within the intact and unanesthetized Xenopus laevis tadpole, we characterize dynamic dendritic growth behaviors of filopodia, branches, and dendritic growth cones (DGCs), and analyze their contribution to persistent arbor morphology. The maturational progression of dynamic dendritogenesis was captured by short-term, 5 min interval, imaging for 1 h every day for 5 days, and the contribution of short-term growth to persistent structure was captured by imaging at 5 min intervals for 5 h, and at 2 h intervals for 10 h during the height of arbor growth. We find that filopodia and branch stability increases with neuronal maturation, and while the majority of dendritic filopodia rapidly retract, 3% to 7% of interstitial filopodia transition into persistent branches with lifetimes greater than 90 min. Here, we provide the first characterization of DGC dynamics, including morphology and behavior, in the intact and awake developing vertebrate brain. We find that DGCs occur on all growing branches indicating an essential role in branch elongation, and that DGC morphology correlates with dendritic branch growth behavior and varies with maturation. These results demonstrate that dendritogenesis involves a remarkable amount of continuous remodeling, with distinct roles for filopodia and DGCs across neuronal maturation.  2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Develop Neurobiol 72: 615-627, 2012.
Precise navigation of axons to their targets is critical for establishing proper neuronal networks during development. Axon elongation, whereby axons extend far beyond the site of initiation to reach their target cells, is an essential step in this process, but the precise molecular pathways that regulate axon growth remain uncharacterized. Here we show that 14-3-3/14-3-3 proteins-adaptor proteins that modulate diverse cellular processes including cytoskeletal dynamics-play a critical role in Xenopus retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axon elongation in vivo and in vitro. We have identified the expression of 14-3-3/14-3-3 transcripts and proteins in retinal growth cones, with higher levels of expression occurring during the phase of rapid pathway extension. Competitive inhibition of 14-3-3/14-3-3 by expression of a genetically encoded peptide, R18, in RGCs resulted in a marked decrease in the length of the initial retinotectal projection in vivo and a corresponding decrease in axon elongation rate in vitro (30-40%). Furthermore, 14-3-3/14-3-3 (R1) co-localized with Xenopus actin depolymerizing factor (ADF)/cofilin (XAC) in RGC growth cones. Inhibition of 14-3-3/14-3-3 function with either R18 or morpholinos reduced the level of inactive pXAC and increased the sensitivity to collapse by the repulsive cue, Slit2. Collectively, these results demonstrate that14-3-3/14-3-3 participates in the regulation of retinal axon elongation, in part by modulating XAC activity.
The ciliary marginal zone (CMZ) of fish and frog retinas contains cells that proliferate throughout postembryonic development as the retina grows with increasing body size, indicating the presence of stem cells in this region. However, neither the location nor the molecular identity of retinal stem cells has been identified. Here, we show in Xenopus that c-myc and n-myc are sequentially expressed both during development and in the post-embryonic retina. The c-myc+/n-myc- cells near the extreme periphery of the CMZ cycle more slowly and preferentially retain DNA label compared to their more central cmyc+/n-myc+ neighbors which cycle rapidly and preferentially dilute DNA label. During retinal development c-myc is functionally required earlier than n-myc, and n-myc expression depends on earlier c-myc expression. The expression of c-myc but not n-myc in the CMZ depends on growth factor signaling. Our results suggest that c-myc+/n-myc- cells in the far peripheral CMZ are candidates for a niche-dependent population of retinal stem cells that give rise to more centrally located and rapidly dividing n-myc+ progenitors of more limited proliferative potential. Analysis of homologues of these genes in the zebrafish CMZ suggests that the transition from c-myc to n-myc expression might be conserved in other lower vertebrates whose retinas growth throughout life.
Xenopus laevis provides a robust model system to study cellular signaling and downstream processes during development both in vitro and in vivo. Intracellular signals must function within highly restricted spatial and temporal domains to activate specific downstream targets and cellular processes. Combining the versatility of developing Xenopus neurons with advances in fluorescent protein biosensors and imaging technologies has allowed many dynamic cellular processes to be visualized. This review will focus on the techniques we use to visualize and measure cell signaling, motility and adhesion by quantitative fluorescence microscopy in vitro and in vivo.
Neural plasticity plays a crucial role in human development. During development, neural networks are shaped by experience-dependent processes that selectively strengthen and prune connections so that those that remain match the environment and process it optimally. Over time, neural connections become more stable, forming widely distributed, interconnected networks involving balanced excitation and inhibition and structural stabilizers like myelin. It was long believed that the potential for organization or reorganization existed only during early development. However, the successful treatments for adults with stroke or amblyopia discussed in this issue suggest that the potential for significant reorganization persists well into adulthood. Thus, development can be thought of as the stabilization of connections to match the current environment but with considerable residual plasticity that can be revealed if there is a shift in the excitatory: inhibitory balance or the removal of the structural stabilizers.
The fundamental concept in the emerging field of rehabilitation and brain plasticity is that although there is much constancy in brain function and organization across our lifetime, there is remarkable variability as well. This variability reflects the brain's capacity to alter its structure and function in reaction to environmental diversity as well as to perturbations including injury throughout the lifespan. Although the term brain plasticity is now widely used, it is not easily defined and is used to refer to changes at many levels in the nervous system ranging from molecular events, such as changes in gene expression, to behavior (e.g., Shaw &amp; McEachern (Eds.) [2001]. Toward a Theory of Neuroplasticity. Philadelphia, USA: Psychology Press). The focus of our work has been to correlate changes in behavior, neuronal morphology, and the organization of motor maps after cortical injury throughout the lifespan. In this article, we review evidence we have collected from a rat model of normal development and the effects of brain injury, and comment on the general principals that may apply to human stroke and amblyopia.
Mammalian motor circuits control voluntary movements by transmitting signals from the central nervous system (CNS) to muscle targets. To form these circuits, motor neurons (MNs) must extend their axons out of the CNS. Although exit from the CNS is an indispensable phase of motor axon pathfinding, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain obscure. Here, we present the first identification of a genetic pathway that regulates motor axon exit from the vertebrate spinal cord, utilizing spinal accessory motor neurons (SACMNs) as a model system. SACMNs are a homogeneous population of spinal MNs with axons that leave the CNS through a discrete lateral exit point (LEP) and can be visualized by the expression of the cell surface protein BEN. We show that the homeodomain transcription factor Nkx2.9 is selectively required for SACMN axon exit and identify the Robo2 guidance receptor as a likely downstream effector of Nkx2.9; loss of Nkx2.9 leads to a reduction in Robo2 mRNA and protein within SACMNs and SACMN axons fail to exit the spinal cord in Robo2-deficient mice. Consistent with short-range interactions between Robo2 and Slit ligands regulating SACMN axon exit, Robo2-expressing SACMN axons normally navigate through LEP-associated Slits as they emerge from the spinal cord, and fail to exit in Slit-deficient mice. Our studies support the view that Nkx2.9 controls SACMN axon exit from the mammalian spinal cord by regulating Robo-Slit signaling.

Tbx3, a member of the TBX2 subfamily of T-box gene family, encodes a transcription factor with a highly conserved DNA-binding domain, which called T-domain. Tbx3 is involved in morphogenesis and organogenesis in vertebrates, such as limb development, heart remodeling, and neural placode differentiation. In the present study, a full-length 2 908 bp Tbx3 cDNA from Acipenser baerii (AbTbx3) was obtained using RT-PCR and RACE technique, which includes a 2 166 bp complete open reading frame encoding a putative peptide of 721 amino acids. AbTbx3 shares 73.5% identity with its human homolog. Particularly, the DNA-binding domain of AbTbx3 shared 95.2% identity with human Tbx3. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that AbTbx3 was grouped with Tbx3s in other vertebrates, which were clustered with Tbx2s and separated from Tbx4/5s. The predicted secondary and three-dimensional structures of the T-domain of AbTbx3 were remarkably similar to human Tbx3. Through semi-quantity RT-PCR, the expression of AbTbx3 was first detected at blastula stage during Siberian sturgeon embryonic development, increased gradually, reached its peak at early tail-bud stage and then decreased slightly. In adult sturgeon, AbTbx3 was strongly expressed in eye, brain, gill, intestines, pectoral fin and pelvic fin, but not in liver, blood, heart, kidney and muscle. The whole mount in situ hybridization showed that AbTbx3 was mainly expressed in the otic vesicle, hindbrain, dorsal notochord, pineal organ and dorsal fin bud in the larvae of stage 37 and 43.

Neurotrophic factors are considered as part of the therapeutic strategy for neurological disorders like dementia, stroke and traumatic brain injury. Cerebrolysin is a neuropeptide preparation which mimics the action of endogenous neurotrophic factors on brain protection and repair. In dementia models, Cerebrolysin decreases -amyloid deposition and microtubule-associated protein tau phosphorylation by regulating glycogen synthase kinase-3 and cyclin-dependent kinase 5 activity, increases synaptic density and restores neuronal cytoarchitecture. These effects protect integrity of the neuronal circuits and thus result in improved cognitive and behavioral performance. Furthermore, Cerebrolysin enhances neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus, the basis for neuronal replacement therapy in neurodegenerative diseases. Experimental studies in stroke animal models have shown that Cerebrolysin stabilizes the structural integrity of cells by inhibition of calpain and reduces the number of apoptotic cells after ischemic lesion. Cerebrolysin induces restorative processes, decreases infarct volume and edema formation and promotes functional recovery. Stroke-induced neurogenesis in the subventricular zone was also promoted by Cerebrolysin, thus supporting the brain's self-repair after stroke. Both, traumatic brain and spinal cord injury conditions stimulate the expression of natural neurotrophic factors to promote repair and regeneration processes -axonal regeneration, neuronal plasticity and neurogenesis- that is considered to be crucial for the future recovery. Neuroprotective effects of Cerebrolysin on experimentally induced traumatic spinal cord injury have shown that Cerebrolysin prevents apoptosis of lesioned motoneurons and promotes functional recovery. This section summarizes the most relevant data on the pharmacology of Cerebrolysin obtained from in vitro assays (biochemical and cell cultures) and in vivo animal models of acute and chronic neurological disorders.


The effects of emotional stimulus content on attention are well-known. In contrast, the impact of emotional information on higher executive control functions is undetermined. To elucidate the role of negative emotion in cognitive control, 56 adult female participants performed a combined working memory and response inhibition task, with threat-relevant (spider and snake) and neutral (flower and mushroom) stimuli. Threat-relevant stimuli impaired performance, by causing prolonged response times to working memory items and increased response inhibition error rate relative to neutral stimuli. The impaired response inhibition was only evident when threat-relevant stimuli co-occurred with working memory matches, in line with a common resource pool view of executive functions and emotion processing. Individual differences in reported fear of spiders were associated with differences of inhibitory control, while fear of snakes was associated with impaired overall accuracy on working memory trials. The results are discussed in relation to the dual-competition framework for interaction between executive functions and emotion (Pessoa, 2009).
In this article, we present FACSGen 2.0, new animation software for creating static and dynamic three-dimensional facial expressions on the basis of the Facial Action Coding System (FACS). FACSGen permits total control over the action units (AUs), which can be animated at all levels of intensity and applied alone or in combination to an infinite number of faces. In two studies, we tested the validity of the software for the AU appearance defined in the FACS manual and the conveyed emotionality of FACSGen expressions. In Experiment 1, four FACS-certified coders evaluated the complete set of 35 single AUs and 54 AU combinations for AU presence or absence, appearance quality, intensity, and asymmetry. In Experiment 2, lay participants performed a recognition task on emotional expressions created with FACSGen software and rated the similarity of expressions displayed by human and FACSGen faces. Results showed good to excellent classification levels for all AUs by the four FACS coders, suggesting that the AUs are valid exemplars of FACS specifications. Lay participants' recognition rates for nine emotions were high, and comparisons of human and FACSGen expressions were very similar. The findings demonstrate the effectiveness of the software in producing reliable and emotionally valid expressions, and suggest its application in numerous scientific areas, including perception, emotion, and clinical and neuroscience research.
Carboxypeptidase E (CPE) or carboxypeptidase H was first discovered in 1982 as an enkephalin-convertase that cleaved a C-terminal basic residue from enkephalin precursors to generate enkephalin. Since then, CPE has been shown to be a multifunctional protein that subserves many essential nonenzymatic roles in the endocrine and nervous systems. Here, we review the phylogeny, structure, and function of CPE in hormone and neuropeptide sorting and vesicle transport for secretion, alternative splicing of the CPE transcript, and single nucleotide polymorphisms in humans. With this and the analysis of mutant and knockout mice, the data collectively support important roles for CPE in the modulation of metabolic and glucose homeostasis, bone remodeling, obesity, fertility, neuroprotection, stress, sexual behavior, mood and emotional responses, learning, and memory. Recently, a splice variant form of CPE has been found to be an inducer of tumor growth and metastasis and a prognostic biomarker for metastasis in endocrine and nonendocrine tumors.
Neuropeptides appear to be of importance when the central nervous system (CNS) is challenged, such as during high-frequency firing and pathologic conditions. Potential advantages of treatments that target neuropeptide systems in comparison to classical neurotransmitter systems and ion channels revolve around the subject of efficacy as well as the reduced likelihood of side effects, thus making them attractive candidates for the development of new clinical applications for various disorders. The number of neuropeptides linked to epilepsy is on the rise, reflecting the increased interest of researchers in this domain. Ghrelin has only very recently been introduced into the field of epilepsy, and has already led to contradictory clinical publications. There is a great paucity with regard to what mechanism of action is utilized by ghrelin to inhibit seizures. In this review we disclose how we can better understand the mechanism ghrelin uses to prevent seizures, which indirectly could give an insight to researchers who are studying ghrelin in other fields of research.

Epilepsy and migraine are common neurologic chronic disorders with episodic manifestations characterized by recurrent attacks and a return to baseline conditions between attacks. Epilepsy and migraine are frequently observed in comorbidity, with the occurrence of one disorder increasing the probability of the other: Migraine occurs in about one-fourth of patients with epilepsy, whereas epilepsy is present in 8-15% of patients with migraine. The link between headache and seizures is controversial and multifactorial. In epilepsy, headache can be seen as a preictal, ictal, or postictal phenomenon. In this report, we describe a case of a 37-year-old patient, affected by both drug-resistant generalized idiopathic epilepsy and headache, who displayed the sudden onset of a headache attack referred during a 24-h electroencephalography (EEG). The EEG tracing during this event revealed the activation of subcontinuous epileptic activity consisting of generalized spike-wave discharges (GSWDs) and generalized polyspike and wave discharges (GPSWDs) that persisted for 60 min, that is, until the disappearance of the headache. The case we describe appears to be original in that it represents one of the few EEG-documented ictal epileptic headaches in generalized idiopathic epilepsy.

The accuracy of visual diagnosis of seizures based on semiologic features among different health care professionals is largely unknown. We evaluated the ability of health care professionals to correctly diagnose epileptic seizures (ES) and psychogenic nonepileptic seizures (PNES) from a random selection of 10 ES and 10 PNES videos. The 20 videos (without accompanying electroencephalography) were shown only once, in a random mix to different groups of health care professionals. These individuals, blinded to the diagnosis, were asked to classify the seizure as ES or PNES. We used summary receiver operating characteristic (SROC) curves to determine the accuracy for each group. Next we calculated the difference between the area under the curve (AUC) of SROC between neurologists (as the reference) and the other groups of health care professionals. Neurologists achieved significantly higher AUC results compared to other health care professionals. These results indicate a wide range of diagnostic accuracy among different health care professionals and have practical implications for the evaluation of patients with seizure disorders in acute settings.

The stomatin-domain defines a family of proteins that are found in all classes of life. The ubiquity of stomatin-family proteins and their high degree of homology suggest that they have a unifying cellular function, which has yet to be defined. The five stomatin family proteins in mammals show varying expression patterns and different sub-cellular distributions. In surveying the relevant literature, three common themes emerge; stomatin family members are oligomeric; they mostly localise to membrane domains; and in many cases, they have been shown to modulate ion channel activity. How oligomerisation and membrane localisation contribute to the modulation of channel function is unclear to date. Future studies into the precise structure and mechanism of stomatin-like proteins need to address these important questions to clarify the detailed cellular function of stomatin-domain containing proteins.



Stressors can exert a wide variety of responses, ranging from adaptive responses to pathological changes; moreover, recent studies suggest that mild stressors can attenuate the response of a system to major stressful events. We have previously shown that 2-week exposure to cold, a comparatively mild inescapable stressor, induced a pronounced reduction in ventral tegmental area (VTA) dopamine (DA) neuron activity, whereas restraint stress increases DA neuron activity. However, it is not known if these stressors differentially impact the VTA in a region-specific manner, if they differentially impact behavioral responses, or whether the effects of such different stressors are additive or antagonistic with regard to their impact on DA neuron firing. To address these questions, single-unit extracellular recordings were performed in anesthetized control rats and rats exposed to chronic cold, and tested after delivery of a 2-h restraint session. Chronic cold stress strongly attenuated the number of DA neurons firing in the VTA, and this effect occurred primarily in the medial and central VTA regions that preferentially project to reward-related ventral striatal regions. Chronic cold exposure also prevented the pronounced increase in DA neuron population activity without affecting the behavioral sensitization to amphetamine produced by restraint stress. Taken together, these data show that a prolonged inescapable mild stressor can induce plastic changes that attenuate the DA system response to acute stress.
The collateral sulcal complex is an important landmark on the medial surface of the temporal lobe. Anteriorly, it delineates the limbic regions of the parahippocampal gyrus from the visual-processing areas of the fusiform gyrus. Posteriorly, it continues into the occipital lobe, bearing no relationship to the memory-related limbic regions. Given the considerable extent of the sulcus and functional heterogeneity of the surrounding cortex, an investigation of the morphology of this sulcus was carried out to examine whether it is continuous or a series of sulcal parts, i.e. independent sulci classified together under the name collateral sulcus. We investigated the collateral sulcal complex using magnetic resonance images taking into account the three-dimensional nature of the brain. Our examination demonstrated three separate sulcal segments: (i) an anterior segment, the rhinal sulcus, delineating the uncus from the adjacent temporal neocortex, (ii) a middle segment, the collateral sulcus proper, forming the lateral border of the posterior parahippocampal cortex, and (iii) a caudal segment, the occipital extent of the collateral sulcus, within the occipital lobe. Three relationships exist between the rhinal sulcus and collateral sulcus proper, only one being clearly identifiable from the surface. Posteriorly, the collateral sulcus proper and the occipital collateral sulcus, although appearing continuous on the brain surface, can be separated in the depth of the sulcus in all cases. These results provide quantification of the location and variability within standard stereotaxic space for the three collateral sulcus segments that could be used to aid accurate identification of functional activation peaks derived from neuroimaging studies.
The epithalamic lateral nucleus of the habenula (LHb) plays a key role in regulating firing of dopamine and serotonin neurons in the midbrain and is thereby involved in various cognitive and affective behaviors. It is not yet clear, however, from where the LHb receives cognitive and affective information relevant to its regulation of the midbrain monoaminergic systems. The prefrontal cortex would be among the ideal sources. Here, using anterograde and retrograde tracer injections in the rat brain, we characterized the topography of the corticohabenular projections. Following injections of cholera toxin subunit B into the LHb, retrogradely labeled neurons were produced in the anterior insular, cingulate, prelimbic and infralimbic cortices. Consistent with this retrograde tracing, injections of biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) into these cortical regions labeled robust terminals in the LHb. Our quantification of the BDA-impregnated varicosities revealed that projections from the anterior insula terminated mainly in the intersection regions of the lateral and ventral two-thirds of the LHb, while projections from the cingulate cortex terminated mainly in the lateral two-thirds of the LHb. By comparison, BDA-labeled terminals originating from the medial prefrontal regions were contained mainly in the medial plus ventral one-third of LHb. Based on these data, we hypothesize that LHb provides a link for conveying cognitive and affective information from prefrontal and insular regions to the midbrain monoaminergic centers.
Prostaglandins are lipid-derived molecules that mediate the generation of fever in the central nervous system. In addition to their proinflammatory role, prostaglandins also impact neuronal development and synaptic plasticity, sometimes in a sex-specific manner. The cerebellum has a high expression of prostaglandin receptors during development, but the role that these molecules play during normal cerebellar maturation is unknown. We demonstrate here that disrupting prostaglandin synthesis with cyclo-oxygenase inhibitors during a time-sensitive window in early postnatal life alters cerebellar Purkinje cell development in rats, resulting in initially increased dendritic growth in both sexes. We show that this results in later cerebellar atrophy in males only, resulting in a sex-specific loss of cerebellar volume. Further, although performance in motor tasks is spared, social interaction and the sensory threshold are altered in males developmentally exposed to cyclo-oxygenase inhibitors. This work demonstrates a previously unknown role for prostaglandins in cerebellar development and emphasizes the role that the cerebellum plays outside motor tasks, in cognitive and sensory domains that may help to explain its connection to complex neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism.
Ca(2+) and/or Zn(2+) entry into neurons and glial cells is often a key step driving the processes of neurodevelopment and disease. As a result, a major pre-occupation of many neuroscientists has been in tracking down when and where nervous tissues express ion channels with appreciable divalent ion permeability. The cobalt (Co(2+))-staining technique is one of the few techniques that allow a snapshot of the entire neuronal circuit, and selectively labels cells expressing divalent-permeable ion channels with a brown-black precipitate. Despite this, its use has been remarkably limited in the past decade. Reluctance to employ this approach has largely been related to an earlier concern with obtaining a reliable and reproducible means of visualizing transported Co(2+). Here we show that recent advances have resolved these issues, opening this straightforward and valuable technique to a much larger neuroscience audience.
In this review we consider how Bayesian logic can help neuroscientists to understand behaviour and brain function. Firstly, we review some key characteristics of Bayesian systems - they integrate information making rational use of uncertainty, they apply prior knowledge in the interpretation of new observations, and (for several reasons) they are very effective learners. Secondly, we illustrate how some well-known psychological phenomena including visual illusions, categorical perception and attention can be understood in terms of Bayesian inference. We also consider how formal models can clarify our understanding of psychological constructs, by giving a truly computational definition of psychological processes. Finally, we consider how probabilistic representations and hence Bayesian algorithms could be implemented by neural populations. In particular, we explore how different types of population coding may lead to different predictions about activity in both single-unit and imaging studies, and draw a distinction in this context between the representation of parameters and implementation of computations.
Recent notions about the vigour of responding in operant conditioning suggest that the long-run average rate of reward should control the alacrity of action in cases in which the actual cost of speed is balanced against the opportunity cost of sloth. The average reward rate is suggested as being reported by tonic activity in the dopamine system and thereby influencing all actions, including ones that do not themselves lead directly to the rewards. This idea is syntactically problematical for the case of punishment. Here, we broaden the scope of the original suggestion, providing a two-factor analysis of obviated punishment in a variety of operant circumstances. We also consider the effects of stochastically successful actions, which turn out to differ rather markedly between appetitive and aversive cases. Finally, we study how to fit these ideas into nascent treatments that extend concepts of opponency between dopamine and serotonin from valence to invigoration.
Generalization is an important process that allows animals to extract rules from regularities of past experience and apply them to analogous situations. In particular, the generalization of previously learned actions to novel instruments allows animals to use past experience to act faster and more efficiently in an ever-changing environment. However, generalization of actions to a dissimilar instrument or situation may also be detrimental. In this study, we investigated the neural bases of action generalization and discrimination in mice trained on a lever-pressing task. Using specific schedules of reinforcement known to bias animals towards habitual or goal-directed behaviors, we confirmed that action generalization is more prominent in animals using habitual rather than goal-directed strategies. We discovered that selective excitotoxic lesions of the dorsolateral and dorsomedial striatum have opposite effects on the generalization of a previously learned action to a novel lever. Whereas lesions of the dorsolateral striatum impair action generalization, dorsomedial striatum lesions affect action discrimination and bias subjects towards action generalization. Importantly, these lesions do not affect the ability of animals to explore or match their lever-pressing rate to the reinforcement rate, or the ability to distinguish between different levers. The data presented here reveal that dorsolateral and dorsomedial striatal circuits have opposing roles in the generalization of previously learned actions to novel instruments, and suggest that these circuits compete for the expression of generalization in novel situations.
Neural computational accounts of reward-learning have been dominated by the hypothesis that dopamine neurons behave like a reward-prediction error and thus facilitate reinforcement learning in striatal target neurons. While this framework is consistent with a lot of behavioral and neural evidence, this theory fails to account for a number of behavioral and neurobiological observations. In this special issue of EJN we feature a combination of theoretical and experimental papers highlighting some of the explanatory challenges faced by simple reinforcement-learning models and describing some of the ways in which the framework is being extended in order to address these challenges.
In humans and many other animals, the two cerebral hemispheres are partly specialized for different functions. However, knowledge about the neuronal basis of lateralization is mostly lacking. The visual system of birds is an excellent model in which to investigate hemispheric asymmetries as birds show a pronounced left hemispheric advantage in the discrimination of various visual objects. In addition, visual input crosses at the optic chiasm and thus testing of each hemisphere is easily accomplished. We aimed to find a neuronal correlate for three hallmarks of visual lateralization in pigeons: first, the animals learn faster with the right eye-left hemisphere; second, they reach higher performance levels under this condition; third, visually guided behavior is mostly under left hemisphere control. To this end, we recorded from the left and right forebrain entopallium while the animals performed a colour discrimination task. We found that, even before learning, left entopallial neurons were more responsive to visual stimulation. Subsequent discrimination acquisition recruited more neuronal responses in the left entopallium and these cells showed a higher degree of differentiation between the rewarded and the unrewarded stimulus. Thus, differential left-right responses are already present, albeit to a modest degree, before learning. As soon as some cues are associated with reward, however, this asymmetry increases substantially and the higher discrimination ratio of the left hemispheric tectofugal pathway would not only contribute to a higher performance of this hemisphere but could thereby also result in a left hemispheric dominance over downstream motor structures via reward-associated feedback systems.


The most common metastasis site of breast cancer are the local and distant lymph nodes, bone, lungs, liver and brain. We report a 86-year-old woman with an unusual abdominal subcutaneous metastasis of breast cancer. The patient was diagnosed with invasive lobular breast cancer and had been treated six months earlier with modified radical mastectomy. Later she presented a painless mass on the middle upper abdominal wall. She was subsequently admitted to the hospital to perform a whole body CT scan, confirming the presence of the abdominal mass in epigastric region, causing a partial compression of the stomach. Histopathological studies confirmed that the abdominal mass was a rare subcutaneous metastatic lesion of breast origin. The patient underwent a surgical intervention to remove the metastasis and she recovered fully.
The fascinating idea that tools become extensions of our body appears in artistic, literary, philosophical, and scientific works alike. In the last 15years, this idea has been reframed into several related hypotheses, one of which states that tool use extends the neural representation of the multisensory space immediately surrounding the hands (variously termed peripersonal space, peri-hand space, peri-cutaneous space, action space, or near space). This and related hypotheses have been tested extensively in the cognitive neurosciences, with evidence from molecular, neurophysiological, neuroimaging, neuropsychological, and behavioural fields. Here, I briefly review the evidence for and against the hypothesis that tool use extends a neural representation of the space surrounding the hand, concentrating on neurophysiological, neuropsychological, and behavioural evidence. I then provide a re-analysis of data from six published and one unpublished experiments using the crossmodal congruency task to test this hypothesis. While the re-analysis broadly confirms the previously reported finding that tool use does not literally extend peripersonal space, the overall effect sizes are small and statistical power is low. I conclude by questioning whether the crossmodal congruency task can indeed be used to test the hypothesis that tool use modifies peripersonal space.
Synaptic vesicles are key organelles in chemical signaling, allowing neurons to communicate with each other and with neighboring cells. Vesicle integral or membrane-associated proteins mediate the various tasks the organelle fulfills during its life cycle. These include organelle transport, interaction with the nerve terminal cytoskeleton, uptake and storage of low molecular weight constituents, and the regulated interaction with the presynaptic plasma membrane, the active zone, during exo- and endocytosis. Converging work from several laboratories within the last 30years resulted in the molecular and functional characterization of the protein inventory of the synaptic vesicle compartment. Nowadays advances in membrane protein separation and mass spectrometry have dramatically promoted this field resulting in a detailed description of the synaptic vesicle proteome and making synaptic vesicles the best characterized organelles. Recently, the proteome of the active zone was identified using the docked synaptic vesicles as target for immunoisolation. Combining gel-based protein separation techniques, mass spectrometry, and immunodetection, a considerable variety of proteins has been detected in the active zone. This includes synaptic vesicle proteins, components of the presynaptic fusion and retrieval machinery, proteins involved in intracellular signal transduction, a large variety of adhesion molecules and proteins potentially involved in regulating the functional and structural dynamics of the presynapse. Here, we discuss recent information concerning the proteome of the presynaptic active zone, focusing on proteins that are potentially involved in the short- and long-term structural modulation of the mature presynaptic compartment. In addition, we discuss the functional relevance of amyloid precursor protein in these membrane fractions and the putative interplay with direct or indirect interaction partners in the active zone.
Along the evolutionary history, humans have reached a high level of sophistication in the way they interact with the environment. One important step in this process has been the introduction of tools, enabling humans to go beyond the boundaries of their physical possibilities. Here, we focus on some &quot;low level&quot; aspects of sensorimotor processing that highlight how tool-use plays a causal role in shaping body representations, an essential plastic feature for efficient motor control during development and skilful tool-use in the adult life. We assess the evidence supporting the hypothesis that tools are incorporated in body representation for action, which is the body schema, by critically reviewing some previous findings and providing new data from on-going work in our laboratory. In particular, we discuss several experiments that reveal the effects of tool-use both on the kinematics of hand movements and the localization of somatosensory stimuli on the body surface, as well as the conditions that are necessary for these effects to be manifested. We suggest that overall these findings speak in favour of genuine tool-use-dependent plasticity of the body representation for the control of action.
This fMRI study investigates the neural mechanisms supporting the retrieval of action semantics. A novel motor imagery task was used in which participants were required to imagine planning actions with a familiar object (e.g. a toothbrush) or with an unfamiliar object (e.g. a pair of pliers) based on either goal-related information (i.e. where to move the object) or grip-related information (i.e. how to grasp the object). Planning actions with unfamiliar compared to familiar objects was slower and was associated with increased activation in the bilateral superior parietal lobe, the right inferior parietal lobe and the right insula. The stronger activation in parietal areas for unfamiliar objects fits well with the idea that parietal areas are involved in motor imagery and suggests that this process takes more effort in the case of novel or unfamiliar actions. In contrast, the planning of familiar actions resulted in increased activation in the anterior prefrontal cortex, suggesting that subjects maintained a stronger goal-representation when planning actions with familiar compared to unfamiliar objects. These findings provide further insight into the neural structures that support action semantic knowledge for the functional use of real-world objects and suggest that action semantic knowledge is activated most readily when actions are planned in a goal-directed manner.
Contralateral transversus abdominis muscle (cTrA) is known to be anticipatory to rapid focal movement. The activation of ipsilateral TrA (iTrA) follows cTrA, but their anticipatory interaction in healthy subjects seems to be delayed in low back pain (LBP) patients. TrA delay in LBP is linked with reorganization of the primary motor cortex (M1), thus supporting that cortical changes underlie the altered postural control. Our study tested whether differences in postural adjustments were present in LBP for TrA onsets and co-activation, and whether these differences were paralleled by cortical motor changes. Thirteen chronic LBP patients and 9 healthy Controls were enrolled. Surface recordings of cTrA/internal oblique (IO) and iTrA/IO were collected during a rapid shoulder flexion task while standing. Transcranial magnetic stimulation of M1 tested TrA/IO corticospinal excitability, active motor threshold and short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI). In LBP compared to Controls, iTrA/IO activation was delayed, co-activation was absent, timing between TrA/IO onsets was impaired, and SICI was missing. Between-outcomes correlations observed in one group were not significant in the other. Delay of iTrA/IO and the lacking co-activation were not explained by between-group differences of transcranial magnetic stimulation outcomes. TrA/IO co-activation is present during rapid focal movement in healthy subjects only. LBP patients displayed an important alteration of the control of spine stability that can be explained by altered mechanisms of M1 motor programming.
The control of upright standing is accomplished through the integration of different sources of sensory information and by providing an appropriate motor program to control both expected and unexpected perturbations imposed on the system. However, the dynamic characteristics of postural sway and its interplay with the regulation of Ia sensory information within the spinal cord are largely unknown. Here, using a stochastic technique for analyzing the dynamics of upright standing, we demonstrate that the changes in the dynamics of postural sway were accompanied by modulation of the soleus H-reflex during quiet standing. While the causality of this relation was not established, the results showed that these changes were independent of the sway of the center of pressure and were bidirectional and purposeful. With this novel perspective, the appropriate reflex gain, which is important for balance control, can be predicted from the dynamic characteristics of postural sway. Our current findings provide the first human behavioral evidence to suggest the contribution of the spinal cord in fulfilling the desired motor programming of a complex task. This contribution is, by conventional guess, carried out through interneuronal adjustments, which are under the control of different brain areas.
In mild cognitive impairment (MCI), the corpus callosum is known to be affected structurally. We evaluated callosal function by interhemispheric inhibition (IHI) using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) in MCI patients. We investigated 12 amnestic MCI patients and 16 healthy age-matched control subjects. The IHI was studied with a paired-pulse TMS technique. The conditioning TMS was given over the right primary motor cortex (M1) and the test TMS over the left M1. Motor evoked potentials were recorded from the relaxed first dorsal interosseous muscle. We also studied other motor cortical circuit functions; short-latency afferent inhibition (SAI), short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI) and intracortical facilitation (ICF). Both the amount of IHI and SAI were significantly reduced in MCI patients as compared with control subjects, whereas SICI or ICF did not differ between them. The degree of IHI significantly correlated with neither the mini-mental state examination score nor the degree of SAI. Our results suggest that transcallosal connection between bilateral M1 is primarily involved in MCI, regardless of SAI dysfunction.
The roles of amyloid precursor protein (APP) family members in normal brain function are poorly understood. Under physiological conditions the majority of APP appears to be processed along the non-amyloidogenic pathway leading to the formation of the secreted N-terminal APP fragment sAPP. This cleavage product of APP has been implicated in several physiological processes such as neuroprotection, synaptic plasticity, neurite outgrowth and synaptogenesis. In this review we focus on the role of APP family members in neuroprotection and summarize the cellular and molecular mechanisms which are believed to mediate this effect. We propose that a reduction of APP processing along the non-amyloidogenic pathway during brain aging could result in an enhanced susceptibility of neurons to cellular stress and could contribute to neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease.
The amyloid precursor protein (APP) plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Here, we studied whether the lack of APP affects the synaptic properties in the dentate gyrus by measuring granule cell field potentials evoked by perforant path stimulation in anesthetized 9-11-month-old APP-deficient mice in vivo. We found decreased paired-pulse facilitation, indicating altered presynaptic short-term plasticity in the APP-deficient dentate gyrus. In contrast, excitatory synaptic strength and granule cell firing were unchanged in APP knockout mice. Likewise, long-term potentiation (LTP) induced by a theta-burst stimulation protocol was not impaired in the absence of APP. These findings suggest that the deletion of APP may affect presynaptic plasticity of synaptic transmission at the perforant path-granule cell synapse but leaves synaptic efficacy intact and LTP preserved, possibly due to functional redundancy within the APP gene family.
In the 1970s, studies of tissue architecture and cell proliferation were used to formulate a new model of epidermal homeostasis. This asserted that the tissue was maintained by long-lived, slow-cycling, self-renewing stem cells that generate a short-lived population of transit amplifying (TA) cells, which undergo terminal differentiation after a set number of cell divisions. It was further hypothesized that in the epidermis, the tissue was organized into clonal epidermal proliferative units (EPUs) comprising a central stem cell with surrounding TA cells, which maintain the overlying differentiated cell layers. The stem/TA and EPU hypotheses have been widely influential. Here, we first revaluate older literature, finding numerous studies that conflict with the EPU model. We then review recent large-scale lineage tracing studies in transgenic mice which exclude the stem/TA and EPU hypotheses, and reveal that the epidermis is maintained by a single population of functionally equivalent cycling progenitor cells. The outcome of individual progenitor cell divisions is random, but the probabilities of generating differentiated and progenitor cell daughters are equal, so that homeostasis is maintained across the progenitor population. We reconcile this model with the older literature and place the epidermis in the context of other tissues that are also maintained by continually cycling cells with stochastic fate.
The purpose of the present study was to investigate the evolution of expression of mRNA message for the genes for the genome stress sensor GADD45, the apoptosis initiator TP53 and the apoptosis executor CASP3 in the rat lens in vivo in response to exposure to UVR around 300 nm. Forty six week old female albino Sprague-Dawley rats were unilaterally exposed to double threshold dose for cataract induction, 8 kJ/m(2) (8.9 W/m(2) for 15 min), of UVR ((max) = 300 nm). The animals were sacrificed at 1, 5, 24 and 120 h following exposure to UVR-B. For each of the GADD45, TP53 and CASP3 genes, respectively, mRNA expression in the lenses was measured by quantitative RT-PCR. It was found that expression of mRNA for GADD45 transiently increases between 5 and 24 h after exposure. TP53 is slightly downregulated in exposed lenses at 1 and 5 h after exposure and thereafter the mRNA expression increases with a constant rate of 9.4\ 10(-3) rel. units/h to a 1.8 fold increase at 120 h after exposure. Expression of mRNA for CASP3 is downregulated at 1, 5 and 24 h after in vivo exposure and then increases with a constant rate of 4.7 10(-3) rel. units/h, upto a 1.3 fold upregulation at 120 h. Double threshold dose of UVR, for short delay onset of cataract, in vivo causes a transient upregulation of the stress sensor GADD45, a concurrent downregulation of TP53 and CASP3, followed by a constant upregulation of TP53 that precedes a constant upregulation of CASP3.
Brain aging is characterized by functional deterioration across multiple systems, associated to a progressive decay of neural plasticity. Here, we explored environmental enrichment (EE), a condition of enhanced sensory-motor and cognitive stimulation, as a strategy to restore plasticity processes in the old brain. Visual system is one of the paradigmatic models for studying experience-dependent plasticity. While reducing input from one eye through monocular deprivation induces a marked ocular dominance (OD) shift of neurons in the primary visual cortex during development, the same manipulation is totally ineffective after the closure of the critical period. We show that EE is able to reactivate OD plasticity in the visual cortex of aging rats, as assessed with both visual-evoked potentials and single-unit recordings. A marked reduction in intracortical GABAergic inhibition and a remodeling of extracellular matrix accompany this effect. The non-invasive nature of EE makes this paradigm eligible for human application.
Antibodies directed against the post-synaptic neuromuscular junction protein, muscle specific kinase (MuSK) are found in a small proportion of generalized myasthenia gravis (MuSK-MG) patients. MuSK is a receptor tyrosine kinase which is essential for clustering of the acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) at the neuromuscular junction, but the mechanisms by which MuSK antibodies (MuSK-Abs) affect neuromuscular transmission are not clear. Experimental models of MuSK-MG have been described but there have been no detailed electrophysiological studies and no comparisons between the MuSK-MG and the typical form with AChR-Abs (AChR-MG). Here we studied the electrophysiology of neuromuscular transmission after immunization against MuSK compared with immunization against AChR, and also after passive transfer of IgG from MuSK-MG or AChR-MG patients. Overt clinical weakness was observed in 6/10 MuSK-immunized and 3/9 AChR-immunized mice but not in those injected with patients' IgG. Miniature endplate potentials (MEPPS) were reduced in all weak mice consistent with the reduction in postsynaptic AChRs that was found. However, whereas there was an increase in the quantal release of acetylcholine (ACh) in the weak AChR-immunized mice, no such increase was found in the weak MuSK-immunized mice. Similar trends were found after the passive transfer of purified IgG antibodies from MuSK-MG or AChR-MG patients. Preliminary results showed that MuSK expression was considerably higher at the neuromuscular junctions of the masseter (facial) than in the gastrocnemius (leg) with no reduction in MuSK immunostaining at the neuromuscular junctions. Overall, these results suggest that MuSK antibodies act in at least two ways. Firstly by indirectly affecting MuSK's ability to maintain the high density of AChRs and secondly by interfering with a compensatory presynaptic mechanism that regulates quantal release and helps to preserve neuromuscular function. These results raise questions about how MuSK is involved in retrograde signaling, and the combination of post-synaptic defects with lack of presynaptic compensation may begin to explain the more severe disease in MuSK-MG patients.
Three glutamate transporters, GLT-1, GLAST, and EAAC1, are expressed in striatum. GLT-1 and, to a lesser extent, GLAST are thought to play a primary role in glutamate reuptake and mitigate excitoxicity. Progressive tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) loss seen in Parkinson's disease (PD) is associated with increased extracellular glutamate. Glutamate receptor antagonists reduce nigrostriatal loss in PD models. These observations suggest that excess synaptic glutamate contributes to nigrostriatal neuron loss seen in PD. Decreased GLT-1 expression occurs in neurodegenerative disease and PD models, suggesting decreased GLT-1-mediated glutamate reuptake contributes to excitotoxicity. To determine how transient GLT-1 blockade affects glutamate reuptake dynamics and a Ca(2+)-dependent process in nigrostriatal terminals, ser(19) phosphorylation of TH, the GLT-1 inhibitor dihydrokainic acid (DHK) was delivered unilaterally to striatum in vivo and glutamate reuptake was quantified ex vivo in crude synaptosomes 3h later. Ca(2+)-influx is associated with excitotoxic conditions. The phosphorylation of TH at ser(19) is Ca(2+)-dependent, and a change resulting from GLT-1 blockade may signify the potential for excitotoxicity to nigrostriatal neurons. Synaptosomes from DHK infused striatum had a 43% increase in glutamate reuptake in conjunction with decreased ser(19) TH phosphorylation. Using a novel GLAST inhibitor and DHK, we determined that the GLAST-mediated component of increased glutamate reuptake increased 3-fold with no change in GLAST or GLT-1 protein expression. However, GLT-1 blockade increased EAAC1 protein expression ~20%. Taken together, these results suggest that GLT-1 blockade produces a transient increase in GLAST-mediated reuptake and EAAC1 expression coupled with reduced ser(19) TH phosphorylation. These responses could represent an endogenous defense against excitotoxicity to the nigrostriatal pathway.
The term -synucleinopathies refers to a group of age-related neurological disorders including Parkinson's disease (PD), Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB) and Multiple System Atrophy (MSA) that display an abnormal accumulation of alpha-synuclein (-syn). In contrast to the neuronal -syn accumulation observed in PD and DLB, MSA is characterized by a widespread oligodendrocytic -syn accumulation. Transgenic mice expressing human -syn under the oligodendrocyte-specific myelin basic protein promoter (MBP1-hsyn tg mice) model many of the behavioral and neuropathological alterations observed in MSA. Fluoxetine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, has been shown to be protective in toxin-induced models of PD, however its effects in an in vivo transgenic model of -synucleinopathy remain unclear. In this context, this study examined the effect of fluoxetine in the MBP1-hsyn tg mice, a model of MSA. Fluoxetine administration ameliorated motor deficits in the MBP1-hsyn tg mice, with a concomitant decrease in neurodegenerative pathology in the basal ganglia, neocortex and hippocampus. Fluoxetine administration also increased levels of the neurotrophic factors, GDNF (glial-derived neurotrophic factor) and BDNF (brain-derived neurotrophic factor) in the MBP1-hsyn tg mice compared to vehicle-treated tg mice. This fluoxetine-induced increase in GDNF and BDNF protein levels was accompanied by activation of the ERK signaling pathway. The effects of fluoxetine administration on myelin and serotonin markers were also examined. Collectively these results indicate that fluoxetine may represent a novel therapeutic intervention for MSA and other neurodegenerative disorders.

Microglia were described by Pio del Rio-Hortega (1932) as being the 'third element' distinct from neurons and astrocytes. Decades after this observation, the function and even the very existence of microglia as a distinct cell type were topics of intense debate and conjecture. However, considerable advances have been made towards understanding the neurobiology of microglia resulting in a radical shift in our view of them as being passive bystanders that have solely immune and supportive roles, to being active principal players that contribute to central nervous system pathologies caused by disease or following injury. Converging lines of evidence implicate microglia as being essential in the pathogenesis of neuropathic pain, a debilitating chronic pain condition that can occur after peripheral nerve damage caused by disease, infection, or physical injury. A key molecule that modulates microglial activity is ATP, an endogenous ligand of the P2-purinoceptor family consisting of P2X ionotropic and P2Y metabotropic receptors. Microglia express several P2 receptor subtypes, and of these the P2X4, P2X7, and P2Y12 receptor subtypes have been implicated in neuropathic pain. The P2X4 receptor has emerged as the core microglia-neuron signaling pathway: activation of this receptor causes release of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) which causes disinhibition of pain-transmission neurons in spinal lamina I. The present review highlights recent advances in understanding the signaling and regulation of P2 receptors expressed in microglia and the implications for microglia-neuron interactions for the management of neuropathic pain.
In the spinal cord, neuron and glial cells actively interact and contribute to neurofunction. Surprisingly, both cell types have similar receptors, transporters and ion channels and also produce similar neurotransmitters and cytokines. The neuroanatomical and neurochemical similarities work synergistically to maintain physiological homeostasis in the normal spinal cord. However, in trauma or disease states, spinal glia become activated, dorsal horn neurons become hyperexcitable contributing to sensitized neuronal-glial circuits. The maladaptive spinal circuits directly affect synaptic excitability, including activation of intracellular downstream cascades that result in enhanced evoked and spontaneous activity in dorsal horn neurons with the result that abnormal pain syndromes develop. Recent literature reported that spinal cord injury produces glial activation in the dorsal horn; however, the majority of glial activation studies after SCI have focused on transient and/or acute time points, from a few hours to 1 month, and peri-lesion sites, a few millimeters rostral and caudal to the lesion site. In addition, thoracic spinal cord injury produces activation of astrocytes and microglia that contributes to dorsal horn neuronal hyperexcitability and central neuropathic pain in above-level, at-level and below-level segments remote from the lesion in the spinal cord. The cellular and molecular events of glial activation are not simple events, rather they are the consequence of a combination of several neurochemical and neurophysiological changes following SCI. The ionic imbalances, neuroinflammation and alterations of cell cycle proteins after SCI are predominant components for neuroanatomical and neurochemical changes that result in glial activation. More importantly, SCI induced release of glutamate, proinflammatory cytokines, ATP, reactive oxygen species (ROS) and neurotrophic factors trigger activation of postsynaptic neuron and glial cells via their own receptors and channels that, in turn, contribute to neuronal-neuronal and neuronal-glial interaction as well as microglia-astrocytic interactions. However, a systematic review of temporal and spatial glial activation following SCI has not been done. In this review, we describe time and regional dependence of glial activation and describe activation mechanisms in various SCI models in rats. These data are placed in the broader context of glial activation mechanisms and chronic pain states. Our work in the context of work by others in SCI models demonstrates that dysfunctional glia, a condition called &quot;gliopathy&quot;, is a key contributor in the underlying cellular mechanisms contributing to neuropathic pain.
Microglia are resident immune cells that provide continuous surveillance within the central nervous system (CNS) and respond to perturbations of brain and spinal cord parenchyma with an array of effector functions, including proliferation, migration, phagocytosis, secretions of multiple cytokines/chemokines and promotion of repair. To sense alterations within their environment, microglia express a large number of cell surface receptors, ion channels and adhesion molecules, which activate complex and dynamic signaling pathways. In the present chapter, we review studies that demonstrate that microglia in vivo and in vitro express specific voltage-gated sodium channel isoforms, and that blockade of sodium channel activity can attenuate several effector functions of microglia. These studies also provide strong evidence that Nav1.6 is the predominant sodium channel isoform expressed in microglia and that its activity contributes to the response of microglia to multiple activating signals.

In order to provide an example of useful interaction between systems biology and computational neuroscience traditions, here we aim to identify the molecular response process through which elevated blood pressure induces a temporal sequence of gene expression changes. This initial response may then continually evolve as an adaptive response, altering central blood pressure set-point control. Our approach involves using a set of 96 quantitative PCR gene assays, which represent the molecular process associated with neuronal responses to angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1R) activation. We use this set as a probe to search for the AT1R signalling-triggered expression programme in individual neurons and groups of neurons involved in homeostatic regulation of cardiorespiratory function. Specifically, we focus on tissue samples from the nucleus tractus solitarii, as well as groups of A2 neurons and individual A2 cells within the nucleus tractus solitarii, and in the ventrolateral medulla and central amygdala. We assay these neural samples at rest and in response to elevated blood pressure. Analysis of the resulting high-dimensional data set reveals a remarkable complexity and heterogeneity of the samples and of their response to changes in blood pressure. These results demonstrate differential expression programmes for each anatomically distinct neuronal group and neuronal type. Single-cell expression analysis shows that A2 cells also are variable, and that the subset that responds to blood pressure with elevated Fos expression differs from other A2 cells. We present models of gene regulatory networks and of signalling cascades related to AT1R and broadly discuss the opportunities for valuable interactions between systems biology and computational neuroscience.
The production of vocalizations is intimately linked to the respiratory system. Despite our understanding of neural circuits that generate normal respiratory patterns, very little is understood regarding how these pontomedullary circuits become engaged during vocal production. Songbirds offer a potentially powerful model system for addressing this relationship. Songs dramatically alter the respiratory pattern in ways that are often highly predictable, and songbirds have a specialized telencephalic vocal motor circuit that provides massive innervation to a brainstem respiratory network that shares many similarities with its mammalian counterpart. In this review, we highlight interactions between the song motor circuit and the respiratory system, describing how both systems are likely to interact to produce the complex respiratory patterns that are observed during vocalization. We also discuss how the respiratory system, through its bilateral bottom-up projections to thalamus, might play a key role in sending precisely timed signals that synchronize premotor activity in both hemispheres.



We conducted a comprehensive review of studies assessing the efficacy and tolerability of psychostimulants for ADHD-like symptoms in individuals with autism spectrum disorder (encompassing autism disorder, Asperger's syndrome and pervasive developmental disorders not otherwise specified). PubMed, Ovid, EMBASE, Web of Science, ERIC and CINHAL were searched through 3 January 2012. From a pool of 348 potentially relevant references, 12 citations (11 studies) were retained as pertinent. Four of the included studies had a randomized controlled design. Most of the studies assessed methylphenidate immediate release. Despite inter-study heterogeneity, taken together, the results of the selected reports suggest that psychostimulants may be effective for ADHD-like symptoms in autism spectrum disorder individuals. The most common adverse events reported in the included trials were appetite reduction, sleep-onset difficulties, irritability and emotional outbursts. We discuss future directions in the field, including the need for trials assessing more ecological outcomes and combined treatment strategies tailored to the specific individual features.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) can be considered the most promising biosample for the discovery and analysis of biomarkers in neuroscience, an area of great medical need. CSF is a body fluid that surrounds the brain and provides a rich pool of biochemical markers, both proteomic and metabolomic, that reflect the state of neurological processes. Such biomarkers can either serve as diagnostic or prognostic biomarkers to improve the characterization of patients and preclinical disease models, or can be used to demonstrate drug-related exposure and efficacy. Here, we describe the proteomic toolbox for studying CSF from a drug-discovery perspective, and the trends and challenges that lie ahead.
Autophagy is a lysosome-mediated catabolic process that allows cells to degrade unwanted cytoplasmic constituents and to recycle nutrients. Autophagy is also involved in innate and adaptive immune responses, playing a key role in interactions against microbes, in antigen processing for major histocompatibility complex (MHC) presentation, and in lymphocyte development, survival, and proliferation. Over recent years, perturbations in autophagy have been implicated in a number of diseases, including autoimmunity. Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a multifactorial disease characterized by autoimmune responses against self-antigens generated by dying cells. Genome-wide association studies have linked several single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the autophagy-related gene Atg5 to SLE susceptibility. Loss of Atg5-dependent effects, including clearance of dying cells and cell antigen presentation, might contribute to the autoimmunity and inflammation associated with SLE. Moreover, activation of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), a key player in the autophagy regulation, has recently been demonstrated in SLE, confirming an altered autophagy pathway in this disease. In the present review, we summarize the autophagy mechanisms, their molecular regulation, and their relevance in immunity and autoimmunity. The potential of targeting autophagy pathway in SLE, by developing innovative therapeutic approaches, has finally been discussed.
Although the organization of neuronal circuitry is shaped by activity patterns, the capacity to modify and/or optimize the structure and function of whole projection pathways using external stimuli is poorly defined. We investigate whether neuronal activity induced by pulsed magnetic fields (PMFs) alters brain structure and function. We delivered low-intensity PMFs to the posterior cranium of awake, unrestrained mice (wild-type and ephrin-A2A5(-/-)) that have disorganized retinocollicular circuitry and associated visuomotor deficits. Control groups of each genotype received sham stimulation. Following daily stimulation for 14 d, we measured biochemical, structural (anterograde tracing), and functional (electrophysiology and behavior) changes in the retinocollicular projection. PMFs induced BDNF, GABA, and nNOS expression in the superior colliculus and retina of wild-type and ephrin-A2A5(-/-) mice. Furthermore, in ephrin-A2A5(-/-) mice, PMFs corrected abnormal neuronal responses and selectively removed inaccurate ectopic axon terminals to improve structural and functional organization of their retinocollicular projection and restore normal visual tracking behavior. In contrast, PMFs did not alter the structure or function of the normal projection in wild-type mice. Sham PMF stimulation had no effect on any mice. Thus, PMF-induced biochemical changes are congruent with its capacity to facilitate beneficial reorganization of abnormal neural circuits without disrupting normal connectivity and function.
Impairment of Akt phosphorylation, a critical survival signal, has been implicated in the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease. However, the mechanism underlying pAkt loss is unclear. In the current study, we demonstrate pAkt loss in ventral midbrain of mice treated with dopaminergic neurotoxin, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), when compared to ventral midbrain of control mice treated with vehicle alone. Thiol residues of the critical cysteines in Akt are oxidized to a greater degree in mice treated with MPTP, which is reflected as a 40% loss of reduced Akt. Association of oxidatively modified Akt with the phosphatase PP2A, which can lead to enhanced dephosphorylation of pAkt, was significantly stronger after MPTP treatment. Maintaining the protein thiol homeostasis by thiol antioxidants prevented loss of reduced Akt, decreased association with PP2A, and maintained pAkt levels. Overexpression of glutaredoxin, a protein disulfide oxidoreductase, in human primary neurons helped sustain reduced state of Akt and abolished MPP(+)-mediated pAkt loss. We demonstrate for the first time the selective loss of Akt activity, in vivo, due to oxidative modification of Akt and provide mechanistic insight into oxidative stress-induced down-regulation of cell survival pathway in mouse midbrain following exposure to MPTP.
Exciting developments in basic and clinical neuroscience and recent progress in the field of Parkinson's disease (PD) are partly a result of the availability of human specimens obtained through brain banks. These banks have optimized the methodological, managerial and organizational procedures; standard operating procedures; and ethical, legal and social issues, including the code of conduct for 21st Century brain banking and novel protocols. The present minireview focuses on current brain banking organization and management, as well as the likely future direction of the brain banking field. We emphasize the potentials and pitfalls when using high-quality specimens of the human central nervous system for advancing PD research. PD is a generalized disease in which -synuclein is not a unique component but, instead, is only one of the players accounting for the complex impairment of biochemical/molecular processes involved in metabolic pathways. This is particularly important in the cerebral cortex, where altered cognition has a complex neurochemical substrate. Mitochondria and energy metabolism impairment, abnormal RNA, microRNA, protein synthesis, post-translational protein modifications and alterations in the lipid composition of membranes and lipid rafts are part of these complementary factors. We have to be alert to the possible pitfalls of each specimen and its suitability for a particular study. Not all samples qualify for the study of DNA, RNA, proteins, post-translational modifications, lipids and metabolomes, although the use of carefully selected samples and appropriate methods minimizes pitfalls and errors and guarantees high-quality reserach.
The oxidative pathway for the metabolism of tryptophan along the kynurenine pathway generates quinolinic acid, an agonist at N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, as well as kynurenic acid which is an antagonist at glutamate and nicotinic receptors. The pathway has become recognized as a key player in the mechanisms of neuronal damage and neurodegenerative disorders. As a result, manipulation of the pathway, so that the balance between the levels of components of the pathway can be modified, has become an attractive target for the development of pharmacological agents with the potential to treat those disorders. This review summarizes some of the relevant background information on the pathway itself before identifying some of the chemical strategies for its modification, with examples of their successful application in animal models of infection, stroke, traumatic brain damage, cerebral malaria and cerebral trypanosomiasis.
Chronic liver failure leads to hyperammonemia, a central component in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy (HE); however, a correlation between blood ammonia levels and HE severity remains controversial. It is believed oxidative stress plays a role in modulating the effects of hyperammonemia. This study aimed to determine the relationship between chronic hyperammonemia, oxidative stress, and brain edema (BE) in two rat models of HE: portacaval anastomosis (PCA) and bile-duct ligation (BDL). Ammonia and reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, BE, oxidant and antioxidant enzyme activities, as well as lipid peroxidation were assessed both systemically and centrally in these two different animal models. Then, the effects of allopurinol (xanthine oxidase inhibitor, 100mg/kg for 10days) on ROS and BE and the temporal resolution of ammonia, ROS, and BE were evaluated only in BDL rats. Similar arterial and cerebrospinal fluid ammonia levels were found in PCA and BDL rats, both significantly higher compared to their respective sham-operated controls (p&lt;0.05). BE was detected in BDL rats (p &lt; 0.05) but not in PCA rats. Evidence of oxidative stress was found systemically but not centrally in BDL rats: increased levels of ROS, increased activity of xanthine oxidase (oxidant enzyme), enhanced oxidative modifications on lipids, as well as decreased antioxidant defense. In PCA rats, a preserved oxidant/antioxidant balance was demonstrated. Treatment with allopurinol in BDL rats attenuated both ROS and BE, suggesting systemic oxidative stress is implicated in the pathogenesis of BE. Analysis of ROS and ammonia temporal resolution in the plasma of BDL rats suggests systemic oxidative stress might be an important &quot;first hit&quot;, which, followed by increases in ammonia, leads to BE in chronic liver failure. In conclusion, chronic hyperammonemia and oxidative stress in combination lead to the onset of BE in rats with chronic liver failure.
The study of Alzheimer's disease neuropathology has been intimately associated with the field of oxidative stress for nearly 20 years. Indeed, increased markers of oxidative stress have been associated with this neurodegenerative condition, resulting from oxidation of lipids, proteins and nucleic acids. Increased nuclear and mitochondrial DNA oxidation are observed in Alzheimer's disease, stemming from increased reactive oxygen species attack to DNA bases and from the impairment of DNA repair mechanisms. Moreover, mitochondrial DNA is found to be more extensively oxidized than nuclear DNA. This review is intended to summarizes the most important cellular reactive oxygen species producers and how mitochondrial dysfunction, redox-active metals dyshomeostasis and NADPH oxidases contribute to increased oxidative stress in Alzheimer's disease. A summary of the antioxidant system malfunction will also be provided. Moreover, we will highlight the mechanisms of DNA oxidation and repair. Importantly, we will discuss evidence relating the DNA repair machinery and accumulated DNA oxidation with Alzheimer's disease.
Food reward, not hunger, is the main driving force behind eating in the modern obesogenic environment. Palatable foods, generally calorie-dense and rich in sugar/fat, are thus readily overconsumed despite the resulting health consequences. Important advances have been made to explain mechanisms underlying excessive consumption as an immediate response to presentation of rewarding tastants. However, our understanding of long-term neural adaptations to food reward that oftentimes persist during even a prolonged absence of palatable food and contribute to the reinstatement of compulsive overeating of high-fat high-sugar diets, is much more limited. Here we discuss the evidence from animal and human studies for neural and molecular adaptations in both homeostatic and non-homeostatic appetite regulation that may underlie the formation of a &quot;feed-forward&quot; system, sensitive to palatable food and propelling the individual from a basic preference for palatable diets to food craving and compulsive, addiction-like eating behavior.
The existence of an association between migraine and restless legs syndrome (RLS) has recently been reported, although the possible implications of this for migraine clinical presentation remain poorly understood. The objectives of this study were to determine RLS frequency in a population of migraineurs compared with healthy subjects and to assess RLS occurrence in episodic versus chronic migraine patients; the relationship between migraine-related disability and RLS comorbidity was also evaluated. Two hundred and seventy-seven consecutive migraineurs (ICHD-II, 2004) were enrolled and compared with 200 controls; migraine was episodic in 175 and chronic in 102 patients. RLS (IRLSSG criteria, 2003) was present in 22.7% of the total sample of migraineurs and in 7.5% of the controls (p&lt;0.0001). RLS occurred significantly more frequently in chronic compared with episodic migraineurs (34.3% vs 16%, respectively, p=0.0006); a significant association between RLS diagnosis and moderate-severe migraine-related disability was also documented (p=0.0003). In conclusion, the results of the present study not only confirm the higher occurrence of RLS in migraine patients compared with the general population, but also suggest that RLS (the condition itself, or the disruption of sleep patterns often found in patients affected by RLS) might affect migraine clinical presentation, being associated with chronic and highly disabling migraine. These findings could have important therapeutic and prognostic implications in clinical practice.
In complex environments, such as those found in the human host, pathogenic bacteria constantly battle the unfavorable conditions imposed by the host response to their presence. During Escherichia coli-induced pyelonephritis, a cascade of events are shown in an intravital animal model to occur in a timely and sequential manner, representing the dynamic interplay between host and pathogen. Today, intravital techniques allow for observing infection in the living host. At resolutions almost on the single-cell level, improved detection methods offer a movie-like description of infection dynamics. Tissue microbiology involves monitoring host-pathogen interaction within the dynamic microecology of infectious sites in the live host. This new field holds great promise for insightful research into microbial disease intervention strategies.
The somatosensory system plays an important role in balance control and age-related declines in somatosensory function have been implicated in falls incidence. Different types of insole devices have been developed to enhance somatosensory information and improve postural stability. However, they are often too complex and expensive to integrate into daily life and textured insole surfaces may provide an inexpensive and accessible means to enhance somatosensory input. This study investigated the effects of textured insole surfaces on postural sway in ten younger and seven older participants performing standing balance tests on a force plate under three insole surface conditions: (1) barefoot; (2) with hard; and (3), soft textured insole surfaces. With each insole surface, participants were tested under two vision conditions (eyes open, closed) on two standing surfaces (firm, foam). Four 30s trials were collected for different combinations of insole surface, standing surface and vision. Centre of pressure measurements included the range and standard deviation of anterior-posterior and medial-lateral displacement, path length and the 90% confidence elliptical area. Results revealed a significant Group*Surface*Insole interaction for five of the dependent variables. Compared to younger individuals, postural sway was greater in older people on both standing surfaces in the barefoot condition. However, both textured insole surfaces reduced postural sway for the older group especially in the eyes closed condition on a foam surface. These findings suggest that textured insole surfaces can reduce postural sway in older people, particularly during more challenging balance tasks. Textured insole surfaces may afford a low-cost means of decreasing postural sway, providing an important intervention in falls prevention.

Previous work suggests that balance perturbations to the body opposing the direction of progression during walking lead to larger amplitude corrective reactions than perturbations concurrent with walking direction. To test this hypothesis, subjects received forward and backward perturbations applied to the pelvis through a padded harness, while walking forwards or backwards on a treadmill. Contrary to our hypothesis, the greatest responses were associated with backward perturbations regardless of the direction of walking.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is the most common inherited form of intellectual disability. Patients with FXS do not only suffer from cognitive problems, but also from abnormalities/deficits in procedural memory formation. It has been proposed that a lack of fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) leads to altered long-term plasticity by deregulation of various translational processes at the synapses, and that part of these impairments might be rescued by the inhibition of type I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs). We recently developed the Erasmus Ladder, which allows us to test, without any invasive approaches, simultaneously, both procedural memory formation and avoidance behavior during unperturbed and perturbed locomotion in mice. Here, we investigated the impact of a potent and selective mGluR5 inhibitor (Fenobam) on the behavior of Fmr1 KO mice during the Erasmus Ladder task. Fmr1 KO mice showed deficits in associative motor learning as well as avoidance behavior, both of which were rescued by intraperitoneal administration of Fenobam. While the Fmr1 KO mice did benefit from the treatment, control littermates suffered from a significant negative side effect in that their motor learning skills, but not their avoidance behavior, were significantly affected. On the basis of these studies in the FXS animal model, it may be worthwhile to investigate the effects of mGluR inhibitors on both the cognitive functions and procedural skills in FXS patients. However, the use of mGluR inhibitors appears to be strongly contraindicated in healthy controls or non-FXS patients with intellectual disability.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) shares some risk genes with other disorders hallmarked by an autoimmune pathogenesis, most notably IL2RA and CLEC16A. We analyzed 10 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in nine risk genes, which recently emerged from a series of non-MS genome-wide association studies (GWAS), in a Spanish cohort comprising 2895 MS patients and 2942 controls. We identified two SNPs associated with MS. The first SNP, rs6859219, located in ANKRD55 (Chr5), was recently discovered in a meta-analysis of GWAS on rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and emerged from this study with genome-wide significance (odds ratio (OR) = 1.35; P = 2.3  10(-9)). The second SNP, rs12785878, is located near DHCR7 (Chr11), a genetic determinant of vitamin D insufficiency, and showed a size effect in MS similar to that recently observed in Type 1 diabetes (T1D; OR = 1.10; P = 0.009). ANKRD55 is a gene of unknown function, and is flanked proximally by the IL6ST-IL31RA gene cluster. However, rs6859219 did not show correlation with a series of haplotype-tagging SNPs covering IL6ST-IL31RA, analyzed in a subset of our dataset (D'&lt; 0.31; r(2)&lt; 0.011). Our results expand the number of risk genes shared between MS, RA and T1D.
Plaque deposition in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is known to decrease proliferation in neurogenic niches in AD mouse models, but the effects on cell proliferation and differentiation in other brain areas have not been studied in detail. We analyzed cell proliferation in the cortex of wild type (WT) and APPswePS1dE9 transgenic (AD) mice at different ages. Mice were studied shortly after the last BrdU injection (BrdU[ST]). In AD mice, the number of proliferating cells increased fourfold, coinciding with plaque appearance and its associated reactive gliosis and activation of microglia. An increase in the number of BrdU[ST]-cells expressing markers for activated microglia is underlying the enhanced proliferation. Cortical reactive astrocytes did not become proliferative since BrdU[ST]-cells were negative for different astrocyte-specific markers. The number of Olig2-positive oligodendrocyte precursor cells was unchanged. Four weeks after the last BrdU application, the number of BrdU[LT]-cells with an activated microglia signature was still enhanced in AD mice. None of the newborn cells had differentiated into oligodendrocytes, astrocytes, or neurons. On the basis of these observations, we conclude that amyloid plaque deposition increases proliferation of microglia around plaques but does not affect the proliferation of cortical oligodendrocyte precursor cells. No evidence was found for damage-induced proliferation of reactive astrocytes or for a redirected neurogenesis from the subventricular zone. The proliferation of microglia contributes to the rapid accumulation of microglia around plaques and may play a role in limitating plaque expansion.
Emerging evidence suggests that p53, a tumor suppressor protein primarily involved in cancer biology, coordinates a wide range of novel functions in the CNS including the mediation of pathways underlying neurodegenerative disease pathogenesis. Moreover, an evolving concept in cell and molecular neuroscience is that glial cells are far more fundamental to disease progression than previously thought, which may occur via a noncell-autonomous mechanism that is heavily dependent on p53 activities. As a crucial hub connecting many intracellular control pathways, including cell-cycle control and apoptosis, p53 is ideally placed to coordinate the cellular response to a range of stresses. Although neurodegenerative diseases each display a distinct and diverse molecular pathology, apoptosis is a widespread hallmark feature and the multimodal capacity of the p53 system to orchestrate apoptosis and glial cell behavior highlights p53 as a potential unifying target for therapeutic intervention in neurodegeneration.
Improving spectral resolution in cochlear implants is key to improving performance in difficult listening conditions (e.g. speech in noise, music, etc.). Current focusing might reduce channel interaction, thereby increasing spectral resolution. Previous studies have shown that combining current steering and current focusing reduces spread of excitation and improves virtual channel discrimination in a single-channel context. It is unclear whether the single-channel benefits from current focusing extend to a multi-channel context, in which the physical and perceptual interference of multiple stimulated channels might overwhelm the benefits of improved spectral resolution. In this study, signal discrimination was measured with and without current focusing, in the presence of competing stimuli on nearby electrodes. Results showed that signal discrimination was consistently better with current focusing than without, regardless of the amplitude of the competing stimuli. Therefore, combining current steering and current focusing may provide more effective spectral cues than are currently available.
The ability of auditory-nerve (AN) fibers to encode modulation frequencies, as characterized by temporal modulation transfer functions (TMTFs), generally shows a low-pass shape with a cut-off frequency that increases with fiber characteristic frequency (CF). Because AN-fiber bandwidth increases with CF, this result has been interpreted to suggest that peripheral filtering has a significant effect on limiting the encoding of higher modulation frequencies. Sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL), which is typically associated with broadened tuning, is thus predicted to increase the range of modulation frequencies encoded; however, perceptual studies have generally not supported this prediction. The present study sought to determine whether the range of modulation frequencies encoded by AN fibers is affected by SNHL, and whether the effects of SNHL on envelope coding are similar at all modulation frequencies within the TMTF passband. Modulation response gain for sinusoidally amplitude modulated (SAM) tones was measured as a function of modulation frequency, with the carrier frequency placed at fiber CF. TMTFs were compared between normal-hearing chinchillas and chinchillas with a noise-induced hearing loss for which AN fibers had significantly broadened tuning. Synchrony and phase responses for individual SAM tone components were quantified to explore a variety of factors that can influence modulation coding. Modulation gain was found to be higher than normal in noise-exposed fibers across the entire range of modulation frequencies encoded by AN fibers. The range of modulation frequencies encoded by noise-exposed AN fibers was not affected by SNHL, as quantified by TMTF 3- and 10-dB cut-off frequencies. These results suggest that physiological factors other than peripheral filtering may have a significant role in determining the range of modulation frequencies encoded in AN fibers. Furthermore, these neural data may help to explain the lack of a consistent association between perceptual measures of temporal resolution and degraded frequency selectivity.
Navigation is mediated by a network of brain areas, and research has focused on the head-direction system in the presubiculum (PrS), the grid cell containing medial entorhinal cortex (EC) (MEC) and place cells in the hippocampus. Less research addressed the interactions of the retrosplenial cortex (RSC) and the navigational system, although it is well established that damage to the RSC leads to navigational deficits. We previously showed that RSC provides a dense input to deep layers of MEC and to superficial layers of PrS. In this study we use confocal microscopical analysis and show that the dense projection from the caudal part of the ventral retrosplenial granular cortex targets neurons in Layer III of PrS, which provide input to superficial layers of MEC. Our high resolution anatomical data indicate that sparsely spiny pyramidal neurons in Layer III of PrS that originate projections to Layer III of MEC are the main target of these retrosplenial projections. Retrosplenial axonal boutons were found to equally contact spines and shafts of basal dendrites in Layer III, but contacts on shafts are more prominent close to the soma, indicating the potential for efficient synaptic transfer. These observations suggest that neurons in Layer III of PrS have an important role in mediating RSC contributions to navigation.
Oxytocin has been linked to social behavior, including social recognition, pair bonding and parenting, but its potential role in promoting neuronal growth has not been investigated. We show here that oxytocin, but not vasopressin, stimulates both cell proliferation and adult neurogenesis in the hippocampus of rats. Oxytocin is also capable of stimulating adult neurogenesis in rats subjected to glucocorticoid administration or cold water swim stress. These findings suggest that oxytocin stimulates neuronal growth and may protect against the suppressive effects of stress hormones on hippocampal plasticity.
Putative control of encoding and retrieval processes have been linked to communication between the lateral prefrontal cortex (LPFC) and the hippocampus. Moreover, correlations between the LPFC (e.g., MFG) and hippocampus have predicted individuals' ability to inhibit memory retrieval. Anatomically, differences in volume of the hippocampus have been related to changes in long-term episodic memories. Although the relationship between these ideas is clear, few studies have examined the association of how anatomy may affect the role of control over brain regions involved in distint memory processes. The current study sought to examine hippocampal volume and its relationship to LPFC control over the hippocampus. Using an automated cortical/subcortical segmentation technique (FIRST) on brain imaging gata from the Think/No-Think task, we show that hippocampal volume is associated to changes in both enhancement and inhibitory processes of memory retrival.
The vestibular system has been suggested to participate in spatial navigation, a function ascribed to the hippocampus. Vestibular stimulation during spatial navigation activates a hippocampal theta rhythm (4-10 Hz), which may enhance spatial processing and motor response. We hypothesize that a cholinergic, atropine-sensitive theta is generated during passive whole-body rotation in freely behaving rats. Hippocampal EEGs were recorded by implanted electrodes in CA1 while rats were rotated on a vertical axis, for a minute or longer, at different angular velocities. Rotation induced a continuous hippocampal theta rhythm while the rat was immobile, in both light and dark conditions. Theta peak frequency showed a significant increase during high (50-70 rpm) as compared with a lower (20-49 rpm) rotational velocity. Rotation-induced theta was abolished by muscarinic receptor antagonist atropine sulfate (50 mg/kg i.p.) but not by atropine methyl nitrate (50 mg/kg i.p.), which did not pass the blood-brain barrier. Theta was attenuated in rats in which cholinergic neurons in the medial septum (MS) were lesioned with 192 IgG-saporin (0.14 g in 0.4 l), as confirmed by depletion of MS cells immunoreactive to choline acetyltransferase and an absence of acetylcholinesterase staining in the hippocampus. Bilateral lesion of the vestibular receptors by sodium arsanilate (30 mg in 0.1 ml, intratympanically) also attenuated the rotation-induced theta rhythm. In intact rats, field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) in CA1 evoked by commissural stimulation were smaller during walking or rotation as compared with during immobility. Modulation of fEPSP was absent following atropine sulfate in intact rats and in 192 IgG-saporin lesion rats. In summary, this is the first report of a continuous atropine-sensitive hippocampal theta in the rat induced by vestibular stimulation during rotation, and accompanied by cholinergic modulation of hippocampal synaptic transmission. Vestibular-activated septohippocampal cholinergic activity could be an important component in sensorimotor processing and spatial memory.
According to systems consolidation, as hippocampal-dependent memories mature over time, they become additionally (or exclusively) dependent on extra-hippocampal structures. We assessed the recruitment of hippocampal and cortical structures on remote memory retrieval in a performance-degradation resistant (PDR; no performance degradation with time) versus performance-degradation prone (PDP; performance degraded with time) context. Using a water-maze task in two contexts with a hidden platform and three control conditions (home cage, visible platform with or without access to distal cues), we compared neuronal activation (c-Fos imaging) patterns in the dorsal hippocampus and the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) after the retrieval of recent (5 days) versus remote (25 days) spatial memory. In the PDR context, the hippocampus exhibited greater c-Fos protein expression on remote than recent memory retrieval, be it in the visible or hidden platform group. In the PDP context, hippocampal activation increased at the remote time point and only in the hidden platform group. In the anterior cingulate cortex, c-Fos expression was greater for remote than for recent memory retrieval and only in the PDR context. The necessity of the mPFC for remote memory retrieval in the PDR context was confirmed using region-specific lidocaine inactivation, which had no impact on recent memory. Conversely, inactivation of the dorsal hippocampus impaired both recent and remote memory in the PDR context, and only recent memory in the PDP context, in which remote memory performance was degraded. While confirming that neuronal circuits supporting spatial memory consolidation are reorganized in a time-dependent manner, our findings further indicate that mPFC and hippocampus recruitment (i) depends on the content and perhaps the strength of the memory and (ii) may be influenced by the environmental conditions (e.g., cue saliency, complexity) in which memories are initially formed and subsequently recalled.
This review presents evidence for the idea that the expression of estrogen receptor alpha and beta (ER and ER) interacts with the level of estradiol (E2) to influence the etiology of age-related cognitive decline and responsiveness to E2 treatments. There is a nonmonotonic dose response curve for E2 influences on behavior and transcription. Evidence is mounting to indicate that the dose response curve is shifted according to the relative expression of ER and ER. Recent work characterizing age-related changes in the expression of ER and ER in the hippocampus, as well as studies using mutant mice, and viral mediated delivery of estrogen receptors indicate that an age-related shift in ER/ER expression, combined with declining gonadal E2 can impact transcription, cell signaling, neuroprotection, and neuronal growth. Finally, the role of ER/ER on rapid E2 signaling and synaptogenesis as it relates to hippocampal aging is discussed.
This study examined structural-functional differences along the septo-temporal axis of hippocampus using radial-maze tasks that involved two different memory processes [reference memory (RM) and working memory (WM)], and the use of two kinds of information (spatial vs. nonspatial cue learning). In addition, retention of the nonspatial cue task was tested nine weeks following completion of acquisition, and the rats then underwent discrimination reversal training. Ibotenic acid lesions limited to either the dorsal pole, intermediate area, or ventral pole had minimal effects on acquisition of the complex place and cue discrimination tasks. The one exception was that rats with lesions confined to the dorsal third of hippocampus made more WM errors on the spatial task (but not the cue task) early in training. Selective lesions of the three hippocampal regions had no effects on either long-term retention or reversal of the nonspatial cue discrimination task. In contrast, rats that had all of the hippocampus removed were severely impaired in learning the spatial task, making many RM and WM errors, whereas on the nonspatial cue task, the impairment was limited to WM errors. Further analysis of the WM errors made in acquisition showed that rats with complete lesions were significantly more likely on both the spatial and nonspatial cue tasks to reenter arms that had been baited and visited on that trial compared to arms that had not been baited. A similar pattern of errors emerged for complete hippocampal lesioned rats during reversal discrimination. This pattern of errors suggests that in addition to an impairment in handling spatial information, complete removal of hippocampus also interferes with the ability to inhibit responding to cues that signal reward under some conditions but not under others. The finding that selective lesions limited to the intermediate zone of the hippocampus produce no impairment in either WM (&quot;rapid place learning&quot;) or RM in our radial maze tasks serve to limit the generality of the conclusion of Bast et al. (Bast et al. (2009) PLos Biol 7:730-746) that the intermediate area is needed for behavioral performance based on rapid learning about spatial cues.
We present a model that describes the generation of the spatial (grid fields) and temporal (phase precession) properties of medial entorhinal cortical (MEC) neurons by combining network and intrinsic cellular properties. The model incorporates network architecture derived from earlier attractor map models, and is implemented in 1D for simplicity. Periodic driving of conjunctive (position  head-direction) layer-III MEC cells at theta frequency with intensity proportional to the rat's speed, moves an 'activity bump' forward in network space at a corresponding speed. The addition of prolonged excitatory currents and simple after-spike dynamics resembling those observed in MEC stellate cells (for which new data are presented) accounts for both phase precession and the change in scale of grid fields along the dorso-ventral axis of MEC. Phase precession in the model depends on both synaptic connectivity and intrinsic currents, each of which drive neural spiking either during entry into, or during exit out of a grid field. Thus, the model predicts that the slope of phase precession changes between entry into and exit out of the field. The model also exhibits independent variation in grid spatial period and grid field size, which suggests possible experimental tests of the model.
The 5-HT(7) receptor is a more recently discovered G-protein-coupled receptor for serotonin. The functions and possible clinical relevance of this receptor are not yet fully understood. The present paper reviews to what extent the use of animal models of learning and memory and other techniques have implicated the 5-HT(7) receptor in such processes. The studies have used a combination of pharmacological and genetic tools targeting the receptor to evaluate effects on behavior and cellular mechanisms. In tests such as the Barnes maze, contextual fear conditioning and novel location recognition that involve spatial learning and memory there is a considerable amount of evidence supporting an involvement of the 5-HT(7) receptor. Supporting evidence has also been obtained in studies of mRNA expression and cellular signaling as well as in electrophysiological experiments. Especially interesting are the subtle but distinct effects observed in hippocampus-dependent models of place learning where impairments have been described in mice lacking the 5-HT(7) receptor or after administration of a selective antagonist. While more work is required, it appears that 5-HT(7) receptors are particularly important in allocentric representation processes. In instrumental learning tasks both procognitive effects and impairments in memory have been observed using pharmacological tools targeting the 5-HT(7) receptor. In conclusion, the use of pharmacological and genetic tools in animal studies of learning and memory suggest a potentially important role for the 5-HT(7) receptor in cognitive processes.
The influence of progesterone in the brain and on the behavior of females is fairly well understood. However, less is known about the effect of progesterone in the male system. In male rats, receptors for progesterone are present in virtually all vasopressin (AVP) immunoreactive cells in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST) and the medial amygdala (MeA). This colocalization functions to regulate AVP expression, as progesterone and/or progestin receptors (PR)s suppress AVP expression in these same extrahypothalamic regions in the brain. These data suggest that progesterone may influence AVP-dependent behavior. While AVP is implicated in numerous behavioral and physiological functions in rodents, AVP appears essential for social recognition of conspecifics. Therefore, we examined the effects of progesterone on social recognition. We report that progesterone plays an important role in modulating social recognition in the male brain, as progesterone treatment leads to a significant impairment of social recognition in male rats. Moreover, progesterone appears to act on PRs to impair social recognition, as progesterone impairment of social recognition is blocked by a PR antagonist, RU-486. Social recognition is also impaired by a specific progestin agonist, R5020. Interestingly, we show that progesterone does not interfere with either general memory or olfactory processes, suggesting that progesterone seems critically important to social recognition memory. These data provide strong evidence that physiological levels of progesterone can have an important impact on social behavior in male rats.
Sex differences in the brain and behavior are primarily attributed to dichotomous androgen exposure between males and females during neonatal development, as well as adult responses to gonadal hormones. Here we tested an alternative hypothesis and asked if sex chromosome complement influences male copulatory behavior, a standard behavior for studies of sexual differentiation. We used two mouse models with non-canonical associations between chromosomal and gonadal sex. In both models, we found evidence for sex chromosome complement as an important factor regulating sex differences in the expression of masculine sexual behavior. Counter intuitively, males with two X-chromosomes were faster to ejaculate and display more ejaculations than males with a single X. Moreover, mice of both sexes with two X-chromosomes displayed increased frequencies of mounts and thrusts. We speculate that expression levels of a yet to be discovered gene(s) on the X-chromosome may affect sexual behavior in mice and perhaps in other mammals.
Attempts to determine the influence of testicular hormones on learning and memory in males have yielded contradictory results. The present studies examined whether testicular hormones are important for maximal levels of spatial memory in young adult male rats. To minimize any effect of stress, we used the Object Location Task which is a spatial working memory task that does not involve food or water deprivation or aversive stimuli for motivation. In Experiment 1 sham gonadectomized male rats demonstrated robust spatial memory, but gonadectomized males showed diminished spatial memory. In Experiment 2 subcutaneous testosterone (T) capsules restored spatial memory performance in gonadectomized male rats, while rats with blank capsules demonstrated compromised spatial memory. In Experiment 3, gonadectomized male rats implanted with blank capsules again showed compromised spatial memory, while those with T, dihydrotestosterone (DHT), or estradiol (E) capsules demonstrated robust spatial memory, indicating that T's effects may be mediated by its conversion to E or to DHT. Gonadectomized male rats injected with Antide, a gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor antagonist which lowers luteinizing hormone levels, also demonstrated spatial memory, comparable to that shown by T-, E-, or DHT-treated males. These data indicate that testicular androgens are important for maximal levels of spatial working memory in male rats, that testosterone may be converted to E and/or DHT to exert its effects, and that some of the effects of these steroid hormones may occur via negative feedback effects on LH.
Cell pathology in lysosomal storage diseases is characterized by the formation of distended vacuoles with characteristics of lysosomes. Our previous studies in mucopolysaccharidosis type IIIB (MPSIIIB), a disease in which a genetic defect induces the accumulation of undigested heparan sulfate (HS) fragments, led to the hypothesis that abnormal lysosome formation was related to events occurring at the Golgi level. We reproduced the enzyme defect of MPSIIIB in HeLa cells using tetracycline-inducible expression of shRNAs directed against -N-acetylglucosaminidase (NAGLU) and addressed this hypothesis. HeLa cells deprived of NAGLU accumulated abnormal lysosomes. The Golgi matrix protein GM130 was over-expressed. The cis- and medial-Golgi compartments were distended, elongated and formed circularized ribbons. The Golgi microtubule network was enlarged with increased amounts of AKAP450, a partner of GM130 controlling this network. GM130 down-regulation prevented pathology in HeLa cells deprived of NAGLU, whereas GM130 over-expression in control HeLa cells mimicked the pathology of deprived cells. We concluded that abnormal lysosomes forming in cells accumulating HS fragments were the consequence of GM130 gain-of-function and subsequent alterations of the Golgi ribbon architecture. These results indicate that GM130 functions are modulated by HS glycosaminoglycans and therefore possibly controlled by extracellular cues.
Modeling data with linear combinations of a few elements from a learned dictionary has been the focus of much recent research in machine learning, neuroscience, and signal processing. For signals such as natural images that admit such sparse representations, it is now well established that these models are well suited to restoration tasks. In this context, learning the dictionary amounts to solving a large-scale matrix factorization problem, which can be done efficiently with classical optimization tools. The same approach has also been used for learning features from data for other purposes, e.g., image classification, but tuning the dictionary in a supervised way for these tasks has proven to be more difficult. In this paper, we present a general formulation for supervised dictionary learning adapted to a wide variety of tasks, and present an efficient algorithm for solving the corresponding optimization problem. Experiments on handwritten digit classification, digital art identification, nonlinear inverse image problems, and compressed sensing demonstrate that our approach is effective in large-scale settings, and is well suited to supervised and semi-supervised classification, as well as regression tasks for data that admit sparse representations.
The aim of this paper is to improve the skills of robotic systems in their interaction with nearby objects. The basic idea is to enhance visual estimation of objects in the world through the merging of different visual estimators of the same stimuli. A neuroscience-inspired model of stereoptic and perspective orientation estimators, merged according to different criteria, is implemented on a robotic setup and tested in different conditions. Experimental results suggest that the integration of multiple monocular and binocular cues can make robot sensory systems more reliable and versatile. The same results, compared with simulations and data from human studies, show that the model is able to reproduce some well-recognized neuropsychological effects.

Psychosocial oncology is an upcoming area of interest, which deals with numerous psychiatric, psychological, and social aspects of malignancies. Psychiatric oncology relates to some of the common psychological and emotional problems encountered in persons with malignancy and their formal and informal caregivers. This oration will discuss the importance of this field of Consultation Liaison Psychiatry, with a focus on the research and practice in the Indian setting. This presentation will also share the findings and researches of the presenter. All these range from studies on cancer pain and palliative care, screening for psychiatric morbidity, quality of life, communication skills for health professionals in breaking bad news and handling difficult questions, and counseling. The findings on researches on somatization and illness behavior in cancer patients would highlight newer challenges in this field. Caregivers of persons with cancer are as important as the patient, but usually ignored. The stress, strain, burden, positive emotions, and coping in the context of care giving for persons with cancer are being increasingly realized. Professional caregivers should be aware of caregiver difficulties and support them through their ordeal. Lastly, the importance of dealing with staff stress and burnout among health professionals looking after families with cancer patients and survivors will be emphasized.
Obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) is commonly regarded as a disorder with good insight. However, it has now been recognized that insight varies in these patients. Pathological beliefs seem to lie on a continuum of insight, with full insight at one end and delusion at the other. This can indeed pose a considerable challenge, especially in a scenario where the phenomenon is difficult to discern. We report a case of OCD, which was initially diagnosed as psychosis.




Bral1 is a link protein that stabilizes the binding between lecticans and hyaluronic acid and thus maintains the extracellular matrix assembly in the CNS. Bral1 is specifically located in the white matter around the nodes of Ranvier. Recent studies suggest its function in promoting saltatory neural conduction. This article reviews the current knowledge about the structure, expression and function of this link protein.
Two discoveries have put D-serine in the spotlight of neuroscience. First, D-serine was detected in brain tissue at high levels. Second, it was found to act on the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR). This receptor is central to use-dependent synaptic plasticity, the cellular process which is widely believed to underlie learning. The ensuing quest for the mechanisms of D-serine synthesis, release and clearance, as well as for its physiological significance has provided a wealth of experimental evidence implicating D-serine in synaptic plasticity. However some key questions remain unanswered. Which cells release D-serine and upon what stimuli? Is D-serine supply dynamically regulated? What is the fate of released D-serine? Answering these questions appears to be an essential step in our understanding of how NMDARs trigger synaptic plasticity and learning. This review will highlight some recent advances and avenues of enquiry in dynamic D-serine signaling in the mammalian brain with emphasis on neurophysiology.
Chondroitin sulfate is a glycosaminoglycan composed of N-acetylgalactosamine and glucuronic acid. It attaches to a core protein to form chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan (CSPG). Being a major component of the brain extracellular matrix, CSPGs are involved in neural development, axon pathfinding and guidance, plasticity and also regeneration after injury in the nervous system. In this review, we shall discuss the structure, the biosynthetic pathway, its functions in the nervous system and how we can improve regeneration in the nervous system by modulating its structure and binding properties.

The long-term effect of postnatal administration of a sub-toxic dose of the irreversible acetylcholinesterase inhibitor diisopropylfluorophosphate (DFP) on depression and anxiety behavior was compared in two strains of inbred mice. C57BL/6J and Balb/C mice were injected for 7 consecutive days with either 1 mg/kg DFP or saline on postnatal days 14-20. Mice were tested at age 3-4 months for initial and learned anxiety using double-exposure elevated plus maze and to a novel enclosed environment. Depression was assayed using the sweet preference model of anhedonia and the forced swim test for despair. Postnatal DFP pretreatment led to less activity and more immobility in the elevated plus maze in both mouse strains in the first session. The effect was attenuated in the second session in the C57BL/6J strain but not the Balb/C strain. DFP did not affect the sweet preference or forced swim tests, suggesting a dissociation between the long-term effects of DFP on immobility in the context of approach-avoidance conflict (elevated plus maze) versus despair (forced swim).


We report the case of an anorexia nervosa (AN) patient with extremely low body weight who became pregnant following ovulation induction and subsequently delivered an infant with micropolygyria. To the best of our knowledge, no previous report has described live birth for a patient with such low body weight. The patient underwent hMG-hCG therapy for ovulation induction. Despite becoming pregnant, weight loss continued with extreme anemia occurring during the pregnancy. However, blood transfusion therapy was used for successful treatment. Despite the therapeutic and protective measures instituted, the child was born with micropolygyria. Pregnancy in an AN patient with extremely low body weight needs therapeutic intervention during early pregnancy with aggressive precautionary measures, particularly against anemia. On the basis of our experience, we consider that ovulation induction therapy should not be administered without sufficient caution for an AN patient with low body weight.

Group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) have been implicated in the pathophysiology of central nervous system injury, but the role of mGluR5 in traumatic brain injury (TBI) remains unclear. In the present study, we investigated the neuroprotective potency of (R,S)-2-chloro-5-hydroxyphenylglycine (CHPG), a selective mGluR5 agonist, for protecting against TBI in both in vitro and in vivo models. Primary cortical neurons were treated with 1 mM CHPG in an in vitro preparation 30 min before TBI, and 250 nM CHPG was injected into the right lateral ventricle of rats 30 min before TBI was induced in in vivo studies. The results showed that CHPG significantly attenuated lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release and neuronal apoptosis and reduced lesion volume. Compared to the control or vehicle group, the phosphorylation levels of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and Akt were increased in the presence of CHPG, even following the induction of TBI. Furthermore, treatment with either the ERK inhibitor PD98059 or Akt inhibitor LY294002 partially reversed the CHPG's neuroprotective effects. These data suggest that CHPG minimizes brain damage after induction of TBI both in vitro and in vivo, and that these protective effects were possibly mediated by activation of the ERK and Akt signaling pathways. Thus, potentiating mGluR5 activity with selective agonists such as CHPG may be useful for the treatment of traumatic brain injury.
Community-based studies are required to accurately describe the supportive services needed by people with multiple sclerosis (MS). Characteristics that influence (or result from) care-seeking may introduce bias into other types of studies. The Participation and Activity Limitation Survey (PALS) was a post-census survey conducted by Statistics Canada in association with a 2006 national census. The PALS collected data from a sample of 22,513 respondents having health-related impairments according to their census forms. The survey collected self-reported diagnostic data and obtained ratings for items assessing impairment as well as perceived met and unmet needs for care and support. It identified 245 individuals with MS, leading to an estimated (weighted) population prevalence of 0.2% (200 per 100,000). As expected, those with MS reported more-severe health problems than did those with other types of disability, particularly in the areas of mobility, dexterity, and cognition; they were also more likely to report having multiple caregivers. People with MS also reported more unmet health-care needs than did those with other forms of disability, particularly with respect to meal preparation, housework, shopping, and chores. Despite their more negative health status and greater reliance on caregivers, people with MS reported participation in society comparable to that of people without MS. Thus, people with MS report greater needs than do people with other forms of health-related disability and utilize supportive services more often. However, they also report higher levels of unmet needs. The substantial needs of people with MS are only partially addressed by existing services.
Neuropeptide S (NPS) and its receptor (NPSR) have been implicated in the mediation of anxiolytic-like behaviour in rodents. However, little knowledge is available regarding the NPS system in depression-related behaviours, and whether NPS also exerts anxiolytic effects in an animal model of psychopathology. Therefore, the aim of this work was to characterize the effects of NPS on depression- and anxiety-related parameters, using male and female rats in a well-validated animal model of depression: the Flinders Sensitive Line (FSL), their controls, the Flinders Resistant Line (FRL), and Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats. We found that FSL showed greater immobility in the forced swim test (FST) than FRL, confirming their phenotype. However, NPS did not affect depression-related behaviour in any rat line. No significant differences in baseline anxiety levels between the FSL and FRL strains were observed, but FSL and FRL rats displayed less anxiety-like behaviour compared to SD rats. NPS decreased anxiety-like behaviour on the elevated plus-maze in all strains. The expression of the NPSR in the amygdala, periventricular hypothalamic nucleus, and hippocampus was equal in all male strains, although a trend towards reduced expression within the amygdala was observed in FSL rats compared to SD rats. In conclusion, NPS had a marked anxiolytic effect in FSL, FRL and SD rats, but did not modify the depression-related behaviour in any strain, in spite of the significant differences in innate level between the strains. These findings suggest that NPS specifically modifies anxiety behaviour but cannot overcome/reverse a genetically mediated depression phenotype.
Genetic factors are believed to be involved in the aetiology of unipolar depressive disorders. We have previously described a model built up by selective breeding of mice with different responses in the tail suspension test, a screening test for potential antidepressants. In this model, helpless H/Rouen mice are essentially immobile in this test, as well as in the Porsolt forced-swim test, whereas non-helpless NH/Rouen mice show the opposite behaviour, i.e. very low immobility. However, it is unclear whether or not the other phenotypic differences (forced swim test, locomotor activity, sucrose test, sleep patterns, effect of fluoxetine) observed between H/Rouen and the NH/Rouen mice may be attributed to a genetic drift phenomenon during the selection step, rather than being related to the trait of selection. In this study we used reciprocal crossbreeding between H/Rouen and NH/Rouen mice and obtained a segregating F2 population in order to determine whether phenotypic differences between the two lines co-segregate with the trait of selection. In the segregating F2 population, we found significant and strong genetic correlations between helplessness in the tail suspension test and some phenotypical features associated with depressive disorders such as 'alterations of sleep patterns', behavioural response to fluoxetine, immobility duration in the forced swim test, and anhedonia. Our results converge with clinical observations in depressed humans. These results strengthen the validity of the H/Rouen mouse as a model of depression, notably for preclinical studies with antidepressants. In addition, this model should open the way to identifying genes related to depression-like behaviours.
Agomelatine (S20098) is a novel antidepressant drug with melatonergic agonist and 5-HT2C receptor antagonist properties, displaying antidepressant/anxiolytic-like properties in animal models and in humans. In a depression/anxiety-like mouse model in which the response of the HPA axis is blunted, we investigated whether agomelatine could reverse behavioural deficits related to depression/anxiety compared to the classical selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, fluoxetine. Adult mice were treated for 8 wk with either vehicle or corticosterone (35 g/ml.d) via drinking water. During the final 4 wk, animals were treated with vehicle, agomelatine (10 or 40 mg/kg i.p.) or fluoxetine (18 mg/kg i.p.) and tested in several behavioural paradigms and also evaluated for home-cage activity. Our results showed that the depressive/anxiety-like phenotype induced by corticosterone treatment is reversed by either chronic agomelatine or fluoxetine treatment. Moreover, agomelatine increased the dark/light ratio of home-cage activity in vehicle-treated mice and reversed the alterations in this ratio induced by chronic corticosterone, suggesting a normalization of disturbed circadian rhythms. Finally, we investigated the effects of this new antidepressant on neurogenesis. Agomelatine reversed the decreased cell proliferation in the whole hippocampus in corticosterone-treated mice and increased maturation of newborn neurons in both vehicle- and corticosterone-treated mice. Overall, the present study suggests that agomelatine, with its distinct mechanism of action based on the synergy between the melatonergic agonist and 5-HT2C antagonist properties, provides a distinct antidepressant/anxiolytic spectrum including circadian rhythm normalization.
Generalized anxiety disorders probably represent one of the world's biggest mental health problems. A large number of studies have also shown that anxiety disorders and depression are often associated with quality of life impairments. As anxiety represents a big concern in public health, a substantial literature supports clinically important associations between psychiatric illness and chronic medical conditions. Actually, most research focuses on depression, finding that depression can adversely affect self-care and increase the risk of incident medical illness, complications, and mortality. Anxiety disorders are less well studied, but robust epidemiological and clinical evidences show that they play an equally important role. Recent reported articles have raised a debate about the effectiveness of some plant-derived extracts in anxiety-like models in mice. Biases about several aspects related with experimental setting, animal selection, environments, operators and investigators, selection and performance of behavioral tests, controls, results managing, and statistics are here discussed.

Recent work in neuroscience has highlighted the contrast between 'procedural' memory for bodily experiences and skills, which is unconscious though unrepressed, and verbalizable, 'declarative' memory, which includes autobiographical memory. Autobiographical memory is weak in people with autistic spectrum disorder, who frequently turn to self-generated sensations for reassurance that they continue to exist. The author suggests that, instead of internalizing shared experiences leading to growth, children with autism can feel that they add to themselves by taking over the qualities of others through the 'annexation' of physical properties that leads to a damaged object and can trigger a particular sort of negative therapeutic reaction. Clinical illustrations drawn from the treatment of two children on the autistic spectrum illustrate some ramifications of these processes in relation to the sense of a separate identity and the capacity to access memories.
Although the search for psychophysiological manifestations of social anxiety has a rich history, there appear to be no published reports examining the reliability of continuous electrocortical measures that putatively index stress vulnerability and stress reactivity in socially anxious individuals. We examined the 1-week test-retest reliability of regional electroencephalogram (EEG) alpha asymmetry and power, respiratory sinus arrhythmia (RSA), heart period, and heart period variability measures at rest and during anticipation of an impromptu speech in 26 adults diagnosed with social anxiety disorder (SAD). Across the 1-week time period, we found medium-to-large correlations for regional EEG asymmetry and large correlations for regional EEG alpha power, RSA, heart period, and heart period variability measures at rest and during speech anticipation, before and after accounting for age and medication status. These results are similar to patterns observed in nonclinical samples and appear to provide the first documented evidence of test-retest reliability of psychophysiological measures that index central nervous system activity in socially anxious individuals. These findings also provide support for the notion that resting frontal EEG asymmetry and RSA constitute relatively stable individual differences in this clinical population.
Engaging consumers in prospectively shaping strategies for dissemination of health-care innovations may help to ensure acceptability. We examined the feasibility of using conjoint analysis to assess future HIV vaccine acceptability among three diverse communities: a multiethnic sample in Los Angeles, CA, USA (n = 143); a Thai resident sample in Los Angeles (three groups; n = 27) and an Aboriginal peoples sample in Toronto (n = 13). Efficacy had the greatest impact on acceptability for all three groups, followed by cross-clade protection, side-effects and duration of protection in the Los Angeles sample; side-effects and duration of protection in the Thai-Los Angeles sample; and number of doses and duration of protection in the Aboriginal peoples-Toronto sample. Conjoint analysis provided insights into universal and population-specific preferences among diverse end users of future HIV vaccines, with implications for evidence-informed targeting of dissemination efforts to optimize vaccine uptake.









The archetype is one of the most important, if not the central concept of analytical psychology. Nevertheless from the beginning the concept was controversial. This paper attempts to review the debate around the term archetype and tries to point out some of the main problems the concept has in the light of contemporary knowledge especially in genetics and neurosciences. It becomes clear that for its use in the practice of Jungian psychotherapy the element of universality in the concept of archetypes is crucial. However, it must be concluded that there is still no firm scientific foundation for the claim that complex symbolic patterns (as for example the myth of the hero) can be transmitted in a way that every human individual has access to them. The paper attempts to show possible ways in which this transmission may be more successfully conceptualized. I would like to have Jung have the last word here. We find a hint in Jung's work where he opens up to ideas much like the ones I have developed here, and this is where Jung says: culture is part of man's nature.
In spite of their presumed relevance in maintaining interalveolar septal fluid homeostasis, the knowledge of the anatomy of human lung lymphatics is still incomplete. The recent discovery of reliable markers specific for lymphatic endothelium has led to the observation that, contrary to previous assumptions, human lymphatic vessels extend deep inside the pulmonary lobule in association with bronchioles, intralobular arterioles or small pulmonary veins. The aim of this study was to provide a morphometric characterization of lymphatic vessels in the periphery of the human lung. Human lung sections were immunolabelled with the lymphatic marker D2-40, followed by blood vessel staining with von Willebrand Factor. Lymphatic vessels were classified into: intralobular (including those associated with bronchovascular bundles, perivascular, peribronchiolar and interalveolar), pleural (in the connective tissue of the visceral pleura), and interlobular (in interlobular septa). The percentage area occupied by the lymphatic lumen was much greater in the interlobular septa and in the subpleural space than in the lobule. Most of the intralobular lymphatic vessels were in close contact with a blood vessel, either alone or within a bronchovascular bundle, whereas 7% were associated with a bronchiole and &lt; 1% were not connected to blood vessels or bronchioles (interalveolar). Intralobular lymphatic size progressively decreased from bronchovascular through to peribronchiolar, perivascular and interalveolar lymphatics. Lymphatics associated with bronchovascular bundles had similar morphometric characteristics to pleural and interlobular lymphatics. Shape factors were similar across lymphatic populations, except that peribronchiolar lymphatics had a marginally increased roundness and circularity, suggesting a more regular shape due to increased filling, and interlobular lymphatics had greater elongation, due to a greater proportion of conducting lymphatics cut longitudinally. Unsupervised cluster analysis confirmed a marked heterogeneity of lymphatic vessels both within and between groups, with a cluster of smaller vessels specifically represented in perivascular and interalveolar lymphatics within the alveolar interstitium. Our data indicate that intralobular lymphatics are a heterogeneous population, including vessels surrounding the bronchovascular bundle analogous to the conducting vessels present in the pleural and interlobular septa, many small perivascular lymphatics responsible for maintaining fluid balance in the alveolar interstitium, and a minority of intermediate lymphatics draining the peripheral airways. These lymphatic populations could be differentially involved in the pathogenesis of diseases preferentially involving distinct lung compartments.
Recent evidence points to white-matter abnormalities as a key factor in autism physiopathology. Using Diffusion Tensor Imaging, we studied white-matter structural properties in a convenience sample of twenty-two subjects with low-functioning autism exposed to long-term augmentative and alternative communication, combined with sessions of cognitive and behavioral therapy. Uncinate fasciculus structural properties correlated significantly with therapy length and early onset, as well as to clinical outcome, independently from IQ, age or symptoms severity at therapy onset. Moreover, adherence to therapy was linked with better clinical outcome and uncinate fasciculus structural integrity. The results point to the capability of a long-term rehabilitation of subjects with low-functioning autism to produce white-matter structural modifications, which could thus play a role in the rehabilitative outcome.
Biological motion is easily perceived by neurotypical observers when encoded in point-light displays. Some but not all relevant research shows significant deficits in biological motion perception among those with ASD, especially with respect to emotional displays. We tested adults with and without ASD on the perception of masked biological motion and the perception of direction from coherent and scrambled biological motion. Within the autism spectrum group, there was a large and statistically significant relationship between IQ and the ability to perceive directionality in masked biological motion. There were no group differences in sensitivity to biological motion or the ability to identify the direction of motion. Possible explanations are discussed, including the possible use of compensatory strategies in high IQ ASD.
We examined social attention and attention shifting during (a) a play interaction between 12-month olds and an examiner and (b) after the examiner pretended to hurt herself. We coded the target and duration of infants' visual fixations and frequency of attention shifts. Siblings of children with autism and controls with no family history of autism were tested at 12months and screened for ASD at 36months. Groups did not differ on proportion of attention to social stimuli or attention shifting during the play condition. All groups demonstrated more social attention and attention shifting during the distress condition. Infants later diagnosed with ASD tended to continue looking at a toy during the distress condition despite the salience of social information.
Rab GTPases constitute a family of small GTPases that regulate a variety of membrane trafficking events in all eukaryotic cells by recruiting their specific effector molecules. Recent accumulating evidence indicates that members of the mammalian Rab small GTPase family are involved in certain physiological and pathological processes. In particular, functional impairments of specific Rab proteins, e.g. Rab38 and Rab27A, their regulators or their effectors cause pigmentation disorders in humans and coat colour variations in mice because such impairments cause defects in melanosomal logistics, i.e. defects in melanosome biogenesis and transport. Genetic and biochemical analyses of the gene products responsible for mammalian pigmentation disorders in the past decade have revealed that Rab-mediated endosomal transport systems and melanosome transport systems play crucial roles in the efficient darkening of mammalian hair and skin. In this article, we review current knowledge regarding melanosomal logistics, with particular focus on the roles of Rab small GTPases and their effectors.
Visualization of individual cutaneous nerve endings has previously relied on laborious procedures of tissue excision, fixation, sectioning and staining for light or electron microscopy. We present a method for non-invasive, longitudinal two-photon microscopy of single nerve endings within the skin of anesthetized transgenic mice. Besides excellent signal-to-background ratio and nanometer-scale spatial resolution, this method offers time-lapse &quot;movies&quot; of pathophysiological changes in nerve fine structure over minutes, hours, days or weeks. Structure of keratinocytes and dermal matrix is visualized simultaneously with nerve endings, providing clear landmarks for longitudinal analysis. We further demonstrate feasibility of dissecting individual nerve fibers with infra-red laser and monitoring their degradation and regeneration. In summary, our excision-free optical biopsy technique is ideal for longitudinal microscopic analysis of animal skin and skin innervations in vivo and can be applied widely in preclinical models of chronic pain, allergies, skin cancers and a variety of dermatological disorders.


Juvenile xanthogranulomatosis (JXG) is an uncommon histiocytic disorder that is usually benign and limited to the skin. The systemic form of JXG is rare and may be associated with severe morbidity and mortality especially in central nervous system (CNS) involvement. Here, we describe a six-year-old boy with disseminated skin lesions and neurological signs and symptoms. Diagnostic work up revealed multiple brain lesions. A skin biopsy and a stereotactic brain biopsy considered suggestive of systemic JXG. Treatment with prednisolone, vinblastine and methotrexate was successful with regression of skin and CNS lesions. The patient has been in remission for almost three years.
Accumulation and deposition of A is one of the main neuropathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and impaired A degradation may be one mechanism of accumulation. Plasmin is the key protease of the plasminogen system and can cleave A. Plasmin is activated from plasminogen by tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) and urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA). The activators are regulated by inhibitors which include plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) and neuroserpin. Plasmin is also regulated by inhibitors including 2-antiplasmin and 2-macroglobulin. Here, we investigate the mRNA levels of the activators and inhibitors of the plasminogen system and the protein levels of tPA, neuroserpin and 2-antiplasmin in post-mortem AD and control brain tissue. Distribution of the activators and inhibitors in human brain sections was assessed by immunoperoxidase staining. mRNA measurements were made in 20 AD and 20 control brains by real-time PCR. In an expanded cohort of 38 AD and 38 control brains tPA, neuroserpin and 2-antiplasmin protein levels were measured by ELISA. The activators and inhibitors were present mainly in neurons and 2-antiplasmin was also associated with A plaques in AD brain tissue. tPA, uPA, PAI-1 and 2-antiplasmin mRNA were all significantly increased in AD compared to controls, as were tPA and 2-antiplasmin protein, whereas neuroserpin mRNA and protein were significantly reduced. 2-macroglobulin mRNA was not significantly altered in AD. The increases in tPA, uPA, PAI-1 and 2-antiplasmin may counteract each other so that plasmin activity is not significantly altered in AD, but increased tPA may also affect synaptic plasticity, excitotoxic neuronal death and apoptosis.
Combination therapy has been identified as a promising strategy to improve stroke management. We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of evidence from animal models of ischemic stroke to determine whether combining treatments improved efficacy. Multiple databases were searched and data were extracted from focal ischemia experiments comparing control groups, single treatments, and combination treatments. Of 11,430 papers identified, 142 met the inclusion criteria; these tested 126 treatments in 373 experiments using 8,037 animals (I(2)=85 to 96%). Taken together, single treatments reduced infarct size by 20% and improved neurological score by 12% compared with control; a second therapy improved efficacy by an additional 18% and 25%, respectively. Publication bias may affect combination efficacy for infarct size but not neurological score. Combining thrombolysis with other therapies may extend the time window from 4.4 to 8 hours in animal models, although testing beyond 6 hours is required to confirm this. Benefits of additional therapy decreased as the efficacy of the primary treatment increased, with combination efficacy reaching a ceiling at 60% to 80% protection. Combining treatments may bring benefits and extend the time window for treatment. More evidence is needed due to potential publication bias and heterogeneity.
Assessment of serotonin release in the living brain with positron emission tomography (PET) may have been hampered by the lack of suitable radioligands. We previously reported that fenfluramine caused a dose-dependent reduction in specific binding in monkeys using a classical displacement paradigm with bolus administration of [(11)C]AZ10419369. The aim of this study was to confirm our previous findings using an equilibrium approach in monkey. A total of 24 PET measurements were conducted using a bolus infusion protocol of [(11)C]AZ10419369 in three cynomolgus monkeys. Initial PET measurements were performed to assess suitable K(bol) values. The fenfluramine effect on [(11)C]AZ10419369 binding was evaluated in a displacement and pretreatment paradigm. The effect of fenfluramine on [(11)C]AZ10419369 binding potential (BP(ND)) was dose-dependent in the displacement paradigm and confirmed in the pretreatment paradigm. After pretreatment administration of fenfluramine (5.0 mg/kg), the mean BP(ND) of the occipital cortex decreased by 39%, from 1.380.04 to 0.840.09. This study confirms that the new 5-HT(1B) receptor radioligand [(11)C]AZ10419369 is sensitive to fenfluramine-induced changes in endogenous serotonin levels in vivo. The more advanced methodology is suitable for exploring the sensitivity limit to serotonin release as measured using [(11)C]AZ10419369 and PET.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is associated with a characteristic regional metabolic covariance pattern that is modulated by treatment. To determine whether a homologous metabolic pattern is also present in nonhuman primate models of parkinsonism, 11 adult macaque monkeys with parkinsonism secondary to chronic systemic 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) and 12 age-matched healthy animals were scanned with [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET). A subgroup comprising five parkinsonian and six control animals was used to identify a parkinsonism-related pattern (PRP). For validation, analogous topographies were derived from other subsets of parkinsonian and control animals. The PRP topography was characterized by metabolic increases in putamen/pallidum, thalamus, pons, and sensorimotor cortex, as well as reductions in the posterior parietal-occipital region. Pattern expression was significantly elevated in parkinsonian relative to healthy animals (P&lt;0.00001). Parkinsonism-related topographies identified in the other derivation sets were very similar, with significant pairwise correlations of region weights (r&gt;0.88; P&lt;0.0001) and subject scores (r&gt;0.74; P&lt;0.01). Moreover, pattern expression in parkinsonian animals correlated with motor ratings (r&gt;0.71; P&lt;0.05). Thus, homologous parkinsonism-related metabolic networks are demonstrable in PD patients and in monkeys with experimental parkinsonism. Network quantification may provide a useful biomarker for the evaluation of new therapeutic agents in preclinical models of PD.
The long-term effects of a diet rich in saturated fat and cholesterol on the hippocampus were evaluated in this study. It has previously been shown that this type of diet is detrimental to health, particularly affecting peripheral organs such as the heart and liver. However, effects on the brain have not been fully evaluated. This study focused on the hippocampus, a brain region instrumental for learning and memory and vulnerable to ischemic damage. Reduced blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity and increased microgliosis were observed in the hippocampus of rats fed a high-saturated-fat and cholesterol (HFHC) diet for 6 months. Interestingly, an increase in hippocampal protein levels of occludin, a tight junction protein, was found in HFHC-treated rats as well. Further investigation revealed decreased expression of the occludin protein in blood vessels and increased expression in the dentate gyrus hilar neurons and mossy fibers of the hippocampal cornus ammonis 3 in HFHC-treated rats. Our results show alterations in BBB integrity and expression of tight junction proteins after long-term exposure to HFHC diet in rats. These findings may suggest a biologic mechanism for previously observed behavioral deficits occurring in rats fed this diet.



There is no entirely satisfactory way to monitor nerve root integrity during spinal surgery. In particular, standard free-running electromyography carries a high false-positive rate and some false-negative rate of injury. Stimulated electromyography to direct root stimulation can only be done intermittently, and roots are often inaccessible. This article reviews to what extent muscle motor evoked potential (MEP) monitoring might help. It presents background considerations, describes MEP methodology, and summarizes relevant experimental animal and clinical studies. Based on current evidence, root compromise can cause myotomal MEP deterioration that in some cases may be reversible. However, because of radicular overlap, limited sampling, confounding factors, and response variability, the effects range from no appreciable change to variable degrees of amplitude reduction to disappearance and some false-positive and false-negative results should be expected. For root monitoring, multichannel MEP recordings should span adjacent myotomes and avoid mixed myotome derivations. Only amplitude reduction warning criteria have been studied, but no percentage cutoff consensus has emerged, and this approach is troubled by response variability. There is some evidence that MEPs might reduce false electromyographic results. In conclusion, muscle MEPs could compliment electromyography but seem unlikely to completely solve the problem of nerve root monitoring.

Impairment in the activities of daily living (ADL) in motor neuron disease (MND) has been little investigated. The contributions of both behavioural and motor changes on functional performance have not been explored. A postal survey in New South Wales, Australia, included assessments of ADL, behavioural change (carer-based) and MND severity. Eighty-two patients were subdivided into groups according to onset presentation: bulbar (n=23) and limb (n=59). There were significant differences in ADL performance between limb and bulbar onset groups depending on ADL task. Disability was also dependent on disease severity as measured by the Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Functional Rating Scale - Revised (ALSFRS - R) score. Importantly, variance in ADL scores was dependent on both motor and behavioural factors. This study confirms the progressive disabling nature of MND, which is dependent on disease severity and shows qualitative differences depending on onset presentation. A model combining motor and behavioural changes explained 57% of variance on ADL performance, with important implications for clinical intervention.

A central aim in cognitive neuroscience is to explain how neural activity gives rise to perception and behavior; the causal link of paramount interest is thus from brain to behavior. Functional neuroimaging studies, however, tend to provide information in the opposite direction by informing us how manipulation of behavior may affect neural activity. Although this may provide valuable insights into neuronal properties, one cannot use such evidence to make inferences about the behavioral significance of the observed activations; if A causes B, it does not necessarily follow that B causes A. In contrast, brain stimulation techniques enable us to directly modulate brain activity as the source of behavior and thus establish causal links.
A central goal in neuroscience is to interpret neural activation and, moreover, to do so in a way that captures universal principles by generalizing across individuals. Recent research in multivoxel pattern-based fMRI analysis has led to considerable success at decoding within individual subjects. However, the goal of being able to decode across subjects is still challenging: It has remained unclear what population-level regularities of neural representation there might be. Here, we present a novel and highly accurate solution to this problem, which decodes across subjects between eight different stimulus conditions. The key to finding this solution was questioning the seemingly obvious idea that neural decoding should work directly on neural activation patterns. On the contrary, to decode across subjects, it is beneficial to abstract away from subject-specific patterns of neural activity and, instead, to operate on the similarity relations between those patterns: Our new approach performs decoding purely within similarity space. These results demonstrate a hitherto unknown population-level regularity in neural representation and also reveal a striking convergence between our empirical findings in fMRI and discussions in the philosophy of mind addressing the problem of conceptual similarity across neural diversity.
The topic of spatial attention is of great relevance for researchers in various fields, including neuropsychology, cognitive neuroscience, and cognitive psychology, as well as for clinical practice. Deficits of spatial attentional arising from parietal brain damage remain largely confined to the left visual field. The mechanisms underlying this hemispheric asymmetry are still elusive. We mimicked the neuropsychological syndrome of contralesional extinction by temporarily inducing a spatial attentional bias in healthy volunteers with TMS. We investigated whether directing covert spatial attention could enhance or, more importantly, counteract the resulting behavioral deficits. Although both the left and right parietal TMS induced contralateral extinction, only left hemifield extinction following right parietal TMS was severely aggravated by a competing stimulus in the ipsilesional (right) hemifield. We put forward the hypothesis that an asymmetry with respect to the ability of detaching attention from a distractor is contributing to the right hemispheric lateralization with regard to extinction. On a broader level, we suggest that &quot;virtual patients&quot; might be used for evaluating neuropsychological treatment in an early stage of development, reducing the burden on actual patients.
Chemical defenses are used by many organisms to avoid predation, and these defenses may function by stimulating predators' chemosensory systems. Our study examined detection mechanisms for components of defensive ink of sea hares, Aplysia californica, by predatory sea catfish, Ariopsis felis. Behavioral analyses show aplysioviolin and phycoerythrobilin are detected intra-orally and by barbels and are deterrent at concentrations as low as 0.1% full strength. We performed electrophysiological recordings from the facial-trigeminal nerve complex innervating the maxillary barbel and tested aplysioviolin, phycoerythrobilin, amino acids, and bile salts in cross-adaptation experiments. Amino acids and bile salts are known stimulatory compounds for teleost taste systems. Our results show aplysioviolin and phycoerythrobilin are equally stimulatory and completely cross-adapt to each other's responses. Adaptation to aplysioviolin or phycoerythrobilin reduced but did not eliminate responses to amino acids or bile salts. Adaptation to amino acids or bile salts incompletely reduced responses to aplysioviolin or phycoerythrobilin. The fact that cross-adaptations with aplysioviolin and phycoerythrobilin were not completely reciprocal indicates there are amino acid and bile salt sensitive fibers insensitive to aplysioviolin and phycoerythrobilin. These results indicate two gustatory pathways for aplysioviolin and phycoerythrobilin: one independent of amino acids and bile salts and another shared with some amino acids.
Due to the limitations of current voltage sensing techniques, optimal filtering of noisy, undersampled voltage signals on dendritic trees is a key problem in computational cellular neuroscience. These limitations lead to voltage data that is incomplete (in the sense of only capturing a small portion of the full spatiotemporal signal) and often highly noisy. In this paper we use a Kalman filtering framework to develop optimal experimental design methods for voltage sampling. Our approach is to use a simple greedy algorithm with lazy evaluation to minimize the expected square error of the estimated spatiotemporal voltage signal. We take advantage of some particular features of the dendritic filtering problem to efficiently calculate the Kalman estimator's covariance. We test our framework with simulations of real dendritic branching structures and compare the quality of both time-invariant and time-varying sampling schemes. While the benefit of using the experimental design methods was modest in the time-invariant case, improvements of 25-100% over more nave methods were found when the observation locations were allowed to change with time. We also present a heuristic approximation to the greedy algorithm that is an order of magnitude faster while still providing comparable results.

Two lexical decision experiments are reported that investigate whether the same segmentation strategies are used for reading printed English words and fingerspelled words (in American Sign Language). Experiment 1 revealed that both deaf and hearing readers performed better when written words were segmented with respect to an orthographically defined syllable (the Basic Orthographic Syllable Structure [BOSS]) than with a phonologically defined syllable. Correlation analyses revealed that better deaf readers were more sensitive to orthographic syllable representations, whereas segmentation strategy did not differentiate the better hearing readers. In contrast to Experiment 1, Experiment 2 revealed better performance by deaf participants when fingerspelled words were segmented at the phonological syllable boundary. We suggest that English mouthings that often accompany fingerspelled words promote a phonological parsing preference for fingerspelled words. In addition, fingerspelling ability was significantly correlated with reading comprehension and vocabulary skills. This pattern of results indicates that the association between fingerspelling and print for adult deaf readers is not based on shared segmentation strategies. Rather, we suggest that both good readers and good fingerspellers have established strong representations of English and that fingerspelling may aid in the development and maintenance of English vocabulary.

Contemporary descriptions of human intelligence hold that this trait influences a broad range of cognitive abilities, including learning, attention, and reasoning. Like humans, individual genetically heterogeneous mice express a &quot;general&quot; cognitive trait that influences performance across a diverse array of learning and attentional tasks, and it has been suggested that this trait is qualitatively and structurally analogous to general intelligence in humans. However, the hallmark of human intelligence is the ability to use various forms of &quot;reasoning&quot; to support solutions to novel problems. Here, we find that genetically heterogeneous mice are capable of solving problems that are nominally indicative of inductive and deductive forms of reasoning, and that individuals' capacity for reasoning covaries with more general learning abilities. Mice were characterized for their general learning ability as determined by their aggregate performance (derived from principal component analysis) across a battery of five diverse learning tasks. These animals were then assessed on prototypic tests indicative of deductive reasoning (inferring the meaning of a novel item by exclusion, i.e., &quot;fast mapping&quot;) and inductive reasoning (execution of an efficient search strategy in a binary decision tree). The animals exhibited systematic abilities on each of these nominal reasoning tasks that were predicted by their aggregate performance on the battery of learning tasks. These results suggest that the coregulation of reasoning and general learning performance in genetically heterogeneous mice form a core cognitive trait that is analogous to human intelligence.
A retinally stabilized object readily undergoes perceptual fading and disappears from consciousness. This startling phenomenon is commonly believed to arise from local bottom-up sensory adaptation to edge information that occurs early in the visual pathway, such as in the lateral geniculate nucleus of the thalamus or retinal ganglion cells. Here we use random dot stereograms to generate perceivable contours or shapes that are not present on the retina and ask whether perceptual fading occurs for such &quot;cortical&quot; contours. Our results show that perceptual fading occurs for &quot;cortical&quot; contours and that the time a contour requires to fade increases as a function of its size, suggesting that retinal adaptation is not necessary for the phenomenon and that perceptual fading may be based in the cortex.
Previous studies have demonstrated that motor abilities allow us not only to execute our own actions and to predict their consequences, but also to predict others' actions and their consequences. But just how deeply are motor abilities implicated in action observation? If an observer is prevented from acting while witnessing others' actions, will this impact on their making sense of others' behavior? We recorded proactive eye movements while participants observed an actor grasping objects. The participants' hands were either freely resting on the table or tied behind their back. Proactivity of gaze behavior was dramatically impaired when participants observed others' actions with their hands tied. Since we don't literally perceive actions with our hands, the effect may be explained by the hypothesis that effective observation of action depends not only on motor abilities but on being in a position to exercise them. This suggests, for the first time, that actions are observed best when we are actually in the position to perform them.
Building on prior research that marital functioning is associated with a variety of health outcomes, we evaluated the association between marital adjustment and a marker of inflammation in a sample of married adults between the ages of 35 and 84 years old (N = 415) from the second wave of the population-based Survey of Midlife Development in the United States (MIDUS II). Specifically, we evaluated associations between positive (i.e., partner support) and negative (i.e., partner strain) dimensions of marital adjustment and interleukin-6 (IL-6) separately for men and women, and whether these associations were moderated by age. Results indicated that (a) marital adjustment was not associated with IL-6 in men, (b) age moderated the association between marital adjustment and IL-6 in women, (c) partner support and partner strain were associated with IL-6 in younger women, and (d) partner support but not partner strain was uniquely associated with IL-6 in younger women. The associations between marital adjustment and IL-6 in younger women were significant when controlling for demographic variables, health status indicators, health behaviors, depressive symptoms, and perceived stress. These findings suggest that IL-6 may be a useful biomarker for studying health-relevant biological responses within intimate relationships, and that young women, in particular, may exhibit increased inflammation when partner support is low.

Occipital nerve block (ONB) has been used in several primary headache syndromes with good results. Information on its effects in facial pain is sparse. In this chart review, the efficacy of ONB using lidocaine and dexamethasone was evaluated in 20 patients with craniofacial pain syndromes comprising 8 patients with trigeminal neuralgia, 6 with trigeminal neuropathic pain, 5 with persistent idiopathic facial pain and 1 with occipital neuralgia. Response was defined as an at least 50% reduction of original pain. Mean response rate was 55% with greatest efficacy in trigeminal (75%) and occipital neuralgia (100%) and less efficacy in trigeminal neuropathic pain (50%) and persistent idiopathic facial pain (20%). The effects lasted for an average of 27 days with sustained benefits for 69, 77 and 107 days in three patients. Side effects were reported in 50%, albeit transient and mild in nature. ONBs are effective in trigeminal pain involving the second and third branch and seem to be most effective in craniofacial neuralgias. They should be considered in facial pain before more invasive approaches, such as thermocoagulation or vascular decompression, are performed, given that side effects are mild and the procedure is minimally invasive.
Late onset aura (LOA) is usually considered benign but raises diagnostic uncertainties. We compared individuals with LOA (&gt;45 years of age at aura onset) with those of early onset (EOA) in clinical features, vascular risk factors and imaging, in a retrospective study design including patients with migraine aura and age &gt;44 years at first visit. In 77 cases (51 EOA and 26 LOA), no differences were found in gender distribution, family or personal history of migraine without aura, type of aura symptoms or imaging findings. LOA patients' were more likely to not fulfil all ICHD-II aura criteria and to lack headache. This data suggest that LOA and EOA are overall identical but there are differences in presentation that deserve a better characterization by a prospective study.
CADASIL is a hereditary disease characterized by cerebral subcortical microangiopathy leading to early onset cerebral strokes and progressive severe cognitive impairment. Until now, only few studies have investigated the extent and localization of grey matter (GM) involvement. The purpose of our study was to evaluate GM volume alterations in CADASIL patients compared to healthy subjects. We also looked for correlations between global and regional white matter (WM) lesion load and GM volume alterations. 14 genetically proved CADASIL patients and 12 healthy subjects were enrolled in our study. Brain MRI (1.5T) was acquired in all subjects. Optimized-voxel based morphometry method was applied for the comparison of brain volumes between CADASIL patients and controls. Global and lobar WM lesion loads were calculated for each patient and used as covariate-of-interest for regression analyses with SPM-8. Compared to controls, patients showed GM volume reductions in bilateral temporal lobes (p&lt;0.05; FDR-corrected). Regression analysis in the patient group revealed a correlation between total WM lesion load and temporal GM atrophy (p&lt;0.05; uncorrected), not between temporal lesion load and GM atrophy. Temporal GM volume reduction was demonstrated in CADASIL patients compared to controls; it was related to WM lesion load involving the whole brain but not to lobar and, specifically, temporal WM lesion load. Complex interactions between sub-cortical and cortical damage should be hypothesized.
NK cells play an important role in innate immunity. A previous genome-wide association study demonstrated an association between a 17q12 allele (rs9916629(C)) and lower frequency of CD3(-)CD56(+) NK cells in peripheral blood. We performed an analysis that not only replicates the original result of the genome-wide association study (p = 0.036) but also defines the specific cell subpopulations and functions that are modulated by the rs9916629 polymorphism in a cohort of 96 healthy adult subjects using targeted multiparameter flow cytometric profiling of NK cell phenotypes and functions. We found that rs9916629(C) is associated with alterations in specific NK cell subsets, including lower frequency of predominantly cytotoxic CD56(dim) NK cells (p = 0.011), higher frequency of predominantly regulatory CD56(bright) NK cells (p = 0.019), and a higher proportion of NK cells expressing the inhibitory NKG2A receptor (p = 0.0002). Functionally, rs9916629(C) is associated with decreased secretion of macrophage inflammatory protein-1 by NK cells in the context of Ab-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (p = 0.039) and increased degranulation in response to MHC class I-deficient B cells (p = 0.017). Transcriptional profiling of NK cells suggests that rs9916629 influences the expression of transcription factors such as TBX21, which has a role in NK cell differentiation, offering a possible mechanism for the phenotypic and functional differences between the different alleles. The rs9916629(C) allele therefore has a validated effect on the proportion of NK cells in peripheral blood and skews NK cells toward a specific phenotypic and functional profile, potentially influencing the impact that these innate immune cells have on infection and autoimmunity.
Injection of proteins and particulate antigens into the peritoneal cavity of male SJL mice preferentially activates T cells secreting Th2 cytokines. Identical immunizations of females activate T cells secreting Th1 cytokines. CD11b(+)F4/80(hi) LPM and CD11b(+)F4/80(lo) SPM populations were compared between naive males and females to define their role in supporting differential Th1 versus Th2 T cell activation. No sex-dependent differences in the expression of MHC class II, costimulatory molecules, and MR were detected. Immunization induced influx of CD11b(lo)F4/80(lo) cells in both sexes. CD11b(lo)F4/80(lo) cells consist predominantly of Ly6C(hi) monocytes, which mature into a Ly6C(-) SPM subset. Following immunization, equivalent frequencies of LPM had taken up antigen. However, the CD11b(lo)F4/80(lo) population, which had taken up antigen, was decreased significantly in males compared with females. Similar to nave macrophages, antigen-positive cells in immunized males and females exhibited no phenotypic differences. However, fewer Ly6C(-)F4/80(+) cells were present in males compared with females, consistent with the reduced number of antigen-positive cells. Furthermore, CD11b(lo)F4/80(lo) cells, which had taken up antigen in males, expressed increased IL-10 and limited IL-12 mRNA compared with the predominant IL-12 mRNA expression in female-derived, antigen-positive CD11b(lo)F4/80(lo) cells. IL-10 blockade increased the frequency of Ly6C(-)F4/80(+) cells in males to the frequency in females, suggesting that preferential activation of Th2 T cells in male SJL mice is associated with increased IL-10 expression and limited antigen presentation as a result of decreased macrophage maturation under the influence of IL-10.



This is the first study to combine psychometric and functional neuroimaging methods to study altered patterns of autobiographical memory in bipolar disorder (BD). All participants were interviewed with an expanded version of the Bielefelder Autobiographical Memory Inventory (Bielefelder Autobiographisches Gedchtnis Inventar 2004;Lisse: Swets and Zeitlinger). We then acquired functional magnetic resonance imaging data during a task of individually designed autobiographical recall. Compared with healthy controls, BD patients reported a stronger emotionality of autobiographical memories and more frequent recollections of autobiographical events during their everyday life. Furthermore, they failed to deactivate areas in the cuneus and lingual gyrus and showed decreased activation in the inferior frontal and precentral areas compared with the control group. More frequent intrusions from a person's past, which had a neural correlate in the lack of deactivation in some default mode network areas in BD patients, may contribute to manic or depressive symptoms.
Somatosensory-evoked potentials (SSEPs) have been widely used for intra-operative neurophysiological monitoring (IONM). Currently at least 200-300 trials are required to generate a readable SSEP signal. This study introduces a novel approach that yields accurate detection results of the SSEP signal yet with a significantly reduced number of trials, resulting in an effectual monitoring process. The analysis was performed on data recorded in seven patients undergoing surgery, where the posterior tibial nerve was stimulated and the SSEP response was recorded from scalp electroencephalography using two bipolar electrodes, C(3)-C(4) and C(Z)-F(Z). The proposed approach employs an innovative, simple yet effective algorithm based on a patient-specific Gaussian template to detect the SSEP using only 30 trials. The time latencies of the P37 and N45 peaks are detected along with the peak-to-peak amplitudes. The time latencies are detected with a mean accuracy greater than 95%. Also, the P37 and N45 peak latencies and the peak-to-peak amplitude were found to be consistent throughout the surgical procedure within the 10% and 50% acceptable clinical limits, respectively. The results obtained support the assertion that the algorithm is capable of detecting SSEPs with high accuracy and consistency throughout the entire surgical procedure using only 30 trials.
This study introduces a novel brain-computer interface (BCI) based on an oddball paradigm using stimuli of facial images with loss of configural face information (e.g., inversion of face). To the best of our knowledge, till now the configural processing of human faces has not been applied to BCI but widely studied in cognitive neuroscience research. Our experiments confirm that the face-sensitive event-related potential (ERP) components N170 and vertex positive potential (VPP) have reflected early structural encoding of faces and can be modulated by the configural processing of faces. With the proposed novel paradigm, we investigate the effects of ERP components N170, VPP and P300 on target detection for BCI. An eight-class BCI platform is developed to analyze ERPs and evaluate the target detection performance using linear discriminant analysis without complicated feature extraction processing. The online classification accuracy of 88.7% and information transfer rate of 38.7 bits min(-1) using stimuli of inverted faces with only single trial suggest that the proposed paradigm based on the configural processing of faces is very promising for visual stimuli-driven BCI applications.
Rasagiline and (-)deprenyl (selegiline), irreversible type B monoamine oxidase (MAO-B) inhibitors, protect neuronal cells through gene induction of pro-survival Bcl-2 and neurotrophic factors in the cellular models of neurodegenerative disorders. In this paper, the role of MAO in the up-regulation of neuroprotective Bcl-2 gene by these inhibitors was studied using type A MAO (MAO-A) expressing wild SH-SY5Y cells and the transfection-enforced MAO-B overexpressed cells. Rasagiline and (-)deprenyl, and also befloxatone, a reversible MAO-A inhibitor, increased Bcl-2 mRNA and protein in SH-SY5Y cells. Silencing MAO-A expression with short interfering (si) RNA suppressed Bcl-2 induction by rasagiline, but not by (-)deprenyl. MAO-B overexpression inhibited Bcl-2 induction by rasagiline and befloxatone, but did not affect that by (-)deprenyl, suggesting the different mechanisms behind Bcl-2 gene induction by these MAO-B inhibitors. The novel role of MAO-A in Bcl-2 induction by rasagiline is discussed with regard to the molecular mechanism underlying neuroprotection by the MAO inhibitors.
Disturbances in the default mode network (DMN) have been described in many neurological and psychiatric disorders including Parkinson's disease (PD). The DMN is characterized by basal activity that increases during rest or passive visual fixation and decreases (&quot;deactivates&quot;) during cognitive tasks. The network is believed to be involved in cognitive processes. We examined the DMN in PD patients on dopaminergic medication with normal cognitive performance compared to age- and gender-matched healthy controls (HC) using fMRI and three methodological procedures: independent component analysis of resting-state data, analysis of deactivation during a complex visual scene-encoding task, and seed-based functional connectivity analysis. In the PD group, we also studied the effect of dopaminergic medication on the DMN integrity. We did not find any difference between the PD and HC groups in the DMN, but using the daily levodopa equivalent dose as a covariate, we observed an enhanced functional connectivity of the DMN in the posterior cingulate cortex and decreased activation in the left parahippocampal gyrus during the cognitive task. We conclude that dopaminergic therapy has a specific effect on both the DMN integrity and task-related brain activations in cognitively unimpaired PD patients, and these effects seem to be dose-dependent.
The extension of microglial processes toward injured sites in the brain is triggered by the stimulation of the purinergic receptor P2Y(12) by extracellular ATP. We recently showed that P2Y(12) stimulation by ATP induces microglial process extension in collagen gels. In the present study, we found that a P2Y(12) agonist, 2-methylthio-ADP (2MeSADP), failed to induce the process extension of microglia in collagen gels and that co-stimulation with adenosine, a phosphohydrolytic derivative of ATP, and 2MeSADP restored the chemotactic process extension. An adenosine A3 receptor (A3R)-selective agonist restored the chemotactic process extension, but other receptor subtype agonists did not. The removal of adenosine by adenosine deaminase and the blocking of A3R by an A3R-selective antagonist inhibited ADP-induced process extension. The A3R antagonist inhibited ADP-induced microglial migration, and an A3R agonist promoted 2MeSADP-stimulated migration. ADP and the A3R agonist activated Jun N-terminal kinase in microglia, and a Jun N-terminal kinase inhibitor inhibited the ADP-induced process extension. An RT-PCR analysis showed that A1R and A3R were expressed by microglia sorted from adult rat brains and that the A2AR expression level was very low. These results suggested that A3R signaling may be involved in the ADP-induced process extension and migration of microglia.
Synaptic vesicle loading of glutamate is a pivotal step in glutamate synaptic transmission. The molecular machinery responsible for this step is comprised of v-type proton-pump ATPase and a vesicular glutamate transporter. Recent evidence indicates that synaptic vesicles are endowed with glycolytic ATP-synthesizing enzymes, providing energy for immediate use by vesicle-bound proton-pump ATPase. In this study, we provide evidence that synaptic vesicles are also capable of synthesizing the vesicular glutamate transporter substrate glutamate, from -ketoglutarate and l-aspartate (as the amino group donor); glutamate thus produced is taken up into vesicles. We also report a finding that -ketoglutarate-derived glutamate uptake into synaptic vesicles and aspartate aminotransferase are inhibited by 2,3-pyrazinedicarboxylate. Evidence is given that this is a selective inhibitor for aspartate aminotransferase. These observations provide insight into understanding the nerve endings' mechanism for high efficiency in glutamate transmission. Finding this inhibitor may have implications for further experimentation on the role of -ketoglutarate-derived glutamate in glutamate transmission.
Insulin offers trophic support through receptors expressed widely on peripheral neurons. In this work, we studied whether peripheral sensory neurons demonstrate resistance to its trophic properties, a property relevant during type 2 diabetes mellitus or following supraphysiological therapy. Insulin receptors were not only localized to neuronal membranes and cytoplasm but also had a unique, previously unrecognized localization to neuronal nuclei. We confirmed that nanomolar doses increased neurite outgrowth of adult sensory neurons, but in response to micromolar doses of insulin, even following a brief 2-h exposure, survival and outgrowth of neurites were blunted. Neurons exposed to picomolar insulin concentrations in their media for 5 days had resistance to the impact of later nanomolar doses of insulin. Using a stripe assay seeded with insulin, neurites were more likely to reject higher doses of insulin. Insulin down-regulated mRNAs of the insulin receptor  subunit and up-regulated levels of GSK-3, both potential mechanisms of insulin resistance, while down-regulating the protein expression of pAkt and pGSK-3. Overall, these studies identify neuronal nuclear targeting of insulin and evidence for insulin-induced resistance to its trophic properties. The findings have implications for the understanding of the actions of insulin in the treatment of diabetes and neurological disorders.
Mounting evidence suggests a potential link between cocaine abuse, disruptions in hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis signaling, and neuroplasticity, but molecular mechanisms remain unknown. Neurogranin (Ng) is a gene containing a thyroid hormone-responsive element within its first intron that is involved in synaptic plasticity. Transcriptional activation requires heterodimerization of thyroid hormone receptor (TR) and retinoid X receptor (RXR) bound by their respective ligands, tri-iodothryonine and 9-cis-retinoic acid (9-cis-RA), and subsequent binding of this complex to the thyroid hormone-responsive element of the Ng gene. In this study, the effects of chronic cocaine abuse on Ng expression in euthyroid and hypothyroid mice were assessed. In cocaine-treated mice, decreased Ng expression was observed in the absence of changes in levels of thyroid hormones or other hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid signaling factors. Therefore, we hypothesized that cocaine decreases Ng expression via alterations in 9-cis-RA availability and TR/RXR signaling. In support of this hypothesis, RXR- was significantly decreased in brains of cocaine-treated mice while CYP26A1, the main enzyme responsible for neuronal RA degradation, was significantly increased. Results from this study provide the first evidence for a direct effect of cocaine abuse on TR/RXR signaling, RA metabolism, and transcriptional regulation of Ng, a gene essential for adult neuroplasticity.
The elucidation of the genomes of a large number of mammalian species has produced a huge amount of data on which to base physiological studies. These endeavours have also produced surprises, not least of which has been the revelation that the number of protein coding genes needed to make a mammal is only 22 333 (give or take). However, this small number belies an unanticipated complexity that has only recently been revealed as a result of genomic studies. This complexity is evident at a number of levels: (i) cis-regulatory sequences; (ii) noncoding and antisense mRNAs, most of which have no known function; (iii) alternative splicing that results in the generation of multiple, subtly different mature mRNAs from the precursor transcript encoded by a single gene; and (iv) post-translational processing and modification. In this review, we examine the steps being taken to decipher genome complexity in the context of gene expression, regulation and function in the hypothalamic-neurohypophyseal system (HNS). Five unique stories explain: (i) the use of transcriptomics to identify genes involved in the response to physiological (dehydration) and pathological (hypertension) cues; (ii) the use of mass spectrometry for single-cell level identification of biological active peptides in the HNS, and to measure in vitro release; (iii) the use of transgenic lines that express fusion transgenes enabling (by cross-breeding) the generation of double transgenic lines that can be used to study vasopressin (AVP) and oxytocin (OXT) neurones in the HNS, as well as their neuroanatomy, electrophysiology and activation upon exposure to any given stimulus; (iv) the use of viral vectors to demonstrate that somato-dendritically released AVP plays an important role in cardiovascular homeostasis by binding to V1a receptors on local somata and dendrites; and (v) the use of virally-mediated optogenetics to dissect the role of OXT and AVP in the modulation of a wide variety of behaviours.
Bursts of action potentials are crucial for neuropeptide release from the hypothalamic neurohypophysial system (HNS). The biophysical properties of the ion channels involved in the release of these neuropeptides, however, cannot explain the efficacy of such bursting patterns on secretion. We have previously shown that ATP, acting via P2X receptors, potentiates only vasopressin (AVP) release from HNS terminals, whereas its metabolite adenosine, via A1 receptors acting on transient Ca(2+) currents, inhibits both AVP and oxytocin (OT) secretion. Thus, purinergic feedback-mechanisms have been proposed to explain bursting efficacy at HNS terminals. Therefore, in the present study, we have used specific P2X receptor knockout (rKO) mice and purportedly selective P2X receptor antagonists to determine the P2X receptor subtype responsible for endogenous ATP induced potentiation of electrically-stimulated neuropeptide release. Intact neurohypophyses (NH) from wild-type (WT), P2X3 rKO, P2X2/3 rKO and P2X7 rKO mice were electrically stimulated with four 25-s bursts (3 V at 39 Hz) separated by 21-s interburst intervals with or without the P2X2 and P2X3 receptor antagonists, suramin or pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid (PPADS). These frequencies, number of bursts, and voltages were determined to maximise both AVP and OT release by electrical stimulations. Treatment of WT mouse NH with suramin/PPADS significantly reduced electrically-stimulated AVP release. A similar inhibition by suramin was observed in electrically-stimulated NH from P2X3 and P2X7 rKO mice but not P2X2/3 rKO mice, indicating that endogenous ATP facilitation of electrically-stimulated AVP release is mediated primarily by the activation of the P2X2 receptor. Unexpectedly, electrically-stimulated OT release from WT, P2X3, P2X2/3 and P2X7 rKO mice was potentiated by suramin, indicating nonpurinergic effects by this 'selective' antagonist. Nevertheless, these results show that sufficient endogenous ATP is released by bursts of action potentials to act at P2X2 receptors in a positive-feedback mechanism to 'differentially' modulate neuropeptide release from central nervous system terminals.
ATP-induced ionic currents were investigated in isolated terminals and somata of the hypothalamic neurohypophysial system (HNS). Both terminals and somata showed inward rectification of the ATP-induced currents and reversal near 0 mV. In terminals, ATP dose-dependently evoked an inactivating, inward current. However, in hypothalamic somata, ATP evoked a very slowly inactivating, inward current with a higher density, and different dose dependence (EC(50) of 50 m in somata versus 9.6 m in terminals). The ATP-induced currents, in both the HNS terminals and somata, were highly and reversibly inhibited by suramin, suggesting the involvement of a purinergic receptor (P2XR). However, the suramin inhibition was significantly different in the two HNS compartments (IC(50) of 3.6 m in somata versus 11.6 m in terminals). Also, both HNS compartments show significantly different responses to the purinergic receptor agonists: ATP--S and benzoyl-benzoyl-ATP. Finally, there was an initial desensitisation to ATP upon successive stimulations in the terminals, which was not observed in the somata. These differences in EC(50) , inactivation, desensitisation and agonist sensitivity in terminals versus somata indicate that different P2X receptors mediate the responses in these two compartments of HNS neurones. Previous work has revealed mRNA transcripts for multiple purinergic receptors in micropunches of the hypothalamus. In the HNS terminals, the P2X purinergic receptor types P2X2, 3, 4 and 7 (but not 6) have been shown to exist in AVP terminals. Immonohistochemistry now indicates that P2X4R is only present in AVP terminals and that the P2X7R is found in both AVP and oxytocin terminals and somata. We speculate that these differences in receptor types reflects the specific function of endogenous ATP in the terminals versus somata of these central nervous system neurones.
The antidiuretic hormone vasopressin (VP) promotes water reabsorption from the kidney and levels of circulating VP are normally related linearly to plasma osmolality, aiming to maintain the latter close to a predetermined set point. Interestingly, VP levels rise also in the absence of an increase in osmolality during late sleep in various mammals, including rats and humans. This circadian rhythm is functionally important because the absence of a late night VP surge results in polyuria and disrupts sleep in humans. Previous work has indicated that the VP surge may be caused by facilitation of the central processes mediating the osmotic control of VP release, and the mechanism by which this occurs was recently studied in angled slices of rat hypothalamus that preserve intact network interactions between the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN; the biological clock), the organum vasculosum lamina terminalis (OVLT; the central osmosensory nucleus) and the supraoptic nucleus (SON; which contains VP-releasing neurohypophysial neurones). These studies confirmed that the electrical activity of SCN clock neurones is higher during the middle sleep period (MSP) than during the late sleep period (LSP). Moreover, they revealed that the excitation of SON neurones caused by hyperosmotic stimulation of the OVLT was greater during the LSP than during the MSP. Activation of clock neurones by repetitive electrical stimulation, or by injection of glutamate into the SCN, caused a presynaptic inhibition of glutamatergic synapses made between the axon terminals of OVLT neurones and SON neurones. Consistent with this effect, activation of clock neurones with glutamate also reduced the excitation of SON neurones caused by hyperosmotic stimulation of the OVLT. These results suggest that clock neurones in the SCN can mediate an increase in VP release through a disinhibition of excitatory synapses between the OVLT and the SON during the LSP.
Synaptic activity in magnocellular neurosecretory neurones is influenced by the retrograde (i.e. somatodendritic) release of vasopressin, oxytocin and cannabinoids (CBs). For oxytocin neurones, oxytocin exerts constitutive effects on pre-synaptic activity through its ability to release CBs post-synaptically. In the present study, we examined evoked inhibitory post-synaptic currents (eIPSCs) and spontaneous inhibitory post-synaptic currents (sIPSCs) in identified vasopressin (VP) neurones in coronal slices from virgin rats to determine: (i) the extent to which CBs may also tonically modulate VP synaptic activity; and (ii) to determine whether depolarisation-induced suppression of inhibition was present in VP neurones, and if so, whether it was mediated by VP or CBs. The CB1 antagonists AM251 (1 m) and SR14171 (1 m) consistently increased the frequency of sIPSCs in VP neurones without affecting their amplitude, suggesting a tonic CB presence. This effect on frequency was independent of action potential activity, and blocked by chelating intracellular calcium with 10 mm ethylene glycol tetraacetic acid (EGTA). AM251 also increased the amplitude of eIPSCs and decreased the paired-pulse ratio (PPR) in VP neurones-effects that were completely blocked with even low (1 mm EGTA) internal calcium chelation. Bouts of evoked firing of VP neurones consistently suppressed sIPSCs but had no effect on eIPSCs or the PPR. This depolarisation-induced suppression of IPSCs was reduced by AM251, and was totally blocked by 10 m of the mixed vasopressin/oxytocin antagonist, Manning compound. We then tested the effect of vasopressin on IPSCs at the same time as blocking CB1 receptors. Vasopressin (10-100 nm) inhibited sIPSC frequency but had no effect on sIPSC or eIPSC amplitudes, or on the PPR, in the presence of AM251. Taken together, these results suggest a tonic, pre-synaptic inhibitory modulation of IPSCs in VP neurones by CBs that is largely dependent on post-synaptic calcium, and an inhibitory effect of VP on IPSCs that is independent of CB release.
The supraoptic nucleus (SON) is a particularly good model for the study of cell-type specific gene expression because it contains two distinct neuronal phenotypes, the oxytocin (OT) and vasopressin (AVP) synthesising magnocellular neurones (MCNs). The MCNs are found in approximately equal numbers and selectively express either the OT or the AVP gene in approximately 97% of the MCN population in the SON. An unresolved issue has been to determine what mechanisms are responsible for the highly selective regulation of the cell-type specific expression of OT and AVP genes in the MCNs. Previous attempts to address this question have used various bioinformatic and molecular approaches, which included using heterologous cell lines to study the putative cis-elements in the OT and AVP genes, and the use of OT and/or AVP transgenes in transgenic rodents. The data from all of the above studies identified a region &lt; 0.6 kbp upstream of OT exon I and approximately 3 kb upstream of AVP exon I as being sufficient to produce cell-specific expression of the OT and AVP genes, respectively, although they failed to identify the specific cis-domains responsible for the MCN-specific gene expression. An alternative experimental approach to perform promoter deletion analysis in vivo (i.e. to use stereotaxic viral vector gene transfer into the SON to further dissect the cis-elements in the OT and AVP genes) will be described here. This in vivo method uses adeno-associated viral (AAV) vectors expressing OT-promoter deletion constructs and utilises the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) as the reporter. The AAV constructs are stereotaxically injected into the rat brain above the SON and, 2 weeks post injection, the rats are sacrificed and assayed for EGFP expression. Using this method, it has been possible to identify specific regions upstream of the transcription start site in the OT and AVP gene promoters that are responsible for conferring the cell-type specificity of the OT and AVP gene expression in the SON.
Intracranial aneurysms undergoing balloon-assisted endovascular repair are particularly challenging given the concurrent use of one or more catheters in addition to the primary coiling microcatheter. Here, we describe a previously unreported novel device where a balloon catheter was used as the primary coiling microcatheter, thereby eliminated the need for additional catheters.

The Bowman-Birk inhibitor (BBI) is a soybean-derived serine protease inhibitor with anti-inflammatory properties. Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) serves as an animal model of the central nervous system (CNS) inflammatory disorder multiple sclerosis (MS). EAE is mediated by Th1 and Th17 cells which migrate into the CNS and initiate inflammation directed against myelin components, resulting in CNS pathology and neurological clinical deficit. We have shown previously that oral treatment with BBI delays onset of EAE and reduces its severity. These beneficial effects were associated with an increase in IL-10 secretion by immune cells of BBI-treated mice. It is not known, however, whether this was a causal relationship or simply an epiphenomenon. In the present study we provide evidence that BBI regulates CD4+ T cell immune responses in EAE. BBI administration delayed the onset of EAE and reduced its severity in an IL-10-dependent manner, as BBI-mediated suppression of EAE was abrogated in IL-10 knockout mice. The beneficial effects were accompanied by reduced IFN-, IL-17 and increased IL-10 production, as well as increased Foxp3 expression. CD4+ T cells were the major source of IL-10 in the periphery and in the CNS during BBI treatment. Furthermore, BBI-treated mice had reduced numbers of infiltrated cells in the CNS, including Th17 cells, as compared with PBS-treated control animals. In conclusion, our data provide clear evidence for the essential role of IL-10 in BBI-mediated suppression in EAE, and indicate that BBI may be a promising candidate for the development of a novel MS therapy.
Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is one of the most common focal epilepsy syndromes. In a genome-wide expression study of the human TLE hippocampus we previously showed up-regulation of genes involved in chemokine signalling. Here we investigate in the rat pilocarpine model for TLE, whether changes in chemokine signalling occur during epileptogenesis and are persistent. Therefore we analysed hippocampal protein expression and cellular localisation of CCL2, CCL4, CCR1 and CCR5 after status epilepticus. We found increased CCL4 (but not CCL2) expression in specific populations of hilar astrocytes at 2 and 19 weeks after SE concomitant with a persistent up-regulation of its receptor CCR5. Our results show an early and persistent up-regulation of CCL4/CCR5 signalling during epileptogenesis and suggest that CCL4 signalling, rather than CCL2 signalling, could have a role in the epileptogenic process.
We showed previously that mice deficient in astrocyte gap junctions Cx43 and Cx30 exhibit white matter vacuolation and hypomyelination. In this study we tested the hypothesis that loss of astrocytic gap junction proteins leads to exacerbation of the primary demyelinating diseases, using experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) as a model system. To test for this, Cx43 floxed mice were crossed with GFAP:Cre, Cx30 null mice to generate mice lacking astrocytic expression of both Cx43 and Cx30 (dKO). EAE was induced using myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG(35-55)) peptide, and mice were monitored for acute expression of disease. No statistically significant difference in clinical or pathological expression of EAE was observed. Lesion load and susceptibility of different areas of the CNS to inflammation were similar in all genotypes. Moreover, no differences were noted in blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability, tissue wet weight, axonal pathology, gliosis or demyelination during acute disease. These data show that loss of the astrocytic connexins, Cx43 and Cx30, and the white matter pathology observed in these mice does not statistically affect clinical or pathological expression of EAE and show that astrocyte gap junctions do not regulate autoimmune inflammation and associated BBB disruption in acute EAE.
Delayed cerebral ischemia (DCI) is an important cause of poor outcome after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). We studied differences in incidence and impact of DCI as defined clinically after coiling and after clipping in the International Subarachnoid Aneurysm Trial. We calculated odds ratios (OR) for DCI for clipping versus coiling with logistic regression analysis. With coiled patients without DCI as the reference group, we calculated ORs for poor outcome at 2months and 1year for coiled patients with DCI and for clipped patients without, and with DCI. With these ORs, we calculated relative excess risk due to Interaction (RERI). Clipping increased the risk of DCI compared to coiling in the 2,143 patients OR 1.24, 95% confidence interval (95% CI 1.01-1.51). Coiled patients with DCI, clipped patients without DCI, and clipped patients with DCI all had higher risks of poor outcome than coiled patients without DCI. Clipping and DCI showed no interaction for poor outcome at 2months: RERI 0.12 (95% CI -1.16 to 1.40) or 1year: RERI -0.48 (95% CI -1.69 to 0.74). Only for patients treated within 4days, coiling and DCI was associated with a poorer outcome at 1year than clipping and DCI (RERI -2.02, 95% CI -3.97 to -0.08). DCI was more common after clipping than after coiling in SAH patients in ISAT. Impact of DCI on poor outcome did not differ between clipped and coiled patients, except for patients treated within 4days, in whom DCI resulted more often in poor outcome after coiling than after clipping.
In patients with sudden severe headache and a negative computed tomography (CT) scan, a lumbar puncture (LP) is performed to rule in or out a subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH), but this procedure is under debate. In a hospital-based series of 30 patients with sudden headache, a negative CT scan but a positive LP (defined as detection of bilirubin &gt;0.05 at wavelength 458nm), we studied the chance of harbouring an aneurysm and the clinical outcome. Aneurysms were found in none of both patients who presented within 3days, in 8 of the 18 (44%) who presented within 4-7days and in 5 of the 10 (50%) who presented within 8-14days. Of the 13 patients with an aneurysm, 3 (23%) had poor outcome. In patients who present late after sudden headache, the yield in terms of aneurysms is high in those who have a positive lumbar puncture. In patients with an aneurysm as cause of the positive lumbar puncture, outcome is in the same range as in SAH patients admitted in good clinical condition.
Primary progressive multiple sclerosis (PPMS) is characterized by a steady progression of irreversible disability from the onset of the disease. Although magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a valuable tool to quantify the disease burden in the brain and spinal cord of patients with MS, measures derived from conventional MRI, including T2-visible lesions, gadolinium-enhancing lesions and atrophy, are correlated only weakly with the clinical manifestations of PPMS. On the contrary, advanced MRI techniques are contributing significantly to the understanding of the mechanisms underlying the irreversible accumulation of disability in PPMS patients. Data from quantitative MRI studies suggest that the extent and topography of &quot;diffuse&quot; damage in different central nervous system (CNS) compartments (i.e. normal-appearing brain white matter and grey matter and the spinal cord) is associated with the severity of disability in PPMS and can predict subsequent medium-term disease evolution. Functional MRI studies have shown that the impairment of the adaptive capacity of the cortex to limit the clinical consequences of structural CNS damage is yet another factor contributing to the manifestations of this condition.













Considering many approaches to the skull base confront the inferior orbital fissure (IOF) or sphenomaxillary fissure, the authors examine this anatomy as an important endoscopic surgical landmark. In morphometric analyses of 50 adult human dry skulls from both sexes, we divided the length of the IOF into three segments (anterolateral, middle, posteromedial). Hemotoxylin- and eosin-stained sections were analyzed. Dissections were performed using transnasal endoscopy in four formalin-fixed cadaveric cranial specimens (eight sides); three endoscopic approaches to the IOF were performed. IOF length ranged from 25 to 35 mm (mean 29 mm). Length/width of the individual anterolateral, middle, and posteromedial segments averaged 6.46/5, 4.95/3.2, and 17.6/ 2.4 mm, respectively. Smooth muscle within the IOF had a consistent relationship with several important anatomical landmarks. The maxillary antrostomy, total ethmoidectomy approach allowed access to the posteromedial segment of the fissure. The endoscopic modified, medial maxillectomy approach allowed access to the middle and posterior-medial segment. The Caldwell-Luc approach allowed complete exposure of the IOF. The IOF serves as an important anatomic landmark during endonasal endoscopic approaches to the skull base and orbit. Each of the three segments provides a characteristic endoscopic corridor, unique to the orbit and different fossas surrounding the fissure.
Malignant gliomas are a highly aggressive type of brain tumor with extremely poor prognosis. These tumors are highly invasive and are often surgically incurable and resistant to chemotherapeutics and radiotherapy. Thus, novel therapies that target pathways involved in growth and survival of the tumor cells are required for the treatment of this class of brain tumors. Previous studies revealed that epidermal growth factor receptor and extracellular-signal-regulated kinases (ERKs), which are involved in the induction of cell proliferation, are activated in the most aggressive type of glioma, i.e. glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). In fact, GBMs with increased levels of ERK activity exhibit a more aggressive phenotype than the others with moderate ERK activity, pointing to the importance of ERK and its kinase activity in the development and progression of these tumors. In this study, we have evaluated the effect of p38SJ, a novel member of the DING family of proteins, derived from Hypericum perforatum calluses, on the growth of malignant glioma cell lines, T98G and U-87MG by focusing on cell cycle and signaling pathways controlled by phosphorylation of various regulatory proteins including ERK. p38SJ, which exhibits profound phosphatase activity, shows the capacity to affect the phosphorylation status of several important kinases modulating signaling pathways, and cell growth and proliferation. Our results demonstrate that p38SJ reduces glioma cell viability and arrests cell cycle progression at G0/G1. The observed growth inhibitory effect of p38SJ is likely mediated by the downregulation of several cell cycle gatekeeper proteins, including cyclin E, Cdc2, and E2F-1. These results suggest that p38SJ may serve as a potential candidate for development of a therapeutic agent for the direct treatment of malignant gliomas and/or as a potential radiosensitizer.
Defects in synaptic development and plasticity may lead to autism. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) plays a critical role in synaptogenesis and synaptic plasticity. BDNF is synthesized as a precursor, pro-BDNF, which can be processed into either a truncated form or into mature BDNF. Previous studies reported increased BDNF-immunoreactive protein in autism, but the mechanism of this increase has not been investigated. We examined BDNF mRNA by real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and BDNF protein by Western blotting and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in postmortem fusiform gyrus tissue from 11 patients with autism and 14 controls. BDNF mRNA levels were not different in the autism versus control samples, but total BDNF-like immunoreactive protein, measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, was greater in autism than in controls. Western blotting revealed greater pro-BDNF and less truncated BDNF in autism compared with controls. These data demonstrate that increased levels of BDNF-immunoreactive protein in autism are not transcriptionally driven. Increased pro-BDNF and reduced truncated BDNF are consistent with defective processing of pro-BDNF to its truncated form. Distortion of the balance among the 3 BDNF isoforms, each of which may exhibit different biological activities, could lead to changes in connectivity and synaptic plasticity and, hence, behavior. Thus, imbalance in proteolytic isoforms is a possible new mechanism for altered synaptic plasticity leading to autism.
Bilateral voluntary contractions involve functional changes in both primary motor cortices. We investigated whether a voluntary contraction controlled by one hemisphere can influence oscillatory processes contralaterally. Corticomuscular coherence was calculated between EEG recorded over the motor cortex hand representation and electromyogram from the first dorsal interosseous muscle when the nondominant hand performed a precision grip task. The dominant arm remained at rest or performed a finger abduction or an elbow flexion task at 10, 40, and 70% of maximal isometric voluntary contraction (MVC). Mean coherence in the 15- to 30-Hz range in the hand performing a precision grip increased during 40% (by 72%) and 70% (by 73%) but not during 10% of MVC in the finger abduction task. Similarly, in the elbow flexion task, mean coherence increased during 40% (by 40%) and 70% (by 48%) but not during 10% of MVC. No differences were observed between the increments in coherence between the finger abduction and elbow flexion tasks at a given force level. We speculate that these results reflect the increased complexity of controlling a fine motor task with one hand while performing a strong contraction with the contralateral hand and suggest that increased oscillatory corticomuscular coupling may contribute to successful task performance.
Frequency-modulated (FM) sweeps are common components of species-specific vocalizations. The intensity of FM sweeps can cover a wide range in the natural environment, but whether intensity affects neural selectivity for FM sweeps is unclear. Bats, such as the pallid bat, which use FM sweeps for echolocation, are suited to address this issue, because the intensity of echoes will vary with target distance. In this study, FM sweep rate selectivity of pallid bat auditory cortex neurons was measured using downward sweeps at different intensities. Neurons became more selective for FM sweep rates present in the bat's echolocation calls as intensity increased. Increased selectivity resulted from stronger inhibition of responses to slower sweep rates. The timing and bandwidth of inhibition generated by frequencies on the high side of the excitatory tuning curve [sideband high-frequency inhibition (HFI)] shape rate selectivity in cortical neurons in the pallid bat. To determine whether intensity-dependent changes in FM rate selectivity were due to altered inhibition, the timing and bandwidth of HFI were quantified at multiple intensities using the two-tone inhibition paradigm. HFI arrived faster relative to excitation as sound intensity increased. The bandwidth of HFI also increased with intensity. The changes in HFI predicted intensity-dependent changes in FM rate selectivity. These data suggest that neural selectivity for a sweep parameter is not static but shifts with intensity due to changes in properties of sideband inhibition.
As an immediate consequence of stroke onset, failure of the Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase pump evokes a propagating anoxic depolarization (AD) across gray matter. Acute neuronal swelling and dendritic beading arise within seconds in the future ischemic core, imaged as changes in light transmittance (LT). AD is itself not a target for drug-based reduction of stroke injury because it is generated in the 1st min of stroke onset. Peri-infarct depolarizations (PIDs) are milder AD-like events that recur during the hours following AD and contribute to infarct expansion. Inhibiting PIDs with drugs could limit expansion. Two types of drugs, &quot;caines&quot; and (1)-receptor ligands, have been found to inhibit AD onset (and may also oppose PID initiation), yet their underlying actions have not been examined. Imaging LT in the CA1 region simultaneously with whole cell current-clamp recording from CA1 pyramidal neurons reveal that the elevated LT front and onset of the AD are coincident. Either dibucaine or carbetapentane pretreatment significantly delays AD onset without affecting resting membrane potential or neuronal input resistance. Dibucaine decreases excitability by raising spike threshold and decreasing action potential (AP) frequency, whereas carbetapentane eliminates the fast afterhyperpolarization while accentuating the slow afterhyperpolarization to reduce AP frequency. Orthodromic and antidromic APs are eliminated by dibucaine within 15 min but not by carbetapentane. Thus both drugs reduce cortical excitability at the level of the single pyramidal neuron but through strikingly different mechanisms. In vivo, both drugs would likely inhibit recurring PIDs in the expanding penumbra and so potentially could reduce developing neuronal damage over many hours poststroke when PIDs occur.
The characteristics of microsaccades, or small fixational saccades, and their influence on visual function have been studied extensively. However, the detailed mechanisms for generating these movements are less understood. We recently found that the superior colliculus (SC), a midbrain structure involved in saccade generation, also plays a role in microsaccade generation. Here we compared the dynamics of neuronal activity in the SC associated with microsaccades to those observed in this structure in association with larger voluntary saccades. We found that microsaccade-related activity in the SC is characterized by a gradual increase in firing rate starting 100 ms prior to microsaccade onset, a peak of neuronal discharge just after movement onset, and a subsequent gradual decrease in firing rate until 100 ms after movement onset. These properties were shared with saccade-related SC neurons, recorded from the same monkeys but preferring larger eye movements, suggesting that at the level of the SC the neuronal control of microsaccades is similar to that for larger voluntary saccades. We also found that neurons exhibiting microsaccade-related activity often also exhibited saccade-related activity for slightly larger movements of similar direction, suggesting a continuity of the spatial representation in the SC, in both amplitude and direction, down to the smallest movements. Our results indicate that the mechanisms controlling microsaccades may be fundamentally the same as those for larger saccades, and thus shed new light on the functional role of these eye movements and their possible influence on sensory and sensory-motor processes.
Tonically activated neuronal currents mediated by N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) have been hypothesized to contribute to normal neuronal function as well as to neuronal pathology resulting from excessive activation of glutamate receptors (e.g., excitotoxicity). Whereas cortical excitatory cells are very vulnerable to excitotoxic insult, the data regarding resistance of inhibitory cells (or interneurons) are inconsistent. Types of neurons with more pronounced tonic NMDAR current potentially associated with the activation of extrasynaptic NMDARs could be expected to be more vulnerable to excessive activation by glutamate. In this study, we compared tonic activation of NMDARs in excitatory pyramidal cells and inhibitory fast-spiking interneurons in prefrontal cortical slices. We assessed tonic NMDAR current by measuring holding current shift as well as noise reduction following NMDAR blockade after removal of spontaneous glutamate release. In addition, we compared NMDAR miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) in both cell types. We have demonstrated for the first time that tonic NMDAR currents are present in inhibitory fast-spiking interneurons. We found that the magnitude of tonic NMDAR current is similar in pyramidal cells and fast-spiking interneurons, and that quantal release of glutamate does not significantly impact tonic NMDAR current.
Oscillatory phase coupling within large-scale brain networks is a topic of increasing interest within systems, cognitive, and theoretical neuroscience. Evidence shows that brain rhythms play a role in controlling neuronal excitability and response modulation (Haider B, McCormick D. Neuron 62: 171-189, 2009) and regulate the efficacy of communication between cortical regions (Fries P. Trends Cogn Sci 9: 474-480, 2005) and distinct spatiotemporal scales (Canolty RT, Knight RT. Trends Cogn Sci 14: 506-515, 2010). In this view, anatomically connected brain areas form the scaffolding upon which neuronal oscillations rapidly create and dissolve transient functional networks (Lakatos P, Karmos G, Mehta A, Ulbert I, Schroeder C. Science 320: 110-113, 2008). Importantly, testing these hypotheses requires methods designed to accurately reflect dynamic changes in multivariate phase coupling within brain networks. Unfortunately, phase coupling between neurophysiological signals is commonly investigated using suboptimal techniques. Here we describe how a recently developed probabilistic model, phase coupling estimation (PCE; Cadieu C, Koepsell K Neural Comput 44: 3107-3126, 2010), can be used to investigate changes in multivariate phase coupling, and we detail the advantages of this model over the commonly employed phase-locking value (PLV; Lachaux JP, Rodriguez E, Martinerie J, Varela F. Human Brain Map 8: 194-208, 1999). We show that the N-dimensional PCE is a natural generalization of the inherently bivariate PLV. Using simulations, we show that PCE accurately captures both direct and indirect (network mediated) coupling between network elements in situations where PLV produces erroneous results. We present empirical results on recordings from humans and nonhuman primates and show that the PCE-estimated coupling values are different from those using the bivariate PLV. Critically on these empirical recordings, PCE output tends to be sparser than the PLVs, indicating fewer significant interactions and perhaps a more parsimonious description of the data. Finally, the physical interpretation of PCE parameters is straightforward: the PCE parameters correspond to interaction terms in a network of coupled oscillators. Forward modeling of a network of coupled oscillators with parameters estimated by PCE generates synthetic data with statistical characteristics identical to empirical signals. Given these advantages over the PLV, PCE is a useful tool for investigating multivariate phase coupling in distributed brain networks.
To investigate how hippocampal neurons encode sound stimuli, and the conjunction of sound stimuli with the animal's position in space, we recorded from neurons in the CA1 region of hippocampus in rats while they performed a sound discrimination task. Four different sounds were used, two associated with water reward on the right side of the animal and the other two with water reward on the left side. This allowed us to separate neuronal activity related to sound identity from activity related to response direction. To test the effect of spatial context on sound coding, we trained rats to carry out the task on two identical testing platforms at different locations in the same room. Twenty-one percent of the recorded neurons exhibited sensitivity to sound identity, as quantified by the difference in firing rate for the two sounds associated with the same response direction. Sensitivity to sound identity was often observed on only one of the two testing platforms, indicating an effect of spatial context on sensory responses. Forty-three percent of the neurons were sensitive to response direction, and the probability that any one neuron was sensitive to response direction was statistically independent from its sensitivity to sound identity. There was no significant coding for sound identity when the rats heard the same sounds outside the behavioral task. These results suggest that CA1 neurons encode sound stimuli, but only when those sounds are associated with actions.
Neurons in the rodent midline thalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVT) receive inputs from brain stem and hypothalamic sites known to participate in sleep-wake and circadian rhythms. To evaluate possible diurnal changes in their excitability, we used patch-clamp techniques to record and examine the properties of neurons in anterior PVT (aPVT) in coronal rat brain slices prepared at zeitgeber time (ZT) 2-6 vs. ZT 14-18 and recorded at ZT 8.4  0.2 (day) vs. ZT 21.2  0.2 (night), the subjective quiet vs. aroused states, respectively. Compared with neurons recorded during the day, neurons from the night period were significantly more depolarized and exhibited a lower membrane conductance that in part reflected loss of a potassium-mediated conductance. Furthermore, these neurons were also significantly more active, with tonic and burst firing patterns. Neurons from each ZT period were assessed for amplitudes of two conductances known to contribute to bursting behavior, i.e., low-threshold-activated Ca(2+) currents (I(T)) and hyperpolarization-activated cation currents (I(h)). Data revealed that amplitudes of both I(T) and I(h) were significantly larger during the night period. In addition, biopsy samples from the night period revealed a significant increase in mRNA for Ca(v)3.1 and Ca(v)3.3 low-threshold Ca(2+) channel subtypes. Neurons recorded from the night period also displayed a comparative enhancement in spontaneous bursting at membrane potentials of approximately -60 mV and in burst firing consequent to hyperpolarization-induced low-threshold currents and depolarization-induced current pulses. These novel in vitro observations reveal that midline thalamic neurons undergo diurnal changes in their I(T), I(h), and undefined potassium conductances. The underlying mechanisms remain to be characterized.
Motor-related forebrain areas in higher vertebrates also show responses to passively presented sensory stimuli. However, sensory tuning properties in these areas, especially during wakefulness, and their relation to perception, are poorly understood. In the avian song system, HVC (proper name) is a vocal-motor structure with auditory responses well defined under anesthesia but poorly characterized during wakefulness. We used a large set of stimuli including the bird's own song (BOS) and many conspecific songs (CON) to characterize auditory tuning properties in putative interneurons (HVC(IN)) during wakefulness. Our findings suggest that HVC contains a diversity of responses that vary in overall excitability to auditory stimuli, as well as bias in spike rate increases to BOS over CON. We used statistical tests to classify cells in order to further probe auditory responses, yielding one-third of neurons that were either unresponsive or suppressed and two-thirds with excitatory responses to one or more stimuli. A subset of excitatory neurons were tuned exclusively to BOS and showed very low linearity as measured by spectrotemporal receptive field analysis (STRF). The remaining excitatory neurons responded well to CON stimuli, although many cells still expressed a bias toward BOS. These findings suggest the concurrent presence of a nonlinear and a linear component to responses in HVC, even within the same neuron. These characteristics are consistent with perceptual deficits in distinguishing BOS from CON stimuli following lesions of HVC and other song nuclei and suggest mirror neuronlike qualities in which &quot;self&quot; (here BOS) is used as a referent to judge &quot;other&quot; (here CON).
A major goal of neuroscience is to understand the functions of networks of neurons in cognition and behavior. Recent work has focused on implanting arrays of 100 immovable electrodes or smaller numbers of individually adjustable electrodes, designed to target a few cortical areas. We have developed a recording system that allows the independent movement of hundreds of electrodes chronically implanted in several cortical and subcortical structures. We have tested this system in macaque monkeys, recording simultaneously from up to 127 electrodes in 14 brain regions for up to one year at a time. A key advantage of the system is that it can be used to sample different combinations of sites over prolonged periods, generating multiple snapshots of network activity from a single implant. Used in conjunction with microstimulation and injection methods, this versatile system represents a powerful tool for studying neural network activity in the primate brain.
Slow acoustic modulations below 20 Hz, of varying bandwidths, are dominant components of speech and many other natural sounds. The dynamic neural representations of these modulations are difficult to study through noninvasive neural-recording methods, however, because of the omnipresent background of slow neural oscillations throughout the brain. We recorded the auditory steady-state responses (aSSR) to slow amplitude modulations (AM) from 14 human subjects using magnetoencephalography. The responses to five AM rates (1.5, 3.5, 7.5, 15.5, and 31.5 Hz) and four types of carrier (pure tone and 1/3-, 2-, and 5-octave pink noise) were investigated. The phase-locked aSSR was detected reliably in all conditions. The response power generally decreases with increasing modulation rate, and the response latency is between 100 and 150 ms for all but the highest rates. Response properties depend only weakly on the bandwidth. Analysis of the complex-valued aSSR magnetic fields in the Fourier domain reveals several neural sources with different response phases. These neural sources of the aSSR, when approximated by a single equivalent current dipole (ECD), are distinct from and medial to the ECD location of the N1m response. These results demonstrate that the globally synchronized activity in the human auditory cortex is phase locked to slow temporal modulations below 30 Hz, and the neural sensitivity decreases with an increasing AM rate, with relative insensitivity to bandwidth.
Anti-NMDAR (N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor) encephalitis is a novel autoimmune and paraneoplastic disease often presenting as acute psychosis. Few studies exist in the psychiatric literature on neuroimmunity and behavioral management. This article reviews the epidemiology, diagnosis, pathophysiology, and management of this disease from a neuropsychiatric perspective. Patients have potential for near-complete recovery with early diagnosis and intervention. In addition to immune-suppression and tumor removal, electroconvulsive therapy may be an important tool in treatment of the underlying process in cases developing life-threatening catatonia. Psychiatrists should be familiar with treatment options, since they may be consulted within the context of a multispecialty team.
Approximately a third of patients in neuroscience intensive care units (ICUs) experience subclinical seizures and, as a result, are at higher risk for poor outcomes. The use of continuous electroencephalography (cEEG) monitoring can help nurses detect seizure activity and initiate early prevention. Nurse competency in the use of cEEG is important to facilitate effective bedside monitoring. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of a staff educational program aimed at improving the knowledge of nurses in the use of cEEG monitoring in adults. A quasi-experimental pretest/posttest 1-group design was utilized. Neuroscience ICU registered nurses, whose experience ranged from 2 months to 24 years, participated in the study. Participants completed a pretest on seizure knowledge and the use of cEEG monitoring. Participants received a 4-hour educational session on the use of cEEG monitoring. Immediately after the program and again 1 month later, they completed a posttest. Test scores improved significantly from pretest to the first posttest (t = -15.093, p &lt; .001). Although there was a slight decline in the mean score from the posttest to the 1-month follow-up, posttest scores were significantly better than the pretest score (t = -12.42, df = 44, p &lt; .001). Whereas years of experience correlated positively to the pretest score, after the intervention, no such correlation was evident. The results demonstrated that an educational program improved the competency of nurses in the use of cEEG with adult patients in a neuroscience ICU and that this knowledge was sustained over time. Further research is needed to demonstrate the effectiveness of this intervention in other settings.

Poststroke depression is common but remains underdiagnosed and undertreated. One explanation for this is that depressive symptoms go unrecognized by stroke survivors and their family caregivers and thus go unreported to the stroke survivor's healthcare provider. Forty-four stroke survivor-informal caregiver dyads were interviewed using a depression knowledge scale, the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale, and an adapted version of the Revised Illness Perception Questionnaire to determine their lay knowledge of depressive symptoms, recognition of poststroke depressive symptoms, and perception of the recognized symptoms. Caregivers and stroke survivors had moderate knowledge of depressive symptoms but had some misconceptions. The most commonly recognized poststroke depressive symptoms by stroke survivors were &quot;feeling like everything was an effort,&quot; &quot;restless sleep,&quot; &quot;difficulty concentrating,&quot; and &quot;talking less than usual.&quot; Caregivers identified that the stroke survivor was &quot;feeling like everything was an effort,&quot; had &quot;restless sleep,&quot; &quot;felt sad,&quot; and &quot;felt depressed.&quot; Three quarters of stroke survivors with high levels of depressive symptoms identified the cluster of symptoms as potentially being depression. Neuroscience nurses are in the unique position to educate stroke survivors and their caregivers about poststroke depressive symptoms, treatment options, and the importance of discussing depressive symptoms with their healthcare provider.
Mercury is an environmental toxicant that can disrupt brain development. However, although progress has been made in defining its neurotoxic effects, we know far less about available therapies that can effectively protect the brain in exposed individuals. We previously developed an animal model in which we defined the sequence of events underlying neurotoxicity: Methylmercury (MeHg) injection in postnatal rat acutely induced inhibition of mitosis and stimulated apoptosis in the hippocampus, which later resulted in intermediate-term deficits in structure size and cell number. N-acetyl cysteine (NAC) is the N-acetyl derivative of L-cysteine used clinically for treatment of drug intoxication. Here, based on its known efficacy in promoting MeHg urinary excretion, we evaluated NAC for protective effects in the developing brain. In immature neurons and precursors, MeHg (3 M) induced a &gt;50% decrease in DNA synthesis at 24 hr, an effect that was completely blocked by NAC coincubation. In vivo, injection of MeHg (5 g/g bw) into 7-day-old rats induced a 22% decrease in DNA synthesis in whole hippocampus and a fourfold increase in activated caspase-3-immunoreactive cells at 24 hr and reduced total cell numbers by 13% at 3 weeks. Treatment of MeHg-exposed rats with repeated injections of NAC abolished MeHg toxicity. NAC prevented the reduction in DNA synthesis and the marked increase in caspase-3 immunoreactivity. Moreover, the intermediate-term decrease in hippocampal cell number provoked by MeHg was fully blocked by NAC. Altogether these results suggest that MeHg toxicity in the perinatal brain can be ameliorated by using NAC, opening potential avenues for therapeutic intervention.
Myxoid (metaplastic) meningioma is a rare WHO Grade I meningioma subtype arising from the leptomeninges. It has unique Alcian blue stromal staining and distinctive cellular interdigitations, junctional complexes, and nucleolar pseudoinclusions on ultrastructural pathology that help to distinguish it from other meningioma variants. The authors describe the case of a rare left middle fossa, extraaxial myxoid meningioma in a 50-year-old woman to emphasize the important histological characteristics and observations essential for making a precise diagnosis. To their knowledge this is the seventh reported case of a myxoid meningioma in the literature and the sixth case in an adult; however, it is the first reported instance of myxoid meningioma in a patient presenting with intratumoral hemorrhage.




Plasma gelsolin (pGSN), an isoform 1, is secreted by various types of cells in the central nervous system (CNS) and periphery, but not by the liver. pGSN circulates in blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF); however, its concentration in CSF is approximately twenty times lower than in plasma. It has been shown that several types of cells such as oligodendrocytes, neurons, and/or astrocytes contribute to the overall pool of pGSN in the CNS. Further, it has been postulated that pGSN plays multiple roles during microbial infection and modulates inflammatory responses; however, the exact mechanism of regulation is not known. We previously showed that levels of pGSN in CSF of individuals with advanced neurocognitive impairment due to HIV infection of the brain are decreased. Here, we show that macrophages express significant amounts of pGSN in response to HIV infection in vitro. Using immunohistochemistry of simian immunodeficiency virus infected rhesus monkey brains, we show that increased levels of pGSN are present in macrophage nodules creating locally a high level of this protein within the brain. This may not be reflected by the overall decreased level in the distinct CSF compartment.
Stress and negative moods, which are thought to be partly mediated by reduced brain serotonin function, often increase emotional eating in dieting women (restrainers). Because the short (S) allele polymorphism in the serotonin transporter gene (5-HTTLPR) is associated with serotonin dysfunction, S allele compared to long (L) allele 5-HTTLPR genotypes may be more susceptible to stress-induced emotional eating. Consequently, serotonin challenge via tryptophan (TRP)-rich protein hydrolysate (TPH) may alleviate stress-induced emotional eating particularly in S/S allele carriers. We tested whether acute stress affects emotional eating in women with high or low dietary restraints depending on their 5-HTTLPR genotype and TPH intake. Nineteen female subjects who were homozygous for the short-allele 5-HTTLPR genotype (S'/S'=S/L(G), L(G)/L(G): restrainers vs. nonrestrainers) and 23 female subjects who were homozygous for the long-allele 5-HTTLPR genotype (L'/L'=L(A)/L(A): restrainers vs. nonrestrainers) were tested in a double-blind, placebo-controlled crossover study of stress-induced emotional eating following intake of TPH or a placebo. TPH intake significantly increased the plasma TRP/large neutral amino acid ratio (P&lt;.0001) in the L'/L' group (70%) compared to the S'/S' group (30%). TPH reduced food intake in both groups, but in the L'/L' group, it also reduced stress-induced negative mood (P=.037) and the desire for sweet, high-fat foods (P=.011) regardless of dietary restraint. Conclusions: Since TPH caused a greater increase in the plasma TRP/large neutral amino acid ratio in the L'/L' group compared to S'/S' group, the exclusive beneficial effects of L'/L' genotype may be due to enhanced brain 5-HT function.

The accumulation of unfolded or misfolded proteins in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) activates the unfolded protein response (UPR), which involves a set of protein signalling pathways and transcription factors that re-establish homeostasis and normal ER function, adapting cells to ER stress. If this adaptive response is insufficient, the UPR triggers an apoptotic program to eliminate irreversibly damaged cells. Recent observations suggest that ER stress plays an important role in the pathogenesis of various neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, which is characterized by the deposition of amyloid-beta (A) and hyperphosphorylated tau in susceptible brain regions. Moreover, several studies demonstrate that A induces UPR activation, which in turn promotes tau phosphorylation. In the study by Nijholt and colleagues, reported in the current issue of The Journal of Pathology, the association between UPR activation and tau pathology was investigated in the brain of patients diagnosed with sporadic or familial tauopathies in which Abeta deposits are absent. The authors described that increased levels of UPR activation markers are predominantly observed in neurons within the hippocampus, being correlated with early tau phosphorylation. These findings suggest that UPR activation, which occurs in an Abeta-independent manner, is an early event during tau pathology and point to a functional crosstalk between these molecular mechanisms in tauopathies. A better understanding of UPR activation in tauopathies can thus contribute to the design of new therapeutic strategies with the purpose of promoting neuronal cell survival in these disorders.
The present review describes advances in understanding the mechanisms and provide an update of present and promising therapy directed at the gut or the brain in the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). The diagnosis of IBS typically is based on identification of symptoms, such as the Rome III criteria for IBS in adults and children. The criteria are similar in children and adults. The focus of the present review is the bowel dysfunction associated with IBS.


We report the adaptation of dendrimer-based nonviral expression system for ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) overproduction in human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) embedded into fibrin-based three-dimensional (3D) matrix. Time-restricted neurotrophin expression enables autologous adult stem cells for additional trophic support and increases their therapeutic potential in neuroregeneration applications. Polyamidoamine (PAMAM)-NH(2) dendrimers of fourth generation effectively provided virus-free delivery and expression of CNTF-internal ribosome entry site-green fluorescent protein cassette with a transfection efficiency in hMSCs over 11%. CNTF levels in transfected cultures were 10-fold higher as compared with the control cells. Dendrimer-driven CNTF expression also persisted in hMSCs embedded into fibrin-based 3D matrix, an emerging vehicle for cell delivery or bioartificial organ formation. Nonviral modification of autologous adult stem cells with use of dendrimers is a novel tool perspective in terms of biosafety and technological availability.


The cerebellum receives information from the hindlimbs through several populations of spinocerebellar tract neurons. Although the role of these neurons has been established in electrophysiological experiments, the relative contribution of afferent fibres and central neurons to their excitatory input has only been estimated approximately so far. Taking advantage of differences in the immunohistochemistry of glutamatergic terminals of peripheral afferents and of central neurons (with vesicular glutamate transporters VGLUT1 or VGLUT2, respectively), we compared sources of excitatory input to four populations of spinocerebellar neurons in the thoraco-lumbar spinal cord: dorsal spinocerebellar tract neurons located in Clarke's column (ccDSCT) and in the dorsal horn (dhDSCT) and ventral spinocerebellar tract (VSCT) neurons including spinal border (SB) neurons. This was done on 22 electrophysiologically identified intracellularly labelled neurons in cats and on 80 neurons labelled by retrograde transport of cholera toxin b subunit injected into the cerebellum of rats. In both species distribution of antibodies against VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 on SB neurons (which have dominating inhibitory input from limb muscles), revealed very few VGLUT1 contacts and remarkably high numbers of VGLUT2 contacts. In VSCT neurons with excitatory afferent input, the number of VGLUT1 contacts was relatively high although VGLUT2 contacts likewise dominated, while the proportions of VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 immunoreactive terminals were the reverse on the two populations of DSCT neurons. These findings provide morphological evidence that SB neurons principally receive excitatory inputs from central neurons and provide the cerebellum with information regarding central neuronal activity.
Recently developed pharmacogenetic and optogenetic approaches, with their own advantages and disadvantages, have become indispensable tools in modern neuroscience. Here, we employed a previously described knock-in mouse line (GABA(A)R2(77I)lox) in which the 2 subunit of the GABA(A) receptor (GABA(A)R) was mutated to become zolpidem insensitive (2(77I)) and used viral vectors to swap 2(77I) with wild-type, zolpidem-sensitive 2 subunits (2(77F)). The verification of unaltered density and subcellular distribution of the virally introduced 2 subunits requires their selective labelling. For this we generated six N- and six C-terminal-tagged 2 subunits, with which cortical cultures of GABA(A)R2(/) mice were transduced using lentiviruses. We found that the N-terminal AU1 tag resulted in excellent immunodetection and unimpaired synaptic localization. Unaltered kinetic properties of the AU1-tagged 2 ((AU1)2(77F)) channels were demonstrated with whole-cell patch-clamp recordings of spontaneous IPSCs from cultured cells. Next, we carried out stereotaxic injections of lenti- and adeno-associated viruses containing Cre-recombinase and the (AU1)2(77F) subunit (Cre-2A-(AU1)2(77F)) into the neocortex of GABA(A)R2(77I)lox mice. Light microscopic immunofluorescence and electron microscopic freeze-fracture replica immunogold labelling demonstrated the efficient immunodetection of the AU1 tag and the normal enrichment of the (AU1)2(77F) subunits in perisomatic GABAergic synapses. In line with this,miniature and action potential-evoked IPSCs whole-cell recorded from transduced cells had unaltered amplitudes, kinetics and restored zolpidem sensitivity. Our results obtained with a wide range of structural and functional verification methods reveal unaltered subcellular distributions and functional properties of 2(77I) and (AU1)2(77F) GABA(A)Rs in cortical pyramidal cells. This transgenicviral pharmacogenetic approach has the advantage that it does not require any extrinsic protein that might endow some unforeseen alterations of the genetically modified cells. In addition, this virus-based approach opens up the possibility of modifying multiple cell types in distinct brain regions and performing alternative recombination-based intersectional genetic manipulations.
HCN channels are responsible for I(h), a voltage-gated inwardly rectifying current activated by hyperpolarization. This current appears to be more active in human sensory axons than motor and may play a role in the determination of threshold. Differences in I(h) are likely to be responsible for the high variability in accommodation to hyperpolarization seen in different subjects. The aim of this study was to characterise this current in human axons, both motor and sensory. Recordings of multiple axonal excitability properties were performed in 10 subjects, with a focus on the changes in threshold evoked by longer and stronger hyperpolarizing currents than normally studied. The findings confirm that accommodation to hyperpolarization is greater in sensory than motor axons in all subjects, but the variability between subjects was greater than the modality difference. An existing model of motor axons was modified to take into account the behaviour seen with longer and stronger hyperpolarization, and a mathematical model of human sensory axons was developed based on the data collected. The differences in behaviour of sensory and motor axons and the differences between different subjects are best explained by modulation of the voltage dependence, along with a modest increase of expression of the underlying conductance of I(h). Accommodation to hyperpolarization for the mean sensory data is fitted well with a value of -94.2 mV for the mid-point of activation (V(0.5)) of I(h) as compared to -107.3 mV for the mean motor data. The variation in response to hyperpolarization between subjects is accounted for by varying this parameter for each modality (sensory: -89.2 to -104.2 mV; motor -87.3 to -127.3 mV). These voltage differences are within the range that has been described for physiological modulation of I(h) function. The presence of slowly activated I(h) isoforms on both motor and sensory axons was suggested by modelling a large internodal leak current and a masking of the Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase pump activity by a tonic depolarization. In addition to an increased activation of I(h), the modelling suggests that in sensory axons the nodal slow K(+) conductance is reduced, with consequent depolarization of resting membrane potential, and action potential of shorter duration.
Involuntary motor unit activity at low rates is common in hand muscles paralysed by spinal cord injury. Our aim was to describe these patterns of motor unit behaviour in relation to motoneurone and motor unit properties. Intramuscular electromyographic activity (EMG), surface EMG and force were recorded for 30 min from thenar muscles of nine men with chronic cervical SCI. Motor units fired for sustained periods (&gt;10 min) at regular (coefficient of variation  0.15, CV, n =19 units) or irregular intervals (CV&gt;0.15, n =14). Regularly firing units started and stopped firing independently suggesting that intrinsic motoneurone properties were important for recruitment and derecruitment. Recruitment (3.6 Hz, SD 1.2), maximal (10.2 Hz, SD 2.3, range: 7.5-15.4 Hz) and derecruitment frequencies were low (3.3 Hz, SD 1.6), as were firing rate increases after recruitment (~20 intervals in 3 s). Once active, firing often covaried, promoting the idea that units received common inputs.Half of the regularly firing units showed a very slow decline (&gt;40 s) in discharge before derecruitment and had interspike intervals longer than their estimated after hyperpolarisation potential (AHP) duration (estimated by death rate and breakpoint analyses). The other units were derecruited more abruptly and had shorter estimated AHP durations. Overall, regularly firing units had longer estimated AHP durations and were weaker than irregularly firing units, suggesting they were lower threshold units. Sustained firing of units at regular rates may reflect activation of persistent inward currents, visible here in the absence of voluntary drive, whereas irregularly firing units may only respond to synaptic noise.
Starburst amacrine cells (SACs) are an essential component of the mechanism that generates direction selectivity in the retina. SACs exhibit opposite polarity, directionally selective (DS) light responses, depolarizing to stimuli that move centrifugally away from the cell through the receptive field surround, but hyperpolarizing to stimuli that move centripetally towards the cell through the surround.Recent findings suggest that (1) the intracellular chloride concentration ([Cl()](i)) is high in SAC proximal, but low in SAC distal dendritic compartments, so that GABA depolarizes and hyperpolarizes the proximal and distal compartments, respectively, and (2) this [Cl()](i) gradient plays an essential role in generating SAC DS light responses. Employing a biophysically realistic, computational model of SACs, which incorporated experimental measurements of SAC electrical properties and GABA and glutamate responses, we further investigated whether and how a [Cl()](i) gradient along SAC dendrites produces their DS responses. Our computational analysis suggests that robust DS light responses would be generated in both the SAC soma and distal dendrites if (1) the Cl() equilibrium potential is more positive in the proximal dendrite and more negative in the distal dendrite than the resting membrane potential, so that GABA depolarizes and hyperpolarizes the proximal and distal compartments, respectively, and (2) the GABA-evoked increase in the Cl() conductance lasts longer than the glutamate-evoked increase in cation conductance. The combination of these two specific GABA-associated spatial and temporal asymmetries, in conjunction with symmetric glutamate excitation, may underlie the opposite polarity, DS light responses of SACs.
Simultaneous recordings of cord dorsum potentials along the lumbo-sacral spinal cord of the anaesthetized cat revealed the occurrence of spontaneous synchronous negative (n) and negative-positive (np) cord dorsum potentials (CDPs). The npCDPs, unlike the nCDPs, appeared preferentially associated with spontaneous negative dorsal root potentials (DRPs) resulting from primary afferent depolarization. Spontaneous npCDPs recorded in preparations with intact neuroaxis or after spinalization often showed a higher correlation than the nCDPs recorded from the same pair of segments. The acute section of the sural and superficial peroneal nerves further increased the correlation between paired sets of npCDPs and reduced the correlation between the nCDPs recorded from the same pair of segments. It is concluded that the spontaneous nCDPs and npCDPs are produced by the activation of interconnected sets of dorsal horn neurones located in Rexed's laminae IIIIV and bilaterally distributed along the lumbo-sacral spinal cord. Under conditions of low synchronization in the activity of this network of neurones there would be a preferential activation of the intermediate nucleus interneurones mediating Ib non-reciprocal postsynaptic inhibition. Increased synchronization in the spontaneous activity of this ensemble of dorsal horn neurones would recruit the interneurones mediating primary afferent depolarization and presynaptic inhibition and, at the same time, reduce the activation of pathways mediating Ib postsynaptic inhibition. Central control of the synchronization in the spontaneous activity of dorsal horn neurones and its modulation by cutaneous inputs is envisaged as an effective mechanism for the selection of alternative inhibitory pathways during the execution of specific motor or sensory tasks.
A distinctive property of the cerebellar system is olivocerebellar modules, where synchronized electrical activity in neurons in the inferior olivary nucleus (IO) evokes organized activity in the cerebellar cortex. However, the exact function of these modules, and how they are developed, is still largely unknown. Here we show that the IO in in vitro slices from postnatal mice spontaneously generates clusters of neurons with synchronous Ca(2+) transients. Neurons in the principal olive (PO), and the vestibular-related dorsomedial cell column (dmcc), showed an age-dependent increase in spontaneous calcium transients. The spatiotemporal activity pattern was occasionally organized in clusters of co-active neighbouring neurons,with regular (16 min-1) and irregular (2-3 min(-1)) repeating cluster activity in the dmcc and PO, respectively. IO clusters had a diameter of 100-170 m, lasted~1 s, and increased in occurrence from postnatal day P5.5 to P12.5, followed by a sharp drop to near zero at P15.5. IO clusters were overlapping, and comprised nearly identical neurons at some time points, and a varied subset of neurons at others. Some neurons had hub-like properties, being co-active with many other neighbours, and some were co-active with separate clusters at different times. The coherence between calcium transients in IO neurons decreased with Euclidean distance between the cells reaching low values at 100-200 m distances. Intracellular recordings from IO neurons during cluster formation revealed the presence of spikelet-like potentials, suggesting that electrical coupling between neighbouring IO neurons may serve as a synchronizing mechanism. In conclusion, the IO shows spontaneous cluster activity under in vitro conditions, coinciding with a critical postnatal period in olivocerebellar development. We propose that these clusters may be forerunners of the ensembles of IO neurons shown to be co-active in adult animals spontaneously and during motor acts.

Human P-glycoprotein (P-gp), which is encoded by ABCB1 (ATP-binding cassette, sub-family B member 1), is expressed in the blood brain barrier and protects the brain from many kinds of drugs and toxins including glucocorticoids by acting as an efflux pump. We examined whether functional polymorphisms of ABCB1 give susceptibility to major depressive disorder (MDD). The five functional single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), A-41G (rs2188524), T-129C (rs3213619), C1236T (Gly412Gly: rs1128503), G2677A/T (Ala893Ser/Thr: rs2032582), and C3435T (Ile1145Ile: rs1045642) were genotyped in 631 MDD patients and 1100 controls in the Japanese population. A tri-allelic SNP, G2677A/T, was genotyped by pyrosequencing and the remaining SNPs were genotyped by the TaqMan 5'-exonuclease allelic discrimination assay. The minor T3435 allele was significantly increased in MDD patients than in the controls ((2)=4.5, df=1, p=0.034, odds ratio [OR] 1.16, 95% confidential interval [CI] 1.01-1.34). Homozygotes for the T3435 allele was significantly more common in patients than in the controls ((2)=7.5, df=1, p=0.0062, OR 1.43, 95%CI 1.11-1.85). With respect to the other 4 SNPs, there was no significant difference in genotype or allele distribution. In the haplotype-based analysis, the proportion of individuals with the TT1236-TT3435 haploid genotype was significantly increased in patients than in controls ((2)=8.5, df=1, p = 0.0037, OR 1.50, 95%CI 1.14-1.98). Our results suggest that the T3435 allele or carrying two copies of this allele confers susceptibility to MDD in the Japanese population.
Weight gain and metabolic syndrome are the most common deleterious side effects following treatment with second generation antipsychotic drugs such as clozapine and olanzapine. However, the mechanisms underlying these negative effects of second generation antipsychotic drugs are not fully understood. In this study we investigate whether variants in the genes coding for the -catalytic (PRKAA1, PRAKAA2) and the  regulatory subunits (PRKAB1 and PRKAB2) of the cellular energy sensor AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) are associated with antipsychotic-induced weight gain. To accomplish this, ten polymorphisms in 208 schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder patients treated with clozapine, haloperidol, risperidone or olanzapine for up to 14 weeks were analyzed. Significant association was observed between rs3766522 in PRKAB2 (AA vs. AT+TT; p=0.022) and rs10789038 in PRKAA2 (GG+GA vs. AA, p=0.023) with weight change (%) in patients of European ancestry following treatment with clozapine or olanzapine. Allelic association of the T-allele of rs3766522 (p=0.019) and the G-allele of rs10789038 (p=0.041) with weight change (%) was also observed. Analysis of raw weight gain revealed that carriers of the T-allele of rs3766522 (AT+TT, 4.3kg3.7) gained more weight than the AA-genotype carriers (2.5kg4.5, p=0.042). Similarly, carriers of the G-allele of rs10789038 (GG+GA, 4.2kg4.5) gained more weight than AA-homozygotes (1.5kg2.9, p=0.014) under antipsychotic treatment. In conclusion, we observed significant associations between polymorphisms in AMPK subunit genes and weight gain induced by clozapine and olanzapine.
The goal of this article is to highlight the significant potential benefits of applying computational mathematical models to the field of psychiatry, specifically in relation to diagnostic conceptualization. The purpose of these models is to augment the current diagnostic categories that utilize a &quot;snapshot&quot; approach to describing mental states. We hope to convey to researchers and clinicians that non-linear dynamics can provide an additional useful longitudinal framework to understand mental illness. Psychiatric phenomena are complex processes that evolve in time, similar to many other processes in nature that have been successfully described and understood within deterministic chaos and non-linear dynamic computational models. Dynamical models describe mental processes and phenomena that change over time, more like a movie than a photograph, with multiple variables interacting over time. The use of these models may help us understand why and how current diagnostic categories are insufficient. They may also provide a new, more descriptive and ultimately more predictive approach leading to better understanding of the interrelationship between psychological, neurobiological, and genetic underpinnings of mental illness.
Shortly after stress, limbic neurons are exposed to high levels of noradrenaline and corticosterone. These hormones are necessary for optimal behavioural adaptation. Behavioural effects critically depend on noradrenaline acting via -adrenergic receptors, but these effects are strongly modulated by corticosterone, indicating putative interactions between the two hormones. Since both noradrenaline and corticosterone are known to quickly affect properties of AMPA-type glutamate receptors (AMPAR), we here examined - in hippocampal neurons - three parameters which give insight in the functionality of AMPARs: phosphorylation, surface expression and spontaneous synaptic transmission. In homogenates of adult hippocampal slices, application of corticosterone (30 nM for 15 min) by itself did not affect phosphorylation of the AMPAR GluA1 subunit at S845 or S831. Co-application of the -adrenergic receptor agonist isoproterenol (10 M) largely increased S845 (but not S831) phosphorylation. Corticosterone also did not change GluA1 and GluA2 surface expression in hippocampal primary cultures. However, combined administration of corticosterone and 1 M isoproterenol - which by itself was ineffective - enhanced surface expression. Interestingly, 10 M isoproterenol alone enhanced GluA1 surface expression, but this was decreased by corticosterone. Finally, in hippocampal primary cultures, the inter-event interval of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs) was decreased by the combination of 1 M isoproterenol and corticosterone (which were ineffective by themselves) while the same combination did not affect the amplitude. We conclude that AMPAR phosphorylation, surface expression and mEPSC inter-event interval respond most strongly to a combination of corticosterone and -adrenergic receptors. These combined hormonal effects on glutamate transmission might contribute to their memory-enhancing effects.
The objective of the present study was to investigate the possible role of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor system of the central amygdala (CeA) in the anxiogenic-like effect of nicotine. Male Wistar rats with cannulas aimed to the CeA were submitted to the elevated plus-maze (EPM). Intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections of nicotine (0.6 and 0.8 mg/kg) decreased percentage open arm time spent (%OAT) and percentage open arm entries (%OAE), but not locomotor activity, indicating an anxiogenic-like response. Bilateral intra-CeA microinjection of NMDA (0.005-0.1  g/rat) decreased %OAT, but not %OAE and locomotor activity. Moreover, intra-CeA microinjection of NMDA (0.05  g) with an ineffective dose of nicotine (0.4 mg/kg, i.p.) reduced %OAT and %OAE without effect on locomotor activity. On the other hand, intra-CeA microinjection of the NMDA receptor antagonist D-AP5 (0.05-0.5  g/rat) increased both %OAT and %OAE, showing an anxiolytic-like effect of the drug. Co-administration of the same doses of D-AP5 with nicotine (0.6 mg/kg, i.p.) increased %OAT and %OAE, but not locomotor activity. Intra-CeA microinjection of D-AP5 reversed the response induced by NMDA (0.1  g/rat) in the EPM. The results may support the possible involvement of glutamate transmission, through NMDA receptors of central amygdala in the anxiogenic-like effect of nicotine in the EPM task.
Oxytocin (OT) is known to be involved in anxiety, as well as cardiovascular and hormonal regulation. The objective of this study was to assess the acute effect of intranasally administered OT on subjective states, as well as cardiovascular and endocrine parameters, in healthy volunteers (n = 14) performing a simulated public speaking test. OT or placebo was administered intranasally 50 min before the test. Assessments were made across time during the experimental session: (1) baseline (-30 min); (2) pre-test (-15 min); (3) anticipation of the speech (50 min); (4) during the speech (1:03 h), post-test time 1 (1:26 h), and post-test time 2 (1:46 h). Subjective states were evaluated by self-assessment scales. Cortisol serum and plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) were measured. Additionally, heart rate, blood pressure, skin conductance, and the number of spontaneous fluctuations in skin conductance were measured. Compared with placebo, OT reduced the Visual Analogue Mood Scale (VAMS) anxiety index during the pre-test phase only, while increasing sedation at the pre-test, anticipation, and speech phases. OT also lowered the skin conductance level at the pre-test, anticipation, speech, and post-test 2 phases. Other parameters evaluated were not significantly affected by OT. The present results show that OT reduces anticipatory anxiety, but does not affect public speaking fear, suggesting that this hormone has anxiolytic properties.
Childhood abuse is associated with later psychopathology, including conduct disorder, antisocial personality disorder, anxiety and depression as well as a heightened risk of health and social problems. However, the neurobiological mechanisms by which childhood adversity increases vulnerability to psychopathology remain poorly understood. There is likely to be a complex interaction between environmental experiences (such as abuse) and individual differences in risk versus protective genes, which influences the neurobiological circuitry underpinning psychological and emotional development. Neuroendocrine studies indicate an association between early adversity and atypical development of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis stress response, which may predispose to psychiatric vulnerability in adulthood. Brain imaging research in children and adults is providing evidence of several structural and functional brain differences associated with early adversity. Structural differences have been reported in the corpus callosum, cerebellum and prefrontal cortex. Functional differences have been reported in regions implicated in emotional and behavioural regulation, including the amygdala and anterior cingulate cortex. These differences at the neurobiological level may represent adaptations to early experiences of heightened stress that lead to an increased risk of psychopathology. We also consider the clinical implications of future neurobiological and genetic research.

Obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) is characterized by periods of upper airway collapse accompanied by repeated episodes of hypoxia. In experimental animals repeated bouts of hypoxia may evoke sustained augmentation of phrenic nerve activity, known as phrenic long-term facilitation (pLTF). This form of physiological compensation might contribute to stable breathing, minimizing the occurrence of apnoeas and/or hypopnoeas during sleep in patients with OSA. Serotonin (5-HT) has been shown to modulate respiratory neuronal activity, possibly via projections originating in the raphe nuclei. Our model focuses on the effects of 5-HT1A receptors blockade by selective antagonist WAY-100635 into the caudal raphe region on phrenic long-term facilitation after exposure to acute intermittent hypoxia (AIH) episodes. Adult, male, urethane-anaesthetized, vagotomized, paralyzed and mechanically ventilated Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to AIH protocol. Experimental group received microinjection of WAY-100635 into the caudal raphe nucleus, whereas the control group received saline into the same site. Peak phrenic nerve activity and respiratory rhythm parameters were analysed during five hypoxic episodes, as well as at 15, 30 and 60min after the end of hypoxias. In the control group, 1h post-hypoxia pLTF was developed. Microinjections of selective 5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY-100635 into the raphe nuclei prior to the AIH protocol prevented induction of pLTF. These results suggest that 5-HT1A receptor activation at supraspinal level is important for induction of pLTF, which is suggested to be an important respiratory neuroplasticity model in animal studies that possibly correlates with OSA in humans.
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the major cause of cardioembolic stroke. It often remains occult when asymptomatic and paroxysmal. We hypothesized that the detection of AF after acute ischemic stroke (AIS) or transient ischemic attack (TIA) could be improved by using continuous cardiac monitoring (CCM) immediately after admission. We sought to determine the detection rate of AF by immediate in-hospital CCM after cryptogenic and noncryptogenic AIS or TIA in patients without a previous diagnosis of AF. We retrospectively studied a cohort of 155 patients with cryptogenic and noncryptogenic AIS or TIA without known AF. We compared the detection rates of newly diagnosed AF (NDAF) in patients admitted to areas with CCM and those never admitted to these areas. We developed a multiple logistic regression model for identifying predictors of NDAF. We characterized NDAF episodes and analyzed how the availability of CCM data changed secondary prevention strategies. We detected NDAF in 21 patients (13.5%). Diagnostic rates of NDAF in patients who underwent CCM and those who did not undergo CCM were 18.2% and 2.2%, respectively (P = .005). The median time from admission to recognition of NDAF was 2.0 days. Most NDAFs were paroxysmal (95.2%) and lasted less than 1 hour (85.7%). Diabetes mellitus and infarct size were predictors of NDAF. Detection of NDAF prompted the initiation of anticoagulation therapy in 8.2% of the patients admitted to areas with CCM availability. Our findings suggest that immediate and prolonged CCM significantly improves the detection of NDAF after cryptogenic and noncryptogenic AIS or TIA, and that diabetes mellitus and infarct size are significantly associated with NDAF.



Neuroscience is an intrinsically interdisciplinary (ID) field yet little has been published regarding assessment of ID learning in undergraduate neuroscience students. This study attempted to empirically assess the development of an interdisciplinary perspective in 25 undergraduate neuroscience students in a neuroscience program core course. Data were collected using two simple assessment instruments: 1) written responses to the open-ended question &quot;What is neuroscience?&quot; and 2) a term-discipline relevance survey in which students indicated all disciplinary perspectives to which terms (such as electrode, taste, dx/dt) were relevant. Comparison of student responses early in the course (week 1 or 5) and at the end of the course (week 15) showed evidence of development of an interdisciplinary perspective, with students using significantly more integrative terms in their responses and demonstrating an increased awareness of the complexity of the field of neuroscience.
This paper describes an exercise in a Systems and Behavioral Neuroscience with Laboratory class, an introductory laboratory class taken by Barnard College students majoring in a wide range of academic topics. The study took place over three weeks, allowing students to assess the effects of caffeine on motor stimulation in laboratory rats. The within-subject design involved injecting rats with three different caffeine doses and measuring five different motor outputs in a standard open field. Students completed four different assignments related to this study, demonstrating acquisition of the stated learning goals. This lab exercise allowed students to learn about basal ganglia neural circuitry and stimulant pharmacology, to work directly with an animal model, and to generate enough data to perform statistical analyses. Course evaluations suggest that students liked learning about caffeine, a stimulant many of them have personal experience consuming. They also expressed appreciation for working with rats and for learning how to analyze data. This study can easily be implemented at most undergraduate institutions under minimal cost. The wide-ranging effects of caffeine also permit for flexibility in experimental design, allowing instructors and students options for different avenues of investigation.
Inquiry-based projects promote discovery and retention of key concepts, increase student engagement, and stimulate interest in research. Described here are a series of lab exercises within an undergraduate upper level neuroscience course that train students to design, execute and analyze their own hypothesis-driven research project. Prior to developing their own projects, students learn several research techniques including aseptic cell culture, cell line maintenance, immunocytochemistry and fluorescent microscopy. Working in groups, students choose how to use these techniques to characterize and identify a &quot;mystery&quot; cell line. Each lab group is given a unique cell line with either a neural, astrocyte, or Schwann cell origin. Working together, students plan and execute experiments to determine the cellular origin and other unique characteristics of their mystery cell line. Students generate testable hypotheses, design interpretable experiments, generate and analyze data, and report their findings in both oral and written formats. Students receive instructor and peer feedback throughout the entire project. In summary, these labs train students the process of scientific research. This series of lab exercises received very strong positive feedback from the students. Reflections on student feedback and plans for future improvements are discussed.
Providing undergraduate neuroscience students an appropriate laboratory experience that demonstrates principles of neurotransmission and drug action is a difficult task. In the following activity, fast-scan cyclic voltammetry was utilized to measure dopamine levels using carbon-fiber microelectrodes in rats in vivo. Recordings were made before and after administration of several drugs to assess their ability to alter extracellular dopamine. The following drugs were chosen due to their well established actions: haloperidol, methylphenidate, and alpha-methyl-para-tyrosine. Each demonstrated markedly altered extracellular dopamine dynamics and some basic kinetic analysis enabled students to attribute the alterations to differing modes of action. Dopamine tissue content was also assessed to compare the differences between acute drug action and overall neurotransmitter content. Any neuroscience laboratory course that desired to demonstrate principles involved in neurotransmission would be well served by the activities involved. This laboratory experience provided: 1) basic principles in experimental design, 2) small animal surgical experiences, 3) exposure to common instrumentation used in collecting neurochemical data, 4) data analysis procedures, and 5) experience in presenting their findings.
A goal of all instruction is to efficiently allocate time spent teaching -- balancing redundancy that enhances learning with redundancy that is irrelevant to increasing student understanding. Efficient allocation of time allows the instructor to present additional material and go into more detail about the information being presented. Here we borrow laboratory research on concept formation and apply these formal principles in teaching introductory neuroanatomy within a lecture course on Behavioral Neuroscience. Concept formation is taught by pairing multiple stimuli, for instance brain name, location, and function, in such a way that novel associations within a category emerge without direct training. This study demonstrates that careful selection of associations by the instructor can encourage the spontaneous emergence of novel associations within a concept or category, thereby increasing efficiency of teaching and by extension, the depth of material that can be taught.
Drugs, the Brain, and Behavior is an interdisciplinary two-semester upper level course at Georgetown University designed to expose undergraduate and graduate students to broad areas of the neurosciences, to promote the development of scientific literacy in these students, and to provide pedagogical experience for Ph.D. students in the Interdisciplinary Program in Neuroscience (IPN) at all stages of training. Drugs, the Brain, and Behavior fulfills these goals through a unique model of student-teaching. This lecture-based, team-taught course is completely run and taught by Ph.D. students in the IPN. It is designed to gradually increase the teaching duties of new instructors, providing a structured setting for them to develop their pedagogical skills. We encourage scientific literacy in our students through the incorporation of primary literature and experimental results throughout the course. The strategies we have employed have increased student confidence on a variety of measures of scientific literacy. While running a team-taught course, we have also developed several strategies for coordinating team-taught courses within semesters and across years, which could easily be adapted to other courses.
There is a general consensus that liver fibrosis in humans is potentially reversible, while scepticism prevails on the concept that cirrhosis can be truly reversed. The availability of suitable experimental models is fundamental for disease research. The experimental murine model of liver cirrhosis induced by carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) reproduces both the histological picture of the postnecrotic cirrhosis and its biochemical and clinical parameters. Normal hepatic structure is modified by formation of regeneration nodules. Fibrosis represents a morphological element of disease and an effect of hepatocyte necrosis. However, the relevance for research of this well-established model of liver cirrhosis is hampered by some spontaneous cirrhosis regression reported in mice and rats. It has been reported that CCl(4) also induces experimental liver cirrhosis in rabbits, but it is not known whether the process is reversible in this species. The aim of our study was to investigate this question. Male New Zealand White rabbits were treated intragastrically with CCl(4) or the vehicle only for 19 weeks and groups were sacrificed three and five months after treatment interruption. Cirrhotic and control livers were processed for routine light microscopy and for morphometric study of fibrosis by semiquantitative evaluation. The degree of fibrosis was based on the Knodell's scoring system.
The identification of pathological processes that could be targeted by therapeutic interventions is a major goal of research into multiple sclerosis (MS). Pathological assessment is the gold standard for such identification, but has intrinsic limitations owing to the limited availability of autopsy and biopsy tissue. MRI has gained a leading role in the assessment of MS because it allows doctors to obtain an ante mortem picture of the degree of CNS involvement. A number of correlative pathological and MRI studies have helped to define in vivo the pathological substrates of MS in focal lesions and normal-appearing white matter, not only in the brain, but also in the spinal cord. These studies have resulted in the identification of aspects of pathophysiology that were previously neglected, including grey matter involvement and vascular pathology. Despite these important achievements, numerous open questions still need to be addressed to resolve controversies about how the pathology of MS results in fixed neurological disability.





The aim of this study was to present adult norms and to estimate the test-retest reliability for durational and response accuracy measures on the word sequence production test, Months Backward. A total of 216 neurologically intact adults (aged 18-88) stratified by sex, age, and education took the test at maximum speed. Errors and speech duration were recorded. A retest was conducted with 40 participants after 3 weeks. Altogether 94% of the participants completed the test without error. Errors were associated with slow performance. Duration was predicted by years of education (beta = -0.39) and self-reported dyslexia (beta = 0.19). The test-retest reliability was 0.82 for duration and 0.97 for errors. A regression formula for adjustment of logarithmically transformed duration scores is provided.

Measuring the rate of finger tapping is a technique commonly used as an indicator of impairment in degenerative neurological conditions, such as Huntington's disease. The information it provides can be greatly enhanced by analysing not simply the overall tapping rate, but also the statistical characteristics of the individual times between each successive response. Recent technological improvements in the recording equipment allow the responses to be analysed extremely quickly, and permit modification of the task in the interest of greater clinical specificity. Here we illustrate its use with some pilot data from a group of manifest HD patients and age-matched controls. Even in this small cohort, differences in the responses are apparent that appear to relate to the severity of the disease as measured by conventional behavioural tests.
Primary intramedullary germinoma arising in the cervical spinal cord is a very rare entity. We present one such case arising in a young man who presented with radiculopathy and myelopathy, which was partially excised. Upon histological confirmation, he was treated successfully with radiotherapy alone. To our knowledge, this is only the second reported case worldwide which is histologically confirmed. Although extremely rare, differential diagnosis for intramedullary spinal cord tumor should include germinoma.

Limited sample volume is often an obstacle in clinical research and one way to circumvent this is to use multiplex techniques where several different analytes are simultaneously measured. There is a multitude of different platforms that can be used for multiplexing and their uniqueness and similarities will be described. Multivariate analysis is a powerful tool for extracting information from multiplex data. An introduction to one such algorithm is presented followed by examples from the literature, in the field of neurodegeneration, where multiplex and multivariate methods have been used.
Gaucher disease is a lysosomal storage disorder caused by a defect in the degradation of glucosylceramide catalyzed by the lysosomal enzyme -glucocerebrosidase (GBA). GBA reaches lysosomes via association with its receptor, lysosomal integral membrane protein type 2 (LIMP-2). We found that distinct phosphatidylinositol 4-kinases (PI4Ks) play important roles at multiple steps in the trafficking pathway of the LIMP-2/GBA complex. Acute depletion of phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate in the Golgi caused accumulation of LIMP-2 in this compartment, and PI4KIII was found to be responsible for controlling the exit of LIMP-2 from the Golgi. In contrast, depletion of PI4KII blocked trafficking at a post-Golgi compartment, leading to accumulation of LIMP-2 in enlarged endosomal vesicles. PI4KII depletion also caused secretion of missorted GBA into the medium, which was attenuated by limiting LIMP-2/GBA exit from the Golgi by PI4KIII inhibitors. These studies identified PI4KIII and PI4KII as important regulators of lysosomal delivery of GBA, revealing a new element of control to sphingolipid homeostasis by phosphoinositides.
Amyloid precursor protein (APP), the parent molecule to amyloid  peptide, is part of a larger gene family with two mammalian homologues, amyloid precursor-like protein 1 (APLP1) and amyloid precursor-like protein 2 (APLP2). Initial knock-out studies demonstrated that while single APP family gene deletions produced relatively mild phenotypes, deficiency of APLP2 and one other member of the gene family resulted in perinatal lethality, suggesting vital roles masked by functional redundancy of the other homologues. Because of the importance of APP in Alzheimer's disease, the vast majority of studies to date have concentrated on the neuronal functions of APP, leaving limited data on its homologues. APLP2 is of particular interest as it contains high sequence homology with APP, is processed similarly, is expressed in overlapping spatial and temporal patterns, and is obligatory for lethality when combined with deficiency of either APLP1 or APP but does not contain the toxic amyloid  sequence. Here we sought to test the role of APLP2 on neuronal structure and function using a combined approach involving in vitro and in vivo techniques in young and aged animals. Surprisingly, we found that unlike APP, APLP2 appears not to be essential for maintenance of dendritic structure, spine density, or synaptic function. Thus, there is clear divergence in the functional redundancy between APP and APLP2.
There are several familial forms of Alzheimer's disease (AD) most of which are caused by mutations in the genes that encode the presenilin enzymes involved in the production of amyloid- (A) from the amyloid precursor protein (APP). In AD, A forms fibrils that are deposited in the brain as plaques. Much of the fibrillar A found in the plaques consists of the 42 amino acid form of A (A1-42) and it is now widely accepted that A is related to the pathogenesis of AD and that A may both impair memory and be neurotoxic. In human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) several C- and N-terminally truncated A isoforms have been detected and their relative abundance pattern is thought to reflect the production and clearance of A. By using immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry, we have previously demonstrated that carriers of the familial AD (FAD)-associated PSEN1 A431E mutation have low CSF levels of C-terminally truncated A isoforms shorter than A1-40. Here we replicate this finding in symptomatic carriers of the FAD-causing PSEN1 L286P mutation. Furthermore, we show that preclinical carriers of the PSEN1 M139T mutation may overexpress A1-42 suggesting that this particular mutation may cause AD by stimulating -secretase-mediated cleavage at amino acid 42 in the A sequence.
Alzheimer's Disease (AD), the most common age-related neurodegenerative disorder, is characterized by progressive cognitive decline, synaptic loss, the formation of extracellular -amyloid plaques and intracellular neurofibrillary tangles, and neuronal cell death. Despite the massive neuronal loss in the 'late stage' of disease, dendritic spine loss represents the best pathological correlate to the cognitive impairment in AD patients. The 'amyloid hypothesis' of AD recognizes the A peptide as the principal player in the pathological process. Many lines of evidence point out to the neurotoxicity of A, highlighting the correlation between soluble A oligomer accumulation, rather than insoluble A fibrils and disease progression. Pathological increase of A in AD brains, resulting from an imbalance between its production, aggregation and clearance, might target mitochondrial function promoting a progressive synaptic impairment. The knowledge of the exact mechanisms by which A peptide impairs neuronal function will help us to design new pharmacological tools for preventing AD neurodegeneration.
Executive functions are processes that act in harmony to control behaviors necessary for maintaining focus and achieving outcomes. Executive dysfunction in neuropsychiatric disorders is attributed to structural or functional pathology of brain networks involving prefrontal cortex (PFC) and its connections with other brain regions. The PFC receives innervations from different neurons associated with a number of neurotransmitters, especially dopamine (DA). Here we review findings on the contribution of PFC DA to higher-order cognitive and emotional behaviors. We suggest that examination of multifactorial interactions of an individual's genetic history, along with environmental risk factors, can assist in the characterization of executive functioning for that individual. Based upon the results of genetic studies, we also propose genetic mapping as a probable diagnostic tool serving as a therapeutic adjunct for augmenting executive functioning capabilities. We conclude that preservation of the neurological underpinnings of executive functions requires the integrity of complex neural systems including the influence of specific genes and associated polymorphisms to provide adequate neurotransmission.
Neuroimaging studies suggest anterior-limbic structural brain abnormalities in patients with bipolar disorder (BD), but few studies have shown these abnormalities in unaffected but genetically liable family members. In this study, we report morphometric correlates of genetic risk for BD using voxel-based morphometry. In 35 BD type I (BD-I) patients, 20 unaffected first-degree relatives (UAR) of BD patients and 40 healthy control subjects underwent 3T magnetic resonance scanner imaging. Preprocessing of images used DARTEL (diffeomorphic anatomical registration through exponentiated lie algebra) for voxel-based morphometry in SPM8 (Wellcome Department of Imaging Neuroscience, London, UK). The whole-brain analysis revealed that the gray matter (GM) volumes of the left anterior insula and right inferior frontal gyrus showed a significant main effect of diagnosis. Multiple comparison analysis showed that the BD-I patients and the UAR subjects had smaller left anterior insular GM volumes compared with the healthy subjects, the BD-I patients had smaller right inferior frontal gyrus compared with the healthy subjects. For white matter (WM) volumes, there was a significant main effect of diagnosis for medial frontal gyrus. The UAR subjects had smaller right medial frontal WM volumes compared with the healthy subjects. These findings suggest that morphometric brain abnormalities of the anterior-limbic neural substrate are associated with family history of BD, which may give insight into the pathophysiology of BD, and be a potential candidate as a morphological endophenotype of BD.
The objective of this study was to assess a cohort of Gaucher disease patients and their heterozygous carrier relatives for potential clinical signs of early neurodegeneration. Gaucher disease patients (n = 30), heterozygous glucocerebrosidase mutation carriers (n = 30), and mutation-negative controls matched by age, sex, and ethnicity (n = 30) were recruited. Assessment was done for olfactory function (University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test), cognitive function (Mini-Mental State Examination, Montreal Cognitive Assessment), rapid eye movement sleep disorder, autonomic symptoms, and parkinsonian motor signs (Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale part III, Purdue pegboard). Olfactory function scores were significantly lower in Gaucher disease patients (P = .010) and heterozygous carriers (P &lt; .001) than in controls. Cognitive assessment scores were significantly lower in Gaucher disease patients (P = .002) and carriers (P = .002) than in controls. Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale motor subscale scores were significantly higher in Gaucher disease patients (P &lt; .001) and heterozygotes (P = .0010) than in controls. There was no difference in scores for symptoms of rapid eye movement sleep disorder or autonomic dysfunction. Impairment of olfaction, cognition, and parkinsonian motor signs occurs more frequently in Gaucher disease patients and carriers than in controls, which may indicate the early stages of neurodegeneration.


As physicians how do we counsel our patients with clinically isolated syndrome (CIS) when they ask, 'what is the benefit of injecting disease-modifying agents (DMAs) over many years? What disability will they prevent in my future?' In this debate, we will provide three core points supporting the concept that a watchful waiting approach (annual neurological evaluation and magnetic resonance imaging of the head (with gadolinium) at least for the first few years after diagnosis) for most patients with CIS represents appropriate medical care.


Response variability is often positively correlated in pairs of similarly tuned neurons in the visual cortex. Many authors have considered correlated variability to prevent postsynaptic neurons from averaging across large groups of inputs to obtain reliable stimulus estimates. However, a simple average of variability ignores nonlinearities in cortical signal integration. This study shows that feedforward divisive normalization of a neuron's inputs effectively decorrelates their variability. Furthermore, we show that optimal linear estimates of a stimulus parameter that are based on normalized inputs are more accurate than those based on nonnormalized inputs, due partly to reduced correlations, and that these estimates improve with increasing population size up to several thousand neurons. This suggests that neurons may possess a simple mechanism for substantially decorrelating noise in their inputs. Further work is needed to reconcile this conclusion with past evidence that correlated noise impairs visual perception.
We present a model of intermediate-level visual representation that is based on learning invariances from movies of the natural environment. The model is composed of two stages of processing: an early feature representation layer and a second layer in which invariances are explicitly represented. Invariances are learned as the result of factoring apart the temporally stable and dynamic components embedded in the early feature representation. The structure contained in these components is made explicit in the activities of second-layer units that capture invariances in both form and motion. When trained on natural movies, the first layer produces a factorization, or separation, of image content into a temporally persistent part representing local edge structure and a dynamic part representing local motion structure, consistent with known response properties in early visual cortex (area V1). This factorization linearizes statistical dependencies among the first-layer units, making them learnable by the second layer. The second-layer units are split into two populations according to the factorization in the first layer. The form-selective units receive their input from the temporally persistent part (local edge structure) and after training result in a diverse set of higher-order shape features consisting of extended contours, multiscale edges, textures, and texture boundaries. The motion-selective units receive their input from the dynamic part (local motion structure) and after training result in a representation of image translation over different spatial scales and directions, in addition to more complex deformations. These representations provide a rich description of dynamic natural images and testable hypotheses regarding intermediate-level representation in visual cortex.
MAPT has been repeatedly linked with Parkinson's disease (PD) in association studies. Although tau deposition may be seen in PD, its relevance to the pathogenesis of the condition remains unclear. The presence of tau-positive inclusions is, however, the defining feature of progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), which may often be clinically misdiagnosed as idiopathic PD. On a genetic level, variants in MAPT are the strongest risk factor for PSP. These facts raise the question whether the MAPT association in PD results from contamination with unrecognized cases of PSP. Using only neuropathologically proven PD, we show that the MAPT association remains and is independent of the PSP Association.
We report here the description of a nonconsanguineous family with 2 affected individuals with a recessively inherited juvenile motor neuron disease. Exome sequencing of these 2 affected individuals led us to identify 2 compound heterozygous deletions leading to a frameshift and a premature stop codon in the SPG11 gene. One of these deletions, c.5199delA in exon 30, has not been previously reported. Interestingly, these deletions are associated with an intrafamilial phenotypic heterogeneity as one affected has atypical juvenile amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and the other has classical hereditary spastic paraplegia with thin corpus callosum. Our findings confirm SPG11 as a genetic cause of juvenile amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and indicate that SPG11 mutations could be associated with 2 different clinical phenotypes within the same family.
Recently 2 groups have independently identified a mutation in the gene 'vacuolar protein sorting 35 homolog' (VPS35 c.1858G&gt;A; p.Asp620Asn) as a possible cause of autosomal dominant Parkinson's disease (PD). In order to assess the frequency of the reported mutation and to search for other possible disease-causing variants in this gene, we sequenced all 17 exons of VPS35 in 96 familial PD cases, and exon 15 (in which the reported mutation is found) in an additional 64 familial PD cases, 175 young-onset PD cases, and 262 sporadic, neuropathologically confirmed PD cases. We identified 1 individual with the p.Asp620Asn mutation and an autosomal dominant family history of PD. Subsequent follow-up of the family confirmed an affected sibling and cousin who also carried the same mutation. No other potentially disease-causing mutations were identified. We conclude that the VPS35 c.1858G&gt;A mutation is an uncommon cause of familial Parkinson's disease in our population.
Mutations in the valosin-containing protein (VCP) gene were recently reported to be the cause of 1%-2% of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) cases. VCP mutations are known to cause inclusion body myopathy (IBM) with Paget's disease (PDB) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). The presence of VCP mutations in patients with sporadic ALS, sporadic ALS-FTD, and progressive muscular atrophy (PMA), a known clinical mimic of inclusion body myopathy, is not known. To determine the identity and frequency of VCP mutations we screened a cohort of 93 familial ALS, 754 sporadic ALS, 58 sporadic ALS-FTD, and 264 progressive muscular atrophy patients for mutations in the VCP gene. Two nonsynonymous mutations were detected; 1 known mutation (p.R159H) in a patient with familial ALS with several family members suffering from FTD, and 1 mutation (p.I114V) in a patient with sporadic ALS. Conservation analysis and protein prediction software indicate the p.I114V mutation to be a rare benign polymorphism. VCP mutations are a rare cause of familial ALS. The role of VCP mutations in sporadic ALS, if present, appears limited.
Neuroanatomical changes in the aging brain are widely distributed rather than focal. We investigated age-related changes in large-scale functional brain networks by applying graph theory to functional magnetic resonance imaging data acquired during a simple grip task with either dominant or nondominant hand. We measured the effect of age on efficiency of information transfer within a series of hierarchical functional networks composed of the whole brain or component parts of the whole brain. Global efficiency was maintained with aging during dominant hand use, primarily due to increased efficiency in parietal-occipital-cerebellar-related networks. During nondominant hand use, global efficiency, as well as efficiency within ipsilateral hemisphere and between hemispheres declined with age. This was attributable largely to frontal-temporal-limbic-cerebellar-related networks. Increased efficiency with age was seen in networks involving parietal-occipital regions, but unlike for dominant hand use, this topological reconfiguration could not maintain the level of global efficiency. Here, graph theoretical approaches have demonstrated both compensatory and noncompensatory changes in topological configuration of large-scale networks during aging depending on the task.
As an antidiabetic agent, rosiglitazone (ROSI) binds and activates peroxisome proliferator-activator receptor gamma (PPAR), altering the expression of genes involved in glucose uptake and disposal, ultimately affecting glucose regulation. ROSI might therefore be a potential treatment to ameliorate age-related decline in cognitive function, particularly on an insulin-resistant background, where improvements in peripheral insulin sensitivity and central nervous system (CNS) glucose utilization may facilitate recovery of cognitive function. We therefore examined the amelioration potential of ROSI for neurocognitive deficits resulting from aging in an animal model. Behaviorally, acute and chronic ROSI treatments enhanced acquisition of learning in the water plus maze, a modified version of the Morris water maze task. In parallel, restoration of synaptic plasticity in the dentate gyrus of ROSI-treated middle-aged rats was evident after a single dose intake. Additionally, the spatial receptive fields of hippocampal CA1 place cells were significantly improved by chronic ROSI administration. ROSI treatment reversed basal plasma insulin abnormalities and increased hippocampal glucose transporter (GLUT)-3 expression in middle-aged rats. Taken together, these results suggest that ROSI modulates hippocampal circuitry effectively to promote an improvement in cognitive function, possibly via a glucose transporter-3 mechanism.
Aging increases the likelihood of cognitive decline after negative life events such as infection or injury. We have modeled this increased vulnerability in aged (24-month-old), but otherwise unimpaired F344xBN rats. In these animals, but not in younger (3-month-old) counterparts, a single intraperitoneal injection of E. coli leads to specific deficits in long-term memory and long-lasting synaptic plasticity in hippocampal area CA1-processes strongly dependent on brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Here we have investigated the effects of age and infection on basal and fear-conditioning-stimulated expression of Bdnf in hippocampus. We performed in situ hybridization with 6 probes recognizing: total (pan-)BDNF mRNA, the 4 predominant 5' exon-specific transcripts (I, II, IV, and VI), and BDNF mRNAs with a long 3' untranslated region (3' UTR). In CA1, aging reduced basal levels and fear-conditioning-induced expression of total BDNF mRNA, exon IV-specific transcripts, and transcripts with long 3' UTRs; effects of infection were similar and sometimes compounded the effects of aging. In CA3, aging reduced all of the transcripts to some degree; infection had no effect. Effects in dentate were minimal. Northern blot analysis confirmed an aging-associated loss of total BDNF mRNA in areas CA1 and CA3, and revealed a parallel, preferential loss of BDNF mRNA transcripts with long 3' UTRs.
The glycosaminoglycan hyaluronan (HA) accumulates in central nervous system lesions where it limits astrogliosis but also inhibits oligodendrocyte progenitor cell (OPC) maturation. The role of hyaluronan in normative brain aging has not been previously investigated. Here, we tested the hypothesis that HA accumulates in the aging nonhuman primate brain. We found that HA levels significantly increase with age in the gray matter of rhesus macaques. HA accumulation was linked to age-related increases in the transcription of HA synthase-1 (HAS1) expressed by reactive astrocytes but not changes in the expression of other HAS genes or hyaluronidases. HA accumulation was accompanied by increased expression of CD44, a transmembrane HA receptor. Areas of gray matter with elevated HA in older animals demonstrated increased numbers of olig2(+) OPCs, consistent with the notion that HA may influence OPC expansion or maturation. Collectively, these data indicate that HAS1 and CD44 are transcriptionally upregulated in astrocytes during normative aging and are linked to HA accumulation in gray matter.
Chronic stress may be a risk factor for developing Alzheimer's disease (AD), but most studies of the effects of stress in models of AD utilize acute adverse stressors of questionable clinical relevance. The goal of this work was to determine how chronic psychosocial stress affects behavioral and pathological outcomes in an animal model of AD, and to elucidate underlying mechanisms. A triple-transgenic mouse model of AD (3xTgAD mice) and nontransgenic control mice were used to test for an affect of chronic mild social stress on blood glucose, plasma glucocorticoids, plasma insulin, anxiety, and hippocampal amyloid -particle (A), phosphorylated tau (ptau), and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels. Despite the fact that both control and 3xTgAD mice experienced rises in corticosterone during episodes of mild social stress, at the end of the 6-week stress period 3xTgAD mice displayed increased anxiety, elevated levels of A oligomers and intraneuronal A, and decreased brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels, whereas control mice did not. Findings suggest 3xTgAD mice are more vulnerable than control mice to chronic psychosocial stress, and that such chronic stress exacerbates A accumulation and impairs neurotrophic signaling.
Aged (20-22 months) male Fischer 344 rats were randomly assigned to sedentary (A-SED), environmentally-enriched (A-ENR), or exercise (A-EX) conditions. After 10-12 weeks of differential experience, the 3 groups of aged rats and young sedentary controls were tested for physical and cognitive function. Spatial discrimination learning and memory consolidation, tested on the water maze, were enhanced in environmentally-enriched compared with sedentary. A-EX exhibited improved and impaired performance on the cue and spatial task, respectively. Impaired spatial learning in A-EX was likely due to a bias in response selection associated with exercise training, as object recognition memory improved for A-EX rats. An examination of senescent hippocampal physiology revealed that enrichment and exercise reversed age-related changes in long-term depression (LTD) and long-term potentiation (LTP). Rats in the enrichment group exhibited an increase in cell excitability compared with the other 2 groups of aged animals. The results indicate that differential experience biased the selection of a spatial or a response strategy and factors common across the 2 conditions, such as increased hippocampal activity associated with locomotion, contribute to reversal of senescent synaptic plasticity.
Fyn kinase phosphorylates tau and exacerbates amyloid beta (A)-mediated synaptic dysfunction. However, Fyn also increases the nonpathological cleavage of amyloid precursor protein (APP), suggesting opposing roles for Fyn in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). To determine the effect of Fyn on both A and tau pathologies, we crossed homozygous Alzheimer's disease triple transgenic (3Tg) mice harboring mutations in amyloid precursor protein, presenilin-1, and tau with wild-type or Fyn knockout mice to generate Fyn(+/+)3Tg(+/-) or Fyn(+/-)3Tg(+/-) mice. We found that Fyn(+/-)3Tg(+/-) mice had increased soluble and intracellular A, and these changes were accompanied by impaired performance on the Morris water maze at 18 months. Fyn(+/-)3Tg(+/-) mice had decreased phosphorylated tau at 15-18 months (as did Fyn knockout mice), but Fyn(+/-)3Tg(+/-) mice had increased phosphorylated tau by 24 months. In addition, we observed that Fyn(+/-)3Tg(+/-) males were delayed in developing A pathology compared with females, and displayed better spatial learning performance at 18 months. Overall, these findings suggest that loss of Fyn at early stages of disease increases soluble A accumulation and worsens spatial learning in the absence of changes in tau phosphorylation.
Previously we reported that endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-mitochondria crosstalk is involved in amyloid- (A)-induced apoptosis. Now we show that mitochondrial dysfunction affects the ER stress response triggered by A using cybrids that recreate the defect in mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase (COX) activity detected in platelets from Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. AD and control cybrids were treated with A or classical ER stressors and the ER stress-mediated apoptotic cell death pathway was accessed. Upon treatment, we found increased glucose-regulated protein 78 (GRP78) levels and caspase-4 activation (ER stress markers) which were more pronounced in AD cybrids. Treated AD cybrids also exhibited decreased cell survival as well as increased caspase-3-like activity, poli-ADP-ribose-polymerase (PARP) levels and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL)-positive apoptotic cells. Finally, we showed that A-induced caspase-3 activation in both cybrid cell lines was prevented by dantrolene, thus implicating ER Ca(2+) release in ER stress-mediated apoptosis. Our results demonstrate that mitochondrial dysfunction occurring in AD patients due to COX inhibition potentiates cell susceptibility to A-induced ER stress. This study further supports the close communication between ER and mitochondria during apoptosis in AD.
The 2 major types of neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation (NBIA) are the pantothenate kinase type 2 (PANK2)-associated neurodegeneration (PKAN) and NBIA2 or infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy (INAD) due to mutations in the phospholipase A2, group VI (PLA2G6) gene. We have recently demonstrated clinical heterogeneity in patients with mutations in the PLA2G6 gene by identifying a poorly defined subgroup of patients who present late with dystonia and parkinsonism. We report the clinical and genetic features of 7 cases with PLA2G6 mutations. Brain was available in 5 cases with an age of death ranging from 8 to 36 years and showed widespread alpha-synuclein-positive Lewy pathology, which was particularly severe in the neocortex, indicating that the Lewy pathology spread corresponded to Braak stage 6 and was that of the &quot;diffuse neocortical type&quot;. In 3 cases there was hyperphosphorylated tau accumulation in both cellular processes as threads and neuronal perikarya as pretangles and neurofibrillary tangles. Later onset cases tended to have less tau involvement but still severe alpha-synuclein pathology. The clinical and neuropathological features clearly represent a link between PLA2G6 and parkinsonian disorders.
Post-mortem studies of multiple system atrophy (MSA) patients have shown widespread subcortical neurodegeneration. In this study, we have used 18F-dopa PET, a marker of monoaminergic nerve terminal function, to explore in vivo changes in striatal and extrastriatal dopamine, noradrenaline, and serotonin transmission for a cohort of patients with MSA with predominant parkinsonism. Fourteen patients with MSA, ten patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) matched for disease duration, and ten healthy controls were studied with 18F-dopa PET. Regions of interest (ROIs) were placed to sample 18F-dopa uptake in thirteen structures and mean activity was compared between groups. The MSA patients showed significantly decreased 18F-dopa uptake in putamen, caudate nucleus, ventral striatum, globus pallidus externa and red nucleus compared to controls, whereas PD patients only had decreased 18F-dopa uptake in putamen, caudate nucleus, and ventral striatum. MSA cases with orthostatic hypotension had lower 18F-dopa uptake in the locus coeruleus than patients without this symptom. In conclusion, 18F-dopa PET showed more widespread basal ganglia dysfunction in MSA than in PD with similar disease duration, and extrastriatal loss of monoaminergic innervation could be detected in the red nucleus and locus coeruleus. In contrast to PD, there was no evidence of early compensatory increases in regional 18F-dopa uptake.

In the last decades, the interest in the association between body temperature and stroke outcome has reemerged, and the use of animal models has made it possible to know the underlying pathogenic mechanisms involved, most of them with pending confirmation in human clinics. In this work, we will review the effects of hyperthermia and hypothermia and its pathogenesis on ischemic stroke, and the evidence of the efficacy and safety of anti-hyperthermic and hypothermic treatments. We will describe how treatment of hyperthermia on ischemic stroke patients, improves patient comfort and outcome, both in the short and the long term, but new clinical studies are needed in this field. Despite the theoretical and experimental bases in favor of hypothermia for the treatment of brain ischemia, there is no definitive clinical evidence that has proved its benefits, so far. With current knowledge, an objective of a body temperature between 35.5 and 36.5 C seems an optimal therapeutic target for both hyperthermic and normothermic patients.
Protein homeostasis is fundamental in normal cellular function and cell survival. The ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) plays a central role in maintaining the protein homeostasis network through selective elimination of misfolded and damaged proteins. Impaired function of UPS is implicated in normal aging process and also in several age-related neurodegenerative disorders that are characterized by increased accumulation oxidatively modified proteins and protein aggregates. Growing literature also indicate the potential role of various ubiquitin protein ligases in the regulation of aging process by enhancing the degradation of either central lifespan regulators or abnormally folded and damaged proteins. This review mainly focuses on our current understanding of the importance of UPS function in the regulation of normal aging process.
Muscular dystrophies (MDs) such as Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), sarcoglycanopathy (Sgpy) and dysferlinopathy (Dysfy) are recessive genetic neuromuscular diseases that display muscle degeneration. Although these MDs have comparable endpoints of muscle pathology, the onset, severity and the course of these diseases are diverse. Different mechanisms downstream of genetic mutations might underlie the disparity in these pathologies. We surmised that oxidative damage and altered antioxidant function might contribute to these differences. The oxidant and antioxidant markers in the muscle biopsies from patients with DMD (n=15), Sgpy (n=15) and Dysfy (n=15) were compared to controls (n=10). Protein oxidation and lipid peroxidation was evident in all MDs and correlated with the severity of pathology, with DMD, the most severe dystrophic condition showing maximum damage, followed by Sgpy and Dysfy. Oxidative damage in DMD and Sgpy was attributed to the depletion of glutathione (GSH) and lowered antioxidant activities while loss of GSH peroxidase and GSH-S-transferase activities was observed in Dysfy. Lower GSH level in DMD was due to lowered activity of gamma-glutamyl cysteine ligase, the rate limiting enzyme in GSH synthesis. Similar analysis in cardiotoxin (CTX) mouse model of MD showed that the dystrophic muscle pathology correlated with GSH depletion and lipid peroxidation. Depletion of GSH prior to CTX exposure in C2C12 myoblasts exacerbated oxidative damage and myotoxicity. We deduce that the pro and anti-oxidant mechanisms could be correlated to the severity of MD and might influence the dystrophic pathology to a different extent in various MDs. On a therapeutic note, this could help in evolving novel therapies that offer myoprotection in MD.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurological disorder predominantly characterized by motor symptoms including bradykinesia and resting tremor. The gold standard of treatment for PD remains dopamine replacement therapy, which eventually fails due to continued progression of the disease and the development of debilitating side effects. Recent breakthroughs are providing the first major advances in the development of fundamentally new pharmacological strategies for the treatment of PD that do not rely on dopamine replacement strategies, but rather aim to reduce the overactive indirect pathway within the basal ganglia. In this article, we will review the role of metabotropic glutamate receptors within the basal ganglia and discuss the potential for modulation of metabotropic glutamate receptors as a treatment for PD.



In the study of neurosciences, and of complex biological systems in general, there is frequently a need to fit mathematical models with large numbers of parameters to highly complex datasets. Here we consider algorithms of two different classes, gradient following (GF) methods and evolutionary algorithms (EA) and examine their performance in fitting a 9-parameter model of a filter-based visual neuron to real data recorded from a sample of 107 neurons in macaque primary visual cortex (V1). Although the GF method converged very rapidly on a solution, it was highly susceptible to the effects of local minima in the error surface and produced relatively poor fits unless the initial estimates of the parameters were already very good. Conversely, although the EA required many more iterations of evaluating the model neuron's response to a series of stimuli, it ultimately found better solutions in nearly all cases and its performance was independent of the starting parameters of the model. Thus, although the fitting process was lengthy in terms of processing time, the relative lack of human intervention in the evolutionary algorithm, and its ability ultimately to generate model fits that could be trusted as being close to optimal, made it far superior in this particular application than the gradient following methods. This is likely to be the case in many further complex systems, as are often found in neuroscience.
One of the challenges of modern neuroscience is integrating voluminous data of diferent modalities derived from a variety of specimens. This task requires a common spatial framework that can be provided by brain atlases. The first atlases were limited to two-dimentional presentation of structural data. Recently, attempts at creating 3D atlases have been made to offer navigation within non-standard anatomical planes and improve capability of localization of different types of data within the brain volume. The 3D atlases available so far have been created using frameworks which make it difficult for other researchers to replicate the results. To facilitate reproducible research and data sharing in the field we propose an SVG-based Common Atlas Format (CAF) to store 2D atlas delineations or other compatible data and 3D Brain Atlas Reconstructor (3dBAR), software dedicated to automated reconstruction of three-dimensional brain structures from 2D atlas data. The basic functionality is provided by (1) a set of parsers which translate various atlases from a number of formats into the CAF, and (2) a module generating 3D models from CAF datasets. The whole reconstruction process is reproducible and can easily be configured, tracked and reviewed, which facilitates fixing errors. Manual corrections can be made when automatic reconstruction is not sufficient. The software was designed to simplify interoperability with other neuroinformatics tools by using open file formats. The content can easily be exchanged at any stage of data processing. The framework allows for the addition of new public or proprietary content.
This study aims to determine the most reliable method for infant hippocampal segmentation by comparing magnetic resonance (MR) imaging post-acquisition processing techniques: contrast to noise ratio (CNR) enhancement, or reformatting to standard orientation. MR scans were performed with a 1.5 T GE scanner to obtain dual echo T2 and proton density (PD) images at term equivalent (38-42 weeks' gestational age). 15 hippocampi were manually traced four times on ten infant images by 2 independent raters on the original T2 image, as well as images processed by: a) combining T2 and PD images (T2-PD) to enhance CNR; then b) reformatting T2-PD images perpendicular to the long axis of the left hippocampus. CNRs and intraclass correlation coefficients (ICC) were calculated. T2-PD images had 17% higher CNR (15.2) than T2 images (12.6). Original T2 volumes' ICC was 0.87 for rater 1 and 0.84 for rater 2, whereas T2-PD images' ICC was 0.95 for rater 1 and 0.87 for rater 2. Reliability of hippocampal segmentation on T2-PD images was not improved by reformatting images (rater 1 ICC=0.88, rater 2 ICC=0.66). Post-acquisition processing can improve CNR and hence reliability of hippocampal segmentation in neonate MR scans when tissue contrast is poor. These findings may be applied to enhance boundary definition in infant segmentation for various brain structures or in any volumetric study where image contrast is sub-optimal, enabling hippocampal structure-function relationships to be explored.

Cough headache may be the clinical manifestation, sometimes isolated, of an intracranial disease. There are several possible causes of secondary cough headache. The hypothesis that cough headache may be the expression of spontaneous intracranial hypotension has been advanced only recently. In fact, this would represent an exception to the rule that cough headache is generally secondary to conditions leading to an increase in intracranial pressure and/or volume. We report and discuss a case of cough headache secondary to spontaneous intracranial hypotension in an otherwise healthy 59-year-old man. The condition was complicated by cerebral venous thrombosis.
Involvement of the peripheral nervous system in mitochondrial disorders (MD) has been previously reported. However, the exact prevalence of peripheral neuropathy and/or myopathy in MD is still unclear. In order to evaluate the prevalence of neuropathy and myopathy in MD, we performed sensory and motor nerve conduction studies (NCS) and concentric needle electromyography (EMG) in 44 unselected MD patients. NCS were abnormal in 36.4% of cases, and were consistent with a sensori-motor axonal multineuropathy (multifocal neuropathy), mainly affecting the lower limbs. EMG evidence of myopathy was present in 54.5% of patients, again mainly affecting the lower limbs. Nerve and muscle involvement was frequently subclinical. Peripheral nerve and muscle involvement is common in MD patients. Our study supports the variability of the clinical expression of MD. Further studies are needed to better understand the molecular basis underlying the phenotypic variability among MD patients.
Nonconvulsive status epilepticus (NCSE) is an epileptic condition lasting &gt;30 min, clinically manifested by an altered mental state and associated with continuous epileptiform activity on the electroencephalogram. NCSE is a common yet still under recognized condition and delay in diagnosis and treatment may be associated with increased mortality as well as cognitive/behavioral consequences. We described an epileptic female patient assuming carbamazepine (900 mg/day) and levetiracetam (3,000 mg/day), seizure free for more than 10 years, who developed NCSE during cefixime treatment, a third-generation cephalosporin compound that along with penicillins is classified within the b-lactam class of antibiotics. In our report we outline the importance and the difficulty to choose secure antibiotic treatment in epileptic patients, we discuss the possible mechanisms by which cephalosporins induce neurotoxicity and the need to stress family components questioning about new drugs assumed. Finally we highlight the value of the EEG recording to diagnose NCSE and treat it adequately and promptly.
Schizencephaly is regarded as a malformation of cortical development (due to abnormal neuronal organization) and may be associated with continuous involuntary hand movements. The mechanisms underlying these movements are not clear and both dystonia and epilepsia partialis continua have been considered in previously reported cases. We describe a young patient affected by schizencephaly and continuous involuntary movements of the contralateral hand. Functional MRI showed bilateral cerebral activation, while the subject performed tapping movements with the affected hand and no significant difference in the activation pattern after diazepam infusion. Standard and back-averaged EEG showed no alterations. The results obtained from these investigations and the clinical features of the involuntary movements are not in favor of an epileptic genesis, while support the diagnosis of secondary dystonia.
Muscle phosphofructokinase (PFKM) deficiency, a rare disorder of glycogen metabolism also known as glycogen storage disease type VII (GSDVII), is characterized by exercise intolerance, myalgias, cramps and episodic myoglobinuria associated with compensated hemolytic anaemia and hyperuricemia. We studied five patients with PFKM deficiency coming from different Italian regions. All probands showed exercise intolerance, hyperCKemia, cramps and myoglobinuria. One patient had a mild hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Biochemical studies revealed residual PFK activity ranging from 1 to 5%. Molecular genetic analysis identified four novel mutations in the PFKM gene. In our series of patients, clinical and laboratory features were similar in all but one patient, who had an unusual phenotype characterized by 25 ears disease history, high CK levels, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation without fixed muscle weakness.

Neuropeptide Y (NPY) has been implicated in anxiolytic- and antidepressant-like behaviour as well as seizure-suppressant effects in rodents. Although these effects appear to be predominantly mediated via other NPY receptors (Y1 and/or Y2), several studies have also indicated a role for Y5 receptors. Gene therapy using recombinant viral vectors to induce overexpression of NPY, Y1 or Y2 receptors in the hippocampus or amygdala has previously been shown to modulate emotional behaviour and seizures in rodents. The present study explored the potential effects of gene therapy with the Y5 receptor, by testing effects of recombinant adeno-associated viral vector (rAAV) encoding Y5 (rAAV-Y5) in anxiety- and depression-like behaviour as well as in kainate-induced seizures in adult mice. The rAAV-Y5 vector injected into the hippocampus and amygdala induced a pronounced and sustained increase in Y5 receptor mRNA expression and functional Y5 receptor binding, but no significant effects were found with regard to anxiety- and depression-like behaviours or seizure susceptibility. Instead, rAAV-mediated Y5 receptor transgene overexpression resulted in moderate hyperactivity in the open field test. These results do not support a potential role for single transgene overexpression of Y5 receptors for modulating anxiety-/depression-like behaviours or seizures in adult mice. Whether the induction of hyperactivity by rAAV-Y5 could be relevant for other conditions remains to be studied.
Alarin is a member of the galanin family of neuropeptides that includes galanin and galanin-like peptide (GALP). Alarin is an alternate transcript of the GALP gene and is expressed in the brain and periphery. Recently, it was shown in male rats that alarin is an orexigenic peptide that also regulates reproductive hormone secretion. We hypothesized that alarin would also have similar central effects on feeding and luteinizing hormone (LH) secretion in mice as observed in rats. To test this hypothesis, we treated male mice with alarin intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.) and measured its effects on food intake, body weight, body temperature, LH secretion, and Fos induction. We observed that i.c.v. injection of 1.0 nmol alarin significantly increased immediate food intake (p&lt;0.01) from 30 to 120 min post-injection and relative body weight (p&lt;0.05) after 24 h. Alarin had no effect on body temperature compared to controls. Alarin increased LH levels in male mice, an effect that was dependent on gonadotropin-Releasing-Hormone (GnRH) signaling. Furthermore, alarin-stimulated Fos immunoreactivity was observed in diencephalic nuclei, including the hypothalamic dorsomedial nucleus and the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. Our studies demonstrated that alarin, like other members of the galanin peptide family, is a neuromediator of food intake and reproductive hormone secretion in male mice.
A predominant symptom of nicotine withdrawal is cognitive deficits, yet understanding of the neural basis for these deficits is limited. Withdrawal from chronic nicotine disrupts contextual learning in mice and this deficit is mediated by direct effects of nicotine in the hippocampus. Chronic nicotine treatment upregulates nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR); however, it is unknown whether upregulation is related to the observed withdrawal-induced cognitive deficits. If a relationship between altered learning and nAChR levels exists, changes in nAChR levels after cessation of nicotine treatment should match the duration of learning deficits. To test this hypothesis, mice were chronically administered 6.3mg/kg/day (freebase) nicotine for 12 days and trained in contextual fear conditioning on day 11 or between 1 to 16 days after withdrawal of treatment. Changes in [(125)I]-epibatidine binding at cytisine-sensitive and cytisine-resistant nAChRs and chronic nicotine-related changes in 4, 7, and 2 nAChR subunit mRNA expression were assessed. Chronic nicotine had no behavioral effect but withdrawal produced deficits in contextual fear conditioning that lasted 4 days. Nicotine withdrawal did not disrupt cued fear conditioning. Chronic nicotine upregulated hippocampal cytisine-sensitive nAChR binding; upregulation continued after cessation of nicotine administration and the duration of upregulation during withdrawal paralleled the duration of behavioral changes. Changes in binding in cortex and cerebellum did not match behavioral changes. No changes in 4, 7, and 2 subunit mRNA expression were seen with chronic nicotine. Thus, nicotine withdrawal-related deficits in contextual learning are time-limited changes that are associated with temporal changes in upregulation of high-affinity nAChR binding.
The perirhinal cortex (PRh) and its cholinergic inputs are implicated in object recognition memory. Conversely, the hippocampus (HPC) may be involved in spatial recognition processes that are not essential to the recognition of objects per se. Systemic nicotine has been shown to facilitate both object and spatial memory. The current study compared the roles of perirhinal and hippocampal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in object and spatial recognition memory using spontaneous object recognition (SOR) and object-location (OL) tasks for rats. Systemic pre-sample (acquisition) nicotine administration dose-dependently facilitated SOR and OL performance compared to vehicle conditions in which performance was at chance with a 72-h retention delay between the sample and choice phases. Subsequently, pre-sample intra-PRh infusions of nicotine significantly facilitated SOR; somewhat surprisingly, pre-sample intra-HPC nicotine also enhanced object recognition memory. Further experiments indicated facilitative effects on OL performance caused by pre-sample intra-PRh or intra-HPC nicotine administration. These results not only demonstrate that nAChR activation facilitates performance on object recognition and object-location memory tasks, but suggest that these effects can be produced by nAChR action in either PRh or HPC. Thus, although PRh and HPC are not required for OL or SOR task performance, respectively, nAChR-mediated enhancement of neural function in either of these temporal lobe regions appears capable of promoting stronger memory encoding and/or consolidation in either task. These findings further support the supposed interactive relationship between the HPC and PRh in object information processing and highlight the potential therapeutic value of nicotinic receptor activation in amnesic disorders.
The effects of systemic 1-agonist on neurotransmission remains obscure, since no selective 1-agonist exists that can penetrate the blood-brain barrier. Recently, we succeeded in synthesizing a putative 1-receptor agonist, KNT-127, which has been demonstrated the effectiveness of systemic administration against anxiety and depressive-like behavior. To clarify the functional selectivity of KNT-127 and neurotransmission regulating system of 1-receptor, the present study investigated the interaction between KNT-127 and -receptor antagonists on the release of dopamine, L-glutamate and GABA in nucleus accumbens (NAc), striatum and median pre-frontal cortex (mPFC) using multi-probe microdialysis. Intraperitoneal administration of KNT-127 increased the release of dopamine and L-glutamate in three regions, but decreased and increased GABA releases in respective NAc and mPFC without affecting that in striatum. The effects of KNT-127 in the three regions were abrogated by 1-antagonist but not by 2-antagonist. MK801 inhibited KNT-127-induced dopamine release in striatum and NAc, but enhanced that in mPFC, inhibited KNT-127-induced mPFC GABA release without affecting KNT-127-induced GABA reduction in NAc. Muscimol enhanced KNT-127-induced dopamine release in mPFC. Sulpiride inhibited KNT-127-induced reduction of GABA release in NAc. The results indicated that KNT-127 is a selective 1-agonist, and suggested that 1-receptor directly activates the release of dopamine and L-glutamate in the striatum, NAc and mPFC, but not that of GABA in the three regions. 1-receptor indirectly inhibited GABA release in NAc via activated dopaminergic transmission, while 1-receptor indirectly enhanced GABA release in mPFC via activated glutamatergic transmission.
Memantine, a non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, is used for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and off-label as an anti-depressant. Here we investigated possible anti-depressant, cognitive enhancing and neuroprotective effects of memantine in the olfactory bulbectomized (OBX) rat. OBX is used as a screening model for antidepressants and shows cognitive disturbances. In Experiment I, memantine treatment started 14 days after OBX surgery (this setup is similar to what we use for screening of potential antidepressants) and 2 days before surgery in experiment II. In both experiments, memantine (20 mg/kg, p.o) was administered once daily for 28 days. Animals were tested in the open field (locomotor activity), passive avoidance (fear learning and memory), and holeboard (spatial acquisition and memory) before and after the bulbectomy. Memantine, when administered before surgery, prevented OBX-induced hyperactivity and partly fear memory loss. These behavioral effects were present for at least 3 weeks after cessation of treatment. Memantine, however did not improve spatial memory. When administered 2 weeks after OBX surgery, memantine was ineffective in normalizing open field hyperactivity and improving cognitive deficits. Interestingly, after the animals were retrained in passive avoidance, memantine- treated OBX rats (both in experiment I and II) showed improved fear learning and memory. Our findings suggest that memantine has both neuroprotective and cognitive enhancing effects without antidepressant-like properties in the OBX rat. Based on our results, we propose that memantine may be more beneficial to AD patients when administered early in the disease process.
Cholinergic brain activity plays a significant role in memory. Scopolamine a muscarinic cholinergic antagonist is known to induce impairment in Morris water maze performance, the task which is mainly dependent on the hippocampus. It is suggested that hippocampal ERK and Akt activation play roles in synaptic plasticity and some types of learning and memory. Agmatine, a polyamine derived from l-arginine decarboxylation, is recently shown to exert some neuroprotective effects. This study was aimed to investigate if agmatine could reverse scopolamine-induced memory impairment and possible hippocampal ERK and Akt activity alteration. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats weighing 200-250 g were randomly assigned into 5 groups. The animals were trained for 3 days in Morris water maze and in day 4 their memory retention was assessed in probe trial which was consisted of a 60 s trial with no platform. Scopolamine (1 mg/kg/ip) or saline were injected 30 min and agmatine (20 or 40 mg/kg/ip) was administered 60 min before each session. The hippocampi were isolated after behavioral studies and western blotting studies on hippocampal lysates were done to determine the levels of activated ERK and Akt. Scopolamine treatment not only impaired water maze learning and memory, but also decreased the amount of phosphorylated (activated) ERK and Akt. Agmatine pre-treatment prevented both the learning impairment and hippocampal ERK and Akt inactivation induced by scopolamine. It seems that agmatine may act as a candidate substance against amnesia.
Neuropeptide S (NPS) is the endogenous ligand of a previously orphan receptor now named NPSR. In the brain NPS regulates several biological functions including anxiety, arousal, locomotion, food intake, learning and memory, pain and drug abuse. Mice lacking the NPSR gene (NPSR(-/-)) represent an useful tool to investigate the neurobiology of the NPS/NPSR system. NPSR(-/-) mice have been generated in a 129S6/SvEv genetic background. In the present study we generated CD-1 congenic NPSR(+/+) and NPSR(-/-) mice and investigated their phenotype and sensitivity to NPS in various behavioural assays. The phenotype analysis revealed no locomotor differences between NPSR(+/+) and NPSR(-/-) mice. The behaviour of NPSR(+/+) and NPSR(-/-) mice in the righting reflex test was superimposable. No differences were recorded between the two genotypes in the elevated plus maze, open field and stress-induced hyperthermia tests, with the exception of rearing behaviour that was reduced in knockout animals. Moreover the behaviour of NPSR(+/+) and NPSR(-/-) mice in the forced swimming, novel object recognition and formalin assays was similar. The stimulatory effects of NPS in the locomotor activity test and its anxiolytic-like actions in the elevated plus maze and open field assays were evident in NPSR(+/+) but not NPSR(-/-) animals. In conclusion, the present study indicates that the NPS/NPSR system does not tonically control locomotion, sensitivity to diazepam, anxiety, depressive-like behaviours, memory and pain transmission in mice. Furthermore our results clearly show that the product of the NPSR gene represents the mandatory protein for all the NPS biological effects so far described.
The present study explored facets of personality in a sample of pathological gamblers with ADHD (n = 52) and without ADHD (n = 43). Participants were assessed for psychopathology and gambling disorders using the Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview, the National Opinion Research Center DSM Screen for Gambling Problems, and the Adult ADHD Self-Report Scale. Facets of personality were assessed using the NEO Personality Inventory-Revised. Group differences emerged across several facets of personality when analyzed using multivariate statistics. Although both groups experienced difficulties in several areas compared with norming data (e.g., greater depression, higher impulsivity, lower self-esteem and lower self-discipline), these facets of personality were more pronounced in pathological gamblers with ADHD. Most notable among these differences are tendencies for gamblers with ADHD to experience greater levels of emotional instability, interpersonal sensitivity and stress proneness. Pathological gamblers with ADHD also appear to experience lower self-esteem, greater difficulty being assertive and lower levels of self-discipline. Surprisingly, both groups were comparable on facets of impulsivity. These findings suggest that pathological gamblers diagnosed with adult ADHD may experience additional challenges compared with pathological gamblers without ADHD.
Schizophrenia is often associated with deficits in the domain of language, which are thought to be closely related to deficits in the structure of semantic knowledge. The main aim of the present study was to behaviorally investigate whether semantic impairments in schizophrenia are present also at the very basic level of action verb processing, in particular at the level of motor simulation. We used a go-no go paradigm both for a semantic decision task (with either an early, EGD, or a delayed go-signal delivery, DGD) and for a lexical decision task (control task). Only the first task requires motor simulation to be solved. We found that first-episode schizophrenia (FES) patients, like healthy control (HC) participants, use motor simulation as a basic strategy to semantically judge action verbs. In the EGD condition, both motor simulation and action verb understanding seem to be preserved in FES. However, differently from HC participants, FES patients kept on using the simulation strategy also with the DGD condition, whereas, simultaneously, task performance during this condition appeared to be less efficient and sensitive. Voxel-based morphometry analysis suggested that this altered performance in FES patients could be related to structural brain abnormalities in the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. We propose that a prolonged motor simulation in FES may serve as a compensatory strategy for impairments in the selection of action representation and/or for memory deficits disclosed by the DGD condition during the semantic decision task investigated in the present study.
This is the case report of RB, a 68-year-old retired woman who, following an extensive right sided ischaemic stroke, showed hemiplegia, anosognosia and allochiria, but no somato-sensory deficits and no visuospatial neglect. A high resolution 3D MRI structural scan of her brain was acquired to define the structural damage in detail. Morphometric analyses of grey and white matter data revealed a large lesion which involved most of her right parietal, temporal, and mesial frontal cortex, with partial sparing of the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and part of the posterior corpus callosum. Detailed examination showed that RB attributed sensory stimuli, both on the left and on the right, to the opposite side of her body. This mirror reversed representation of her body caused misattribution of items even in the absence of stimulation, as for instance when the patient spontaneously reported pain in her right knee while pointing to her left knee. RB's neuropsychological profile showed normal or borderline performance on most cognitive tasks. Language comprehension was intact and she could tell left from right without difficulty in all instances except for those referable to her soma. To our knowledge this is the first description of severe allochiria for body representation in the absence of neglect. The evidence from this case supports the developing concept that the body representation is not simply a systematic registration of proprioceptive inputs, but that the brain has a more sophisticated high level representation of one's body map which is updated on the basis of multimodal information.
Binding is a cognitive function responsible for integrating features within complex stimuli (e.g., shape-colour conjunctions) or events within complex memories (e.g., face-name associations). This function operates both in short-term memory (STM) and in long-term memory (LTM) and is severely affected by Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, forming conjunctions in STM is the only binding function which is not affected by healthy ageing or chronic depression. Whether this specificity holds true across other non-AD dementias is as yet unknown. The present study investigated STM conjunctive binding in a sample of AD patients and patients with other non-AD dementias using a task which has proved sensitive to the effects of AD. The STM task assesses the free recall of objects, colours, and the bindings of objects and colours. Patients with AD, frontotemporal dementia, vascular dementia, lewy body dementia and dementia associated with Parkinson's disease showed memory, visuo-spatial, executive and attentional deficits on standard neuropsychological assessment. However, only AD patients showed STM binding deficits. This deficit was observed even when memory for single features was at a similar level across patient groups. Regression and discriminant analyses confirmed that the STM binding task accounted for the largest proportion of variance between AD and non-AD groups and held the greatest classification power to identify patients with AD. STM conjunctive binding places little demands on executive functions and appears to be subserved by components of the memory network which are targeted by AD, but not by non-AD dementias.
Speech comprehension is a complex human skill, the performance of which requires the perceiver to combine information from several sources - e.g. voice, face, gesture, linguistic context - to achieve an intelligible and interpretable percept. We describe a functional imaging investigation of how auditory, visual and linguistic information interact to facilitate comprehension. Our specific aims were to investigate the neural responses to these different information sources, alone and in interaction, and further to use behavioural speech comprehension scores to address sites of intelligibility-related activation in multifactorial speech comprehension. In fMRI, participants passively watched videos of spoken sentences, in which we varied Auditory Clarity (with noise-vocoding), Visual Clarity (with Gaussian blurring) and Linguistic Predictability. Main effects of enhanced signal with increased auditory and visual clarity were observed in overlapping regions of posterior STS. Two-way interactions of the factors (auditory  visual, auditory  predictability) in the neural data were observed outside temporal cortex, where positive signal change in response to clearer facial information and greater semantic predictability was greatest at intermediate levels of auditory clarity. Overall changes in stimulus intelligibility by condition (as determined using an independent behavioural experiment) were reflected in the neural data by increased activation predominantly in bilateral dorsolateral temporal cortex, as well as inferior frontal cortex and left fusiform gyrus. Specific investigation of intelligibility changes at intermediate auditory clarity revealed a set of regions, including posterior STS and fusiform gyrus, showing enhanced responses to both visual and linguistic information. Finally, an individual differences analysis showed that greater comprehension performance in the scanning participants (measured in a post-scan behavioural test) were associated with increased activation in left inferior frontal gyrus and left posterior STS. The current multimodal speech comprehension paradigm demonstrates recruitment of a wide comprehension network in the brain, in which posterior STS and fusiform gyrus form sites for convergence of auditory, visual and linguistic information, while left-dominant sites in temporal and frontal cortex support successful comprehension.
Approximately half the world's population can now speak more than one language. Understanding the neural basis of language organisation in bilinguals, and whether the cortical networks involved during language processing differ from that of monolinguals, is therefore an important area of research. A main issue concerns whether L2 (second language) is processed using the same neural mechanisms that mediate L1 (first language) processing. Moderating factors include the age of L2 acquisition and the level of proficiency. Here we used a lexical decision task with five conditions during functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate language processing in eight late proficient bilinguals when using Macedonian (L1) and English (L2). Bilinguals had greater bilateral activation during both L1 and L2 processing, and therefore weaker language lateralisation, compared to matched control English monolinguals. A greater amount of overall activation was also seen in bilinguals, especially during L2 conditions. Late proficient bilinguals living in their L2 environment employ a more extensive neural network than monolinguals when processing their second language.
Orexins have a role in sleep regulation, and orexin receptor antagonists are under development for the treatment of insomnia. We conducted a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, four-period crossover study to investigate the effect of single doses of the dual orexin receptor antagonist SB-649868 (10 or 30 mg) and a positive control zolpidem (10 mg), an allosteric modulator of GABA(A) receptors. Objective and subjective sleep parameters and next-day performance were assessed in 51 healthy male volunteers in a traffic noise model of situational insomnia. Compared with placebo, SB-649868 10 and 30 mg increased total sleep time (TST) by 17 and 31 min (p&lt;0.001), whereas after zolpidem TST was increased by 11.0 min (p=0.012). Wake after sleep onset was reduced significantly by 14.7 min for the SB-6489698 30 mg dose (p&lt;0.001). Latency to persistent sleep was significantly reduced after both doses of SB-6489698 (p=0.003), but not after zolpidem. Slow wave sleep (SWS) and electroencephalogram (EEG) power spectra in non-REM sleep were not affected by either dose of SB-640868, whereas SWS (p&lt; 0.001) and low delta activity (&lt;=1.0 Hz) were increased, and 2.25-11.0 Hz activity decreased after zolpidem. REM sleep duration was increased after SB-649868 30 mg (p=0.002) and reduced after zolpidem (p=0.049). Latency to REM sleep was reduced by 20.1 (p=0.034) and 34.0 min (p&lt;0.001) after 10 and 30 mg of SB-649868. Sleep-onset REM episodes were observed. SB-649868 was well tolerated. This dual orexin receptor antagonist exerts hypnotic activity, with effects on sleep structure and the EEG that are different from those of zolpidem.
Response inhibition refers to the suppression of inappropriate or irrelevant responses. It has a central role in executive functions, and has been linked to a wide spectrum of prevalent neuropsychiatric disorders. Increasing evidence from neuropharmacological studies has suggested that gene variants in the norepinephrine neurotransmission system make specific contributions to response inhibition. This study genotyped five tag single-nucleotide polymorphisms covering the whole alpha-2B-adrenergic receptor (ADRA2B) gene and investigated their associations with response inhibition in a relatively large healthy Chinese sample (N=421). The results revealed significant genetic effects of the ADRA2B conserved haplotype polymorphisms on response inhibition as measured by stop-signal reaction time (SSRT) (F(2, 418)=5.938, p=0.003). Individuals with the AAGG/AAGG genotype (n=89; mean SSRT=170.2 ms) had significantly shorter SSRTs than did those with either the CCAC/AAGG genotype (n=216; mean SSRT=182.4 ms; uncorrected p=0.03; corrected p=0.09) or the CCAC/CCAC genotype (n=116; mean SSRT=195.8 ms; corrected p&lt;0.002, Cohen's d=0.51). This finding provides the first evidence from association research in support of a critical role of the norepinephrine neurotransmission system in response inhibition. A better understanding of the genetic basis of response inhibition would allow us to develop more effective diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of deficient or underdeveloped response inhibition as well as its related prevalent neuropsychiatric disorders.
Repeated cocaine administration enhances dopamine D(2) receptor sensitivity in the mesolimbic dopamine system, which contributes to drug relapse. Adenosine A(2A) receptors are colocalized with D(2) receptors on nucleus accumbens (NAc) medium spiny neurons where they antagonize D(2) receptor activity. Thus, A(2A) receptors represent a target for reducing enhanced D(2) receptor sensitivity that contributes to cocaine relapse. The aim of these studies were to determine the effects of adenosine A(2A) receptor modulation in the NAc on cocaine seeking in rats that were trained to lever press for cocaine. Following at least 15 daily self-administration sessions and 1 week of abstinence, lever pressing was extinguished in daily extinction sessions. We subsequently assessed the effects of intra-NAc core microinjections of the A(2A) receptor agonist, CGS 21680 (4-[2-[[6-amino-9-(N-ethyl-b-D-ribofuranuronamidosyl)-9H-purin-2-yl]amino]ethyl]benzenepropanoic acid hydrochloride), and the A(2A) receptor antagonist, MSX-3 (3,7-dihydro-8-[(1E)-2-(3-methoxyphenyl)ethenyl]-7-methyl-3-[3-(phosphonooxy)propyl-1-(2-propynyl)-1H-purine-2,6-dione disodium salt hydrate), in modulating cocaine- and quinpirole-induced reinstatement to cocaine seeking. Intra-NAc pretreatment of CGS 21680 reduced both cocaine- and quinpirole-induced reinstatement. These effects were specific to cocaine reinstatement as intra-NAc CGS 21680 had no effect on sucrose seeking in rats trained to self-administer sucrose pellets. Intra-NAc treatment with MSX-3 modestly reinstated cocaine seeking when given alone, and exacerbated both cocaine- and quinpirole-induced reinstatement. Interestingly, the exacerbation of cocaine seeking produced by MSX-3 was only observed at sub-threshold doses of cocaine and quinpirole, suggesting that removing tonic A(2A) receptor activity enables behaviors mediated by dopamine receptors. Taken together, these findings suggest that A(2A) receptor stimulation reduces, while A(2A) blockade amplifies, D(2) receptor signaling in the NAc that mediates cocaine relapse.
The rostromedial tegmental nucleus (RMTg), a structure located just posterior to the ventral tegmental area (VTA), is an important site involved in aversion processes. The RMTg contains -aminobutyric acid neurons responding to noxious stimuli, densely innervated by the lateral habenula and providing a major inhibitory projection to reward-encoding dopamine (DA) neurons in the VTA. Here, we studied how RMTg neurons regulate both spontaneous firing of DA cells and their response to the cannabinoid agonist WIN55212-2 (WIN), morphine, cocaine, and nicotine. We utilized single-unit extracellular recordings in anesthetized rats and whole-cell patch clamp recordings in brain slices to study RMTg-induced inhibition of DA cells and inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) evoked by stimulation of caudal afferents, respectively. The electrical stimulation of the RMTg elicited a complete suppression of spontaneous activity in approximately half of the DA neurons examined. RMTg-induced inhibition correlated with firing rate and pattern of DA neurons and with their response to a noxious stimulus, highlighting that inhibitory inputs from the RMTg strongly control spontaneous activity of DA cells. Both morphine and WIN depressed RMTg-induced inhibition of DA neurons in vivo and IPSCs evoked by RMTg stimulation in brain slices with presynaptic mechanisms. Conversely, neither cocaine nor nicotine modulated DA neuron responses to RMTg stimulation. Our results further support the role of the RMTg as one of the main inhibitory afferents to DA cells and suggest that cannabinoids and opioids might disinhibit DA neurons by profoundly influencing synaptic responses evoked by RMTg activation.
RhoGTPases are crucial molecules in neuronal plasticity and cognition, as confirmed by their role in non-syndromic mental retardation. Activation of brain RhoGTPases by the bacterial cytotoxic necrotizing factor 1 (CNF1) reshapes the actin cytoskeleton and enhances neurotransmission and synaptic plasticity in mouse brains. We evaluated the effects of a single CNF1 intracerebroventricular inoculation in a mouse model of Rett syndrome (RTT), a rare neurodevelopmental disorder and a genetic cause of mental retardation, for which no effective therapy is available. Fully symptomatic MeCP2-308 male mice were evaluated in a battery of tests specifically tailored to detect RTT-related impairments. At the end of behavioral testing, brain sections were immunohistochemically characterized. Magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopy (MRS) were also applied to assess morphological and metabolic brain changes. The CNF1 administration markedly improved the behavioral phenotype of MeCP2-308 mice. CNF1 also dramatically reversed the evident signs of atrophy in astrocytes of mutant mice and restored wt-like levels of this cell population. A partial rescue of the overexpression of IL-6 cytokine was also observed in RTT brains. CNF1-induced brain metabolic changes detected by MRS analysis involved markers of glial integrity and bioenergetics, and point to improved mitochondria functionality in CNF1-treated mice. These results clearly indicate that modulation of brain RhoGTPases by CNF1 may constitute a totally innovative therapeutic approach for RTT and, possibly, for other disorders associated with mental retardation.
Moral dilemma tasks have been a much appreciated experimental paradigm in empirical studies on moral cognition for decades and have, more recently, also become a preferred paradigm in the field of cognitive neuroscience of moral decision-making. Yet, studies using moral dilemmas suffer from two main shortcomings: they lack methodological homogeneity which impedes reliable comparisons of results across studies, thus making a metaanalysis manifestly impossible; and second, they overlook control of relevant design parameters. In this paper, we review from a principled standpoint the studies that use moral dilemmas to approach the psychology of moral judgment and its neural underpinnings. We present a systematic review of 19 experimental design parameters that can be identified in moral dilemmas. Accordingly, our analysis establishes a methodological basis for the required homogeneity between studies and suggests the consideration of experimental aspects that have not yet received much attention despite their relevance.
Positron emission tomography (PET) provides dynamic images of the biodistribution of radioactive tracers in the brain. Through application of the principles of compartmental analysis, tracer uptake can be quantified in terms of specific physiological processes such as cerebral blood flow, cerebral metabolic rate, and the availability of receptors in brain. Whereas early PET studies in animal models of brain diseases were hampered by the limited spatial resolution of PET instruments, dedicated small-animal instruments now provide molecular images of rodent brain with resolution approaching 1mm, the theoretic limit of the method. Major applications of PET for brain research have consisted of studies of animal models of neurological disorders, notably Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's disease (AD), and Huntington's disease (HD), stroke, epilepsy and traumatic brain injury; these studies have particularly benefited from selective neurochemical lesion models (PD), and also transgenic rodent models (AD, HD). Due to their complex and uncertain pathophysiologies, corresponding models of neuropsychiatric disorders have proven more difficult to establish. Historically, there has been an emphasis on PET studies of dopamine transmission, as assessed with a range of tracers targeting dopamine synthesis, plasma membrane transporters, and receptor binding sites. However, notable recent breakthroughs in molecular imaging include the development of greatly improved tracers for subtypes of serotonin, cannabinoid, and metabotropic glutamate receptors, as well as noradrenaline transporters, amyloid- and neuroinflammatory changes. This article reviews the considerable recent progress in preclinical PET and discusses applications relevant to a number of neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders in humans.
The capacity to inhibit and withhold actions is a key feature of human cognition. Withholding action forms the basis of self-control, delayed gratification, social contracts, and trust in others. Most experimental studies of this function come from studying the processing of external stop signals. However, another important aspect of inhibition is 'will-power', i.e., intentional inhibitory control over one's own actions, in the absence of external countermanding signals. We review whether a concept of intentional inhibition is justified, and how it might differ from externally triggered inhibition. Further, we consider three types of neuroscientific evidence that can clarify the brain's mechanisms of inhibition: neuropsychology, neurostimulation and neuroimaging. Finally, we propose a model in which intentional inhibition, unlike externally triggered inhibition, is linked to representing longer range consequences of action decisions. We suggest that the human brain contains a 'neural brake' mechanism that blocks specific ongoing motor activity, and that this mechanism plays a key role in action decisions.
Addiction is a chronic, relapsing disorder, characterised by the long-term propensity of addicted individuals to relapse. A major factor that obstructs the attainment of abstinence is the persistence of maladaptive drug-associated memories, which can maintain drug-seeking and taking behaviour and promote unconscious relapse of these habits. Thus, addiction can be conceptualised as a disorder of aberrant learning of the formation of strong instrumental memories linking actions to drug-seeking and taking outcomes that ultimately are expressed as persistent stimulus-response habits; of previously neutral environmental stimuli that become associated with drug highs (and/or withdrawal states) through pavlovian conditioning, and of the subsequent interactions between pavlovian and instrumental memories to influence relapse behaviour. Understanding the psychological, neurobiological and molecular basis of these drug memories may produce new methods of pro-abstinence, anti-relapse treatments for addiction.



-opioid receptor (MOR) agonists such as morphine are powerful analgesics used for pain therapy. However, the use of these drugs is limited by their side-effects, which include antinociceptive tolerance and dependence. Earlier studies reported that MOR analgesic tolerance is reduced by blockade of -opioid receptors (DORs) that interact with MORs. Recent studies show that the MOR/DOR interaction in nociceptive afferent neurons in the dorsal root ganglion may contribute to morphine analgesic tolerance. Further analysis of the mechanisms for regulating the trafficking of receptors, ion channels and signaling molecules in nociceptive afferent neurons would help to understand the nociceptive mechanisms and improve pain therapy.
Detection of environmental stimuli that provoke an aversive response has been shown to involve many receptors in the periphery. Probably the least-studied of these stimuli are those that induce the perception of itch (pruritus), an often-experienced unpleasant stimulus. This review covers the ligands and their receptors which are known to cause primary sensory neuron activation and initiate itch sensation. Also covered are several itch-inducing substances which may act indirectly by activating other cell types in the periphery which then signal to primary neurons. Finally, progress in identifying candidate neurotransmitters that sensory neurons use to propagate the itch signal is discussed.
Human behavior is strongly influenced by the presence of others. Obtaining a good reputation or avoiding a bad one is a powerful incentive for a plethora of human actions. Theoretical considerations suggest that reputation may be a key mediator of aspects of altruistic behavior that are uniquely human. Despite its considerable influence on human social behavior and the growing interest in social neuroscience, investigations of the neural basis of reputation-based decision-making are still in their infancy. Here, I argue that reputation is an important aspect of human social cognition and present some of the candidate neural mechanisms.
In this study, we investigated whether previously stressed rats with learned helplessness (LH) paradigm could recover from depressive-like behavior four weeks after the exposure, and also whether chronic treatment with valproic acid (VPA) could prevent behavioral despair due to the second stress on days 54 in these animals. Four weeks after induction of LH, we confirmed behavioral remission in the previously stressed rats. Two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) performed with two factors, pretreatment (LH or Control) and drug (VPA or Saline), revealed a significant main effect of the drug on immobility time in forced swimming test. Post hoc test showed a shorter immobility time in the LH+VPA group than in the LH+Saline group. Immunohistochemical study of synapsin I showed a significant effect of drug by pretreatment interaction on immunoreactivity of synapsin I in the hippocampus: its expression levels in the regions were higher in the LH+VPA group than in the LH+Saline group. These results suggest that VPA could prevent the reappearance of stress-induced depressive-like behaviors in the rats recovering from prior stress, and that the drug-induced presynaptic changes in the expression of synapsin I in the hippocampus of LH animals might be related to improved tolerance toward the stress.




Polyneuropathy has rarely been encountered in association with melanoma. Although this association may be a biologically plausible phenomenon considering the common embryonic origin of the melanocytes and Schwann cells with proven antibody cross reactivity, only few such cases have been reported so far. We report 2 new cases of chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy in association with malignant melanoma, which we believe will add more evidence of this association. We also include a short review of the literature for similar cases.
This report concerns a case of a 32-year-old male with right ulnar neuropathy caused by arterio-venous fistula due to gunshot wound injury presenting with severe neuropathic pain along the ulnar nerve distribution. Intra-operative exploration and ligation of the fistula relieved the patient`s neuropathic pain. A review of the recent English literature did not reveal any reports of arterio-venous fistula of the ulnar nerve.
Intracranial aneurysms are uncommon in children. Rupture of giant intracranial aneurysms is extremely uncommon in infants even in autopsy studies. In this report, we present an unusual case of ruptured giant middle cerebral artery aneurysm in an 11-month-old female infant who presented acutely with unresponsiveness and seizures. The aneurysm was clipped during an urgent craniotomy for evacuation of an associated hematoma. She recovered slowly with mild residual right-sided weakness. Follow up arterial angiography revealed no residual or other aneurysms. Further follow up revealed motor delay and recurrent partial seizures. Active physiotherapy was performed and she could walk independently by 3 years of age. We conclude that intracranial aneurysms have to be considered in the differential diagnosis of infants presenting with acute raised intracranial pressure. Favorable outcome is noted in children who are managed promptly in hospitals with neurosurgical units.
