The H3 receptor is prominently expressed in neuronal tissues, and H3 antagonists have been proposed as drugs with benefits in disorders of cognition, attention, pain, allergic rhinitis, and obesity. The structure-activity relationships (SAR) of various classes of non-imidazole H3 antagonists are reviewed, along with highlights of functional efficacy in tissue-based and animal disease models.
Mesendoderm formation and left-right patterning during vertebrate development depend upon selected members of the transforming growth factor beta superfamily, particularly Nodal and Nodal-related ligands. Two type I serine/threonine kinase receptors have been identified for Nodal, ALK4 and ALK7. Mouse embryos lacking ALK4 fail to produce mesendoderm and die shortly after gastrulation, resembling the phenotype of Nodal knockout mice. Whether ALK4 contributes to left-right patterning is still unknown. Here we report the generation and initial characterization of mice lacking ALK7. Homozygous mutant mice were born at the expected frequency and remained viable and fertile. Viability at weaning was not different from that of the wild type in ALK7(-/-); Nodal(+/-) and ALK7(-/-); ALK4(+/-) compound mutants. ALK7 and ALK4 were highly expressed in interdigital regions of the developing limb bud. However, ALK7 mutant mice displayed no skeletal abnormalities or limb malformations. None of the left-right patterning abnormalities and organogenesis defects identified in mice carrying mutations in Nodal or in genes encoding ActRIIA and ActRIIB coreceptors, including heart malformations, pulmonary isomerism, right-sided gut, and spleen hypoplasia, were observed in mice lacking ALK7. Finally, the histological organization of the cerebellum, cortex, and hippocampus, all sites of significant ALK7 expression in the rodent brain, appeared normal in ALK7 mutant mice. We conclude that ALK7 is not an essential mediator of Nodal signaling during mesendoderm formation and left-right patterning in the mouse but may instead mediate other activities of Nodal and related ligands in the development or function of particular tissues and organs.
Besides their capacity to give rise to neurons and/or glia, neural stem cells (NSCs) appear to inherently secrete neurotrophic factors beneficial to injured neurons. To test this potential, we have implanted NSCs onto or adjacent to spinal cord cultures. When NSCs were placed adjacent to the spinal cord sections, motor neuron axons grew toward the NSCs. Furthermore, conditioned medium from NSCs cultures was also able to induce similar axonal outgrowth, suggesting that these NSCs secrete soluble factors that have tropic and/or trophic properties. ELISA revealed that the NSCs secrete glial cell-line-derived factor (GDNF) and nerve growth factor (NGF). Interestingly, preincubation of the conditioned medium with GDNF-blocking antibodies abolished axonal outgrowth. We also showed that NSCs can protect spinal cord cultures from experimentally induced excitotoxic damage. The neuroprotective potential of NSCs was further confirmed in vivo by their ability to protect against motor neuron cell death.
Rett syndrome is a neurodevelopmental disorder and one of the causes of mental retardation and autistic behavior in girls, as well as in a small group of boys. It was recently discovered that mutation of the methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 (MECP2) gene encoding a transcriptional repressor on the X chromosome causes Rett syndrome. Although it is evident that phenotypes of MECP2 mutant mice that resemble those of Rett syndrome are attributable to lack of the MECP2 gene in the central nervous system (CNS), there is little understanding of the neuropathological abnormalities in the CNS of MECP2-null mice. Here, we investigated the developmental regulation and specific cellular expression of MECP2 during neural development both in vitro and in vivo. MECP2 is expressed in mature neurons, but not in astroglia or oligodendroglia, and is increasingly expressed during development of the mouse neocortex. In addition, in vitro culture studies suggest that MECP2 is expressed in more differentiated neurons rather than in less differentiated neuroblasts. Under in vitro conditions using neural precursor cultures, we find that MECP2 mutant neural precursors differentiate into morphologically mature neurons and glia, and no significant differences in differentiation are detected between cells from wild-type and MECP2 mutant mice, suggesting that MECP2 may play a different role in mice than it does in Xenopus embryos. In agreement with this hypothesis, neocortical projection layers in MECP2 -/y mice are thinner than those in wild-type mice, and pyramidal neurons in layer II/III in MECP2 -/y mice are smaller and less complex than those in wild-type mice. Taken together, our results indicate that MECP2 is involved in the maturation and maintenance of neurons, including dendritic arborization, rather than in cell fate decisions.
Activation of the leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) receptor has been reported to promote gliogenesis and also to support neural stem cell (NSC) renewal. To investigate this paradox, we isolated NSCs and generated neurospheres from embryonic mice either wild-type, heterozygous, or homozygous null for LIF receptor (LIFR)-beta. Exogenous LIF abrogated neurosphere formation and promoted expression of GFAP by all cells in wild-type and heterozygous cultures. LIF also stimulated a twofold increase in the number of multipotential clones generated from these cultures in comparison with those pretreated with EGF and FGF-2 (E+F) alone. In contrast, the clonogenicity of low-density cultures of LIFR knockout cells was reduced in comparison with that of wild-type cells grown in E+F and was unaffected by LIF. Thus, although LIFR signaling is not necessary for NSC self-renewal, it enhances both the clonogenicity and the expression of GFAP by these multipotential cells.
Glutamate is the primary excitatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian brain. Glutamatergic neurotransmission may be modulated at multiple levels, only a minority of which are currently being exploited for pharmaceutical development. Ionotropic receptors for glutamate are divided into N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) and AMPA receptor subtypes. NMDAR have been implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. The glycine modulatory site of the NMDAR is currently a favored therapeutic target, with several modulatory agents currently undergoing clinical development. Of these, the full agonists glycine and D-serine have both shown to induce significant, large effect size reductions in persistent negative and cognitive symptoms when added to traditional or newer atypical antipsychotics in double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical studies. Glycine (GLYT1) and small neutral amino-acid (SNAT) transporters, which regulate glycine levels, represent additional targets for drug development, and may represent a site of action of clozapine. Brain transporters for D-serine have recently been described. Metabotropic glutamate receptors are positively (Group I) or negatively (Groups II and III) coupled to glutamatergic neurotransmission. Metabotropic modulators are currently under preclinical development for neuropsychiatric conditions, including schizophrenia, depression and anxiety disorders. Other conditions for which glutamate modulators may prove effective include stroke, epilepsy, Alzheimer disease and PTSD.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a lethal disorder of skeletal muscle caused by mutations in the dystrophin gene. Adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector-mediated gene therapy is a promising approach to the disease. Although a rod-truncated microdystrophin gene has been proven to ameliorate dystrophic phenotypes, the level of microdystrophin expression required for effective gene therapy by an AAV vector has not been determined yet. Here, we constructed a recombinant AAV type 2 vector, AAV2-MCKDeltaCS1, expressing microdystrophin (DeltaCS1) under the control of a muscle-specific MCK promoter and injected it into TA muscles of 10-day-old and 5-week-old mdx mice. AAV2-MCKDeltaCS1-mediated gene transfer into 5-week-old mdx muscle resulted in extensive and long-term expression of microdystrophin and significantly improved force generation. Interestingly, 10-day-old injected muscle expressed microdystrophin in a limited number of myofibers but showed hypertrophy of microdystrophin-positive muscle fibers and considerable recovery of contractile force. Thus, we concluded that AAV2-MCKDeltaCS1 could be a powerful tool for gene therapy of DMD.
Deficiency of enzyme acid beta-galactosidase causes GM1 gangliosidosis. Patients with adult GM1 gangliosidosis typically present with generalized dystonia. We describe clinical, bone marrow, and radiological features of adult GM1 gangliosidosis to help improve its recognition. We report 3 Indian patients and review of reports between 1981 and October 2002. The disease frequently is reported in the Japanese literature (75%). Patients are normal at birth and have normal early motor and mental development. Onset is within the first decade with abnormal gait, or worsening of speech is an initial symptom. Dystonia occurs in 97% of patients. Facial dystonia described as &quot;facial grimacing&quot; observed in approximately 90% could be an important clinical clue. Dysarthria/anarthria (97%) is frequent, and eye movements are normal. Bone marrow examination may show Gaucher-like foam cells (39%). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) frequently (90.9%) shows bilateral symmetrical putamenal hyperintensities on T2-weighted and proton density images. Diagnosis is confirmed by demonstrating deficiency of beta-galactosidase. Adult (Type 3) GM1 Gangliosidosis commonly presents with generalized dystonia with prominent facial dystonia, severe speech disturbances, and normal eye movements. Bone marrow frequently shows Gaucher-like foam cells. MRI shows typical lesions in the putamen. Deficiency of beta-galactosidase in fibroblasts confirms the diagnosis.
Spinal segmental myoclonus rarely occurs in peripheral neurological disorders. There are no data about the efficacy of topiramate (TPM) on spinal myoclonus. We describe a patient whose segmental myoclonus in amputation stump was ameliorated markedly by TPM.
Synaptobrevin-2 (VAMP-2), the major SNARE protein of synaptic vesicles, is required for fast calcium-triggered synaptic-vesicle exocytosis. Here we show that synaptobrevin-2 is also essential for fast synaptic-vesicle endocytosis. We demonstrate that after depletion of the readily releasable vesicle pool, replenishment of the pool is delayed by knockout of synaptobrevin. This delay was not from a loss of vesicles, because the total number of pre-synaptic vesicles, docked vesicles and actively recycling vesicles was unaffected. However, altered shape and size of the vesicles in synaptobrevin-deficient synapses suggests a defect in endocytosis. Consistent with such a defect, the stimulus-dependent endocytosis of horseradish peroxidase and fluorescent FM1-43 were delayed, indicating that fast vesicle endocytosis may normally be nucleated by a SNARE-dependent coat. Thus, synaptobrevin is essential for two fast synapse-specific membrane trafficking reactions: fast exocytosis for neurotransmitter release and fast endocytosis that mediates rapid reuse of synaptic vesicles.
A recent perspective discussed high-throughput behavioral analysis using mice, giving the overall impression that this area is lagging behind in neuroscience and biomedical research. Not only are we more optimistic about the current state of the art in behavioral neuroscience and its promise, but we also have reservations about whether high-throughput analysis is always an appropriate goal for most behavioral studies. We argue that behavioral studies should be carried out with clear goals and more regard to the intellectual context in which they have developed. In addition, behavioral studies can be performed quite easily, but this does not ensure the required validity or reliability of the particular tests used. Finally, high throughput may not always be an appropriate goal. We discuss the role of automated data collection and unique data-mining algorithms, and the question of the ethological relevance of behavioral tests.
Emotional visual stimuli evoke enhanced responses in the visual cortex. To test whether this reflects modulatory influences from the amygdala on sensory processing, we used event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in human patients with medial temporal lobe sclerosis. Twenty-six patients with lesions in the amygdala, the hippocampus or both, plus 13 matched healthy controls, were shown pictures of fearful or neutral faces in task-releant or task-irrelevant positions on the display. All subjects showed increased fusiform cortex activation when the faces were in task-relevant positions. Both healthy individuals and those with hippocampal damage showed increased activation in the fusiform and occipital cortex when they were shown fearful faces, but this was not the case for individuals with damage to the amygdala, even though visual areas were structurally intact. The distant influence of the amygdala was also evidenced by the parametric relationship between amygdala damage and the level of emotional activation in the fusiform cortex. Our data show that combining the fMRI and lesion approaches can help reveal the source of functional modulatory influences between distant but interconnected brain regions.
Amyloid plaques are a hallmark of Alzheimer disease, but their importance in its pathogenesis is controversial. By neuronal labeling and transcranial two-photon imaging, we show in a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer disease that dendrites passing through or near fibrillar amyloid deposits undergo spine loss and shaft atrophy, and nearby axons develop large varicosities, together leading to neurite breakage and large-scale, permanent disruption of neuronal connections. Thus, fibrillar amyloid deposition is more detrimental to neuronal circuitry than previously thought, underscoring the importance of prevention and early clearance of plaques.
Several recent microarray studies have compared gene-expression patterns n humans, chimpanzees and other non-human primates to identify evolutionary changes that contribute to the distinctive cognitive and behavioural characteristics of humans. These studies support the surprising conclusion that the evolution of the human brain involved an upregulation of gene expression relative to non-human primates, a finding that could be relevant to understanding human cerebral physiology and function. These results show how genetic and genomic methods can shed light on the basis of human neural and cognitive specializations, and have important implications for neuroscience, anthropology and medicine.
Objects are the building blocks of experience, but what do we mean by an object? Increasingly, neuroscientists refer to 'auditory objects', yet it is not clear what properties these should possess, how they might be represented in the brain, or how they might relate to the more familiar objects of vision. The concept of an auditory object challenges our understanding of object perception. Here, we offer a critical perspective on the concept and its basis in the brain.
Priming is a nonconscious form of memory that involves a change in a person's ability to identify, produce or classify an item as a result of a previous encounter with that item or a related item. One important question relates to the specificity of priming - the extent to which priming reflects the influence of abstract representations or the retention of specific features of a previous episode. Cognitive neuroscience analyses provide evidence for three types of specificity: stimulus, associative and response. We consider empirical, methodological and conceptual issues that relate to each type of specificity, and suggest a theoretical perspective to help in guiding future research.
The learning and remembering of fearful events depends on the integrity of the amygdala, but how are fear memories represented in the activity of amygdala neurons? Here, we review recent electrophysiological studies indicating that neurons in the lateral amygdala encode aversive memories during the acquisition and extinction of Pavlovian fear conditioning. Studies that combine unit recording with brain lesions and pharmacological inactivation provide evidence that the lateral amygdala is a crucial locus of fear memory. Extinction of fear memory reduces associative plasticity in the lateral amygdala and involves the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. Understanding the signalling of aversive memory by amygdala neurons opens new avenues for research into the neural systems that support fear behaviour.
Recent work has examined the estimation of models of stimulus-driven neural activity in which some linear filtering process is followed by a nonlinear, probabilistic spiking stage. We analyze the estimation of one such model for which this nonlinear step is implemented by a known parametric function; the assumption that this function is known speeds the estimation process considerably. We investigate the shape of the likelihood function for this type of model, give a simple condition on the nonlinearity ensuring that no non-global local maxima exist in the likelihood-leading, in turn, to efficient algorithms for the computation of the maximum likelihood estimator-and discuss the implications for the form of the allowed nonlinearities. Finally, we note some interesting connections between the likelihood-based estimators and the classical spike-triggered average estimator, discuss some useful extensions of the basic model structure, and provide two novel applications to physiological data.
Axons are often guided to their targets in the developing nervous system by attractive or repulsive molecular concentration gradients. We propose a computational model for gradient sensing and directed movement of the growth cone mediated by filopodia. We show that relatively simple mechanisms are sufficient to generate realistic trajectories for both the short-term response of axons to steep gradients and the long-term response of axons to shallow gradients. The model makes testable predictions for axonal response to attractive and repulsive gradients of different concentrations and steepness, the size of the intracellular amplification of the gradient signal, and the differences in intracellular signaling required for repulsive versus attractive turning.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has emerged as a major regulator of synaptic plasticity in the adult brain and acute BDNF infusion has been shown to trigger long-term potentiation (BDNF-LTP) in adult rats. Here we compared the effects of acute BDNF infusion in young adult and aged anesthetized rats. In young rats, BDNF-LTP was accompanied by increased activation of the BDNF receptor TrkB, and extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), as well as enhanced evoked release of glutamate in synaptosomes prepared from DG. In aged rats, both BDNF-LTP and the associated signaling were significantly impaired, while analysis of untreated hippocampal tissue from aged rats showed that activation of TrkB and ERK were decreased. In addition to effects in the DG, BDNF-LTP was accompanied by robust phosphorylation of the calcium/cAMP-responsive element binding protein (CREB) in tissue prepared from entorhinal cortex of both young and aged rats. These results suggest a cascade of presynaptic changes contributing to the expression of BDNF-induced LTP and show that BDNF-induced transduction mechanisms are attenuated with age.
Inflammatory processes are involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Several studies have addressed the effects of interleukin-1 (IL-1) genes polymorphisms on the risk of developing AD. The results are not in full agreement on whether these polymorphisms are associated with the disease. To clarify this issue, we performed a meta-analysis of all the association studies between IL-1 genes and AD. Due to the relatively small number of published articles, the meta-analysis was restricted to the association of the IL-1alpha -889 C/T gene polymorphism and AD. Under a random effects model, the risk for the disease was significantly higher in subjects with the T/T genotype in comparison with both C/T (OR: 1.51; 95% C.I.: 1.15-1.99) and C/C (OR: 1.49; 95% C.I.: 1.09-2.03) subjects. There was modest heterogeneity for these effect estimates. Analysis of subgroups showed a significant association in patients with early-onset AD but not in late-onset AD. Our data support a significant but modest association between the T/T genotype of the IL-1alpha gene and AD.
Viral delivery of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) currently represents one of the most promising neuroprotective strategies for Parkinson's Disease (PD). However, the effect of this neurotrophic factor has never been tested in the newly available genetic models of PD based on the viral expression of mutated alpha-synuclein. In this study, we evaluated the ability of lentiviral vectors coding for GDNF (lenti-GDNF) to prevent nigral dopaminergic degeneration associated with the lentiviral mediated expression of the A30P mutant human alpha-synuclein (lenti-A30P). This virally based rat model develops a progressive and selective loss of dopamine neurons associated with the appearance of alpha-synuclein containing inclusions, thus recapitulating the major hallmarks of PD. Lenti-GDNF was injected in the substantia nigra 2 weeks before nigral administration of lenti-A30P. Although a robust expression of GDNF was observed in the whole nigrostriatal pathway due to retrograde and/or anterograde transport, lenti-GDNF did not prevent the alpha-synuclein-induced dopaminergic neurodegeneration in the lentiviral-based genetic rat model of PD. These results suggest that sustained GDNF treatment cannot modulate the cellular toxicity related to abnormal folded protein accumulation as mutated human alpha-synuclein.
Molecular machinery involved in apoptosis plays a role in neuronal death in neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD) and Huntington's disease (HD). Several caspase inhibitors, such as the well-known peptidyl inhibitor carbobenzoxy-Val-Ala-Asp-fluoromethylketone (zVADfmk), can protect neurons from apoptotic death caused by mitochondrial toxins. However, the poor penetrability of zVADfmk into brain and toxicity limits its use therapeutically. In the present study, a novel peptidyl broad-spectrum caspase inhibitor, Q-VD-OPH, which offers improvements in potency, stability, and toxicity over zVADfmk, showed significant protection against 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), 3-nitropropionic acid (3NP), and malonate toxicities. Q-VD-OPH significantly reduced dopamine depletion in striatum produced by MPTP administration and prevented MPTP-induced loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. It significantly reduced the size of striatal lesions produced by intrastriatal malonate injections and systemic administration of 3NP. Western blots performed on tissues from the midbrain following administration of MPTP or the striatum in 3NP-treated animals showed increases of the active forms of caspase-9 and caspase-8, as well as the caspase-8-mediated proapoptotic protein Bid, which were inhibited Q-VD-OPH treatment. These findings suggest that systematically active broad-spectrum caspase inhibitors maybe useful in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases such as PD and HD.
Abnormal expression and activity of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) may contribute to the pathophysiology of cerebral disease such as ischemic injury. In this study, we compared the cellular localization, expression, and activity of MMP-2 and -9 in relation to the evolution of neuronal damage 24 and 72 h after transient global ischemia. In response to ischemia, there was a generalized increase in cellular MMP-2 immunoreactivity at 24-h reperfusion (in neurons, glia and vessels) whereas at 72-h reperfusion the increase in MMP-2 was predominantly in glia. These glial alterations contributed to a significant increase in pro MMP-2 levels in ischemic regions (P &lt; 0.01) as measured by zymography. In contrast, MMP-9 was predominantly upregulated in neurons and this was significantly different to shams at 24- and 72-h reperfusion after ischemia (P &lt; 0.05). Notably, a dramatic increase in proteolytic activity in neurons was observed 24 h after ischemia and this response was absent at 72 h post-ischemia. The present data are supportive of a role for MMPs in contributing to neuronal injury after ischemia.
Two relatively simple theories of brain function will be used to demonstrate the explanatory power of multiple memory systems in your brain interacting cooperatively or competitively to directly or indirectly influence cognition and behaviour. The view put forth in this mini-review is that interactions between memory systems produce normal and abnormal manifestations of behaviour, and by logical extension, an understanding of these complex interactions holds the key to understanding debilitating brain and psychiatric disorders.
In addition to modulating memory per se, estrogen alters the learning strategy used to solve a task, thereby regulating the quality of information processed by the brain. This review discusses estrogen's actions on cognition within a memory systems framework, highlighting our work with a variety of paradigms showing that learning strategy is sensitive to estrogen even when learning rate is not. Specifically, high levels of gonadal steroids, in particular, elevations in estrogen, bias female rats toward using hippocampal-sensitive approaches while low levels of gonadal steroids promote the use of non-hippocampal sensitive strategies. In light of findings from a variety of approaches involving the hippocampus in allocentric and the striatum in egocentric response patterns, it is likely that estrogen alters the relative participation of these, and most undoubtedly other, neural systems during cognition. Changes in neuromodulators such as acetylcholine that regulate other processes such as inhibitory tone and excitability reflect one mechanism by which estrogen may orchestrate learning and memory.
The discovery of multiple memory systems supported by discrete brain regions has been one of the most important advances in behavioral neuroscience. A wealth of studies have investigated the role of the hippocampus and related structures in supporting various types of memory classifications. While the exact classification that best describes hippocampal function is often debated, a specific subset of cognitive function that is focused on the use of spatial information to form hippocampal cognitive maps has received extensive investigation. These studies frequently employ a variety of experimental manipulations including brain lesions, temporary neural blockade due to cooling or discrete injections of specific drugs. While these studies have provided important insights into the function of the hippocampus, they are limited due to the invasive nature of the manipulation. Ethanol is a drug that is easily administered in a non-invasive fashion, is rapidly absorbed and produces effects only in specific brain regions. The hippocampus is one brain region affected by acute ethanol administration. The following review summarizes research from the last 20 years investigating the effects of acute ethanol administration on one specific type of hippocampal cognitive function, namely spatial memory. It is proposed that among its many effects, one specific action of acute ethanol administration is to produce similar cognitive and neurophysiological effects as lesions of the hippocampus. Based on these similarities and the ease of its use, it is concluded that acute ethanol administration is a valuable tool in studying hippocampal function and multiple memory systems.
We present a framework for understanding how the hippocampus, neocortex, and basal ganglia work together to support cognitive and behavioral function in the mammalian brain. This framework is based on computational tradeoffs that arise in neural network models, where achieving one type of learning function requires very different parameters from those necessary to achieve another form of learning. For example, we dissociate the hippocampus from cortex with respect to general levels of activity, learning rate, and level of overlap between activation patterns. Similarly, the frontal cortex and associated basal ganglia system have important neural specializations not required of the posterior cortex system. Taken together, this overall cognitive architecture, which has been implemented in functioning computational models, provides a rich and often subtle means of explaining a wide range of behavioral and cognitive neuroscience data. Here, we summarize recent results in the domains of recognition memory, contextual fear conditioning, effects of basal ganglia lesions on stimulus-response and place learning, and flexible responding.
On the basis of lesions of different brain areas, several neural systems appear to be important for processing information regarding different types of learning and memory. This paper examines the development of pharmacological and neurochemical approaches to multiple memory systems from past studies of modulation of memory formation. The findings suggest that peripheral neuroendocrine mechanisms that regulate memory processing may target their actions toward those neural systems most engaged in the processing of learning and memory. In addition, measurements of acetylcholine release in different memory systems reveals extensive interactions between memory systems, some cooperative and some competitive. These results imply that many neural systems, often characterized as relatively independent, may in fact interact extensively, blurring the dependencies of different memory tasks on specific neural systems.
It is proposed that memory is organized into event-based, knowledge-based, and rule-based memory systems. Furthermore, each system is composed of the same set of multiple attributes and characterized by a set of process oriented operating characteristics that are mapped onto multiple neural regions and interconnected neural circuits. Based on this theoretical model of memory, it is possible to investigate the independence and interaction among brain regions between any two systems for any of the proposed attributes or processes. This applies also to the investigation of independence and interactions between any two attributes within a system and between processes associated with a system for any of the proposed attributes. In this article, research evidence is presented to suggest that there are both dissociations and interactions between the hippocampus and caudate nucleus in mediating spatial and response attributes within the event-based memory system, between the hippocampus and the parietal cortex in subserving the spatial attribute within the event-based and knowledge-based memory systems, and between the hippocampus and the prefrontal cortex in subserving the spatial attribute within the event-based and rule-based memory systems.
The idea that memory is composed of distinct systems has a long history but became a topic of experimental inquiry only after the middle of the 20th century. Beginning about 1980, evidence from normal subjects, amnesic patients, and experimental animals converged on the view that a fundamental distinction could be drawn between a kind of memory that is accessible to conscious recollection and another kind that is not. Subsequent work shifted thinking beyond dichotomies to a view, grounded in biology, that memory is composed of multiple separate systems supported, for example, by the hippocampus and related structures, the amygdala, the neostriatum, and the cerebellum. This article traces the development of these ideas and provides a current perspective on how these brain systems operate to support behavior.

Already 30 years ago, it became apparent that there exists a relationship between acetylcholine and cGMP in the brain. Acetylcholine plays a role in a great number of processes in the brain, however, the role of cGMP in these processes is not known. A review of the data shows that, although the connection between NO-mediated cGMP synthesis and acetylcholine is firmly established, the complexities of the heterosynaptic pathways and the oligosynaptic structures involved preclude a clear definition of the role of cGMP in the functioning of acetylcholine presently.
Astrogliosis is an inevitable and rapid response of astrocytes to physical, chemical and pathological injuries. To study astrogliosis, we developed a reproducible in vitro model in which low temperature injury to cultured astrocytes could be induced by placing the culture dish onto a copper pipe pre-cooled by liquid nitrogen. Using this model, the relationship between the temperature decline and the severity of cellular damage was analyzed. An increase in the expression of some known injury-related proteins, such as glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), immediate early response genes (IEGs), and heat shock proteins 70 (HSP70), was demonstrated in astrocytes after low temperature trauma. With the use of this low temperature trauma model, the flexibility in the temperature control and injury area may allow researchers to evaluate cryotherapy and cryosurgery, which could be applicable to future development of quality health care.
Previous studies have revealed the presence of Na+ / Ca2+ exchanger (NCX) activity associated with GM1 ganglioside in the nuclear envelope (NE) of neurons and glia as well as various neural cell lines. The nuclear NCX1 exchanger, unlike that in the plasma membrane, was shown to be tightly associated with GM1 and potentiated by the latter. One non-neural cell line, Jurkat, was found to contain no Na+ / Ca2+ exchanger of the NCX1, NCX2, or NCX3 types in either nuclear or plasma membrane. To determine whether such absence in the NE is generally characteristic of non-neural cells we have examined two more such cell lines in addition to human lymphocytes. RT-PCR showed NCX1 expression in both HeLa and NCTC cell lines and also NCX2 in the latter; NCX3, a subtype previously observed in NG108-15 cells, was not expressed in either. Immunocytochemical and immunoblot studies indicated NCX1 on the cell surface and nuclear envelope of both cell types. Some alternatively spliced isoforms of NCX1 in the nuclear envelope of both cell types were tightly associated with ganglioside GM1. Human lymphocytes, a mixed population of T and B cells, showed similar evidence for plasma membrane and nuclear expression in some but not all cells. The high affinity association between NCX1 and GM1, explored by reaction with base, acid, and proteases, was found to involve charge-charge interaction with a requirement for a positively charged moiety in NCX.
The purpose of the present study is to elucidate whether ketamine, a non-competitive antagonist of the NMDA receptor, can suppress the morphine withdrawal syndrome in rats at a dose without affecting motor functions and to identify its site of action in the central nervous system. Rats were made dependent on morphine by multiple injections of morphine hydrochloride for 5 days. They were then given ketamine at the following doses and routes of administration: (a) intraperitoneal (i.p.) injections (2-16 mg/kg), (b) intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injections (4-100 microg), and (c) intra-nucleus accumbens (NAc) or intra-amygdalar microinjections (0.4-10 microg). Naloxone HCl (1 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered 3 h after the last ketamine injection to precipitate withdrawal syndrome, which was scored within a period of 30 min. Results showed that some of the precipitated withdrawal signs were dose-dependently suppressed by repeated injections of ketamine at 8 and 16 mg/kg, i.p. or 100 microg, i.c.v. Dose-dependent suppression was observed by repeated microinjections (0.4-10 microg) of ketamine to NAc, but not to amygdala. These results indicate that the NMDA receptor antagonist ketamine has the ability to suppress morphine withdrawal syndrome in experimental settings without motor interference, and NAc could be the critical CNS site mediating such effect.
The purpose of my chapter in this issue of Neuroscience Reviews dedicated to Dr. Lawrence Eng is to summarize my contributions to understanding the mechanisms of neurodegeneration in prion diseases. I explain that I was able to advance the field of prion disease neuropathology largely because of the foundation of neurochemistry and immunohistochemistry that I learned while working 5 years in Dr. Eng's laboratory. In my review, I relate how my Neuropathology Research Laboratory began as a collaboration with Dr. Stanley Prusiner 20 years ago that led from immunohistochemical staining of amyloid plaques in rodent and human brains using prion protein-specific antibodies to molecular evidence that the abnormal prion protein, PrP(Sc), is the cause of the clinically relevant neuropathological changes in animal and human prion diseases.
A population-based neuroepidemiological survey of 102,557 individuals in urban and rural Bangalore in Southern India was conducted to determine the prevalence and pattern of neurological disorders. The study population included subjects from urban (51,502) and rural (51,055) areas, identified through a two-stage stratified random sampling method. Trained social workers administered the screening questionnaire, which had been tested and validated in an earlier pilot study and a neurologist examined the individuals who screened positive. Adults, children (&lt;15 years) and elderly adults (&gt;60 years) constituted 61, 34 and 5% of the study group, respectively. There was a distinct difference in education, occupation and income levels between urban and rural areas with all these parameters being lower in the rural population. In the surveyed population, 3,206 individuals with neurological disorders were detected resulting in crude and age-adjusted prevalence rates of 3,126 and 3,355 per 100,000 population, respectively. The prevalence rate among children, middle-aged (31-40 years) and elderly adults was 2,653, 3,932 and 5,012 per 100,000 population, respectively. The prevalence of neurological disorders among women (3,617) was higher compared with men (2,657). The prevalence rate in urban and rural populations was 2,190 and 4,070/1,00,000, respectively, implying that neurological disorders were twice as frequent in rural areas as in urban areas. The prevalence rates per 100,000 population of the most frequent disorders in the descending order of frequency were: headache (1,119), epilepsy (883), febrile convulsions (330), cerebrovascular disorder (150), and mental retardation (142). This large-scale population-based survey provides data that will be crucial for developing hospital and community-based neurological services in India and other developing countries.
Segmentation and representation of the human cerebral cortex from magnetic resonance (MR) images play an important role in neuroscience and medicine. A successful segmentation method must be robust to various imaging artifacts and produce anatomically meaningful and consistent cortical representations. A method for the automatic reconstruction of the inner, central, and outer surfaces of the cerebral cortex from T1-weighted MR brain images is presented. The method combines a fuzzy tissue classification method, an efficient topology correction algorithm, and a topology-preserving geometric deformable surface model (TGDM). The algorithm is fast and numerically stable, and yields accurate brain surface reconstructions that are guaranteed to be topologically correct and free from self-intersections. Validation results on real MR data are presented to demonstrate the performance of the method.
In event-related functional MRI (fMRI) studies, greater activity for items that are subsequently remembered (R-items) than for items that are subsequently forgotten (F-items), or Dm effect (Difference in memory), has been attributed to successful encoding operations. In contrast, regions showing a reverse DM effect (revDM = F-items &gt; R-items) have been linked to detrimental processes leading to forgetting. Yet, revDMs may reflect not only activations for F-items (aFs) but also deactivations for R-items (dRs), and the latter alternative is more likely to reflect beneficial rather than detrimental encoding processes. To investigate this issue, we used a paradigm that included a fixation baseline and could distinguish between the two types of revDMs (aF vs. dR). Participants were scanned while encoding semantic associations between words or perceptual associations between words and fonts, and their memory was measured with associative recognition tests. For both semantic and perceptual encoding, dR effects were found in dorsolateral prefrontal, temporoparietal, and posterior midline regions. In contrast with a prior study that attributed revDMs in these regions to detrimental processes, the present results suggest that these effects reflect beneficial processes, that is, the efficient reallocation of neurocognitive resources. At the same time, aF effects were found in other regions, such as the insula, and these are more consistent with an interpretation in terms of detrimental processes. Whereas most fMRI studies of encoding have focused on activation increases, the present study indicates that activation decreases are also critical for successful learning of new information.
Source current estimation from MEG measurement is an ill-posed problem that requires prior assumptions about brain activity and an efficient estimation algorithm. In this article, we propose a new hierarchical Bayesian method introducing a hierarchical prior that can effectively incorporate both structural and functional MRI data. In our method, the variance of the source current at each source location is considered an unknown parameter and estimated from the observed MEG data and prior information by using the Variational Bayesian method. The fMRI information can be imposed as prior information on the variance distribution rather than the variance itself so that it gives a soft constraint on the variance. A spatial smoothness constraint, that the neural activity within a few millimeter radius tends to be similar due to the neural connections, can also be implemented as a hierarchical prior. The proposed method provides a unified theory to deal with the following three situations: (1) MEG with no other data, (2) MEG with structural MRI data on cortical surfaces, and (3) MEG with both structural MRI and fMRI data. We investigated the performance of our method and conventional linear inverse methods under these three conditions. Simulation results indicate that our method has better accuracy and spatial resolution than the conventional linear inverse methods under all three conditions. It is also shown that accuracy of our method improves as MRI and fMRI information becomes available. Simulation results demonstrate that our method appropriately resolves the inverse problem even if fMRI data convey inaccurate information, while the Wiener filter method is seriously deteriorated by inaccurate fMRI information.
Making predictions about future rewards is an important ability for primates, and its neurophysiological mechanisms have been studied extensively. One important approach is to identify neural systems that process errors related to reward prediction (i.e., areas that register the occurrence of unpredicted rewards and the failure of expected rewards). In monkeys that have learned to predict appetitive rewards during reward-directed behaviors, dopamine neurons reliably signal both types of prediction error. The mechanisms in the human brain involved in processing prediction error for monetary rewards are not well understood. Furthermore, nothing is known of how such systems operate when rewards are not contingent on behavior. We used event-related fMRI to localize responses to both classes of prediction error. Subjects were able to predict a monetary reward or a nonreward on the basis of a prior visual cue. On occasional trials, cue-outcome contingencies were reversed (unpredicted rewards and failure of expected rewards). Subjects were not required to make decisions or actions. We compared each type of prediction error trial with its corresponding control trial in which the same prediction did not fail. Each type of prediction error evoked activity in a distinct frontotemporal circuit. Unexpected reward failure evoked activity in the temporal cortex and frontal pole (area 10). Unpredicted rewards evoked activity in the orbitofrontal cortex, the frontal pole, parahippocampal cortex, and cerebellum. Activity time-locked to prediction errors in frontotemporal circuits suggests that they are involved in encoding the associations between visual cues and monetary rewards in the human brain.

We report the case of a 34-year-old woman with clinical, neuroradiological and intraoperative histological findings, suggesting a low-grade astrocytic tumour. The demyelinating nature of the lesion was established through biopsy only after neurosurgery. The lesion size, in fact, greatly exceeded that of the perivenous demyelination seen in typical multiple sclerosis (MS) and tended to present as a space-occupying mass. This case underlines the importance of considering demyelinating isolated lesions in the differential diagnosis of a brain mass. Since misdiagnosis can result in unwarranted and aggressive therapy, it is critical for the neurologist to be aware of this serious diagnostic pitfall.
Marburg type and Bal's concentric sclerosis are considered particular variants of multiple sclerosis, clinically characterized by a severe, rapidly evolving clinical course, and by unusual neuropathological changes, often large tumor-like demyelinating plaques in Marburg type and concentric layers of partial demyelination alternating with demyelinating bands in Bal's concentric sclerosis. These forms now can be diagnosed in vivo, with complete clinical and laboratory examination and MRI follow up. Although in some patients a favourable clinical course has been described, the poor prognosis of the majority of these cases justifies a treatment with intense immunosuppression.
In the series of experiments reported here we provide evidence that a focal adhesion-like process underlies the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) in the Schaffer Collateral-CA1 projection in the hippocampus. Here we show that an integrin binding peptide (RGD) impairs induction of Schaffer Collateral-CA1 LTP in hippocampal slice preparations in vitro. The heparin-binding peptide that binds heparan sulfate proteoglycan (HSPG) and blocks the formation of focal adhesions also impairs induction of LTP. Either the integrin-binding peptide or heparin-binding peptide reduces LTP partially. However, when the two peptides were administered simultaneously, there was no LTP 1 hour after induction. This indicates that these two molecules might function together and that a focal adhesion-like process might be involved in the induction of LTP. Additionally,we report that the RGD effect on LTP is time dependent and occurs only in the first few minutes following LTP induction, that the binding of the RGD peptide in CA1 stratum radiatum increases after LTP induction and that this increased binding depends on Ca(2+). Using electron microscopy we show that integrins are present in synapses.
Increasing evidence implicates reactive oxygen species, particularly hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), as intracellular and intercellular messengers in the brain. This raises the question of how the antioxidant network in the brain can be sufficiently permissive to allow messages to be conveyed yet, at the same time, provide adequate protection against oxidative damage. Here we present evidence that this is accomplished in part by differential antioxidant compartmentalization between glia and neurons. Based on the rationale that the glia-to-neuron ratio is higher in guinea-pig brain than in rat brain, we examined the neuroprotective role of the glial antioxidant network by comparing the consequences of elevated H(2)O(2) in guinea-pig and rat brain slices. The effects of exogenously applied H(2)O(2) on evoked population spikes in hippocampal slices and on edema formation in forebrain slices were assessed. In contrast to the epileptiform activity observed in rat hippocampal slices after H(2)O(2) exposure, no pathophysiology was seen in guinea-pig hippocampal slices. Similarly, elevated H(2)O(2) caused edema in rat brain slices, whereas this did not occur in guinea-pig brain tissue. The resistance of guinea-pig brain tissue to H(2)O(2) challenge was lost, however, when glutathione (GSH) synthesis was inhibited (by buthionine sulfoximine), GSH peroxidase activity was inhibited (by mercaptosuccinate), or catalase was inhibited (by 3-amino-1,2,4,-triazole). Strikingly, exogenously applied ascorbate, a predominantly neuronal antioxidant, was able to compensate for loss of any other single component of the antioxidant network. Together, these data imply significant roles for glial antioxidants and neuronal ascorbate in the prevention of pathophysiological consequences of the endogenous neuromodulator, H(2)O(2).
Synapse formation in the CNS is a complex process that involves the dynamic interplay of numerous signals exchanged between pre- and postsynaptic neurons as well as perisynaptic glia. Members of the neurotrophin family, which are widely expressed in the developing and mature CNS and are well-known for their roles in promoting neuronal survival and differentiation, have emerged as key synaptic modulators. However, the mechanisms by which neurotrophins modulate synapse formation and function are poorly understood. Here, we summarize our work on the role of neurotrophins in synaptogenesis in the CNS, in particular the role of these signaling molecules and their receptors, the Trks, in the development of excitatory and inhibitory hippocampal synapses. We discuss our results that demonstrate that postsynaptic TrkB signaling plays an important role in modulating the formation and maintenance of NMDA and GABAA receptor clusters at central synapses, and suggest that neurotrophin signaling coordinately modulates these receptors as part of mechanism that promotes the balance between excitation and inhibition in developing circuits. We also discuss our results that demonstrate that astrocytes promote the formation of GABAergic synapses in vitro by differentially regulating the development of inhibitory presynaptic terminals and postsynaptic GABAA receptor clusters, and suggest that glial modulation of inhibitory synaptogenesis is mediated by neurotrophin-dependent and -independent signaling. Together, these findings extend our understanding of how neuron-glia communication modulates synapse formation, maintenance and function, and set the stage for defining the cellular and molecular mechanisms by which neurotrophins and other cell-cell signals direct synaptogenesis in the developing brain.
The effects of nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) and endomorphin-1 (EM-1) on glutamate and GABA release, intracellular calcium, neuronal excitability and glutamate current were investigated in rat primary cortical neuronal cultures. Through their specific receptors N/OFQ and EM-1 (0.02-1 microM) inhibited the electrically evoked outflow of [3H]D-aspartate at most to -50% and that of [3H]GABA to -30%. In addition, at 1 microM, both peptides induced a decrease of the firing rate caused by electrical depolarization. N/OFQ 1-10 microM did not influence either the electrically evoked calcium influx or the glutamate-evoked currents, whereas EM-1 1 microM significantly inhibited them. Thus, in cortical neurons in culture, both N/OFQ and EM-1 inhibited the secretory process and neuronal excitability but EM-1 also affected calcium influx and cell body responsiveness to glutamate. Consequently, EM-1 appeared to dampen this excitatory signal more then N/OFQ did.
Rearing rats in impoverished (IC) and enriched (EC) environmental conditions alters synaptic plasticity and cognitive processes. Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are known to play a key role in synaptic and behavioral plasticity. In the present study, the effect of rearing conditions on the expression of mGluR proteins in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) was assessed by immunoblotting. A significant difference in the content of prefrontal mGluR1 and mGluR5 (ie group I) and mGluR2/3 (ie group II) was observed between IC and EC rats. To functionally characterize this difference, in vivo microdialysis was used to verify differences in mGluR regulation of extracellular glutamate in the PFC. The results indicate that the capacity of group I and II mGluRs to elevate extracellular glutamate levels was significantly blunted in the PFC of IC rats compared to either EC subjects, or rats reared in normal environmental conditions (ie NIH standards). Group II mGluR receptors regulate performance in a forced T-maze spatial memory task that involves the PFC, and IC rats demonstrated deficits in this task relative to EC rats. These data suggest that reduced mGluR transmission in the PFC produced by impoverished, relative to enriched, rearing environments may contribute to cognitive deficits.
Psychostimulants, when administered acutely, produce significant deficits in cognitive tasks. Indeed, there is considerable evidence that acute administration of cocaine alters cellular processes at the level of the nucleus accumbens and the ventral tegmental area (VTA). However, there have been few studies that explore the acute effects of cocaine in the prefrontal cortex (PFC). Here we report that acute cocaine administration in vivo evokes a prolonged membrane depolarization, decreases cortical spontaneous firing, compromises spontaneous membrane bistability, and blunts the VTA-evoked responses in the PFC. Moreover, acute cocaine administration decreases the amplitude of the EPSP-IPSP sequence that precedes the initiation of the Up states in the PFC, therefore compromising the driving force of cortical bistability and thereby cortical excitability.
Reaction time (RT) procedures are a prominent tool for the study of information processing by humans and other animals. The interpretation of how RT changes after manipulating the appropriate experimental variables has contributed to the contemporary understanding of a variety of cognitive constructs, including attention and memory. With the use of properly designed tasks, evaluating how RT is modified in response to various neural perturbations has become common within the realms of behavioral and cognitive neuroscience. One interesting observation made during both human and animal RT experiments is that the RT to a signal often speeds-up as more time is allotted to prepare for the signal's onset-referred to as the preparatory interval (PI) effect. In the human RT literature, the PI effect has been used as evidence for time estimation playing a fundamental role in the determination of RT. On the other hand, our theoretical understanding of time estimation remains largely divorced from the RT findings in the animal cognition literature. In order to bridge these different perspectives, we provide here a review of the behavioral parallels between RT and interval-timing experiments. Moreover, both the PI effect and interval timing are shown to be jointly influenced by neuropathologies such as Parkinson's disease in humans or dopamine-depleting brain lesions in experimental animals. The primary goal of this review is to consider human and animal RT experiments within the broader context of interval timing. This is accomplished by first integrating human RT theory with scalar timing theory-the leading model of interval timing. Following this, both RT and interval timing are discussed at a brain systems level insofar as these two processes share common neural substrates. Our conclusion is that interval timing and RT processes are in fact two sides of the same coin.
Various research problems are presented to illustrate the utility of using the interactive multiple learning and memory systems view to better understand normal and abnormal manifestations of mammalian behaviour. Evidence for incidental learning and memory processes is presented and various implications of this work are discussed. Empirical and theoretical work directed at understanding the cognitive and non-cognitive processes associated with place learning in the water task and context conditioning during aversive events is also presented.
Tasks that measure spatial learning and navigation have become central to contemporary research programs concerned with identifying the neurobiological bases of learning and memory. Although the past three decades have seen an explosion of research reports on rodent navigation, only a small proportion of this research has been directly aimed at identifying the constituent psychological and behavioral processes involved in navigation. Such efforts are critical for establishing a complete neuroscientific explanation of spatial behavior and navigation, however, the majority of these research efforts have focused on identifying a single behavioral dissociation (e.g. place learning vs cued navigation). Experimental comparisons limited to only two possible alternatives can lead to erroneous or otherwise incomplete conclusions regarding how animals navigate. Because multiple sources of information may come to bear on an animal's behavior in spatial tasks, consideration of these sources and their interaction may avoid certain pitfalls inherent in the single dissociation approach. We offer a descriptive model of rodent navigation which includes three important dimensions: reference frame, information, and movement control. A variety of extant behavioral and neurophysiological data that support the basic utility of this conceptual framework are discussed.
The assessment of cognitive functions in rodents represents a critical experimental variable in many research fields, ranging from the basic cognitive neurosciences to psychopharmacology and neurotoxicology. The increasing use of animal behavioral tests as 'assays' for the assessment of effects on learning and memory has resulted in a considerable heterogeneity of data, particularly in the field of behavioral and psycho pharmacology. The limited predictive validity of changes in behavioral performance observed in standard animal tests of learning and memory indicates that a renewed effort to scrutinize the validity of these tests is warranted. In humans, levels of processing (effortful vs. automatic) and categories of information (procedural vs. episodic/declarative) are important variables of cognitive operations. The design of tasks that assess the recall of 'episodic' or 'declarative' information appears to represent a particular challenge for research using laboratory rodents. For example, the hypothesis that changes in inspection time for a previously encountered place or object are based on the recall of declarative/episodic information requires substantiation. In order to generalize findings on the effects of neuronal or pharmacological manipulations on learning and memory, obtained from one species and one task, to other species and other tasks, the mediating role of important sets of variables which influence learning and memory (e.g. attentional, affective) needs to be determined. Similar to the view that a neuronal manipulation (e.g. a lesion) represents a theory of the condition modeled (e.g. a degenerative disorder), an animal behavioral task represents a theory of the behavioral/cognitive process of interest. Therefore, the test of hypotheses regarding the validity of procedures used to assess cognitive functions in animals is an inherent part of the research process.
In the present study we measured cardiovascular and respiratory reflexes evoked by administration of bradykinin and capsaicin into the hindlimb vasculature of anaesthetised rats, whilst simultaneously recording activity of sensory afferents on the adventitial surface of femoral arteries and veins. Bradykinin (0.9 nmol) and capsaicin (0.3 nmol) caused a rapid reflex fall in mean arterial pressure (delta mmHg: -37 +/- 8 and -28 +/- 3, respectively; P &lt; 0.01) and an increase in respiratory minute volume (delta ml min(-1): 180.0 +/- 39.2 and 156.1 +/- 24.5, respectively; P &lt; 0.01), associated with an increase in neural discharge in arterial afferents (from basal 0.4 +/- 0.3 to 8.5 +/- 2.9 impulses s(-1) following intra-arterial administration of bradykinin, P &lt; 0.05, n = 7; from basal 0.2 +/- 0.1 to 7.5 +/- 3.7 impulses s(-1) with capsaicin, P &lt; 0.01, n = 18). The antagonists FR173657 and capsazepine confirmed bradykinin B2 and vanilloid VR1 receptors mediated the responses to bradykinin and capsaicin, respectively. Topical administration of algogen to the vessel surface, and electrical stimulation of the adventitia also evoked cardiovascular and respiratory responses. These data support the hypothesis that stimulation of sensory nerve endings within the hindlimb vasculature contributes to systemic cardiorespiratory reflexes in the rat.

ALTHOUGH STEREOTACTIC SURGERY was conceived at the turn of the 20th century, human applications did not gain momentum until the 1950s. Modern stereotactic surgery, as currently practiced, has rapidly developed in the past decade with computer assistance obviating the need for invasive localization techniques and ultimately leading to the development of frameless instruments. Applications of these techniques have also greatly expanded the use of stereotactic methods beyond functional neurosurgery. This article describes the author's involvement in the early development of stereotactic surgery, beginning in the late 1950s. With the recognition that physiological confirmation of targets is important in improving the safety and accuracy of functional stereotactic surgery, a number of approaches were developed that are still in use today.

Few studies have examined the influence of the age and the strain of mouse on the pharmacokinetics of psychostimulants, or the role of pharmacokinetics in age-related differences in drug responses. The present study compared concentrations of cocaine, and its metabolite, benzoylecgonine (BZE), in the blood and brain of early (P35) and later (P42) periadolescent and adult (P63) CD-1 and C57BL/6 male mice 15 min after acute intraperitoneal injection of cocaine (20 mg/kg). Brain levels of cocaine and BZE after seven daily cocaine injections in CD-1 and C57BL/6 mice beginning on P35 and on P63 were also measured. P35 periadolescents of both strains had lower blood cocaine levels than did the adults, but only C57BL/6 periadolescents had lower brain cocaine levels than the adults. C57BL/6 mice of both ages had higher blood cocaine levels than did the corresponding CD-1 mice. Concomitant with lower cocaine levels, periadolescent CD-1 mice had higher blood BZE levels than the adults, suggesting that periadolescents may metabolize cocaine faster. Brain cocaine levels in P42 C57BL/6 mice were similar to those of adults. Cocaine-induced activity did not differ between periadolescent and adult CD-1 mice after a single injection of cocaine, whereas periadolescent C57BL/6 mice had lower activity levels than did the adults after a single cocaine injection. Periadolescent CD-1 mice exhibited higher levels of locomotor activity following cocaine injection than did periadolescent C57BL/6 mice. Following chronic cocaine administration, cocaine and BZE levels in the brains of periadolescent and adult mice did not differ from each other in either strain. However, brain cocaine levels at both ages were lower in CD-1 mice than in C57BL/6 mice. In conclusion, the age and the strain of mouse significantly affect the levels of cocaine obtained in brain and blood following acute administration. Our data are consistent with the notion that CD-1 and C57BL/6 mice metabolize cocaine faster during the early periadolescent period than as adults. Furthermore, potentially important strain differences between CD-1 and C57BL/6 mice were noted in cocaine levels following acute and chronic cocaine administration, and in locomotor activity following acute cocaine administration.
Space motion sickness (SMS) is a problem during the first 72 h of space flight and during transitions from different gravity environments. There currently are no effective drug countermeasures for SMS that also accommodate the retention of optimal cognitive function. This creates a dilemma for astronauts because cognitive skills are particularly important during gravity transitions (e.g., take-off and landing). To quantify the cognitive side effects of potential drug countermeasures, an automated delayed matching-to-sample (DMTS) procedure was used to assess visual working memory before and after drug countermeasures (meclizine 25 mg, scopolamine 0.4 mg, promethazine 25 mg, or lorazepam 1 mg, given orally approximately 45 min prior to testing) and/or the induction of SMS by vestibular stimulation in a rotary chair (spinning). Sixty-seven normal healthy volunteers (mean age, in years, 26.6+/-4.8 S.D.; 24 females and 43 males) each participated in two test sessions, one 'off' drug and one 'on' drug. Spinning by itself significantly decreased task accuracy (Acc) and choice response speed, especially at longer recall delays. Meclizine alone had no effect on Acc or speed with or without spinning. Scopolamine alone decreased Acc, and with spinning, slowed speed. Promethazine alone had no adverse effect, but combined with spinning, decreased Acc and speed. Lorazepam alone decreased speed, and with spinning, decreased Acc. The data suggest that, at clinically useful doses, the rank order of the drugs with the best cognitive profiles is meclizine&gt;scopolamine&gt;promethazine&gt;lorazepam.





Hydrogel materials are not only different as a result of different co-monomer compositions but also as a result of the manufacturing method used to produce them. Hydrogel contact lenses fabricated by different methods are subjected to markedly different processing steps, which are likely to affect the resultant material network structure of a lens. The mechanical performance of five soft contact lens types was investigated using one conventional technique (tensile test) and three novel techniques (probe, tear and ball milling tests). The five lens groups consisted of three polyhydroxyethyl methacrylate (pHEMA) lenses which were each manufactured by a different technique: lathing, spin-casting and cast-moulding, a HEMA/methacrylic acid (HEMA/MAA) cast-moulded lens and a HEMA/glycerol methacrylate (HEMA/GMA) cast-moulded lens. Overall, the results show that the best mechanical performance is obtained for the pHEMA lenses, with some differences occurring between the lenses. The HEMA/GMA lens showed the worst performance.
We hypothesize that diabetic contact lens wearers may represent a special group displaying higher levels of compliance with their lens care regimens as a result of learned behaviour relating to maintenance of their diabetic condition. To test this hypothesis, a prospective, single centre, controlled, masked study was performed whereby 29 diabetic contact lens patients and 29 non-diabetic control subjects were issued with disposable hydrogel contact lenses and a multipurpose lens care regimen. All participants were given identical instruction on lens care and maintenance. Compliance levels were assessed at a 12-month aftercare appointment by demonstration and questionnaire. Twenty-four different aspects of compliance were scored, 12 by observation and 12 by questionnaire report, of which only two showed a significant difference between the diabetic and control groups. Although the combined population of contact lens wearers was generally compliant, there were examples of non-compliance in both groups. Neither the duration of diabetes nor the degree of metabolic control appeared to have a significant effect on compliance. The results suggest that eye care practitioners cannot assume that diabetic patients will be more compliant with contact lens care and maintenance than non-diabetic patients.
The optometric profession in the UK has a major role in the detection, assessment and management of ocular anomalies in children between 5 and 16 years of age. The role complements a variety of associated screening services provided across several health care sectors. The review examines the evidence-base for the content, provision and efficacy of these screening services in terms of the prevalence of anomalies such as refractive error, amblyopia, binocular vision and colour vision and considers the consequences of their curtailment. Vision screening must focus on pre-school children if the aim of the screening is to detect and treat conditions that may lead to amblyopia, whereas if the aim is to detect and correct significant refractive errors (not likely to lead to amblyopia) then it would be expedient for the optometric profession to act as the major provider of refractive (and colour vision) screening at 5-6 years of age. Myopia is the refractive error most likely to develop during primary school presenting typically between 8 and 12 years of age, thus screening at entry to secondary school is warranted. Given the inevitable restriction on resources for health care, establishing screening at 5 and 11 years of age, with exclusion of any subsequent screening, is the preferred option.
Children born with growth problems that affect the cranium or face require an initial correct diagnosis and appropriate specialty referral. Craniofacial surgery is a necessary and effective specialty that involves a multifaceted approach to the treatment of children with abnormal growth, deficient development, or traumatic or postnatal damage to the cranium and face. There are many unanswered questions concerning the treatment of these children that require ethical as well as scientific reflection by all involved in their care. Disagreements exist among the teams regarding both the timing of surgery and the best operative procedure. Reported mortality rates are 1-3% and all centers should have their own mortality and morbidity figures available for potential patients. Surgical interventions for craniosynostosis-regardless of whether it is isolated or syndromic-should not be undertaken lightly. These are major operations in infants and children. A complete multi-speciality team is necessary for comprehensive care of the children and their families. Which aspect of therapy; surgical, psychological, educational, speech or motor development is responsible for maximizing functional outcome for these children remains unclear and thus all possible services should be available.
This study examined whether 17beta-estradiol (E2) administration protects against ethanol withdrawal (EW)-associated oxidative insults by assessing oxidative markers thiobarbituric-acid-reacting-substances (TBARS). Ovariectomized rats implanted with E2 (EW/E2) or oil pellets (EW/Oil) received chronic ethanol (7.5% wt./vol., 5 weeks) or control dextrin diet (Dextrin/Oil). At 24 or 48 h of EW, rats were tested for overt EW signs and the cerebellum, hippocampus, and cortex were prepared for TBARS assessment in the presence and absence of FeCl3. For control experiments, we assessed E2 effects on blood ethanol concentrations and TBARS levels during ethanol exposure prior to EW. The EW/Oil group showed enhanced endogenous- and FeCl3-stimulated membrane TBARS levels in the cerebellum and hippocampus in a manner inhibited by E2 treatment. There was a relationship between the severity of EW and elevation of TBARS levels, particularly in the cerebellum. The enhanced TBARS levels at 24 h of EW appeared to diminish at 48 h in the hippocampus, but persisted in the cerebellum. E2 treatment did not alter blood ethanol concentrations and ethanol exposure alone did not enhance TBARS levels. These data suggest that EW rather than ethanol enhances brain lipid peroxidation that is transient and brain-region specific. Estrogens protect against the brain lipid peroxidation in a manner independent of blood ethanol concentrations.
Metoclopramide (MET) has long been used as a neuroleptic and antiemetic drug in clinical practice. Motor impairment and dyskinesia have been reported in some patients following chronic treatment with MET. Occasionally, the adverse symptoms may appear even after acute exposure to MET in more susceptible population (such as elderly individual) or due to concomitant exposure to MET and certain neurotoxins. Iminodipropionitrile (IDPN), a prototype nitrile toxin, has been shown to produce dyskinetic syndrome in rodents. This study reports the effect of concomitant exposure of rats to MET and IDPN on behavioral abnormalities in rats namely excitation, circling and chorea (ECC) syndrome. Four groups of female Wistar rats (aged 3 months) were given MET (0, 10, 40 and 80 mg/kg, i.p., for 11 days) 30 min before IDPN (100 mg/kg, i.p. for 8 days). Two additional groups of rats were treated with either saline (control group) or 80 mg/kg of MET (drug alone group). The animals were observed for neurobehavioral abnormalities including dyskinetic head movement, circling, tail hanging, air righting reflex and contact inhibition of righting reflex. Horizontal and vertical locomotor activities and fore limbs grip strength were also measured. On day 12, the animals were sacrificed and brains were collected for biochemical analysis. MET significantly and dose-dependently protected the animals against IDPN-induced ECC syndrome, motor impairment and deficiency in grip strength. MET also protected the animals against IDPN-induced oxidative stress.
Over the past 10 years, there has been a resurgence of interest in examining the role of melatonin in health and disease. While the brunt of research in this area has portrayed melatonin in a favorable light, there is a growing body of evidence suggesting that melatonin may possess adverse effects contributing to the development of various neuropsychiatric disease states. In preclinical models of Parkinson's disease (PD), melatonin has been shown to enhance the severity of this condition while its antagonism, using constant light or pinealectomy, facilitates recovery. To test this hypothesis further, the present study employed the melatonin analogues ML-23 and S-20928 in a post-6-OHDA injection regime to determine whether they may have a favorable effect on the symptoms of this more chronic model of PD. When ML-23 was injected I.P. in a dose of 3 mg/kg twice daily for 3.5 days after 6-OHDA, significant improvement in motor function and regulatory deficits was observed. Similarly, the injection of S-20928 in a 1 mg/kg dose (I.P.), in the same regimen, facilitated modest improvement in motor function and regulatory deficits while the larger dose enhanced the severity of behavioural deficits and produced severe side effects causing deterioration in condition during the course of drug administration. ML-23 administration totally abolished the 6-OHDA-induced mortality, which accompanies dopamine (DA) degeneration, while S-20928 had no effect on this parameter. These results suggest that some melatonin analogues can aid in recovery from DA depleting lesions after DA degeneration has commenced and the recovery is not attributable to the antioxidative properties of this hormone. While the exact mechanism by which ML-23 and S-20928 are exerting their therapeutic effect is unclear, it is possible that antagonism of melatonin receptors may play some role and this should be considered when assessing the potential of melatonin analogues for treatment of human neuropsychiatric disorders.
Extracts from the plant guarana (Paullinia cupana) feature as putatively stimulating ingredients in a number of foods, drinks and dietary/herbal supplements. To date, little research in humans has examined the potential psychoactive effects of these extracts. Extracts of Panax ginseng, which are often sold in combination with guarana, contain similar potentially active components, and have been shown to modulate cognitive performance. In this double-blind, counterbalanced, placebo-controlled study, the cognitive and mood effects of separate single doses of: 75 mg of a dried ethanolic extract of guarana (approx 12% caffeine), 200 mg of Panax ginseng (G115), and their combination (75 mg/200 mg), were assessed in 28 healthy young (18-24) participants. On each day of the study (separated by a 7-day washout), cognitive performance and subjective mood were assessed pre-dose and at 1, 2.5, 4 and 6 h post-dose using the Cognitive Drug Research computerised assessment battery, Serial subtraction tasks and Bond-Lader mood scales. In comparison to placebo, all three treatments resulted in improved task performance throughout the day. In the case of guarana, improvements were seen across 'attention' tasks (but with some evidence of reduced accuracy), and on a sentence verification task. While also increasing the speed of attention task performance, both ginseng and the ginseng/guarana combination also enhanced the speed of memory task performance, with little evidence of modulated accuracy. Guarana and the combination, and to a lesser extent ginseng, also led to significant improvements in serial subtraction task performance. These results provide the first demonstration in humans of the psychoactive effects of guarana, and confirmation of the psychoactive properties of ginseng. Given the low caffeine content (9 mg) of this dose of guarana extract, the effects are unlikely to be attributable to its caffeine content.

In order to explore the mechanisms of illness course and outcome and to improve treatment in schizophrenia and affective disorders, a theoretical framework as provided by the biopsychosocial concept, e. g. the vulnerability-stress-coping model, has been applied. To develop a coherent and valid research strategy, however, respective model components have to be translated into neuroscience concepts and operationalized accordingly. Course characteristics (typologies, markers), course influences (determinants, triggers, modifiers) and course predictors are discussed from a theoretical perspective. Building on this discussion, an integrative concept of illness course and course mechanisms is proposed. Finally, further research recommendations are given. Future research should elaborate on the neurobiological characteristics of course and outcome in methodologically adequate prospective interventional long-term studies.
The ciliate Stentor coeruleus exhibits photodispersal, that is, these cells swim away from light sources and collect in dimly lighted areas. We imaged and reconstructed the tracks of 48 Stentor to determine which swimming behaviors produced their photodispersal. We observed that their photodispersal is not due to a change in their swimming speed but rather to a change in the frequency with which they reorient their swimming direction. Therefore, their photodispersal must be due to either (1) a gradual reorientation of the organism's swimming direction determined by the direction of the light beam (phototaxis) or (2) multiple randomly directed reorientations in swimming direction that occur less frequently when the cell is swimming away from the light source (biased random walk). Sixteen (19%) of the 83 observed forward swimming tracks lasting three or more seconds exhibited a gradual bending away from the light source consistent with a phototaxis. However, most tracks were interrupted repeatedly by abrupt reorientations resulting from ciliary reversals and &quot;smooth turns&quot; that caused cells to reorient through 5.4 times as many degrees as were needed to direct them away from the light source. When cells were swimming away from the light source, their probability of reorienting was reduced and photodispersal resulted.
We analyze synchronization between two interacting populations of different phase oscillators. For the important case of asymmetric coupling functions, we find a much richer dynamical behavior compared to that of symmetrically coupled populations of identical oscillators. It includes three types of bistabilities, higher order entrainment, and the existence of states with unusual stability properties. All possible routes to synchronization of the populations are presented and some stability boundaries are obtained analytically. The impact of these findings for neuroscience is discussed.
In the inflammation process, phospholipase A2 (PLA2) catalyses the cleavage of the sn-2 ester-linked fatty acids from phospholipids, being the enzyme responsible for arachidonic acid (AA) release by cells for the biosynthesis of the prostaglandins and thromboxanes via the cyclooxygenase system, and the leukotrienes and eicosatetraenoids via the lipoxygenase pathway. AA mobilization by PLA2 and subsequent prostaglandins synthesis is considered to be a pivotal event in inflammation. Therefore, drugs that inhibit PLA2, thus blocking the COX and LOX pathways in the AA cascade, may be effective in the treatment of inflammatory processes. New strategies for the treatment of inflammatory processes could be detected by a search for active principles of vegetal origin that control the lipid mediator production by inhibition of PLA2. The present data are part of a wide explorative investigation on the effects of Trichilia catigua (catuaba), which found that PLA2 activity was totally inhibited by catuaba at a concentration of 120 microg/mL, suggesting that this natural substance may have antiinflammatory properties.
Skeletal muscle regeneration is a powerful, naturally occurring process of tissue reconstruction that follows myofiber damage secondary to myotoxic injury that does not normally affect the tissue circulation and scaffold. The ablated tissue, in traumatology and free muscle grafts, is frequently replaced by scars. The final outcome is poor even after in situ myoblast seeding of the harvested muscle. The goal of this study was to identify protocols to reconstruct muscle tissue, even in such adverse environments. The authors applied a step-by-step approach to identify factors favoring the survival of autologous satellite cells and, thus, muscle regeneration. In a rat model of full-thickness rectus abdominis muscle ablation, autologous myoblasts were isolated from the explanted rectus abdominis and seeded in a homologous acellular matrix immediately after wall reconstruction (group 1, five animals). In group 2 (five animals), the ablated rectus abdominis was autografted in situ. In a third group of five rats, Marcaine was injected into both the autograft and the surrounding abdominal wall muscle. Three weeks after surgery, serial cross-sections of the reconstructed abdominal wall were stained with hematoxylin and eosin or embryonic myosin antibody, a well-characterized molecular marker of early myogenesis in development and regeneration. Percentages of the patch area covered by regenerated myofibers were determined by morphometry. When autologous myoblasts were seeded in a homologous acellular matrix, the only myofibers observed to regenerate were those along the border of the patch. Autografting of the middle third of the rectus abdominis muscle similarly resulted in scar formation. The few muscle cells in the graft core were scanty myoblasts that could be detected only by monoclonal embryonic myosin antibody. Although negative for myofiber regeneration, the results in both cases confirmed the mechanical patency of the patches with regard to abdominal organ support. Myofibers were successfully regenerated in the graft by injecting Marcaine into both the autograft and the surrounding muscles. Three weeks after surgery, the patch was paved with young, centrally nucleated myofibers intermixed with young myofibers and myotubes expressing embryonic myosin. The difference in percentage of patch area covered by regenerated myofibers in group 3 (Marcaine injection around the patch, 81.6 +/- 3.0 percent) (mean +/- SD) versus either group 1 (Myoblast-seeded acellular patch, 18.0 +/- 3.0 percent) or group 2 (Autograft, 25.8 +/- 7.0 percent) was statistically significant on independent t test analysis (p &lt; 0.0001). Even an acellular matrix showed some myofiber regeneration after surrounding muscles had been injected with Marcaine. This is the first successful evidence of muscle reconstruction after full-thickness ablation of the middle third of the rectus abdominis. Muscle regeneration seems to be the result of successive waves of migration of angioblasts and then satellite cell-derived myoblasts from the muscles surrounding the patch. The results strongly suggest that vascularization of the scaffold and successive coordinate proliferation of the seeded cells are required for myoblasts to be able to migrate into the patch and differentiate up to myofiber stage.
Complex brains have evolved a highly efficient network architecture whose structural connectivity is capable of generating a large repertoire of functional states. We detect characteristic network building blocks (structural and functional motifs) in neuroanatomical data sets and identify a small set of structural motifs that occur in significantly increased numbers. Our analysis suggests the hypothesis that brain networks maximize both the number and the diversity of functional motifs, while the repertoire of structural motifs remains small. Using functional motif number as a cost function in an optimization algorithm, we obtain network topologies that resemble real brain networks across a broad spectrum of structural measures, including small-world attributes. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that highly evolved neural architectures are organized to maximize functional repertoires and to support highly efficient integration of information.
A great deal of research on the prefrontal cortex (PF), especially in nonhuman primates, has focused on the theory that it functions predominantly in the maintenance of short-term memories, and neurophysiologists have often interpreted PF's delay-period activity in the context of this theory. Neuroimaging results, however, suggest that PF's function extends beyond the maintenance of memories to include aspects of attention, such as the monitoring and selection of information. To explore alternative interpretations of PF's delay-period activity, we investigated the discharge rates of single PF neurons as monkeys attended to a stimulus marking one location while remembering a different, unmarked location. Both locations served as potential targets of a saccadic eye movement. Although the task made intensive demands on short-term memory, the largest proportion of PF neurons represented attended locations, not remembered ones. The present findings show that short-term memory functions cannot account for all, or even most, delay-period activity in the part of PF explored. Instead, PF's delay-period activity probably contributes more to the process of attentional selection.
A prominent and influential hypothesis of vision suggests the existence of two separate visual systems within the brain, one creating our perception of the world and another guiding our actions within it. The induced Roelofs effect has been described as providing strong evidence for this perception/action dissociation: When a small visual target is surrounded by a large frame positioned so that the frame's center is offset from the observer's midline, the perceived location of the target is shifted in the direction opposite the frame's offset. In spite of this perceptual mislocalization, however, the observer can accurately guide movements to the target location. Thus, perception is prone to the illusion while actions seem immune. Here we demonstrate that the Roelofs illusion is caused by a frame-induced transient distortion of the observer's apparent midline. We further demonstrate that actions guided to targets within this same distorted egocentric reference frame are fully expected to be accurate, since the errors of target localization will exactly cancel the errors of motor guidance. These findings provide a mechanistic explanation for the various perceptual and motor effects of the induced Roelofs illusion without requiring the existence of separate neural systems for perception and action. Given this, the behavioral dissociation that accompanies the Roelofs effect cannot be considered evidence of a dissociation of perception and action. This indicates a general need to re-evaluate the broad class of evidence purported to support this hypothesized dissociation.

The effects of sniffing different concentrations of the human sex-steroid derived compound 4,16-androstadien-3-one (AND) on autonomic nervous system function and mood were measured in 60 subjects. The effects were sex-specific and concentration-dependent. Only high concentrations of AND (0.00625 M) increased positive mood (p &lt; 0.03) and decreased negative mood (p &lt; 0.05) in women compared to men, and had sympathetic-like effects in women (p &lt; 0.003), and parasympathetic-like effects in men (p &lt; 0.05). These findings further implicate AND in chemical communication between humans, but pose questions as to the path by which AND is transduced, whether through chemical sensing or transdermal diffusion.
Hormones have been shown to play a role in both cerebral development and neurocognitive function. Turner Syndrome (TS) provides the opportunity to study the effect of the lack of estrogen on neurocognitive development. In this study, event-related potential (ERP) differences were examined among 12 TS girls, 20 prepubertal control girls, and 20 prepubertal control boys during a face recognition memory task. Stage of puberty was determined by Tanner Scale rating and hormonal assay. ERPs to pairs of auditory probe stimuli were recorded from eight scalp sites while participants performed a faced recognition memory (FRM) task. For the N2 component of the ERP (which has previously been associated with evaluation of stimulus information, categorization difficulty, and attention), control boys displayed greater right versus left hemisphere amplitude, control girls displayed greater left versus right hemisphere amplitude, and there was no amplitude asymmetry for TS girls. Further, control girls had greater left hemisphere N2 amplitude than control boys and TS girls, and greater right hemisphere N2 amplitude than TS girls. The results suggest more right hemisphere activation during face recognition in boys, while the opposite pattern was present in control girls. In contrast, TS girls displayed no asymmetry, indicative of more uniform involvement of the left and right hemispheres during face recognition. These findings are consistent with differences in cortical organization related to face recognition memory processing among prepubertal control boys, girls, and TS girls. They also support the notion that sex differences in cognitive function are present prior to pubertal onset, and that lack of endogenous sex hormones (e.g., estrogen) during prenatal/perinatal development (i.e., for TS girls) may influence brain organization and, in turn, neurocognitive processes that relate to face recognition.
We are interested in developing animal models to evaluate cognitive processes as influenced by the interplay of steroidal hormones and drugs commonly used in psychotherapy. Two experiments with female rats were conducted to evaluate the interaction of estrogen with the serotonin specific reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) fluoxetine on spatial learning and memory and on the endocrine system. In experiment 1, estrogen (50 microg estradiol benzoate/kg body weight) was administered SC to young adult, ovariectomized (OVX) rats either alone or in combination with fluoxetine (2 mg/kg SC). After a month, the groups were compared with appropriate OVX and gonadally intact controls on trials to criterion in a hole board spatial memory task using massed training trials. Experiment 2 was a dose-response study of the influence of fluoxetine (0.5-5 mg/kg) on circulating estrogen in OVX, estrogen treated females. Results were that the OVX females administered estrogen only reached the learning criterion significantly faster than the other groups. All other groups, including the estrogen + fluoxetine animals, performed no better than the controls. Combining fluoxetine with estrogen also lowered circulating estrogen titers, with the least estrogen reductions being in the group receiving the highest dosage of fluoxetine. No differences among groups were found on measures of activity in an open field or for anxiety in a plus maze. Conclusions were that administration of estrogen improved spatial learning and memory in OVX rats, whereas concurrent fluoxetine exposure suppressed the levels of estrogen in circulation and eliminated the gains in spatial performance obtained from chronic estrogen exposure.
Psychiatric conditions and the institutions and practices that modern society has evolved to handle them originated during the nineteenth century in Anglo European societies. They are products of a historically contingent and culture specific formulation of a class of social problems of behavior that came to the fore in relation to intellectual and political economic changes of those societies. However, such problems have a long ancestry. They are intrinsic to human species and the social and cultural systems that its members have evolved since their emergence. This article reviews intellectual quandaries raised by evolutionary study of psychiatric conditions, those of crossing the human/animal divide and crossing historically contingent cultures; and of framing history of psychiatry in terms of social and cultural evolution. The biological architecture underlying psychiatric conditions and the breakthroughs that indigenous psychiatry of different types of societies underwent in formulating signs and symptoms are discussed.



The attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) can affect human infants and adolescents. One important feature of this disorder is behavioural impulsivity. This study assessed the ability of chronic acetyl-L-carnitine (ALC, saline or 100 mg/kg SC, plus 50 mg/kg orally) to reduce impulsivity in a validated animal model for ADHD. Food-restricted rats were tested during adolescence (postnatal days, pnd, 30-45) in operant chambers with two nose-poking holes, one delivering one food pellet immediately, and the other five pellets after a delay. Delay length was increased over days (from 0 to 80 s). Individual differences in the preference-delay curve emerged, with the identification of two distinct subpopulations, i.e. one with a nearly horizontal curve and another with a very steep (&quot;impulsive&quot;) slope. The impulsivity profile was slightly but consistently reduced by chronic ALC administration. Consistent results were also obtained with methylphenidate (MPH, saline or 3 mg/kg IP twice daily). Impulsive rats exhibited a lower metabolite/serotonin (5HIAA/5HT) ratio in the medial frontal cortex (MFC) and lower noradrenaline (NA) levels in the MFC and cingulate cortex (CC) when compared with the other subgroup. The ALC treatment increased NA levels in the CC and the 5HIAA/5HT ratio in both CC and MFC. Present data suggest that ALC, a drug devoid of psychostimulant properties, may have some beneficial effects in the treatment of ADHD children.




The authors prospectively studied consecutive neurological inpatients with either motor conversion symptoms or pseudoseizures of recent onset. Patients were administered a structured psychiatric diagnostic interview, a measure of perceived parental care, and a life events inventory. They found that patients with pseudoseizures (N=20, mean age=27 years): 1) were younger than patients with motor conversion symptoms (N=30, mean age=39 years), 2) were more likely to have a borderline personality disorder), 3) were more likely to have a lower perception of parental care and to report incest, and 4) reported more life events in the 12 months before symptom onset. These differences in their characteristics and associated factors raised the question of whether it is helpful to group patients with pseudoseizures and motor conversion symptoms in a single diagnostic category of conversion disorder. An alternative view, that gives primacy to the symptoms rather than a disorder, may enable more precise research questions to be posed.

Twenty-eight years after its inception, 2-[18F]FDG- is still the most widely used radiopharmaceutical for PET studies, but numerous more specific radiotracers have been developed and applied in neuroscience and oncology. The advances in radiotracer chemistry, especially the nucleophilic substitution reaction, have played the pivotal role in synthesizing various no-carrier-added 18F-labeled radiotracers for PET studies of various receptor systems. This article lists some of the radiotracers that are available for PET studies in neuroscience and oncology. The prospects for developing other new radiotracers for imaging other organ diseases also seem to be promising.



The major goal of the program is to provide residents with the opportunity to gain the knowledge, attitudes, and skills to enable them to provide exemplary health care to people with neurological disease. The program will facilitate learning through an atmosphere of collegiality and mutual respect that fosters active communication between residents and faculty. We will stress the pursuit of excellence in clinical neurology and encourage the development of a deeper interest in the academic aspects of the discipline. We will endeavor to create a level of excitement that will stimulate our residents to seek further education and pursue careers in academic neurology. Our program aims to serve both the present and future requirements of our patients and our discipline. The program consists of 24 months of internal medicine and other clinical rotations; 12 months of clinical and basic neuroscience research including neurophysiology, neurochemistry, neuroradiology, neuro-rehabilitation and neurogenetics; 24 months of clinical neurology including the primary care of inpatients on the neurology ward, the assessment of emergency department, and neurological consultation; and 12 months of residency as a senior neurology resident consultant in inpatient and outpatient settings with responsibility for teaching and supervising junior residents.
The training as neurologist in Department of Neurology and Neurological Science, Tokyo Medical and Dental University has mainly been performed through 3rd to 5th year after the graduation. It includes training for neurophysiology, neuroradiology and neuropathology as well as clinical neurology. Neurophysiology training has the separate 3 months course where trainee residents study exclusively neurophysiology but neuroradiology and neuropathology were learned during training for clinical neurology in general. The major problem of our training program is that the quota is so small to prepare enough trainee's positions. This appears also true in many institutes in Japan according to a questionnaire survey by this workshop. The number of neurology staff should be increased to accomplish better training for Neurology in each institute. The Japanese Society of Neurology should support this effort in each institute.
In this communication, I first show some points we should mind in the conventional peripheral nerve conduction studies and later present clinical usefulness of motor root stimulation for peripheral neuropathy. CONVENTIONAL NERVE CONDUCTION STUDIES (NCS): The most important point revealed by the conventional NCSs is whether neuropathy is due to axonal degeneration or demyelinating process. Precise clinical examination with this neurophysiological information leads us to a diagnosis and treatment. Poor clinical examination makes these findings useless. Long standing axonal degeneration sometimes induces secondary demyelination at the most distal part of involved nerves. On the other hand, severe segmental demyelination often provokes secondary axonal degeneration at distal parts to the site of demyelination. These secondary changes show the same abnormal neurophysiological findings as those of the primary involvement. We should be careful of this possibility when interpreting the results of NCS. NCS of sensory nerves is not good at revealing demyelinating process. Mild temporal dispersion of potentials often reduces an amplitude of SNAP or loss of responses, which usually suggests axonal degeneration, because of short duration of sensory nerve potentials. MOTOR ROOT STIMULATION IN PERIPHERAL NEUROPATHY: Magnetic stimulation with a coil placed over the spine activates motor roots and evokes EMG responses from upper and lower limb muscles. The site of activation with this method was determined to be where the motor roots exit from the spinal canal (intervertebral foramina) (J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 52 (9): 1025-1032, 1989) because induced currents are very dense at such a foramen made by electric resistant bones. In several kinds of peripheral neuropathy, this method has been used to detect a lesion at a proximal part of the peripheral nerves which can not be detected by the conventional NCSs. I present a few cases in whom motor root stimulation had a clinical merit. In a patient with neuralgic amyotrophy, motor root stimulation disclosed a conduction block between the cervical intervertebral foramen and brachial plexus which was not detected by conventional NCSs. Motor root stimulation clearly revealed demyelination in a patient with CIDP in whom sural nerve biopsy findings suggested axonal degeneration, that must be secondary to demyelination. In a patient with tomacular neuropathy, magnetic stimulation revealed conduction delay in the spinal nerve within the spinal canal (Clin Neurol (Jap), 28: 447-452, 1988). Based on the above results, combination of NCSs and magnetic motor root stimulation must brush up the neurophysiological approach to peripheral neuropathy.
Corticobasal degeneration (CBD) and atypical progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) were reviewed with special reference to their symptomatology, laboratory examination and differential diagnosis. In our survey of the autopsy cases of CBD in Japan, only about 60% of the pathologically confirmed CBD cases were correctly diagnosed clinically, meaning that atypical (non-classical) clinical forms are common in CBD. Concerning the autopsy cases of PSP in Japan, 75% of the PSP cases had correct clinical diagnosis. In literatures, the clinically atypical CBD includes (1) frontotemporal dementia, also with primary progressive aphasia and frontal lobe dementia as subforms, (2) PSP-like form, and (3) others. The clinically atypical PSP comprises (1) pure akinesia, (2) pure easy falling syndrome (Yuasa), (3) no postural instability, (4) no gaze palsy, (5) asymmetric parkinsonism, (6) no or severe dementia, etc.. PSP with cortical manifestations such as primary progressive aphasia and CBD-like features were also reported. The atypical CBD and PSP probably reflect the distribution of tau pathology different from that in typical forms. Except for the report that phosphorylated tau is increased in CSF in CBD, but not in PSP (Urakami et al), no reliable laboratory data have been available on clinical differentiation between atypical CBD and PSP.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is an X-linked, lethal muscle disorder caused by mutations in the dystrophin gene. An adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector-mediated gene transfer is one of attractive approaches to the treatment of DMD, though it has a limitation in insertion size up to 4.9 kb. Therefore, a full-length dystrophin cDNA (14 kb) cannot be incorporated into an AAV vector. We previously generated micro-dystrophin transgenic dystrophin-deficient mdx mice. Micro-dystrophin CS1 transgenic mdx mice showed almost complete amelioration of dystrophic phenotypes. We, therefore, constructed an AAV vector expressing micro-dystrophin deltaCS1, a modified version of CS1, driven by skeletal muscle-specific MCK promoter, since the MCK promoter in AAV vector drives longer expression of the LacZ gene than the CMV promoter in skeletal muscle. We injected the AAV-MCK deltaCS1 into anterior tibial (TA) muscles of 5-week-old or 10-day-old mdx mice. Dystrophic phenotypes were largely improved in both injections. Especially in the latter occasion, less than 20% of muscle fibers were microdystrophin positive at 24 weeks after the injection, but specific tetanic force of the injected muscle was not statistically different from that of control normal muscle. In conclusion, deltaCS1 micro-dystrophin introduced by an AAV vector could be a powerful tool for the gene therapy of DMD. A bigger animal model, canine X-linked muscular dystrophy will contribute to pre-clinical study of gene therapy.
We recently developed a new cDNA microarray encompassing more than 5,000 genes expressed in human skeletal muscle. We successfully identified the differences at the gene expression profiles among Duchenne muscular dystrophy patients. Using our microarray, we catalogued gene expression during myogenic differentiation. The resultant expression patterns were classified into eight groups by hierarchical cluster analysis. Among them, clusters 6, 7, and 8 contain genes which show high expression level at the later differentiation stage and encode mainly sarocmere and extracellular matrix proteins. We used genes in these clusters as markers for regeneration. We identified that these regeneration-associated genes were not necessarily upregulated in Fukuyama congenital muscular dystrophy (FCMD) even though necrosis-associated genes were highly upregulated, suggesting the insufficient regenerating capability in FCMD. We have also characterized genes regulated by IGF-I simulation. We subject cascade specific inhibitors and IGF-I to human myotubes and performed gene expression profiling using our cDNA microarray. We found that PI3K/Akt-1 cascade first activates transcriptional factors such as MyoD, myogenin, and MEF2C, and then genes in clusters 6, 7, and 8, which have E-box and MEF-box where these transcriptional factors associate. We expect to develop a new therapeutic method by elucidating the molecular mechanism of muscular dystrophy and the effect of IGF-I and anti-myostatin treatments.
There are two cortical visual processing streams, the ventral and dorsal stream. The ventral visual stream plays the major role in constructing our perceptual representation of the visual world and the objects within it. Disturbance of visual processing at any stage of the ventral stream could result in impairment of visual recognition. Thus we need systematic investigations to diagnose visual agnosia and its type. Two types of category-selective visual agnosia, prosopagnosia and landmark agnosia, are different from others in that patients could recognize a face as a face and buildings as buildings, but could not identify an individual person or building. Neuronal bases of prosopagnosia and landmark agnosia are distinct. Importance of the right fusiform gyrus for face recognition was confirmed by both clinical and neuroimaging studies. Landmark agnosia is related to lesions in the right parahippocampal gyrus. Enlarged lesions including both the right fusiform and parahippocampal gyri can result in prosopagnosia and landmark agnosia at the same time. Category non-selective visual agnosia is related to bilateral occipito-temporal lesions, which is in agreement with the results of neuroimaging studies that revealed activation of the bilateral occipito-temporal during object recognition tasks.
Limbic encephalitis affects the mesial temporal lobes and is characterized by subacute onset of memory impairment, personal change, temporal seizures and autonomic nervous disorders. It can occur as viral infections, especially caused by Herpes simplex, paraneoplastic syndrome as a remote effect of cancer, CNS complication of well defined autoimmune diseases. Recently acute reversible limbic encephalitis which probably autoimmune mediated disorders has been reported. Anti-immunotherapy including steroids, plasma exchange and intravenous immunoglobulin often improves this condition and anti-voltage gated potassium channel (VGKC) antibody or anti-glutamate receptor epsilon2 antibody has been detected in some patients. Establishing the means of early detection of these antibodies as well as other characteristic paraneoplastic antibodies should now be the aim. Detection of neurotropic viral genomes in CSF by PCR is also important for differential diagnosis. As complete recovery of higher cerebral function is generally difficult, immunotherapy and anti-convulsants in addition to vitamin B, and acyclovir should be considered in an early stage of disease.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder, the pathology of which becomes irreversible as it proceeds downstream of the disease cascade. Therefore, overcoming AD primarily requires early (presymptomatic) diagnosis, followed by preventive treatment. Since accumulation of amyloid beta peptide (A beta) in brain seems to play a central role AD pathogenesis, we established a new imaging technique to visualize A beta plaques in a mouse model of A beta amyloidosis in a non-invasive manner using a high-power MRI. This will open a new avenue to search for biochemical markers that correlate with the pathological parameters. We also found that a dimeric form of A beta, the quantity of which can be metabolically regulated by neprilysin, impairs in vivo neuronal plasticity, i.e. hippocampal long term potentiation. This suggests that reducing A beta dimers by upregulating neprilysin activity is likely to contribute to alleviation of memory-associated symptoms. Finally, we discovered that a neuropeptide, somatostatin, upregulates neuronal neprilysin activity. Because brain somatostatin expression is known to decline during aging, the finding indicates that the aging-induced downregulation of somatostatin may be a trigger for A beta accumulation leading to late-onset sporadic AD development and that somatostatin receptor(s) now emerge as pharmacological target candidates for the prevention and treatment of AD.
Recent researches of CSF biomarkers, such as combinations of tau, A beta40, A beta42, are now establishing clinical evidence. These specific biomarkers should be used in clinical practice. To detect incipient AD form MCI and very early AD, these CSF biomarkers are quite useful. Newly developing biomarkers, such as phosphorylated tau and plasma A beta, must be established by large scale prospective study and autopsy-correlations. Thus, the contribution of these biomarkers is desired for diagnosis and clinical practice for Alzheimer's disease.
Deposition of amyloid beta peptides as senile plaques is a hallmark lesion of Alzheimer's disease that is implicated in its pathogenesis. A beta is produced from amyloid precursor protein by sequential cleavages by beta- and gamma-secretases. Gamma-secretase is a membrane protease complex harboring presenilin as a catalytic subunit. Recent studies revealed how presenilin is assembled with its cofactor proteins and acquires the gamma-secretase activity: Aph-1 and nicastrin initially form a subcomplex to bind and stabilize presenilin, and then Pen-2 confers the gamma-secretase activity and facilitates endoproteolysis of presenilin. Understanding the mechanism of gamma-secretase cleavage will help to clarify how intercellular cell signaling through transmembrane proteins are regulated by intramembrane proteolysis, and eventually to cure Alzheimer's disease by inhibiting secretases.
Neurons can be targets for microbes, which could kill the neurons. Just in reverse, we, in this study, report that bacteria can be killed when entering a neuron. Primary cultures of foetal mouse hippocampal neurons and a neuronal cell line derived from mouse hypothalamus were infected by Listeria monocytogenes. Treatment with interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) did not affect bacterial uptake, but resulted in increased killing of intracellular bacteria, whereas the neuronal cell remained intact. The IFN-gamma-mediated bacterial killing was mapped to the neuronal cytosol, before listerial actin tail formation. Treatment with IFN-gamma induced phosphorylation of the transcription factor STAT-1 in neurons and IFN-gamma-mediated listerial killing was not observed in STAT-1(-/-) neurons or neurons treated with IFN regulatory factor-1 antisense oligonucleotides. IFN-gamma-treated neuronal cells showed increased levels of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) mRNA, and antisense iNOS oligonucleotides hampered the bacterial killing by neurons upon IFN-gamma treatment. This novel neuronal function - i.e., that of a microbe killer - could play a crucial role in the control of infections in the immuno-privileged nervous system.
Augmentation strategy in the treatment of schizophrenia with the NMDA receptor co-agonist glycine has demonstrated significant improvement in patient symptoms. Interestingly, the therapeutic efficacy of glycine was more consistent among patients that were not co-administered clozapine suggesting that clozapine modulates glycine levels in brain. Since cerebral glycine concentration in the vicinity of NMDA receptors is thought to be controlled by the glia expressed glycine transporter type 1 (GlyT1), the effects of several typical and atypical antipsychotics on glycine uptake were examined in human placenta choriocarcinoma (JAR) cells expressing human GlyT1a. The selectivity of these compounds was investigated by measuring their inhibitory potency at the closely related glycine transporter type 2 (GlyT2). Typical antipsychotics haloperidol, thioridazine and chlorpromazine non-selectively inhibited [(14)C]glycine uptake mediated by GlyT1a and GlyT2 with potency of 9-21 microM. The atypical antipsychotic, clozapine antagonized glycine transport by human GlyT1a with an IC(50) of 100 microM and was weaker at recombinant GlyT2. Its main metabolites, N-desmethylclozapine and clozapine N-oxide were very weak inhibitors at all glycine transporters. Similarly, olanzapine did not potently block GlyT1a- and GlyT2-mediated uptake. Detailed kinetic analysis of hGlyT1a in the presence and absence of haloperidol and clozapine revealed that both drugs were not competitive inhibitors of glycine uptake. Data also indicated that these compounds did not interact with the Na(+) and Cl(-) sites of hGlyT1a. Our results have revealed the existence of an inhibitory interaction between some antipsychotics and hGlyT1a and raise the possibility that these drugs could interact with GlyT1 function at therapeutic doses.
A high prevalence of abnormal cavum septi pellucidi (CSP) in schizophrenia may reflect neurodevelopmental abnormalities in midline structures of the brain. The relationship, however, between abnormal CSP and clinical symptoms, and with abnormalities in other limbic structures remains unclear, as does the question of whether a similar abnormality is present in affective psychosis. Seventy-four patients at their first hospitalization, 33 with schizophrenia and 41 with affective (mainly manic) psychosis, and 56 healthy control subjects underwent high-spatial-resolution magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). CSP on six slices or more on 0.9375-mm resampled coronal images was categorized as abnormal. The prevalence of abnormal CSP in both schizophrenic patients (26.1%) and affective psychosis patients (18.2%) was significantly higher than was observed in control subjects (8.2%). In schizophrenic patients only, larger CSP was significantly associated with more severe thinking disturbance and smaller left parahippocampal gyrus gray matter volumes. While the relationships between CSP ratings and clinical symptoms did not significantly differ between the two psychosis groups as assessed by the comparison of regression slopes, the association with limbic volumes appeared to be specific to schizophrenic patients. These results suggest that psychosis associated with schizophrenia and affective disorder share, at least to some extent, neurodevelopmental abnormalities involving midline structures and associated psychopathological consequences. However, the association between abnormal CSP and limbic systems may be more specific to schizophrenia.


Helical computed tomographic angiography (CTA) is a relatively new noninvasive volumetric imaging technique. Since early reports in the 1990s, CTA has rapidly improved image resolution and scan volume. Cerebral arteries can be imaged clearly, which is advantageous in the diagnosis of vascular diseases such as cerebral aneurysms, arteriovenous malformations, and cerebrovascular occlusive disease. Before attacking a cerebrovascular lesion near or in the skull base, precise preoperative knowledge of anatomic relationships between the bony and neurovascular structures is critical for obtaining successful outcomes. The sensitivity of CTA for the detection of cerebral aneurysms &lt; or = 5 mm in diameter may be higher than that of digital subtraction angiography (DSA), with equal specificity and high interoperator reliability. With minor modification to the technique, paraclinoid vascular lesions can be depicted using CTA. We present our experience using CTA in addition to DSA to obtain important anatomic information about skull base vascular lesions that assisted in the clinical decision-making process.

These short notes describe the way in which Skinner considers and resolves his differences with Pavlov in the question of the relation between psychology and physiology as forms of knowledge. After establishing his viewpoint in the general epistemological issue, Skinner is concerned about linking his study of behavior to the work of Pavlov, who considered it to be of a physiological nature. Skinner contrasts Pavlov's empirical and theoretical work and characterizes the latter in terms of the notion of the &quot;Conceptual Nervous System.&quot;
The idea of connecting the human brain to a computer or machine directly is not novel and its potential has been explored in science fiction. With the rapid advances in the areas of information technology, miniaturization and neurosciences there has been a surge of interest in turning fiction into reality. In this paper the authors review the current state-of-the-art of brain-computer and brain-machine interfaces including neuroprostheses. The general principles and requirements to produce a successful connection between human and artificial intelligence are outlined and the authors' preliminary experience with a prototype brain-computer interface is reported.
Effective therapies for stroke must interdict multiple parallel and sequential pathophysiological events. A paradigm which offers insight into multivalent but thoughtfully coordinated protective programs is ischemic preconditioning. A central hypothesis of our group and others is that pharmacological agents that activate programs of gene expression normally induced by ischemic preconditioning will be effective agents for the prevention and treatment of stroke. Inhibitors of a class of enzymes, the hypoxia inducible factor-1 (HIF-1) prolyl hydroxylases stabilize the transcriptional activator HIF-1 and activate target genes involved in compensation for ischemia, including erythropoeitin (Epo) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). Here, we review evidence suggesting that the HIF-1 prolyl hyroxylases are inhibited during ischemic preconditioning and that pharmacological inhibitors of these enzymes are viable targets for stroke therapy.

We have synthesized a library of estrogen analogues, including enantiomers of estradiol and A-ring substituted estrogens. These compounds have reduced or no binding to either estrogen receptor-alpha or estrogen receptor-beta, exhibit enhanced neuroprotective activity in in vitro models, and are potent in protecting brain tissue from cerebral ischemia/reperfusion injury. These potent, nonfeminizing estrogen analogues are prime candidates for use in stroke neuroprotection.

The recent demonstration that neurons for transplantation can be generated from stem cells and that the adult brain produces new neurons in response to stroke has raised hope for the development of a stem cell therapy for patients affected with this disorder. In this review we propose a road map to the clinic and describe the different scientific tasks that need to be accomplished to move stem cell-based approaches toward application in stroke patients.
Accumulation of amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) in the central nervous system (CNS) may initiate pathogenic cascades mediating neurovascular and neuronal dysfunctions associated with the development of cerebral beta-amyloidosis and cognitive decline in patients with Alzheimer disease (AD) and with related familial cerebrovascular disorders. Whether Abeta-related pathology in the CNS is reversible or not and what key therapeutic targets are controlling Abeta/amyloid levels in the aging brain remain debatable. In this article, we summarize recent evidence why the receptor for advanced glycation end products and low-density lipoprotein receptor related protein 1 in the vascular CNS barriers are critical for regulation of Abeta homeostasis in the CNS and how altered activities in these 2 receptors at the blood-brain barrier may contribute to the CNS Abeta accumulation resulting in neuroinflammation, disconnect between the cerebral blood flow and metabolism, altered synaptic transmission, neuronal injury, and amyloid deposition into parenchymal and neurovascular lesions. We briefly discuss the potential of advanced glycation end products and low-density lipoprotein receptor related protein 1-based therapeutic strategies to control brain Abeta in animal models of AD and ultimately in patients with AD and related familial cerebrovascular beta-amyloidoses.




CART (cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript) peptides are neurotransmitters that have received much attention as mediators of feeding behavior and body-weight regulation in mammals. CART peptides and their mRNAs are found in many brain regions and in peripheral tissues that are involved in feeding, and many animal studies implicate CART as an inhibitor of feeding. Animal studies also demonstrate that CART expression is regulated by both leptin and glucocorticoids, two hormones known to be associated with the regulation of body weight. A recent study also links a mutation in the CART gene to obesity in humans. These peptides might become targets for drug development in the area of obesity.
Tinnitus is an auditory phantom sensation (ringing of the ears) experienced when no external sound is present. Most but not all cases are associated with hearing loss induced by noise exposure or aging. Neuroscience research has begun to reveal how tinnitus is generated by the brain when hearing loss occurs, and to suggest new avenues for management and prevention of tinnitus following hearing injuries. Downregulation of intracortical inhibition induced by damage to the cochlea or to auditory projection pathways highlights neural processes that underlie the sensation of phantom sound.
The vast majority of neostriatal neurons and intrinsic intrastriatal synapses are GABAergic, the latter arising from axon collaterals of spiny projection neurons and from GABAergic interneurons. An important feature of the functional organization of the neostriatum has long been assumed to be the existence of a widespread lateral inhibitory network mediated by the axon collaterals of spiny projection neurons. However, these collateral connections have recently been demonstrated electrophysiologically to be relatively weak--in contrast to feedforward interneuronal inhibition, which exerts strong effects on spike timing in spiny neurons. These new data are incompatible with current &quot;winner-take-all&quot; models of lateral inhibitory function in the neostriatum, and they force a modification of established concepts of the functional roles of feedback inhibition in this nucleus.
Following the loss of myelin from axons in multiple sclerosis, some axons recover the ability to conduct impulses despite the absence of an insulating sheath, providing a basis for remission of clinical deficits. By contrast, other axons degenerate and contribute to non-remitting clinical deficits and, thus, disability. Investigations using laboratory models of multiple sclerosis indicate that altered expression of two distinct isoforms of Na+ channels underlies these two processes, and the study of human tissue reveals similar changes in multiple sclerosis.

We have developed a model of unilateral adjuvant-arthritis that is reproducible across two mouse strains. DBA/1 and C57BL/6 male mice were injected intra-articularly into a stifle joint with FCA (5 microg in 5 microl) once per week for 4 weeks. Measurements of joint diameter and joint histopathology were used to monitor the course of the arthritis. Inflammatory hyperalgesia was assessed as the pressure causing a limb withdrawal. FCA injection into the mouse stifle joint caused a pronounced increase in joint diameter when compared to the contralateral limb or vehicle controls. There was also a significant decrease in the pressure required to elicit a withdrawal of the injected limb. Histology showed arthritic changes, including synovial hypertrophy and polymorphonuclear neutrophil infiltration. In established chronic inflammation, seven days of treatment with either indomethacin (NSAID) or prednisolone (steroid) caused a significant decrease in joint inflammation and associated hyperalgesia. FCA induces a long-lasting joint inflammation in DBA/1 and C57BL/6 mice, which is restricted to the injected joint and exhibits some of the pathology associated with an arthritic condition. This model will be useful in examining the effect of joint inflammation on nociceptor sensitisation in both normal and transgenic mice.
The aim of this study was: (1) To determine the minimum number of characteristics necessary to discriminate between postural tremor recorded in control subjects (CO), in subjects exposed to manganese (MN), and in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), and (2) to examine the continuum of changes between the three groups examined. Workers previously exposed to Mn (n = 10), patients with PD (n = 10), and control subjects (CO) (n = 11) underwent a clinical examination. Blood Mn was measured at the end of exposure time for the MN group and 12 months later at the beginning of the experiment for all groups. Postural tremor with visual feedback was recorded in the index finger with a laser system. Statistical criteria were used to reduce computed tremor characteristics to a minimal set of reliable discriminating variables. Two variables were retained namely corrected wobble (CW), describing the morphology of the tremor oscillations, and variability ratio (VR), describing proportional power of tremor. Both variables had an overall correct classification rate of 77.4%. Blood Mn levels at the time of the experiment were similar for all groups and had insignificant correlation with tremor variables. However, blood Mn levels in workers which were also measured at the end of exposure time (i.e., 12 months before) showed significant correlation (Spearman's rank coefficient) with both harmonic index (rho = 0.70, P = 0.03) and first maximum of the autocorrelation function (rho = 0.89, P = 0.001). We conclude that (1) the tremor of workers exposed to Mn could be adequately described with only two variables; (2) a continuum of changes between tremor recorded in control subjects, in subjects exposed to Mn and in patients with PD was observed, with the MN group always found in between the control (CO) and the PD groups; (3) while blood Mn levels in workers were back at control levels at the time of the experiment, the effect of Mn on postural tremor was still detected. Thus our method has the potential to detect the effect of Mn on tremor with only two variables even after Mn level in the blood is back to normal values.
Assessments of synaptic density in human brain are often based on measurements of synaptic proteins. Little information is available on their post-mortem stability. We have investigated this by ELISAs of the pre-synaptic proteins syntaxin and synaptophysin, and the post-synaptic protein PSD-95, in rat and human cortex. The rat brains were cooled in situ from 37 to 20 or 4 degrees C over 3 h, and then kept at 20 or 4 degrees C for a further 24-72 h, to simulate post-mortem storage at room temperature or in a mortuary refrigerator. Synaptophysin and PSD-95 levels in rat cerebral cortex were not significantly decreased after 72 h of incubation at 20 degrees C. Syntaxin was stable for 24 h but decreased by 39-44% at 48-72 h. Storage at 4 degrees C resulted in a similar reduction of syntaxin levels over 72 h. In human brain tissue from 160 people aged 24-102 years, post-mortem delay had little effect on synaptic protein levels in superior temporal cortex, but was associated with a decline in PSD-95 and syntaxin in mid-frontal cortex after 24 h. The more robust stability of synaptophysin may be related to its multi-transmembrane structure.
Although a relatively large body of research has now accumulated concerning the relationship between quality of life (QoL) and nonseasonal depression, there is a dearth of information about QoL in seasonal affective disorder (SAD). The aim of this study was to compare perceived levels of broad ('generic') and health-related QoL in patients with seasonal and nonseasonal depression. Participants were 72 patients with SAD enrolled in an on-going multicentre study in Canada, and 72 patients with nonseasonal major depressive disorder (MDD) matched for severity of depression attending an outpatient psychiatric clinic in Vancouver, British Columbia. All participants completed two measures of QoL (the 20-item Medical Outcomes Study [MOS] Short-Form General Health Survey [SF-20] and the Quality of Life Enjoyment and Satisfaction Questionnaire [Q-LES-Q]) at baseline prior to treatment. The results of the study indicated that both generic and health-related QoL were compromised in patients with SAD compared with general population norms. For example, mean Q-LES-Q scores (range 0-100, where higher scores indicate better QoL) were 44%, compared with scores of 83% reported for the general population. Patients with nonseasonal depression showed significantly poorer functioning in several domains on the SF-20, but no significant differences in Q-LES-Q scores emerged. Perceived QoL is impaired in patients with SAD. Degree of impairment between seasonal and nonseasonal depressives is equivalent when assessed using the Q-LES-Q, but significant inter-group differences are apparent in SF-20 domain scores. Future research is required to determine whether perceived QoL is improved by treatment interventions for seasonal depression such as light therapy or antidepressant medication.
The ZnTs are a growing family of proteins involved in lowering or sequestration of cellular zinc. Using fluorescent measurements of zinc transport we have addressed the mechanism of action of the most ubiquitously expressed member of this family, ZnT-1. This protein has been shown to lower levels of intracellular zinc though the mechanism has remained elusive. The rate of zinc efflux in HEK293 cells expressing ZnT-1 was not accelerated in comparison to control cells, suggesting that ZnT-1 may be involved in regulating influx rather than efflux of zinc. Co-expression of the L-type calcium channel, a major route for zinc influx, and ZnT-1 resulted in a 3-fold reduction in the rate of zinc influx in HEK293 and PC-12 cells, indicating that ZnT-1 modulates zinc permeation through this channel. Immunoblot analysis indicates that ZnT-1 expression does not modulate LTCC expression. Our findings therefore indicate that ZnT-1 modulates the permeation of cations through LTCC, thereby, regulating cation homeostasis through this pathway. Furthermore, ZnT-1 may play a role in cellular ion homeostasis and thereby confer protection against pathophysiological events linked to cellular Ca(2+) or Zn(2+) permeation and cell death.
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) is secreted in numerous pathophysiological situations by a variety of cell types. Tactile hypersensitivity (allodynia) is one component of a constellation of &quot;illness behaviors&quot; triggered by TNF-alpha. TNF-alpha is also implicated in neuropathic pain after peripheral nerve injury and apoptosis after spinal cord injury (SCI). It is possible that SCI, illness- and peripheral injury-induced hypersensitivity may share a similar spinal mediated etiology. These studies identify the locus of type-1 TNF (TNFR1 or p55) and type-2 TNF (TNFR2 or p75) receptors within the spinal cord. At all spinal levels, TNFR1 receptor immunoreactivity (TNFR1-ir) was constitutively expressed on cells and afferent fibers within the dorsal root ganglia, afferent fibers of the dorsal root, dorsal root entry zone (REZ) and within lamina I and II of the dorsal horn. Unilateral dorsal rhizotomy eliminated the characteristic pattern of TNFR1-ir at the rhizotomized REZ. In contrast, TNFR2-ir was consistently absent from dorsal root fibers and the region of the root entry zone. Consistent with our previous report, medullary afferent fibers in the solitary tract and spinal trigeminal tract labelled for TNF1-ir, but did not express TNFR2-ir. The presence TNFR1-ir on dorsal horn afferents, suggests that TNF-alpha may be a mechanism responsible for tactile hypersensitivity during illness. The presence of TNFR1 receptors, and perhaps their long-term activation or plasticity, may also play a critical role in the chronic allodynia and hyperreflexia observed after SCI or peripheral nerve damage.
Predators to rodents and their associated odors are increasingly chosen to study the neural mechanisms of stress and anxiety. Specifically, predatory odors are believed to elicit responses based on the perceived threat (psychological or processive), rather than to any direct systemic effects (pain, blood loss, infection, etc.) of the stimulus, which are mediated by distinct neural pathways. The hypothesis that a chemical component from fox feces, 2,5-dihydro-2,4,5-trimethylthiazoline (TMT), elicits stress responses by specific activation of processive neural pathways was tested. Different amounts of TMT (range: 0-600 micromol) or the control odor butyric acid (0-1200 micromol) were presented to male Sprague-Dawley rats for 30 min. Immediately after odor presentation, rats were sacrificed, blood levels of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and corticosterone were measured, and brains were rapidly harvested to measure regional brain c-fos mRNA induction by in situ hybridization. Presentation of TMT (&gt; or =75 micromol), but not butyric acid (up to 1200 micromol), significantly increased ACTH and corticosterone release. TMT presentation, especially with amounts (&gt; or =75 micromol) producing endocrine activation, induced c-fos mRNA in several brain areas, including the olfactory bulb, lateral septal nucleus, septohypothalamic nucleus, anteromedial and oval nuclei of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the central nucleus of the amygdala, the anteroventral, anterodorsal, and medial preoptic nuclei, the anterior, dorsomedial, lateral, supramammillary, dorsal premammillary and paraventricular hypothalamic nuclei, the external lateral parabrachial nucleus, the locus coeruleus, and the nucleus of the solitary tract. Interestingly, these brain regions represent a mix of regional c-fos mRNA induction pattern not reported previously with any other single stressor. These results suggest that TMT elicits stress responses through a relatively unique and complex mix of brain regions associated with both processive and systemic neural pathways, unlike those seen in response to cat odors.
Cholecystokinin (CCK) is the most abundant neuropeptide in the mammalian brain, and has been implicated in the regulation of a diversity of emotions and motivations including negative affect and stress responses. In this experiment, we assayed levels of CCK (CCK4/5 and CCK8) from tissue homogenates in intruder animals 6 h after resident-intruder inter-male aggression. Intruder animals that demonstrated submissive behavior (freezing and 22-kHz ultrasonic vocalizations) had higher levels of CCK in the tegmentum and posterior cortex as compared to non-submissive (i.e., &quot;Friendly&quot;) intruder animals. Ultrasonic vocalizations (22-kHz) were positively correlated with CCK levels in the tegmentum, posterior cortex and pituitary. These data suggest that CCK may play a role in the generation of negative affective states indexed by 22-kHz ultrasonic calls in certain regions of the brain.
The aim of the present study was to develop an in vitro model that produces an injury-induced delayed nerve cell death. We used entorhinal-hippocampal slices from 12-day-old rats, which were cultured for 14 days before experiments prior to a crush injury in the middle layers of the entorhinal cortex. Crush injury increased specific propidium iodide (PI) fluorescence at the site of primary injury at day 1. Specific PI fluorescence decreased over the following days, with a slower decrease taking place at days 4-7. At days 4-7, PI fluorescence increased in CA1 and CA3. Treatment with 30 microM MK-801 for 2 h at the time of crush injury prevented the increase in PI fluorescence at days 4-7 at the site of injury, in CA1, and in CA3. Crush injury induced TUNEL-positive cells at the site of injury at days 1 and 5. MK-801 markedly reduced the number of TUNEL-positive cells observed at day 5, but had no effect on the number of TUNEL-positive cells at day 1. The present data indicate that crush injury may induce two types of secondary cell death. The first, early, type of cell death is induced quickly and is maximal at day 1, after which the dead cells are gradually removed. The second, delayed, type of cell death appears at day 4. NMDA receptor antagonism prevents the induction of the delayed cell death but has no effect on the early cell death.
Acute social defeat in mice activates the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA) and induces long-term behavioral changes, including exaggerated fear responses and inhibition of territorial behavior. Stress-induced hormonal and neurotransmitter release may contribute to disruption of expression of genes important for cell survival, neuronal plasticity, and neuronal remodeling. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a neurotrophic factor associated with structural cellular changes that occur during nervous system development and contributes to neural plasticity in the adult brain. In rats, acute (1-2 h) restraint stress transiently reduces BDNF mRNA expression in the hippocampus, a region important in the memory and in HPA regulation; restraint stress also decreases BDNF expression in the basolateral amygdala (BLA), a region important for fear consolidation and emotional memory. We hypothesized that a brief (10 min) exposure to intense social stress, a more naturalistic stressor than restraint stress, would also reduce BDNF mRNA in the hippocampus and BLA of mice. In the present study, we examined the time course of expression of BDNF mRNA expression in the hippocampus and amygdala, as well as other subcortical and cortical brain regions, following acute social stress. In situ hybridization analysis for BDNF mRNA expression showed that there was a significant decrease in BDNF mRNA expression in all regions studied in mice 24 h after social defeat when compared to control (naive) mice (P&lt;0.05). These findings support our hypothesis that BDNF mRNA levels are reduced by social stress, and may have implications for brain plasticity and behavioral changes following social stress.
Peripherin is a neuronal intermediate filament associated with inclusion bodies in motor neurons of patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). A possible peripherin involvement in ALS pathogenesis has been suggested based on studies with transgenic mouse overexpressors and with a toxic splicing variant of the mouse peripherin gene. However, the existence of peripherin gene mutations in human ALS has not yet been documented. Therefore, we screened for sequence variants of the peripherin gene (PRPH) in a cohort of ALS patients including familial and sporadic cases. We identified 18 polymorphic variants of PRPH detected in both ALS and age-matched control populations. Two additional PRPH variants were discovered in ALS cases but not in 380 control individuals. One variant consisted of a nucleotide insertion in intron 8 (PRPH(IVS8)(-36insA)), whereas the other one consisted of a 1-bp deletion within exon 1 (PRPH(228delC)), predicting a truncated peripherin species of 85 amino acids. Remarkably, expression of this frameshift peripherin mutant in SW13 cells resulted in disruption of neurofilament network assembly. These results suggest that PRPH mutations may be responsible for a small percentage of ALS, cases and they provide further support of the view that neurofilament disorganization may contribute to pathogenesis.
Tonic inhibition plays a crucial role in regulating neuronal excitability because it sets the threshold for action potential generation and integrates excitatory signals. Tonic currents are known to be largely mediated by extrasynaptic gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)) receptors that are persistently activated by submicromolar concentrations of ambient GABA. We recently reported that, in cultured hippocampal neurons, the clustering of synaptic GABA(A) receptors significantly affects synaptic transmission. In this work, we demonstrated that the clustering of extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors modulated tonic inhibition. Depolymerization of the cytoskeleton with nocodazole promoted the disassembly of extrasynaptic clusters of delta and gamma(2) subunit-containing GABA(A) receptors. This effect was associated with a reduction in the amplitude of tonic currents and diminished shunting inhibition. Moreover, diffuse GABA(A) receptors were less sensitive to the GAT-1 inhibitor NO-711 and to flurazepam. Quantitative analysis of GABA-evoked currents after prolonged exposure to submicromolar concentrations of GABA and model simulations suggest that clustering affects the gating properties of extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors. In particular, a larger occupancy of the singly and doubly bound desensitized states can account for the modulation of tonic inhibition recorded after nocodazole treatment. Moreover, comparison of tonic currents recorded during spontaneous activity and those elicited by exogenously applied low agonist concentrations allows estimation of the concentration of ambient GABA. In conclusion, receptor clustering appears to be an additional regulating factor for tonic inhibition.




The entorhinal cortex (EC) provides the predominant excitatory drive to the hippocampal CA1 and subicular neurons in chronic epilepsy. Discerning the mechanisms underlying signal integration within EC neurons is essential for understanding network excitability alterations involving the hippocampus during epilepsy. Twenty-four hours following a single seizure episode when there were no behavioral or electrographic seizures, we found enhanced spontaneous activity still present in the rat EC in vivo and in vitro. The increased excitability was accompanied by a profound reduction in I(h) in EC layer III neurons and a significant decline in HCN1 and HCN2 subunits that encode for h channels. Consequently, dendritic excitability was enhanced, resulting in increased neuronal firing despite hyperpolarized membrane potentials. The loss of I(h) and the increased neuronal excitability persisted for 1 week following seizures. Our results suggest that dendritic I(h) plays an important role in determining the excitability of EC layer III neurons and their associated neural networks.
Striatal medium spiny neurons are principal players in the basal ganglia macrocircuits implicated in an astonishing array of psychomotor disorders, including Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia, Huntington's disease, and drug abuse. Using an elegant combination of 2-photon laser scanning microscopy and 2-photon uncaging of glutamate, Carter and Sabatini (this issue of Neuron) provide our first glimpse into the dendrites and spines of striatal medium spiny neurons. The results offer new insights into the workings of these clinically important yet mysterious neurons.
The neuropeptide corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) activates locus ceruleus (LC) neurons, thereby increasing norepinephrine levels throughout the CNS. Despite anatomical and physiological evidence for CRH innervation of the LC, the mechanism of CRH-evoked activation of LC neurons is unknown. Moreover, given the apparent absence of mRNA for CRH receptors in LC neurons, the exact location of action of CRH within the cerulear region is debated. Using in vitro intracellular recordings from rat brainstem, we examined whether CRH exerts a direct effect on LC neurons and which ionic currents are likely affected by CRH. We demonstrate that CRH dose-dependently increases the firing rate of LC neurons through a direct (TTX- and cadmium-insensitive) mechanism by decreasing a potassium conductance. The CRH-evoked activation of LC neurons is, at least in part, mediated by CRH1 receptors and a cAMP-dependent second messenger system. These data provide additional support that CRH functions as an excitatory neurotransmitter in the LC and the hypothesis that dysfunction of the CRH peptidergic and noradrenergic systems observed in patients with mood and anxiety disorders are functionally related.
Recent studies have demonstrated that melanopsin is a key photopigment in the mammalian circadian system. This novel opsin is exclusively expressed in retinal ganglion cells that are intrinsically sensitive to light, perhaps responding via a melanopsin-based signaling pathway. Previous investigations using transgenic mice have also demonstrated that ablation of the classical photoreceptors and of melanopsin prevents entrainment of several circadian rhythms, thus demonstrating that these photoreceptors are necessary and sufficient for circadian photoreception. In this study, we investigated the effect of photoreceptor degeneration on melanopsin mRNA regulation in RCS/N-rdy rats (Royal College of Surgeons rats with a defect in the retinal dystrophy gene). We used animals at postnatal day 21 (P21), P33, P45, and P60. At P60 degeneration of the retina in RCS/N-rdy has advanced to the point where the majority of the photoreceptors have degenerated. Our data indicate that melanopsin mRNA levels were rhythmic in light/dark cycle and in constant darkness in congenic controls (RCS/N-rdy+) and in RCS/N-rdy at P21 (i.e., before the degeneration of the photoreceptors). On the other hand, in RCS/N-rdy at P60, melanopsin mRNA levels were greatly reduced (&lt;90%) and not rhythmic. Photoreceptor degeneration did not affect the expression of pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide mRNA (a marker for melanopsin-containing ganglion cells). Our results suggest that classical photoreceptors (rods and cones) regulate the expression of melanopsin mRNA in the rat. Because RCS/N-rdy rats are a model for studies on retinitis pigmentosa in human, our data may provide an important insight on melanopsin function in patients affected by retinitis pigmentosa.
In the developing neocortex, most excitatory neurons are supplied and arranged through radial migration. Because neurons show global morphological changes and complicated behavior during that migration, precise regulation of cell shape and polarity is essential for proper migration and correct neocortical formation; however, how cell shape and polarity are regulated in migrating neuron remains elusive. We show here that Filamin A, a well known actin-binding protein, determines the shape of neocortical neurons during radial migration in vivo. Dysfunction of Filamin A, caused by a mutant Filamin A expression, prevents cells from acquiring consistent polarity toward specific direction and decreases motility in the subventricular and intermediate zones. In contrast, Filamin A overexpression, achieved by a short interfering RNA for Filamin A-interacting protein that induces Filamin A degradation (FILIP), promotes the development and maintenance of a bipolar shape also in the subventricular and intermediate zones. These results suggest that the amount of Filamin A helps migrating neurons determine their mode of migration, multipolar or bipolar, before entering the cortical plate and that FILIP is responsible, at least in part, for Filamin A content. In addition, our results also give a possible clue to understanding the pathogenesis of human malformation periventricular heterotopia, which is caused by various &quot;loss-of-function&quot; mutations in the filamin A gene.
The proinflammatory and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-inducible cytokine tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) has been shown to enhance primary sensory nociceptive signaling. However, the precise cellular sites of TNFalpha and TNF receptor synthesis are still a matter of controversy. Therefore, we differentiated the neuronal and non-neuronal sites of TNFalpha, TNFR1, and TNFR2 mRNA synthesis in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) of control rats and evaluated how their expression is altered under systemic challenge with LPS. In situ hybridization (ISH), RT-PCR analysis of laser-microdissected cells, and immunocytochemistry revealed absence of TNFalpha from DRG neurons and LPS-induced expression of TNFalpha exclusively in a subpopulation of non-neuronal DRG cells. Using RT-PCR and Northern blotting TNFR1 and TNFR2 mRNAs were found to be constitutively expressed and increased after LPS. TNFR1 mRNA was expressed in virtually all neurons and in non-neuronal cells with increased levels after LPS in both. TNFR2 was exclusively expressed and regulated in non-neuronal cells. RT-PCR analysis of microdissected DRG neurons and of the sensory neuronal cell line F11 confirmed the neuronal expression of TNFR1 and excluded that of TNFR2. Double ISH revealed varying levels of TNFR1 mRNA in virtually all DRG neurons including putative nociceptive neurons coding for calcitonin gene-related peptide, substance P, or vanilloid receptor 1. Taken together, we provide evidence that non-neuronally synthesized TNFalpha may directly act on primary afferent neurons via TNFR1 but not TNFR2. This is likely to be relevant under conditions of inflammatory pain and infections accompanied by widespread TNFalpha synthesis and release and may drive sickness behavior.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection is known to cause disorders of the CNS, including HIV-associated dementia (HAD). HIV-1 coat protein gp120 (glycoprotein 120) induces neuronal apoptosis and has been implicated in the pathogenesis of HAD. However, the mechanism by which gp120 causes neuronal apoptosis is poorly understood. The present study underlines the importance of gp120 in inducing the production of ceramide, an important inducer of apoptosis, in human primary neurons. gp120 induced the activation of sphingomyelinases (primarily the neutral one) and the production of ceramide in primary neurons. Antisense knockdown of neutral (NSMase) but not acidic (ASMase) sphingomyelinase markedly inhibited gp120-mediated apoptosis and cell death of primary neurons, suggesting that the activation of NSMase but not ASMase plays an important role in gp120-mediated neuronal apoptosis. Similarly, the HIV-1 regulatory protein Tat also induced neuronal cell death via NSMase. Furthermore, gp120-induced production of ceramide was redox sensitive, because reactive oxygen species were involved in the activation of NSMase but not ASMase. gp120 coupled CXCR4 (CXC chemokine receptor 4) to induce NADPH oxidase-mediated production of superoxide radicals in neurons, which was involved in the activation of NSMase but not ASMase. These studies suggest that gp120 may induce neuronal apoptosis in the CNS of HAD patients through the CXCR4-NADPH oxidase-superoxide-NSMase-ceramide pathway.
The aim of this study was to separate bottom-up and top-down influences within cerebral asymmetries. This was studied in the lateralized visual system of pigeons by recording from single units of the left and right diencephalic nucleus rotundus of the tectofugal pathway while visually stimulating the ipsilateral and/or contralateral eye. Analyses of response latencies revealed rotundal neurons with short and/or late response components. Cells with short latencies very likely represent bottom-up neurons participating in the ascending retinotectorotundal system. Because lidocaine injections into the visual Wulst produced a significant reduction of late response components only, neurons with long latencies were probably activated via a top-down telencephalotectorotundal system. The distribution and response characteristics of bottom-up and top-down neurons provided insight into several asymmetries of ascending and descending pathways. Asymmetries of the ascending retinotectorotundal system (bottom-up) were characterized by longer periods of tonic activation in the left and shorter response latencies in the right rotundus. Left-right differences in these responses probably facilitate faster access to visual input to the right hemisphere and a prolonged processing of this input in the left. The descending telencephalotectorotundal system (top-down) revealed a completely different lateralized organization. This system was characterized by long latency responses that exclusively derived from the left hemisphere, regardless of whether recordings took place in the left or the right rotundus. We assume that asymmetrical modes of visual processing within both hemispheres of the ascending tectofugal system are ultimately directed to left hemispheric forebrain mechanisms that subsequently generate executive control over sensory and motor structures.
Ion channels open and close their pore in a process called gating. On the basis of crystal structures of two voltage-independent K(+) channels, KcsA and MthK, a conformational change for gating has been proposed whereby the inner helix bends at a glycine hinge point (gating hinge) to open the pore and straightens to close it. Here we ask if a similar gating hinge conformational change underlies the mechanics of pore opening of two eukaryotic voltage-dependent K(+) channels, Shaker and BK channels. In the Shaker channel, substitution of the gating hinge glycine with alanine and several other amino acids prevents pore opening, but the ability to open is recovered if a secondary glycine is introduced at an adjacent position. A proline at the gating hinge favors the open state of the Shaker channel as if by preventing inner helix straightening. In BK channels, which have two adjacent glycine residues, opening is significantly hindered in a graded manner with single and double mutations to alanine. These results suggest that K(+) channels, whether ligand- or voltage-dependent, open when the inner helix bends at a conserved glycine gating hinge.
Mammals and birds appear to encode timing differences between the ears, a major cue for auditory localization, in fundamentally different ways. It now appears that results from different species can be accommodated within a single general framework.
Dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH) catalyzes the conversion of dopamine to norepinephrine (NE). Animal studies show that genes in the NE pathway are candidates for susceptibility to epilepsy and antiepileptic drug (AED) response. The authors genotyped the -1021C--&gt;T major functional polymorphism in the DBH gene in 675 patients with epilepsy and 1,087 controls. The authors found no association with epilepsy, several epilepsy subtypes, or AED response. The results suggest that the -1021C--&gt;T variant does not contribute to epilepsy.
Mutations in the PINK1 gene have recently been shown to cause autosomal recessive Parkinson disease (PD). The authors assessed the prevalence of PINK1 gene mutations in 290 well-characterized early- and late-onset PD patients from Ireland. In a 51-year-old PD patient with a family history of PD, the authors identified a novel heterozygous mutation (R147H) in exon 2 of the PINK1 gene. Overall, these data indicate that PINK1 mutations are a rare cause of PD in Ireland.

The goal of this experiment was to determine whether the allocation of attention necessarily requires saccade preparation. To dissociate the focus of attention from the endpoint of a saccade, macaque monkeys were trained to perform visual search for a uniquely colored rectangle and shift gaze either toward or opposite this color singleton according to its orientation. A vertical singleton cued a prosaccade, a horizontal singleton, an antisaccade. Saccade preparation was probed by measuring the direction of saccades evoked by intracortical microstimulation of the frontal eye fields at variable times after presentation of the search array. Eye movements evoked on prosaccade trials deviated progressively toward the singleton that was also the endpoint of the correct eye movement. However, eye movements evoked on antisaccade trials never deviated toward the singleton but only progressively toward the location opposite the singleton. This occurred even though previous work showed that on antisaccade trials most neurons in frontal eye fields initially select the singleton while attention is allocated to distinguish its shape. Thus, sensorimotor structures can covertly orient attention without preparing a saccade.
Voltage-gated Kv1.1/Kvbeta1.1 A-type channels, as a natural complex, can switch from fast to slow inactivation under oxidation/reduction conditions. The mode-switching of inactivation, which is mediated by a cysteine residue in the inactivation ball domain of the Kvbeta1.1 N terminus, can regulate membrane electrical excitability. In the present study, we identified a mechanism whereby inactivation in Kv1.1/Kvbeta1.1 channels is regulated by calcium influx. The rise in intracellular calcium, due to either influx from extracellular space or release from intracellular stores, eliminates fast inactivation induced by Kvbeta1.1, resulting in slower inactivation and increased steady-state current. This oxidation-independent calcium effect is mediated through the Kvbeta1.1 N terminus, not the C terminus. We propose that a coupling between calcium influx and inactivation of voltage-gated A-type K+ channels occurs as a result of membrane depolarization and may contribute to afterhyperpolarization as negative feedback to control neuronal excitability.
Different effects of moderate to high doses of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid, including sedation/hypnosis, have been found to be blocked by gamma-aminobutyric acidB (GABAB) receptor antagonists. The present study investigated whether the protective effect of GABAB receptor antagonists extends also to gamma-hydroxybutyric acid-induced mortality. To this aim, the present study investigated the effect of the GABAB receptor antagonist, (2S)(+)-5,5-dimethyl-2-morpholineacetic acid (SCH 50911; 100 mg/kg, ip), on mortality induced by gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (1-6 g/kg, ip) in DBA mice. Pretreatment with SCH 50911 resulted in a significant shift to the right of the dose-response curve of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid-induced mortality. Accordingly, the LD50 in SCH 50911-pretreated mice was significantly higher than that obtained in water-pretreated mice. The results of the present study support the hypothesis that (a) the GABAB receptor is a relevant site of action of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid, and (b) GABAB receptor antagonists may constitute potentially effective therapeutic interventions for gamma-hydroxybutyric acid intoxication.
The molecular mechanisms by which differentiated cells combat cell death and injury have remained unclear. In the current issue, it has been shown in neurons that cell differentiation is accompanied by a decrease in Apaf-1 and the activity of the apoptosome with an increased ability of the inhibitor of apoptosis proteins (IAPs) to sustain survival (Wright et al., 2004). These results, together with earlier ones, deepen our understanding of how cell death and the apoptosome are regulated during differentiation and in tumor cells.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) regulates synapses, but the distribution of BDNF and its receptor TrkB relative to the location of glutamatergic and gamma-aminobutyric acidergic (GABAergic) synapses is presently unknown. Immunocytochemistry was performed in primary hippocampal neuron cultures to determine whether BDNF and TrkB are preferentially localized to excitatory or inhibitory markers at 7, 14, and 21 days in vitro (DIV). Glutamatergic sites were localized with vesicular glutamate transporter type 1 (VGLUT1) as presynaptic marker and the NR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor and the GluR1 subunit of the AMPA receptor as receptor markers. GABAergic sites were labeled with the 65-kDa isoform of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD-65) as presynaptic marker and the gamma2 subunit of the GABAA receptor as receptor marker. During development, &lt;30% of BDNF punctae and TrkB clusters were localized to glutamatergic and GABAergic markers. Because their rates of colocalization did not change from 7 to 21 DIV, this study details the distribution of BDNF and TrkB at 14 DIV. BDNF was preferentially colocalized with glutamatergic markers VGLUT1 and NR1 ( approximately 30% each). TrkB was also relatively highly colocalized with VGLUT1 and NR1 ( approximately 20% each) but was additionally highly colocalized with GABAergic markers GAD-65 ( approximately 20%) and gamma2 ( approximately 30%). NR1 clusters colocalized with BDNF puncta and TrkB clusters were mostly extrasynaptic, as were gamma2 clusters colocalized with TrkB clusters. These results show that, whereas most BDNF and TrkB protein is extrasynaptic, BDNF is preferentially associated with excitatory markers and that TrkB is associated equally with excitatory and inhibitory markers.
In larval lamprey, with increasing recovery times after a transection of the rostral spinal cord, there is a gradual recovery of locomotor behavior, and descending brain neurons regenerate their axons for progressively greater distances below the transection site. In the present study, spinal cord &quot;conditioning lesions&quot; (i.e., transections) were performed in the spinal cord at 30% body length (BL; normalized distance from the head) or 50% BL. After various &quot;lesion delay times&quot; (D), a more proximal spinal cord &quot;test lesion&quot; (i.e., transection) was performed at 10% BL, and then, after various recovery times (R), horseradish peroxidase was applied to the spinal cord at 20% BL to determine the extent of axonal regeneration of descending brain neurons. Conditioning lesions at 30% BL, lesion delay times of 2 weeks, and recovery times of 4 weeks (D-R = 2-4 group) resulted in a significant enhancement of axonal regeneration for the total numbers of descending brain neurons as well as neurons in certain brain cell groups compared to control animals without conditioning lesions. Experiments with hemiconditioning lesions, which reduce interanimal variability, confirmed that conditioning lesions do significantly enhance axonal regeneration and indicate that axotomy rather than diffusible factors released at the injury site is primarily involved in this enhancement. Results from the present study suggest that conditioning lesions &quot;prime&quot; descending brain neurons via cell body responses and enhance subsequent axonal regeneration, probably by reducing the initial delay and/or increasing the initial rate of axonal outgrowth.
Scalp electrophysiological recordings in humans indicate that the processing of faces differs from other categories between 100 and 200 ms after stimulus onset, peaking at the N170. To test the effect of the addition of a second face stimulus in the visual field on the face-related N170, we measured this component in response to a laterally presented face stimulus while subjects were processing either a central face or a control stimulus. As early as 130 ms following the lateralized face stimulus, there was a strong (approximately 40% of signal) and specific reduction of the N170 amplitude when subjects were concurrently processing a central face. This observation suggests that the early stages of the N170 reflect the activation of individual faces having overlapping and competing neural representations in the human occipito-temporal cortex.
Functional neuroimaging has revealed several brain regions that are selective for the visual appearance of others, in particular the face. More recent evidence points to a lateral temporal region that responds to the visual appearance of the human body (extrastriate body area or EBA). We tested whether this region distinguishes between egocentric and allocentric views of the self and other people. EBA activity increased significantly for allocentric relative to egocentric views in the right hemisphere, but was not influenced by identity. Whole-brain analyses revealed several regions that were influenced by viewpoint or identity. Modulation of EBA activity by viewpoint was modest relative to modulation by stimulus class. We propose that the EBA plays a relatively early role in social vision.
Axonal regeneration after injury can be limited in the adult CNS by the presence of inhibitory proteins such as Nogo. Nogo binds to a receptor complex that consists of Nogo receptor (NgR), p75NTR, and Lingo-1. Nogo binding activates RhoA, which inhibits axonal outgrowth. Here we assessed Lingo-1 and NgR mRNA levels after delivery of BDNF into the rat hippocampal formation, Lingo-1 mRNA levels in rats subjected to kainic acid (KA) and running in running wheels. Lingo-1 mRNA was not changed by running. However, we found that Lingo-1 mRNA was strongly up-regulated while NgR mRNA was down-regulated in the dentate gyrus in both the BDNF and the KA experiments. Our data demonstrate inverse regulation of NgR and Lingo-1 in these situations, suggesting that Lingo-1 up-regulation is one characteristic of activity-induced neural plasticity responses.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the role of the vestibular system in cardiovascular control in a varying gravito-inertial field induced by parabolic flight. We measured variations in arterial pressure and heart rate in eight awake rats, four of which had undergone bilateral labyrinthectomy 3 months previously. While the control rats showed heart rate and mean arterial pressure modulations depending on gravity level, no such variation was observed in the lesioned rats. This study confirms the role of the vestibular system in cardiovascular control and opens up new prospects for interpreting cardiovascular variations observed during space flights.
Although previous functional brain imaging studies have found that the insula responds selectively to facial expressions of disgust, it remains unclear whether the insula responds selectively to disgust-inducing pictures. In this fMRI study, healthy volunteers viewed pictures of contamination, human mutilation, attacks and neutral scenes during scanning, and then rated pictures for the 'basic' emotions. The anterior insula responded to contamination and mutilation but not attacks, while the ventral visual areas responded to attacks and mutilations more strongly than contamination. The above activations were predicted by disgust and arousal ratings respectively. Additionally, mutilations uniquely activated the right superior parietal cortex. These results support selective disgust processing at the insula, and suggest distinct neural responses to contamination and mutilation.
In vivo, diabetes causes neuropathy in the sympathetic celiac/superior mesenteric ganglion (CG/SMG) but not the superior cervical ganglion (SCG). Therefore, our aim was to compare the effects of high glucose in vitro on adult rat SCG and CG/SMG neurons. High glucose decreased viability and neurite outgrowth and increased TUNEL staining in freshly dissociated neurons from both ganglia. In cultures established for 24 h before exposure to high glucose, a significant (p &lt; 0.01) decrease in neurite-bearing neurons from CG/SMG but not SCG occurred. CG/SMG neurons took longer (p &lt; 0.05) to initiate neurite outgrowth and had lower (p &lt; 0.002) anti-oxidant defence enzyme activity. These properties may contribute to the selective development of neuropathy in CG/SMG in diabetes in vivo.
Unlike most organs, tissue regeneration and repair are not very efficient in the CNS, which explains the severity of neurodegenerative diseases. Many have hoped that stem cells would provide an effective mean to solve this problem. Unfortunately, evidence supporting this approach remains controversial. In this review, we discuss the capacity of stem cells to generate the cells that reside in the brain. Neural stem cells are able to generate new neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes, but not microglia. The latter are instead replenished by self-replication and monocyte recruitment across the blood-brain barrier. The fact that blood-derived monocytes can enter the brain and differentiate into microglial cells has many implications for neurodegenerative diseases. They are more efficient antigen-presenting cells and produce proinflammatory molecules that can be both detrimental to the brain and beneficial to recovery and repair after insults. It is therefore very important to better understand the role of these newly differentiated microglia before devising therapeutic strategies to either inhibit or improve their recruitment at diseased and injured sites.
Cardiac arrest (CA) patients exhibit learning and memory disabilities. These deficits suggest that synaptic dysfunction may underlie such disabilities. The hypothesis of the present study was that synaptic dysfunction occurs following CA and that this precedes cell death. To test this hypothesis, we used histopathological and electrophysiological markers in the hippocampus of rats subjected to CA. Evoked potentials (EP) were determined in the CA1 region of hippocampal slices harvested from animals subjected to CA or sham-operated rats by stimulating the Schaffer collaterals and recording in the CA1 pyramidal region. EP amplitudes were significantly attenuated by approximately 60% in hippocampal slices harvested from animals subjected to CA. Hippocampal slices harvested from sham rats exhibited normal long-term potentiation (LTP). In contrast, hippocampal slices harvested 24 h after CA exhibited no LTP response, even when no histopathological abnormalities were observed. These data suggest that synaptic dysfunction occurs before and without overt histopathology. We suggest that the synaptic dysfunction precedes and may be an early marker for delayed neuronal cell death in the hippocampus after CA.
In the mammalian central nervous system (CNS), a family of alpha and beta subunits (alpha2-7, beta2-4) assemble to form both hetero- and homopentameric neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). In contrast to alpha4beta2 and alpha7, the predominant brain subtypes, far less is known regarding the functional expression and significance of alpha3-containing nAChRs in the CNS. In trying to better understand the role alpha3 in the CNS, an antisense knockdown strategy was utilized in the present studies. Specifically, Isis 106567 was identified out of 80 antisense oligonucleotides (aONs) designed and screened for their ability to reduce alpha3 mRNA expression in PC-12 cells. In addition to reducing alpha3 mRNA by greater than 75%, Isis 106567 attenuated nicotine-induced calcium influx in alpha3-expressing F11 cells. In vivo studies revealed significant reduction of alpha3 mRNA levels in both thalamus and medial habenula, regions known to express alpha3, following continuous (7 days) intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) infusion of Isis 106567 in rats. Consistent with functional alpha3 knockdown, epibatidine-induced c-Fos expression in the medial habenula was attenuated in aON-treated rats. Known physiological responses elicited by epibatidine, such as hypothermia and micturition, were not affected by alpha3 aON treatment. However, the incidence of epibatidine-induced seizures was reduced in alpha3-antisense aON-treated rats, suggesting that alpha3 may be involved in mediating seizures produced by the nAChR agonist. Results of our studies suggest that Isis 106567 may be a useful in vivo tool for characterizing the functional significance of alpha3 expression in the CNS.
The receptor subtypes, which mediate nicotine-induced excitation of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, were investigated by whole-cell patch clamp studies and single-cell RT-PCR using acutely dissociated nigral neurons. Three types of current were observed when acetylcholine (1 mM) was applied to the neurons in the presence of atropine (1 microM) by the U-tube system, which allowed the rapid application of drugs. In 50% of neurons examined, acetylcholine (1 mM) plus atropine (1 microM) evoked a current with a rapidly desensitizing decay phase (designated as type Ia current). In 14% of neurons tested, the current induced by acetylcholine plus atropine had a decay phase with slow desensitization (designated as type II current). The third type of response, which had both characteristics of type Ia and II currents, was evoked in 36% of neurons tested (designated as type Ib currents). Nicotine (1 mM) also induced three types of inward currents which were similar to those induced by acetylcholine (1 mM) plus atropine (1 microM). In all three types of current, nicotine (0.1 microM-1 mM)-evoked inward currents were dose-dependent. Type Ia and II currents were inhibited by methyllycaconitine (MLA, 0.01 microM), a selective nicotinic alpha7 receptor antagonist, and dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DHbetaE, 0.1 microM), an antagonist for alpha4beta2 receptor, respectively. In type Ib currents, a fast-decaying phase was inhibited by MLA (0.01 microM), while a slow-decaying phase was blocked by DHbetaE (0.1 microM). After recording the type Ib current, single-cell RT-PCR analysis was performed using aspirated cytoplasm as total RNA templates. The results revealed that mRNAs for alpha7 nicotinic receptor subunit and tyrosine hydroxylase were detected in the same single neuron tested, which confirms the existence of alpha7-type nicotinic acetylcholine receptor in dopaminergic neurons of this area. These results suggest that nicotine directly acts on postsynaptic alpha7- and alpha4beta2-type nicotinic acetylcholine receptors and induces inward current, which result in the excitation of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra.
We investigate whether the fourth intracellular loop (IL4) of D1 and D5 dopaminergic receptors (D1R, D5R) confers D1-like subtype-specific signaling properties. Using chimeric receptors (D1R-IL4B and D5R-IL4A), we show that swapping of IL4 leads to a switch in dopamine affinity and constitutive activity of D1R and D5R. Dopamine potency was reduced for both chimeras in comparison with wild-type receptors. Moreover, dopamine-mediated maximal activation was drastically increased in cells expressing D1R-IL4B when compared with those harboring D5R-IL4A or wild-type receptors. In conclusion, IL4 plays a pivotal role in imparting subtype-specific ligand binding and activation properties to highly homologous seven-transmembrane receptors.
Voltage-gated sodium channels (Nav) are responsible for initiation and propagation of nerve, skeletal muscle, and cardiac action potentials. Nav are composed of a pore-forming alpha subunit and often one to several modulating beta subunits. Previous work showed that terminal sialic acid residues attached to alpha subunits affect channel gating. Here we show that the fully sialylated beta1 subunit induces a uniform, hyperpolarizing shift in steady state and kinetic gating of the cardiac and two neuronal alpha subunit isoforms. Under conditions of reduced sialylation, the beta1-induced gating effect was eliminated. Consistent with this, mutation of beta1 N-glycosylation sites abolished all effects of beta1 on channel gating. Data also suggest an interaction between the cis effect of alpha sialic acids and the trans effect of beta1 sialic acids on channel gating. Thus, beta1 sialic acids had no effect gating on the of the heavily glycosylated skeletal muscle alpha subunit. However, when glycosylation of the skeletal muscle alpha subunit was reduced through chimeragenesis such that alpha sialic acids did not impact gating, beta1 sialic acids caused a significant hyperpolarizing shift in channel gating. Together, the data indicate that beta1 N-linked sialic acids can modulate Nav gating through an apparent saturating electrostatic mechanism. A model is proposed in which a spectrum of differentially sialylated Nav can directly modulate channel gating, thereby impacting cardiac, skeletal muscle, and neuronal excitability.
Processing of the nf-kappab2 gene product p100 to generate p52 is a tightly regulated event, consistent with the fact that the processing product, p52, is hardly detected in most cell types, including T cells, although the precursor p100 is expressed abundantly in these cells. However, in T cells transformed by the human T-cell leukemia virus type I (HTLV-I), p100 processing is very active, resulting in high level expression of p52. Because overproduction of p52 is associated with lymphoid hyperplasia and transformation, deregulation of p100 processing may be part of the oncogenic mechanism of HTLV-I. We demonstrated previously that HTLV-I Tax oncoprotein is a potent inducer of p100 processing through specific targeting of IKKalpha via IKKgamma to p100 to trigger p100 phosphorylation and ubiquitination. In this study, we further show that Tax-mediated recruitment of IKKalpha to p100 requires serines 866 and 870 of p100, shown to be essential for inducible processing of p100. Upon interaction with p100, activated IKKalpha phosphorylates both N- and C-terminal serines of p100 (serines 99, 108, 115, 123 and 872), serving as a critical step in Tax-induced p100 processing. Using a genetic approach, we find that beta-transducin repeat-containing protein, a component of the SCF ubiquitin ligase complex, previously shown to be required for physiological p100 processing mediated by nuclear factor-kappaB-inducing kinase, is only partially involved in Tax-induced processing of p100. These results indicate that both beta-transducin repeat-containing protein-dependent and -independent mechanisms contribute to Tax-deregulated p100 processing, further suggesting the involvement of different mechanisms in cellular and viral pathways of p100 processing.
Calmodulin (CaM) is a major effector for the intracellular actions of Ca2+ in nearly all cell types. We identified a CaM-binding protein, designated regulator of calmodulin signaling (RCS). G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR)-dependent activation of protein kinase A (PKA) led to phosphorylation of RCS at Ser55 and increased its binding to CaM. Phospho-RCS acted as a competitive inhibitor of CaM-dependent enzymes, including protein phosphatase 2B (PP2B, also called calcineurin). Increasing RCS phosphorylation blocked GPCR- and PP2B-mediated suppression of L-type Ca2+ currents in striatal neurons. Conversely, genetic deletion of RCS significantly increased this modulation. Through a molecular mechanism that amplifies GPCR- and PKA-mediated signaling and attenuates GPCR- and PP2B-mediated signaling, RCS synergistically increases the phosphorylation of key proteins whose phosphorylation is regulated by PKA and PP2B.

Recent studies have indicated that, in addition to demyelination and axonal degeneration, a third factor, dysregulated ion channel expression, contributes to the pathophysiology of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) and multiple sclerosis (MS). Consistent with this suggestion, upregulated expression of sodium channel Na(v)1.8 is observed in Purkinje neurons in EAE and MS, and biophysical studies indicate that aberrant expression of Na(v)1.8 produces abnormal Purkinje cell firing which may contribute to the development of cerebellar ataxia. However, the molecular mechanisms that contribute to the upregulation of Na(v)1.8 in Purkinje cells in EAE and MS have not yet been determined. Previous studies have shown that neurotrophic factors can modulate sodium channel expression and that elevated levels of NGF are present in EAE and MS. Using immunocytochemical methods, we examined the relationship between the upregulation of Na(v)1.8 and the expression of the NGF receptors p75 and TrkA in EAE. Here we demonstrate that upregulation of Na(v)1.8 is associated with expression of p75 and low levels of TrkA in the majority of Purkinje cells in EAE. These findings, together with previous studies demonstrating a modulatory role of NGF on sodium channel expression, suggest that NGF acting via p75 contributes to the upregulation of Na(v)1.8 in Purkinje cells in EAE.
Chronic stressors alter brain function and may leave traces after their relief. We used intermittent morphine treatment to examine the relationships between stress-induced changes in energy balance and hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) activity and the recovery thereafter. We studied the effects of morphine injections on energy balance, hormones and fat stores, brain neuropeptide expression, and the ACTH and corticosterone responses to restraint 12 hr after the final injection and 8 d later during recovery. Weight gain, food intake, and caloric efficiency decreased at morphine onset, and these were maintained throughout the morphine injections. At 12 hr, fat stores, leptin, insulin, and testosterone concentrations were reduced. Subsequently, body weight gain and food intake increased and caloric efficiency was above control during the final days. By the eighth recovery day, fat stores and peripheral hormones were no longer depressed. At 12 hr, an over-response of CRF mRNA to restraint occurred in the hypothalamus, similar to the facilitated ACTH and corticosterone responses. On day 8, the hypothalamic CRF mRNA response to restraint was still facilitated, opposite to inhibited ACTH responses. Hypothalamic CRF mRNA correlated highly with mesenteric fat weight in morphine-treated rats. We conclude that there is a prolonged recovery from chronic stressors involving interrelated changes in energy balance and HPA activity. Nonetheless, 8 d after withdrawal from morphine, rats still display facilitated central stress responses, similar to the HPA symptoms described in posttraumatic stress disorder patients. Repeated partial withdrawal associated with intermittent morphine treatment, compounded by complete withdrawal associated with termination of the treatment, is likely required for these metabolic and HPA derangements.
Postsynaptic density (PSD) proteins include scaffold, cytoskeletal, and signaling proteins that structurally and functionally interact with glutamate receptors and other postsynaptic membrane proteins. The molecular mechanisms regulating the assembly of PSD proteins and their associations with synapses are still widely unknown. We investigated the molecular mechanisms of Shank1 targeting and synapse assembly by looking at the function of guanylate kinase-associated protein (GKAP) and PSD-95 interactions. Shank1 when it is not associated to GKAP, which binds to the Shank PSD-95-Discs Large-zona occludens-1 domain, forms filamentous and fusiform structures in which the Src homology 3 domain specifically interacts with the ankyrin repeat domain, thus allowing its multimerization via a novel form of intermolecular interaction. Surprisingly, in both COS-7 cells and hippocampal neurons, GKAP forms insoluble aggregates with Shank that colocalize with heat shock protein 70 and neurofilaments, two markers of the aggresomes in which misfolded proteins accumulate. However, the two proteins are organized in clusters in COS cells and synaptic clusters in neurons when both are overexpressed and associated with wild-type PSD-95, but not with palmitoylation-deficient PSD-95. Synaptic activity in neurons induces the formation of Shank and GKAP intracellular aggregation and degradation. Similarly, the overexpression of a GKAP mutant that is incapable of binding PSD-95 induces Shank aggregation and degradation in neurons. Our data suggest a possible functional and structural role of the PSD-95-GKAP complex in Shank and PSD protein assembly and stability to synapses.
Human sound localization relies on implicit head-centered acoustic cues. However, to create a stable and accurate representation of sounds despite intervening head movements, the acoustic input should be continuously combined with feedback signals about changes in head orientation. Alternatively, the auditory target coordinates could be updated in advance by using either the preprogrammed gaze-motor command or the sensory target coordinates to which the intervening gaze shift is made (&quot;predictive remapping&quot;). So far, previous experiments cannot dissociate these alternatives. Here, we study whether the auditory system compensates for ongoing saccadic eye and head movements in two dimensions that occur during target presentation. In this case, the system has to deal with dynamic changes of the acoustic cues as well as with rapid changes in relative eye and head orientation that cannot be preprogrammed by the audiomotor system. We performed visual-auditory double-step experiments in two dimensions in which a brief sound burst was presented while subjects made a saccadic eye-head gaze shift toward a previously flashed visual target. Our results show that localization responses under these dynamic conditions remain accurate. Multiple linear regression analysis revealed that the intervening eye and head movements are fully accounted for. Moreover, elevation response components were more accurate for longer-duration sounds (50 msec) than for extremely brief sounds (3 msec), for all localization conditions. Taken together, these results cannot be explained by a predictive remapping scheme. Rather, we conclude that the human auditory system adequately processes dynamically varying acoustic cues that result from self-initiated rapid head movements to construct a stable representation of the target in world coordinates. This signal is subsequently used to program accurate eye and head localization responses.
Although it has been suggested that astroglia guide pioneering axons during development, the cellular and molecular substrates that direct axon regeneration in adult white matter have not been elucidated. We show that although adult cortical neurons were only able to elaborate very short, highly branched, dendritic-like processes when seeded onto organotypic slice cultures of postnatal day 35 (P35) rat brain containing the corpus callosum, adult dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons were able to regenerate lengthy axons within the reactive glial environment of this degenerating white matter tract. The callosum in both P35 slices and adult rat brain was rich in fibronectin, but not laminin. Furthermore, the fibronectin was intimately associated with the intratract astrocytes. Blockade of fibronectin function in situ with an anti-fibronectin antibody dramatically decreased outgrowth of DRG neurites, suggesting that fibronectin plays an important role in axon regeneration in mature white matter. The critical interaction between regrowing axons and astroglial-associated fibronectin in white matter may be an additional factor to consider when trying to understand regeneration failure and devising strategies to promote regeneration.

Neuronal transmission relies on signals transmitted through a vast array of excitatory and inhibitory neuronal synaptic connections. How do axons communicate with dendrites to build synapses, and what molecules regulate this interaction? There is a wealth of evidence suggesting that cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) provide much of the information required for synapse formation. This review highlights the molecular mechanisms used by CAMs to regulate presynaptic and postsynaptic differentiation.


Acute injection of cocaine increases locomotor activity of inbred long-sleep (ILS) mice to a greater extent than inbred short-sleep (ISS) mice. Strain differences in dopamine and/or serotonin (5-HT) neurotransmission could underlie these behavioral differences. Here, we found that dopamine D1, 5-HT(2A) and 5-HT3 receptor antagonists reduced cocaine-stimulated activity selectively in ILS mice. In contrast, 5-HT transporter (SERT) or 5-HT(1A) receptor antagonists potentiated cocaine-stimulated activity in ISS, but not in ILS, mice; this potentiation in ISS mice was abolished by dopamine D1 receptor blockade. Thus, in ILS mice, cocaine-induced activation of D1, 5-HT(2A) or 5-HT3 receptors is sufficient to produce locomotor stimulation. In contrast, ISS mice require pharmacologically increased 5-HT levels, which appear to result in increased dopamine neurotransmission, for cocaine-induced activation. Our results demonstrate strain differences in dopamine/5-HT receptor subtypes and their interactions that contribute to the differential behavioral responsiveness of ILS and ISS mice to cocaine.
Trafficking of the galanin R2 receptor (GALR2) fused with enhanced GFP (EGFP) was studied by using confocal fluorescence microscopy. The fusion protein was predominantly localized on the plasma membrane with some intracellular fluorescent structures (vesicles), mainly in the perinuclear region. Incubation with galanin resulted in a concentration-dependent increase in intracellular Ca2+ concentration levels, suggesting that the GALR2-EGFP conjugate is functional. After blocking endocytosis with methyl-beta-cyclodextrin GALR2-EGFP expression was increased on the surface and decreased in the cytoplasm. Blocking endocytic recycling with monensin caused an increase of intracellular GALR2-EGFP accumulation and a decrease of fluorescence on the plasma membrane. GALR2-EGFP on the plasma membrane was internalized within 5-10 min after treatment with galanin or AR-M1896, a selective GALR2 agonist, with a dramatic reduction in plasma membrane localization and appearance in intracellular vesicles. Neither M35 nor M40, two galanin analogues with putative antagonistic action, prevented GALR2 agonist-induced internalization of GALR2-EGFP, suggesting that they are not antagonists at this receptor under the present circumstances. Galanin stimulation at low temperature caused GALR2-EGFP aggregation and clustering on the surface but no translocation to cytoplasm. After coincubation with galanin the GALR2-EGFP was colocalized with internalized Texas red-transferrin, a marker of the clathrin endocytic pathway. Hyperosmotic sucrose inhibited internalization of GALR2-EGFP. Taken together these findings indicate that GALR2 undergoes constitutive endocytosis and recycling and that both ligand-independent and ligand-dependent internalization use the clathrin-dependent endocytic recycling pathway.
Several lines of evidence suggest the importance of phonological working memory (PWM) in language acquisition. We investigated the neural correlates of PWM in young adults who were under compelling social pressure to be bilingual. Equal bilinguals had high proficiency in English and Chinese as measured by a standardized examination, whereas unequal bilinguals were proficient in English but not Chinese. Both groups were matched on several measures of nonverbal intelligence and working memory. In-scanner behavioral results did not show between-group differences. Of the regions showing load-dependent increments in activation, the left insula showed greater activation in equal bilinguals. Unequal bilinguals showed greater task-related deactivation in the anterior medial frontal region and greater anterior cingulate activation. Although unequal bilinguals kept apace with equal bilinguals in the simple PWM task, the differential cortical activations suggest that more optimal engagement of PWM in the latter may correlate with better second-language attainment.
The first selective dopamine D4 agonist radioligand is described. The synthesis of these piperazine radioligands relied on the transformation of brominated precursors 4a and 4b with tritium gas in the presence of a sensitive cyano functional group. The specific activity of these two radioligands was measured and [3H]6b found to be suitable for use in D4 saturation and competition binding studies. The synthesis, biological, and radioactivity of this new agonist radioligand as well as preliminary SAR will be discussed.



The synthesis of a difluorofluorescein monocarboxaldehyde platform and its use for preparing ZP8, a new member of the Zinpyr family of neuronal Zn(2+) sensors, are described. By combining an aniline photoinduced electron transfer (PET) switch and an electron-withdrawing fluorescein scaffold, ZP8 displays reduced background fluorescence and improved dynamic range compared to previous ZP probes. The bright sensor undergoes an 11-fold increase in fluorescence intensity upon Zn(2+) complexation (Phi = 0.03-0.35) with high selectivity over cellular concentrations of Ca(2+) and Mg(2+). In addition, sensors in the ZP family have been utilized for optical imaging in biological samples using two-photon microscopy (TPM). The cell-permeable ZP3 probe is capable of identifying natural pools of labile Zn(2+) within the mossy fiber synapses of live hippocampal slices using TPM, establishing the application of this technique for monitoring endogenous Zn(2+) stores.
Retinal bipolar neurons release the excitatory transmitter, glutamate. However, certain bipolar cells contain GABA, raising the question whether a neuron might release both transmitters and, if so, what function might the inhibitory transmitter play in a particular circuit? Here we identify a subset of cone bipolar cells in cat retina that contain glutamate, plus its vesicular transporter (VGLUT1), and GABA, plus its synthetic enzyme (GAD(65)) and its vesicular transporter (VGAT). These cells are negative for a marker of ON bipolar cells and restrict their axons to the OFF strata of the inner synaptic layer. They do not colocalize with the neurokinin 3 receptor that stains a type (or two) of OFF bipolar cells. By &quot;targeted injection,&quot; we identified two types of OFF bipolar cell with the machinery to make and package both transmitters. One of these types costratifies with a dopamine plexus.
The major cortical-subcortical re-entrant pathways through the basal ganglia and cerebellum are considered to represent anatomically segregated channels for information originating in different cortical areas. A capacity for integrating unique combinations of cortical inputs has been well documented in the basal ganglia circuits but is largely undefined in the precerebellar circuits. To compare and quantify the amount of overlap that occurs in the first link of the cortico-ponto-cerebellar pathway, a dual tracing approach was used to map the spatial relationship between projections originating from the primary somatosensory cortex (SI), the secondary somatosensory cortex (SII), and the primary motor cortex (MI). The anterograde tracers biotinylated dextran amine and Fluoro-Ruby were injected into homologous whisker representations of either SI and SII, or SI and MI. The ensuing pontine labeling patterns were analyzed using a computerized three-dimensional reconstruction approach. The results demonstrate that whisker-related projections from SI and MI are largely segregated. At some locations, the two projections are adjoining and partly overlapping. Furthermore, SI contributes significantly more corticopontine projections than MI. By comparison, projections from corresponding representations in SI and SII terminate in similar parts of the pontine nuclei and display considerable amounts of spatial overlap. Finally, comparison of corticopontine and corticostriatal projections in the same experimental animals reveals that SI-SII overlap is significantly larger in the pontine nuclei than in the neostriatum. These structural differences indicate a larger capacity for integration of information within the same sensory modality in the pontocerebellar system compared to the basal ganglia.
The aging process in rodents is associated with learning and memory impairments that are correlated with changes in multiple neurotransmitter systems in the hippocampus. For example, the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic system is compromised in old compared with young rats (Shetty and Turner [1998] J. Comp. Neurol. 394:252-269; Vela et al. [2003] J. Neurochem. 85:368-377; Potier et al. [1992] Neuroscience 48:793-806; Potier et al. [1994] Brain Res. 661:181-188). The present study investigated the important issue of whether there is a decline of the GABAergic inhibitory system between middle and old age. Five middle-aged (15-17 months) and five old (25-29 months) Fischer 344 x Brown Norway male rats were perfused, and coronal sections through the dorsal hippocampus were immunoreacted with antibodies either to NeuN, a neuronal marker, or to the 67-kDa isoform of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), the rate-limiting enzyme for GABA synthesis. Using the optical dissector technique, NeuN-immunoreactive (IR) cells, GAD-IR cells, and GAD-IR boutons were quantified stereologically in the dentate gyrus, CA3, and CA1. The resulting GAD-IR cell and GAD-IR bouton densities then were normalized to NeuN-IR cell density to exclude the possible confound of tissue shrinkage. The results revealed a significant decline in GAD-IR cells between middle and old age in CA1 but not in dentate gyrus or CA3. Interestingly, GAD-IR boutons did not show a decline in CA1, CA3, or dentate gyrus between middle and old age. It is possible that loss of CA1 inhibitory interneurons in the dorsal hippocampus contributes to the learning and memory impairments reported in old rats.
Masking is said to occur when a mask stimulus interferes with the visibility of a target (test) stimulus. One widely held view of this process supposes interactions between mask and test mechanisms (cross-channel masking), and explicit models (e.g., J. M. Foley, 1994) have proposed that the interactions are inhibitory. Unlike a within-channel model, where masking involves the combination of mask and test stimulus within a single mechanism, this cross-channel inhibitory model predicts that the mask should attenuate the perceived contrast of a test stimulus. Another possibility is that masking is due to an increase in noise, in which case, perception of contrast should be unaffected once the signal exceeds detection threshold. We use circular patches and annuli of sine-wave grating in contrast detection and contrast matching experiments to test these hypotheses and investigate interactions across spatial frequency, orientation, field position, and eye of origin. In both types of experiments we found substantial effects of masking that can occur over a factor of 3 in spatial frequency, 45 degrees in orientation, across different field positions and between different eyes. We found the effects to be greatest at the lowest test spatial frequency we used (0.46 c/deg), and when the mask and test differed in all four dimensions simultaneously. This is surprising in light of previous work where it was concluded that suppression from the surround was strictly monocular (C. Chubb, G. Sperling, &amp; J. A. Solomon, 1989). The results confirm that above detection threshold, cross-channel masking involves contrast suppression and not (purely) mask-induced noise. We conclude that cross-channel masking can be a powerful phenomenon, particularly at low test spatial frequencies and when mask and test are presented to different eyes.

Phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) is linked to activation of many cell surface receptors and kinases. However, phosphorylated ERK has not been used as a biochemical marker to monitor pharmacology of these biomolecules, largely because commonly used methods to detect the phosphoprotein are not quantitative and do not have sufficient throughput. In this article, a high-throughput, 384-well, cell-based functional assay to quantify dopamine agonist-induced ERK phosphorylation in D2- and D3-overexpressed cell lines is described. The assay uses infrared-labeled secondary antibodies to detect phospho-ERK, and the signals in the wells of the microtiter plate are quantified by a LI-COR infrared scanner. V(max), EC(50), and functional K(i) values of various D2 and D3 agonists and antagonists determined in this assay are similar to those in the literature. The assay is nonradioactive, is quantitative, and has a good signal-to-noise ratio. In addition, the signal is stable. This assay can be used to monitor the activities of many G protein-coupled receptors and other signaling biomolecules that are linked to phosphorylation of ERK. The methodology can potentially be used to detect the change in level of any cellular protein in which highly selective antibodies are available.
The GABA(B) receptor antagonist SGS742 (CGP36742) displays pronounced cognition enhancing effects in mice, young and old rats and in Rhesus monkeys in active and passive avoidance paradigms, in an eight-arm radial maze and a Morris water maze and in a social learning task. SGS742 blocks the late inhibitory postsynaptic potential and the paired-pulse inhibition of population spikes recorded from CA1 pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus of rats in vitro and in vivo. SGS742 significantly enhances the release of glutamate, aspartate, glycine and somatostatin in vivo. Chronic administration of SGS742 causes an up-regulation of GABA(B) receptors in the frontal cortex of rats. Single doses cause a significant enhancement of the mRNA and protein levels of NGF and BDNF in the cortex and hippocampus of rats. The observed antidepressant effects of SGS742 in rats may be explained by these findings. SGS742 was well tolerated in experimental animals as well as in young and elderly human volunteers with an absolute bioavailability in humans of 44%. In a Phase II double-blind, placebo-controlled study in 110 patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), oral administration of SGS742 at a dose of 600 mg t.i.d. for 8 weeks significantly improved attention, in particular choice reaction time and visual information processing as well as working memory measured as pattern recognition speed. A second Phase II clinical trial in 280 Alzheimer's disease patients is underway.
Pattern formation and growth must be tightly coupled during embryonic development. In vertebrates, however, little is known of the molecules that serve to link these two processes. Here we show that bone morphogenetic proteins (BMP) coordinate the acquisition of pattern information and the stimulation of proliferation in the embryonic spinal neural tube. We have blocked BMP and transforming growth factor-beta superfamily (TGFbeta) function in the chick embryo using Noggin, a BMP antagonist, and siRNA against Smad4. We show that BMPs/TGFbetas are necessary to regulate pattern formation and the specification of neural progenitor populations in the dorsal neural tube. BMPs also serve to establish discrete expression domains of Wnt ligands, receptors, and antagonists along the dorsal-ventral axis of the neural tube. Using the extracellular domain of Frizzled 8 to block Wnt signaling and Wnt3a ligand misexpression to activate WNT signaling, we demonstrate that the Wnt pathway acts mitogenically to expand the populations of neuronal progenitor cells specified by BMP. Thus, BMPs, acting through WNTs, couple patterning and growth to generate dorsal neuronal fates in the appropriate proportions within the neural tube.
The phosphorylation of myosin light chain (MLC) is a key regulatory point in the control of cellular morphology. Evidence suggests that RhoA-a member of the Rho GTPase family-regulates MLC phosphorylation via Rho kinase (ROK). Neurones display subtle alterations in their cytoarchitecture during the synaptic plasticity following high-frequency stimulation. We have recently demonstrated that RhoB, and not RhoA, is activated in neurones by high-frequency stimulation. However, the downstream consequences of RhoB activation in cells are unclear. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that RhoB might stimulate neuronal MLC phosphorylation. Transfection of PC12 cells with constitutively active RhoB increased MLC phosphorylation. Conversely, dominant-negative RhoB vectors reduced MLC phosphorylation. The effect of RhoB was attenuated by pretreatment with a selective ROK inhibitor. This confirms that Rho GTPases are important regulators of MLC phosphorylation, but suggests that, in neuronal cells, the control is exerted via RhoB rather than RhoA.
The reaction of *NO and NO2- with hemoglobin (Hb) is of pivotal importance to blood vessel function. Both species show at least two different reactions with Fe2+ Hb: one with deoxygenated Hb, in which the biological properties of *NO are preserved, and another with oxygenated hemoglobin (oxyHb), in which both species are oxidizes to NO3-. In this study we compared the oxidative reactions of *NO and NO2- and, in particular, the radical intermediates formed during transformation to NO3-. The reaction of NO2- with oxyHb was accelerated at high heme concentrations and produced stoichiometric amounts of NO3-. Direct EPR and spin trapping studies showed that NO2-, but not *NO, induced the formation of globin Tyr-, Trp-, and Cys-centered radicals. MS studies provided evidence of the formation of approximately 2% nitrotyrosine in both the alpha and beta subunits, suggesting that *NO2 diffuses in part away from the heme and reacts with Tyr radicals. No nitrotyrosines were detected in the reaction of *NO with oxyHb. Collectively, these results indicate that NO2- reaction with oxyHb causes an oxidative challenge not observed with *NO. The differences in oxidation mechanisms of *NO and NO2- are discussed.
Interferon (IFN)-alpha, IFN-beta, and IFN-gamma are currently available for the treatment of malignancies, viral infections (e.g., hepatitis C virus), multiple sclerosis (MS), and skin conditions. In addition to their therapeutic effects, IFNs commonly cause various side effects. Most common among the side effects of IFN are &quot;flu-like&quot; symptoms such as chills, fever, and muscle soreness. However, IFN can also cause significant neuropsychiatric side effects, particularly symptoms of depression. A literature search was conducted in order to summarize current information on (1) the frequency, characteristics, and risk factors of IFN-induced depression, (2) possible biochemical mechanisms associated with IFN-induced depression, and (3) the treatment strategies for IFN-induced depression. Review of the literature suggests that symptoms of depression induced by IFN therapy, in particular IFN-alpha therapy, are common and can limit the treatment utility, often necessitating discontinuation of IFN therapy or the use of psychopharmacologic agents. Depression is also a suspected side effect of therapy with IFN-beta and IFN-gamma; however, the association has not been as convincingly confirmed. Importantly, IFNs affect neurochemical pathways putatively involved in the etiology of depression. While these depressive side effects usually resolve after the completion of IFN therapy, they can persist or reappear with dose escalations. It is recommended that health care providers, patients and their families be informed about the potential risk of the psychiatric disturbances that can occur with IFN-alpha therapy. Screening and monitoring, ideally using symptom rating scales for depression, and early antidepressant treatment intervention appear necessary to optimize IFN therapy for the majority of patients.
Gamma-secretase is a multi-component enzyme complex that performs an intramembranous cleavage, releasing amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides from processing intermediates of the beta-amyloid precursor protein. Because Abeta peptides are thought to be causative for Alzheimer's disease, inhibiting gamma-secretase represents a potential treatment for this neurodegenerative condition. Whereas inhibitors directed at the active center of gamma-secretase inhibit the cleavage of all its substrates, certain non-steroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) have been shown to selectively reduce the production of the more amyloidogenic Abeta(1-42) peptide without inhibiting alternative cleavages. In contrast to the majority of previous studies, however, we demonstrate that in cell-free systems the mode of action of selected NSAIDs and their derivatives, depending on the concentrations used, can either be classified as modulatory or inhibitory. At modulatory concentrations, a selective and, with respect to the substrate, noncompetitive inhibition of Abeta(1-42) production was observed. At inhibitory concentrations, on the other hand, biochemical readouts reminiscent of a nonselective gamma-secretase inhibition were obtained. When these compounds were analyzed for their ability to displace a radiolabeled, transition-state analog inhibitor from solubilized enzyme, noncompetitive antagonism was observed. The allosteric nature of radioligand displacement suggests that NSAID-like inhibitors change the conformation of the gamma-secretase enzyme complex by binding to a novel site, which is discrete from the binding site for transition-state analogs and therefore distinct from the catalytic center. Consequently, drug discovery efforts aimed at this site may identify novel allosteric inhibitors that could benefit from a wider window for inhibition of gamma (42)-cleavage over alternative cleavages in the beta-amyloid precursor protein and, more importantly, alternative substrates.
Acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) are ligand-gated cation channels activated by extracellular protons. In periphery, they contribute to sensory transmission, including that of nociception and pain. Here we characterized ASIC-like currents in dorsal horn neurons of the rat spinal cord and their functional modulation in pathological conditions. Reverse transcriptase-nested PCR and Western blotting showed that three ASIC isoforms, ASIC1a, ASIC2a, and ASIC2b, are expressed at a high level in dorsal horn neurons. Electrophysiological and pharmacological properties of the proton-gated currents suggest that homomeric ASIC1a and/or heteromeric ASIC1a + 2b channels are responsible for the proton-induced currents in the majority of dorsal horn neurons. Acidification-induced action potentials in these neurons were compatible in a pH-dependent manner with the pH dependence of ASIC-like current. Furthermore, peripheral complete Freund's adjuvant-induced inflammation resulted in increased expression of both ASIC1a and ASIC2a in dorsal horn. These results support the idea that the ASICs of dorsal horn neurons participate in central sensory transmission/modulation under physiological conditions and may play important roles in inflammation-related persistent pain.
A patient who developed neurological and renal complications following coronary angiogram and coronary artery bypass grafting is reported. Neurological involvement was in the form of fluctuating sensorium and a subcortical pattern of dementia. Renal failure was seen in the form of raised urea and creatinine levels. Renal biopsy revealed the cause of the renal failure to be due to cholesterol embolic disease. While the sensorium often improved following renal replacement therapy (dialysis), the dementia was poorly responsive to therapy. The patient succumbed due to progressive renal failure. Awareness of the protean manifestations and a high index of suspicion are essential for appropriate diagnosis in order to enable the clinician to accurately prognosticate in this often fatal disease.
We investigated the epitopes and functional role of IgG anti-GalNAc-GD1a antibodies appearing in serum from a patient with Guillain-Barre syndrome (GBS) and IgG anti-GalNAc-GD1a antibody that was produced by immunization of a rabbit with GalNAc-GD1a. Both sera blocked neuromuscular transmission in muscle-spinal cord co-culture cells. The acetylcholine-induced potential did not reduce by adding sera, suggesting that the blockade is presynaptic. The effect was complement-independent and purified IgG from serum of the patient or the rabbit had the same effects. The epitope with both anti-GalNAc-GD1a antibodies was observed in the soma of large neurons in the anterior horns of the adult rat spinal cord and their motor axons of rat ventral roots. Both anti-GalNAc GD1a antibodies reacted strongly with the motor nerve terminals in rats. The anti-GalNAc-GD1a antibodies may block neuromuscular transmission by attacking on presynaptic motor axon, probably affecting the ion channels in the presynaptic motor axon.
Increased levels of an unidentified peak have been found in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from patients with Alzheimer's disease or vascular dementia compared to the level in healthy controls using proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy. No increase was found in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Reexamination of spectra from a study published previously (Grseth et al. [2000] J. Neurosci. Res. 60:779-782), however, shows that this peak was also elevated significantly in CSF from patients with Huntington's disease compared to that in controls. The level in patients with Parkinson's disease, where dementia develops in up to 40% of patients, was not elevated significantly compared to that in controls. To the best of our knowledge, this peak has not yet been identified and we therefore find it appropriate to temporarily designate the name &quot;dementia associated factor&quot; (DAF), although there is as yet no certainty that this substance is specific for these conditions. Apart from a significantly increased level of glutamine in CSF from patients with vascular dementia compared to that in controls, no other significant difference was found for any other metabolite measured in the patient groups using proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy.
Economics, psychology, and neuroscience are converging today into a single, unified discipline with the ultimate aim of providing a single, general theory of human behavior. This is the emerging field of neuroeconomics in which consilience, the accordance of two or more inductions drawn from different groups of phenomena, seems to be operating. Economists and psychologists are providing rich conceptual tools for understanding and modeling behavior, while neurobiologists provide tools for the study of mechanism. The goal of this discipline is thus to understand the processes that connect sensation and action by revealing the neurobiological mechanisms by which decisions are made. This review describes recent developments in neuroeconomics from both behavioral and biological perspectives.
Adaptive goal-directed behavior involves monitoring of ongoing actions and performance outcomes, and subsequent adjustments of behavior and learning. We evaluate new findings in cognitive neuroscience concerning cortical interactions that subserve the recruitment and implementation of such cognitive control. A review of primate and human studies, along with a meta-analysis of the human functional neuroimaging literature, suggest that the detection of unfavorable outcomes, response errors, response conflict, and decision uncertainty elicits largely overlapping clusters of activation foci in an extensive part of the posterior medial frontal cortex (pMFC). A direct link is delineated between activity in this area and subsequent adjustments in performance. Emerging evidence points to functional interactions between the pMFC and the lateral prefrontal cortex (LPFC), so that monitoring-related pMFC activity serves as a signal that engages regulatory processes in the LPFC to implement performance adjustments.


The cardiotoxicity associated with doxorubicin (DOX) therapy limits the total cumulative dose and therapeutic success of active anticancer chemotherapy. Cardiac mitochondria are implicated as primary targets for DOX toxicity, which is believed to be mediated by the generation of highly reactive free radical species of oxygen from complex I of the mitochondrial electron transport chain. The objective of this study was to determine if the protection demonstrated by carvedilol (CV), a beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist with strong antioxidant properties, against DOX-induced mitochondrial-mediated cardiomyopathy [Toxicol. Appl. Pharmacol. 185 (2002) 218] is attributable to its antioxidant properties or its beta-adrenergic receptor antagonism. Our results confirm that DOX induces oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, and histopathological lesions in the cardiac tissue, all of which are inhibited by carvedilol. In contrast, atenolol (AT), a beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist lacking antioxidant properties, preserved phosphate energy charge but failed to protect against any of the indexes of DOX-induced oxidative mitochondrial toxicity. We therefore conclude that the cardioprotective effects of carvedilol against DOX-induced mitochondrial cardiotoxicity are due to its inherent antioxidant activity and not to its beta-adrenergic receptor antagonism.
Beta-N-oxalyl-L-alpha-beta-diaminopropionic acid (beta-L-ODAP) is an unusual amino acid present in seeds of plants from the Lathyrus genus that is generally accepted as the causative agent underlying the motor neuron degeneration and spastic paraparesis in human neurolathyrism. Much of the neuropathology produced by beta-L-ODAP appears to be a direct consequence of its structural similarities to the excitatory neurotransmitter L-glutamate and its ability to induce excitotoxicity as an agonist of non-NMDA receptors. Its actions within the CNS are, however, not limited to non-NMDA receptors, raising the likely possibility that the anatomical and cellular specificity of the neuronal damage observed in neurolathyrism may result from the cumulative activity of beta-L-ODAP at multiple sites. Accumulating evidence suggests that system xc-, a transporter that mediates the exchange of L-cystine and L-glutamate, is one such site. In the present work, two distinct approaches were used to define the interactions of beta-L-ODAP with system xc-: Traditional radiolabel-uptake assays were employed to quantify inhibitory activity, while fluorometrically coupled assays that follow the exchange-induced efflux of L-glutamate were used to assess substrate activity. In addition to confirming that beta-L-ODAP is an effective competitive inhibitor of system xc-, we report that the compound exhibits a substrate activity comparable to that of the endogenous substrate L-cystine. The ability of system xc- to transport and accumulate beta-L-ODAP identifies additional variables that could influence its toxicity within the CNS, including the ability to limit its access to EAA receptors by clearing the excitotoxin from the extracellular synaptic environment, as well as serving as a point of entry through which beta-L-ODAP could have increased access to intracellular targets.
In the healthy hepatocyte, uptake of bile acids across the basolateral membrane and export via the canalicular export pump, are tightly coupled. Impairment of bile formation or excretion results in cholestasis, characterized by accumulation of bile acids in systemic blood and within the hepatocyte. When the concentration of bile acids exceeds the binding capacity of the binding protein located in the cytosol of the hepatocyte, bile acids induce apoptosis and necrosis, by damage to mitochondria. Mitochondria play a central role on the toxicity of bile acids. In this article, we review the published literature regarding bile acid effects on cell function, especially at the mitochondrial level. In patients with cholestatic liver disease, the extent of hepatocyte damage caused by intracellular accumulation of bile acids appears to be delayed by ingesting a hydrophilic bile acid. However, its effects on disease progression are not completely clarified. Therefore, identification of the mechanisms of cell injury will be of clinical utility, helping in the development of new therapeutic strategies. The goal of this review is to include a fresh consideration of all possible targets and integrating pathways that are involved in cholestasis, as well as in the benefits of bile acid therapy.
Plasticity in neural circuits can result from alterations in synaptic strength or connectivity, as well as from changes in the excitability of the neurons themselves. To better understand the role of plasticity in the brain, we need to establish how brain circuits work and the kinds of computations that different circuit structures achieve. By linking theoretical and experimental studies, we are beginning to reveal the consequences of plasticity mechanisms for network dynamics, in both simple invertebrate circuits and the complex circuits of mammalian cerebral cortex.
Neuromodulators such as dopamine have a central role in cognitive disorders. In the past decade, biological findings on dopamine function have been infused with concepts taken from computational theories of reinforcement learning. These more abstract approaches have now been applied to describe the biological algorithms at play in our brains when we form value judgements and make choices. The application of such quantitative models has opened up new fields, ripe for attack by young synthesizers and theoreticians.
Humans have a unique ability to learn more than one language--a skill that is thought to be mediated by functional (rather than structural) plastic changes in the brain. Here we show that learning a second language increases the density of grey matter in the left inferior parietal cortex and that the degree of structural reorganization in this region is modulated by the proficiency attained and the age at acquisition. This relation between grey-matter density and performance may represent a general principle of brain organization.

Coca-Cola (Coke) and Pepsi are nearly identical in chemical composition, yet humans routinely display strong subjective preferences for one or the other. This simple observation raises the important question of how cultural messages combine with content to shape our perceptions; even to the point of modifying behavioral preferences for a primary reward like a sugared drink. We delivered Coke and Pepsi to human subjects in behavioral taste tests and also in passive experiments carried out during functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Two conditions were examined: (1) anonymous delivery of Coke and Pepsi and (2) brand-cued delivery of Coke and Pepsi. For the anonymous task, we report a consistent neural response in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex that correlated with subjects' behavioral preferences for these beverages. In the brand-cued experiment, brand knowledge for one of the drinks had a dramatic influence on expressed behavioral preferences and on the measured brain responses.
Protrusive behavior of dendritic spines on developing neurons has been previously suggested to mediate the formation of new axodendritic synaptic contacts. A study by Zito et al. in this issue of Neuron links actin polymerization in dendritic spines with the motility that the spines exhibit and the synapses that they form.
We previously showed that the saccadic system could be adapted in a context-specific manner: two different adapted gains could be associated with two different context cues, with the gain state switched when the context state was switched. This was accomplished by alternating context/adaptation states several times over the course of an adaptation session, and assessing saccade gain in each context state before and after adaptation. One context cue we studied was vertical eye position; an adaptive gain increase was induced with the eyes up 10 degrees, and an adaptive gain decrease with the eyes down 10 degrees. This context cue was only partially effective: there was considerable undesired transfer of adaptation from the eyes-down condition (gain-decrease) to the eyes-up condition (gain-increase), with the result that there was little or no gain-increase adaptation. One explanation for this is that the two context/adaptation states, presented one after the other, interfered with each other. In the present study, we tested this hypothesis by interposing one-minute rest intervals between each alternation in context/adaptation state. The resulting context-specific adaptation is greatly improved (relative to the case when there are no rest intervals): both gain-increase and gain-decrease adaptations are stronger and occur more rapidly. This effect resembles that found in studies on the consolidation of motor learning, although such consolidation is believed to occur over much longer time spans (hours rather than minutes).
We examined ischemia-related changes of calbindin D-28k (CB) immunoreactivity in L(7) of the spinal ventral horn after transient spinal cord ischemia in rabbits. In the sham-operated group, CB immunoreactivity was not present in the spinal ventral horn, but CB immunoreactivity was detectable in the dorsal horn. CB immunoreactivity was detectable in the ventral horn at 30 min after ischemia: the CB immunoreactivity was found in glial cells identified as astrocytes. At 1 h after ischemia, CB immunoreactivity was highest and present at a few somata located in the lamina VII as well as many glial cells. CB immunoreactivity was lower in the lamina VII at 3 h after ischemia compared to 1 h post-ischemic group. By 2 days after ischemia, CB immunoreactivity was decreased in this region. In addition, the result of Western blot result showed the pattern of CB expression similar to that of immunohistochemistry. In conclusion, the ischemia-related changes of CB immunoreactivity in neurons and glial cells in the ischemic spinal ventral horn in rabbits may be related to modulation of intracellular calcium following transient ischemia.
Ten healthy volunteers took part in this event-related potential (ERP) study aimed at examining the electrophysiological correlates of the cross-modal audio-visual interactions in an identification task. Participants were confronted either to the simultaneous presentation of previously learned faces and voices (audio-visual condition; AV), either to the separate presentation of faces (visual, V) or voices (auditive, A). As expected, an interference effect of audition on vision was observed at a behavioral level, as the bimodal condition was performed more slowly than the visual condition. At the electrophysiological level, the subtraction (AV - (A + V)) gave prominence to three distinct cerebral activities: (1) a central positive/posterior negative wave around 110 ms, (2) a central negative/posterior positive wave around 170 ms, AND (3) a central positive wave around 270 ms. These data suggest that cross-modal cerebral interactions could be independent of behavioral facilitation or interference effects. Moreover, the implication of unimodal and multisensory convergence regions in these results, as suggested by a source localization analysis, is discussed.
The study was undertaken to analyze intracerebral expression of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines after traumatic brain injury (TBI) in man in order to compare the findings with previous experimental data regarding the pathogenesis of secondary brain injury. Contused brain tissue biopsies were obtained from 12 consecutive patients undergoing surgery for brain contusions 3 h to 5 days after trauma. Cytokine expression was analyzed by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. In patients undergoing surgery less than 24 h after trauma, strong expression of both the pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin (IL)-1-beta, IL-6 and interferon (IFN)-gamma and the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-4 was detected. In patients undergoing surgery between 3 and 5 days after trauma, IL-4 expression was significantly lower (P &lt; 0.05) compared to the patients operated early. IL-1-beta and IFN-gamma expression remained strong in comparison to IL-6 and IL-4 expression (P &lt; 0.05). Immunohistochemistry for IL-1-beta confirmed that the protein was produced with a temporal and regional pattern that corresponded to in situ hybridization results. The study provides in situ data on intracerebral cytokine expression after contusion in the clinical setting. Strong intracerebral cytokine expression occurs in the perilesional zone both in the early and the delayed phase after traumatic brain injury in humans. The temporal regulation of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines differs which reveals different therapeutic windows for pharmacological intervention.
Ketamine, a N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, impairs reaction time performance and interacts with foreperiod duration, thereby suggesting that ketamine alters motor preparation. These effects can be attributed either to the blockade of NMDA receptors or to the stimulation of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxasole-4-proprionic acid (AMPA) and kainate receptors. The purpose of the present study was: (i) to replicate previous findings and (ii) to study the effect of a pre-treatment with topiramate, an AMPA/kainate antagonist, on the impairments induced by ketamine on RT. Thirty six healthy subjects (3 groups of 12) performed a two-choice RT task in which the foreperiod was manipulated. All subjects performed the task under perfusion of ketamine (intravenous bolus of 0.12 mg followed by a perfusion of 0.5 mg/kg over 60 mn) or placebo (saline). Depending on the group, an oral dose of topiramate (50 mg) or placebo (lactose) was administered 2 h before ketamine infusion (randomised, double-blind, double-dummy, parallel-group design). At the dose studied, topiramate exerted no detectable effect on RT. The results relative to ketamine corroborate previous findings and suggest that this molecule affects motor preparation through the blockade of NMDA receptors.
Receptor for Advanced Glycation Endproducts (RAGE), a multiligand receptor in the immunoglobulin superfamily, functions as a signal-transducing cell surface acceptor for amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta). In view of increased neuronal expression of RAGE in Alzheimer's disease, a murine model was developed to assess the impact of RAGE in an Abeta-rich environment, employing transgenics (Tgs) with targeted neuronal overexpression of RAGE and mutant amyloid precursor protein (APP). Double Tgs (mutant APP (mAPP)/RAGE) displayed early abnormalities in spatial learning/memory, accompanied by altered activation of markers of synaptic plasticity and exaggerated neuropathologic findings, before such changes were found in mAPP mice. In contrast, Tg mice bearing a dominant-negative RAGE construct targeted to neurons crossed with mAPP animals displayed preservation of spatial learning/memory and diminished neuropathologic changes. These data indicate that RAGE is a cofactor for Abeta-induced neuronal perturbation in a model of Alzheimer's-type pathology, and suggest its potential as a therapeutic target to ameliorate cellular dysfunction.
Advances in neuroscience and biomedical engineering deeply affect the clinical practice of physical medicine &amp; rehabilitation. New research findings and engineering tools are continuously made available that have the potential of dramatically enhancing the ability of clinicians to design effective rehabilitation interventions. This quickly evolving research field is difficult to track because related literature appears in a wide range of scientific journals. There is a need for a scientific journal that offers to its readership a forum at the intersection of neuroscience, biomedical engineering, and physical medicine &amp; rehabilitation. The Journal of NeuroEngineering and Rehabilitation (JNER) is intended to fill this gap and foster cross-fertilizations among these disciplines. By making readily available to clinicians selected studies with potential impact on physical medicine &amp; rehabilitation, JNER is anticipated to foster the development of novel and more effective rehabilitation strategies. Conversely, by presenting clinical problems to a readership of neuroscientists and engineers, JNER is expected to generate innovative work in neuroscience and biomedical engineering with future applications to physical medicine &amp; rehabilitation. JNER will leverage on Open Access as a means to guarantee that its content is readily available to scientists, clinicians, and the general public thus promoting scientific and technological advances that are relevant to rehabilitation. JNER is an Open Access initiative. Open Access assures dissemination to the widest possible audience and is seen by many as essential for publicly funded research. BioMed Central offers an outstanding platform to make JNER possible and allow neuroscientists, biomedical engineers, and clinicians to see their work published in a timely manner and thus make an immediate impact in the field of rehabilitation. JNER will focus on innovative work with higher likelihood of a dramatic impact on rehabilitation. Thus, priority will be given to outstanding and visionary scientific reports, i.e. those proposing exceptionally innovative concepts with great potential in the field.
We examined the neural encoding of synthetic and natural sounds by single neurons in the auditory system of male zebra finches by estimating the mutual information in the time-varying mean firing rate of the neuronal response. Using a novel parametric method for estimating mutual information with limited data, we tested the hypothesis that song and song-like synthetic sounds would be preferentially encoded relative to other complex, but non-song-like synthetic sounds. To test this hypothesis, we designed two synthetic stimuli: synthetic songs that matched the power of spectral-temporal modulations but lacked the modulation phase structure of zebra finch song and noise with uniform band-limited spectral-temporal modulations. By defining neural selectivity as relative mutual information, we found that the auditory system of songbirds showed selectivity for song-like sounds. This selectivity increased in a hierarchical manner along ascending processing stages in the auditory system. Midbrain neurons responded with highest information rates and efficiency to synthetic songs and thus were selective for the spectral-temporal modulations of song. Primary forebrain neurons showed increased information to zebra finch song and synthetic song equally over noise stimuli. Secondary forebrain neurons responded with the highest information to zebra finch song relative to other stimuli and thus were selective for its specific modulation phase relationships. We also assessed the relative contribution of three response properties to this selectivity: (1) spiking reliability, (2) rate distribution entropy, and (3) bandwidth. We found that rate distribution and bandwidth but not reliability were responsible for the higher average information rates found for song-like sounds.
Hindpaw inflammation induces tyrosine phosphorylation (tyr-P) of the NMDA receptor (NMDAR) 2B (NR2B) subunit in the rat spinal dorsal horn that is closely related to the initiation and development of hyperalgesia. Here, we show that in rats with Freund's adjuvant-induced inflammation, the increased dorsal horn NR2B tyr-P is blocked by group I metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) antagonists [7-(hydroxyimino)cyclopropa[b] chromen-1a-carboxylate ethyl ester (CPCCOEt) and 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (MPEP), by the Src inhibitor CGP 77675, but not by the MAP kinase inhibitor 2'-amino-3'-methoxyflavone. Analysis of the calcium pathways shows that the in vivo NR2B tyr-P is blocked by an IP3 receptor antagonist 2-aminoethoxydiphenylborate (2APB) but not by antagonists of ionotropic glutamate receptors and voltage-dependent calcium channels, suggesting that the NR2B tyr-P is dependent on intracellular calcium release. In a dorsal horn slice preparation, the group I (dihydroxyphenylglycine), but not group II [(2R,4R)-4-aminopyrrolidine-2,3-dicarboxylate] and III [L-AP 4 (L-(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid)], mGluR agonists, an IP3 receptor (D-IP3) agonist, and a PKC (PMA) activator, induces NR2B tyr-P similar to that seen in vivo after inflammation. Coimmunoprecipitation indicates that Shank, a postsynaptic density protein associated with mGluRs, formed a complex involving PSD-95 (postsynaptic density-95), NR2B, and Src in the spinal dorsal horn. Double immunofluorescence studies indicated that NR1 is colocalized with mGluR5 in dorsal horn neurons. mGluR5 also coimmunoprecipitates with NR2B. Finally, intrathecal pretreatment of CPCCOEt, MPEP, and 2APB attenuates inflammatory hyperalgesia. Thus, inflammation and mGluR-induced NR2B tyr-P share similar mechanisms. The group ImGluR-NMDAR coupling cascade leads to phosphorylation of the NMDAR and appears necessary for the initiation of spinal dorsal horn sensitization and behavioral hyperalgesia after inflammation.
The formation of precise stereotypic connections in sensory systems is critical for defining accurate internal representations of the external world; however, the molecular mechanisms underlying the formation of sensory maps are poorly understood. Here, we examine the roles of two structurally unrelated repulsive guidance cues, semaphorin 3F (Sema3F) and Slit-1, in olfactory sensory axon fasciculation, targeting, and segregation. Using sema3F-/- mice, we show that Sema3F is critical for vomeronasal sensory neuron axonal fasciculation and for segregation of these sensory afferents from the main olfactory system; however, Sema3F plays only a minor role in targeting of apical vomeronasal neuron axons to the anterior accessory olfactory bulb (AOB). In addition, we show that Sema3F is required for lamina-specific targeting of olfactory sensory axons within the main olfactory system. In contrast to Sema3F, Slit-1 is dispensable for fasciculation of basal vomeronasal neuron axons but is critical for targeting these axons to the posterior AOB. These results reveal discrete and complementary roles for secreted semaphorins and slits in axonal targeting, fasciculation, and segregation of olfactory sensory neuron projections.
Both perceptual and motor systems must decode visual information from the distributed activity of large populations of cortical neurons. We have sought a common framework for understanding decoding strategies for visually guided movement and perception by asking whether the strong motion aftereffects seen in the perceptual domain lead to similar expressions in motor output. We found that motion adaptation indeed has strong sequelae in the direction and speed of smooth pursuit eye movements. After adaptation with a stimulus that moves in a given direction for 7 sec, the direction of pursuit is repelled from the direction of pursuit targets that move within 90 degrees of the adapting direction. The speed of pursuit decreases for targets that move at the direction and speed of the adapting stimulus and is repelled from the adapting speed in the sense that the decrease either becomes greater or smaller (eventually turning to an increase) when tracking targets move slower or faster than the adapting speed. The effects of adaptation are spatially specific and fixed to the retinal location of the adapting stimulus. The magnitude of adaptation of pursuit speed and direction is uncorrelated, suggesting that the two parameters are decoded independently. Computer simulation of motion adaptation in the middle temporal visual area (MT) shows that vector-averaging decoding of the population response in MT can account for the effects of adaptation on the direction of pursuit. Our results suggest a unified framework for thinking, in terms of population decoding, about motion adaptation for both perception and action.
In the developing CNS, pathfinding growth cones use intermediate target- and pioneer axon-associated guidance cues to navigate along stereotypical trajectories. We previously showed that the novel membrane-associated protein Vema is localized to the floor plate and the optic chiasm, intermediate targets located at the ventral midline of the spinal cord and diencephalon in the developing rodent CNS, respectively. Here, we report that the Caenorhabditis elegans ortholog of vema, vem-1, is expressed by the AVG pioneer midline neuron and by several neurons that extend longitudinally projecting axons into the ventral nerve cord (VNC). In vem-1 mutants and vem-1 (RNAi) animals, a subset of posteriorly projecting interneuron axons either fail to extend ventrally to the VNC and, instead, assume aberrant lateral positions or are inappropriately located in the left tract of the VNC. In addition, ventral motor neuron axons exhibit pathfinding errors within the VNC and along the dorsoventral body axis. The conserved UNC-40/DCC and SAX-3-/Robo receptors mediate signaling events that regulate axon guidance in a wide variety of systems. Double-mutant analyses reveal that vem-1 genetically interacts with unc-40 and is likely to function in parallel with sax-3 to regulate the guidance of a subset of VNC-associated interneuron and motor neuron axons. Consistent with these genetic data, we also show that VEM-1 is capable of physically interacting with UNC-40 but not SAX-3.
Neurite outgrowth is influenced by positive and negative signals that include the semaphorins, an important family of axonal outgrowth inhibitors. Here we report that the Rac GTPase activating protein (GAP)alpha2-chimaerin is involved in Semaphorin 3A (Sema 3A) signaling. In dorsal root ganglion neurons, Sema 3A-induced growth cone collapse was inhibited by alpha2-chimaerin mutated to eliminate GAP activity or interaction with phosphotyrosine. Activation of alpha2-chimaerin by phorbol ester caused growth cone collapse. Active alpha2-chimaerin interacts with collapsin response mediator protein-2 (CRMP-2) and cyclin-dependent kinase (Cdk) 5/p35 kinase through its SH2 and GAP domains, respectively. Cdk5 phosphorylates CRMP-2 at serine 522, possibly facilitating phosphorylation of serine 518 and threonine 514 by glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK3beta), a kinase previously implicated in Sema 3A signaling. Phosphorylation of CRMP-2 serine 522 was essential for Sema 3A-induced growth cone collapse, which is dependent on Cdk5 but not Rho kinase activity. alpha2-chimaerin, like CRMP-2, can associate with the Sema 3A receptor. These results indicate that active alpha2-chimaerin Rac GAP, Cdk5/p35, and its substrate CRMP-2, are implicated in the dynamics of growth cone guidance initiated through Sema 3A signaling.


The authors evaluated the prevalence of right-to-left shunt in 40 subjects with cluster headache (CH) vs 40 subjects without primary headaches or cerebrovascular disease. The diagnosis of shunt was made by means of transcranial Doppler with contrast medium. A shunt was found in 17 CH patients (42.5%) and in 7 controls (17.5%) (p = 0.029; OR = 3.48; 95% CI = 1.13 to 10.69).
In a tuberous sclerosis patient with a mutation in the TSC1 tumor suppressor gene, no second-hit mutation was found in a resected cortical tuber. Tuber giant cells showed predominantly nuclear hamartin, cytosolic tuberin, and hyperphosphorylation of S6. Differential accumulation of hamartin and tuberin in separate cellular compartments of giant cells may prevent formation of the hamartin-tuberin complex, resulting in increased S6 phosphorylation. These data provide an alternative mechanism for tuberogenesis.
Several polymorphisms of the hypocretin/orexin system genes were evaluated in 109 cluster headache patients and 211 controls. The 1246 G&gt;A polymorphism of the gene was significantly different between cases and controls. Homozygosity for the G allele was associated with an increased disease risk (OR: 6.79, 95% CI, 2.25 to 22.99). The data suggest that the HCRTR2 gene or a linked locus significantly modulates the risk for cluster headache.
An abundant presynaptic protein, alpha-synuclein, is centrally involved in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. However, conflicting data exist about the normal function of alpha-synuclein, possibly because alpha-synuclein is redundant with the very similar beta-synuclein. To investigate the functions of synucleins systematically, we have now generated single- and double-knockout (KO) mice that lack alpha- and/or beta-synuclein. We find that deletion of synucleins in mice does not impair basic brain functions or survival. We detected no significant changes in the ultrastructure of synuclein-deficient synapses, in short- or long-term synaptic plasticity, or in the pool size or replenishment of recycling synaptic vesicles. However, protein quantitations revealed that KO of synucleins caused selective changes in two small synaptic signaling proteins, complexins and 14-3-3 proteins. Moreover, we found that dopamine levels in the brains of double-KO but not single-KO mice were decreased by approximately 20%. In contrast, serotonin levels were unchanged, and dopamine uptake and release from isolated nerve terminals were normal. These results show that synucleins are not essential components of the basic machinery for neurotransmitter release but may contribute to the long-term regulation and/or maintenance of presynaptic function.
This paper provides a look at how modulated broad-band noises modulate the thalamic response evoked by brief probe sounds in the awake animal. We demonstrate that noise not only attenuates the response to probe sounds (masking) but also changes the temporal response pattern (scrambling). Two brief probe sounds, a Gaussian noise burst and a brief sinusoidal tone, were presented in silence and in three ongoing noises. The three noises were targeted at activating the auditory system in qualitatively distinct ways. Dynamic ripple noise, containing many random tone-like elements, is targeted at those parts of the auditory system that respond well to tones. International Collegium of Rehabilitative Audiology noise, comprised of the sum of several simultaneous streams of Schroeder-phase speech, is targeted at those parts of the auditory system that respond well to modulated sounds but lack a well defined response to tones. Gaussian noise is targeted at those parts of the auditory system that respond to acoustic energy regardless of modulation. All noises both attenuated and decreased the precise temporal repeatability of the onset response to probe sounds. In addition, the modulated noises induced context-specific changes in the temporal pattern of the response to probe sounds. Scrambling of the temporal response pattern may be a direct neural correlate of the unfortunate experience of being able to hear, but not understand, speech sounds in noisy environments.
Genetic deficiency of NPC1 or NPC2 results in a devastating cholesterol-glycosphingolipidosis of brain and other organs known as Niemann-Pick type C (NPC) disease. While NPC1 is a transmembrane protein believed involved in retroendocytic shuttling of substrate(s) to the Golgi and possibly elsewhere in cells as part of an essential recycling/homeostatic control mechanism, NPC2 is a soluble lysosomal protein known to bind cholesterol. The precise role(s) of NPC1 and NPC2 in endosomal-lysosomal function remain unclear, nor is it known whether the two proteins directly interact as part of this function. The pathologic features of NPC disease, however, are well documented. Brain cells undergo massive intracellular accumulation of glycosphingolipids (lactosylceramide, glucosylceramide, GM2 and GM3 gangliosides) and cholesterol and concomitant distortion of neuron shape (meganeurite formation). In neurons from humans with NPC disease the metabolic defects and storage often lead to extensive growth of new, ectopic dendrites (possibly linked to ganglioside sequestration) as well as formation of neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) (possibly linked to dysregulation of cholesterol metabolism). Other features of cellular pathology in NPC disease include fragmentation of the Golgi apparatus and neuroaxonal dystrophy, though reasons for these changes remain largely unknown. As the disease progresses, neurodegeneration is also apparent for neurons in some brain regions, particularly Purkinje cells of the cerebellum, but the basis of this selective neuronal vulnerability is unknown. The NPC1 protein is evolutionarily conserved with homologues reported in yeast to humans; NPC2 is reported in C. elegans to humans. While neurons in mammalian models of NPC1 and NPC2 diseases exhibit many changes that are remarkably similar to those in humans (e.g., endosomal/lysosomal storage, Golgi fragmentation, neuroaxonal dystrophy, neurodegeneration), a reduced degree of ectopic dendritogenesis and an absence of NFTs in these species suggest important differences in the way lower mammalian neurons respond to NPC1/NPC2 loss of function.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression of synaptic transmission in the hippocampus are widely studied models of learning and memory processes. The role of ATP-regulated K+ channels (K(ATP)+ channels), which are abundant in the brain, has not yet been studied in long-term potentiation or long-term depression. We investigated whether K(ATP)+ channel inhibition by the highly selective K(ATP)+-channel blocker 1-[[5-[2-(5-tert-butyl-o-anisamido)ethyl]-2-methoxyphenyl]sulfonyl]-3-methylthiourea (HMR-1372), a novel putative class III antiarrhythmic, affects long-term potentiation or the long-term depression induced by 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (30 microM) in submerged rat hippocampal slices. HMR-1372 (10 microM) did not affect basal synaptic transmission, paired pulse inhibition, long-term depression or long-term potentiation elicited by a weak (weak long-term potentiation) tetanus, but significantly amplified the long-term efficacy of long-term potentiation elicited by a strong tetanus (strong long-term potentiation). The K(ATP)+-channel inhibitor glibenclamide (20 microM) also ameliorated only strong long-term potentiation. Our data suggest that K(ATP)+ channels are activated during or after induction of long-term potentiation and play a role in controlling synaptic excitability.
Corticotropin-releasing factor receptor type 1, CRF1, plays a prominent role in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and is implicated in the autonomic and behavioral responses to stress. Dysregulation of the CRF system may underlie the pathophysiology of several disorders, including depression and anxiety. The distribution of CRF1 mRNA and CRF1 specific ligand binding has been reported by multiple groups in rodents using in situ hybridization and receptor autoradiography, respectively. More recently, somewhat conflicting rodent anti-CRF1 immunohistochemical studies were reported. In this study we report the generation of an antihuman CRF1 antiserum and provide the first immunohistochemical description of CRF1 distribution in a primate brain, that of the rhesus monkey. The specificity of anti-CRF-R1 antiserum R221 was demonstrated using transfected hCRF1-expressing HEK 293 cells and rhesus monkey pituitary. CRF1-immunoreactive neurons were widespread in the rhesus brain. CRF1 staining was associated with neuronal cell bodies and dendrites and was primarily intracellular, suggesting a high rate of receptor turnover or receptor sequestration. Anti-CRF1 immunoreactivity was most abundant in pituitary, cerebellum, and in portions of brain stem associated with sensorimotor function. CRF1 staining was also observed in cerebral cortex, basal forebrain, portions of the basal ganglia, and thalamus. Staining was relatively low in prefrontal cortex and in limbic areas, which may reflect masking of the N-terminal epitope. The distribution of CRF1 immunoreactivity is suggestive of roles in attentional processing as well as the processing of motor and sensory information.
Oligomeric actin-interacting protein 2 (Aip2p) [Nat. Struct. Biol. 2 (1995) 28]/D-lactate dehydrogenase protein 2 (Dld2p) [Yeast 15 (1999) 1377, Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 295 (2002) 910] exhibits the unique grapple-like structure with an ATP-dependent opening [Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 320 (2004) 1271], which is required for the F-actin conformation modifying activity in vitro and in vivo [Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 319 (2004) 78]. To further investigate the molecular nature of oligomeric Aip2p/Dld2p, the substrate specificity of its binding and protein conformation modifying activity was examined. In the presence of 1mM ATP or AMP-PNP, oligomeric Aip2p/Dld2p bound to all substrates so far examined, and modified the conformation of actin, DNase I, the mature form of invertase, prepro-alpha-factor, pro-alpha-factor, and mitochondrial superoxide dismutase, as determined by the trypsin susceptibility assay. Of note, the activity could modify even the conformation of pathogenic highly aggregated polypeptides, such as recombinant prion protein in beta-sheet form, alpha-synuclein, and amyloid beta (1-42) in the presence of ATP. The in vivo protein conformation modifying activity, however, depends on the growth stage; the most significant substrate modification activity was observed in yeast cells at the log phase, suggesting the presence of a cofactor/s in yeast cells, where F-actin is supposed to be a major target in vivo. These data further support our previous notion that the oligomeric Aip2p/Dld2p may belong to an unusual class of molecular chaperones [Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 320 (2004) 1271], which can target both properly folded and misfolded proteins in an ATP-dependent manner in vitro.
Pharmacological characterisation of the calcium influx pathway in olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) was performed using Indo-1 calcium microfluorometry. Our previous work has implicated this pathway in olfactory ensheathing cell support for regeneration of axons from adult CNS neurons. In high extracellular calcium (20 mM), cumulative concentration inhibition curves were generated for Lu(3+), Gd(3+) and econazole, giving IC(50)s of 0.09, 1.51 and 1.13 microM, respectively, and slope values that were not significantly different from unity. Combining these results with those obtained previously, an order of inhibitor potency was found to be Lu(3+)&gt;La(3+)=econazole=Gd(3+)&gt;1-[2-(4-methoxyphenyl)-2-[3-(4-methoxyphenyl)propoxy]ethyl-1H-imidazole hydrochloride (SKF96365)&gt;Cd(2+). This profile most closely fits some members of the TRPC family of non-voltage gated calcium influx channels and may indicate that a TRP-mediated calcium influx plays a role in glial-neuronal interaction and axonal regeneration.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) blocks the effect of light on the mammalian circadian clock during the subjective night. The present study explores the role of the NPY Y1 receptor in this interaction. The effect of NPY when co-applied with NMDA, a glutamate agonist that can mimic the effect of light, was examined in NPY Y1-/- mice (background strain 129SVXBalb/c) using electrophysiology. Cells in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the master circadian pacemaker, show a circadian rhythm in spontaneous firing rate that can be recorded in vitro. The results demonstrated that NPY attenuated the phase shifts to NMDA in both the Y1-/- mice and control mice, indicating that the Y1 receptor does not mediate the NPY blockade of photic-like phase shifts. The peak in frequency in the untreated control brain slices from Y1-/- mice was advanced by approximately 1 h as compared to the Y1+/+ mice. The Y1 receptor may contribute to a functional model of circadian rhythms, but apparently is not essential for the effects of NPY on photic phase shifts.
The CaValpha2delta auxiliary subunit is a glycosylated protein that regulates the trafficking and function of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels. One of the most prominent roles of CaValpha2delta is to increase whole-cell Ca2+ current amplitude. Using N-glycosidase F and truncated forms of CaValpha2delta, earlier studies suggested an important role for N-linked glycosylation in current stimulation. Here, we used site-directed mutagenesis and heterologous expression in HEK-293 cells to examine the impact of individual glycosylation sites within the CaValpha2delta subunit on the regulation of Ba2+ currents through recombinant Ca2+ channels. We found two N-glycosylation consensus sites (NX(S/T)) in the extracellular alpha2 domain of the protein that are functional. Substitution of asparagines for glutamines at amino acid positions 136 and 184 rendered these sites non-functional as shown by patch-clamp experiments. These results corroborate that N-glycosylation is required for the CaValpha2delta subunit-induced current stimulation and suggest that sites N136 and N184 are directly involved in this action. Likewise, N136Q and N184Q mutations prevented whole-cell current stimulation without altering its kinetic properties, suggesting a regulation on the number of functional channels at the plasma membrane.
Little is known about the role of the integrin-associated protein (IAP, or CD47) in neuronal development and its function in the central nervous system. We investigated neuronal responses in IAP-overexpressing cortical neurons using a virus-gene transfer system. We found that dendritic outgrowth was significantly enhanced in IAP (form 4)-transfected neurons. Furthermore, synaptic proteins including synaptotagmin, syntaxin, synapsin I, and SNAP25 (25-kDa synaptosomal associated protein) were up-regulated. In accordance with this finding, the release of the excitatory transmitter glutamate and the frequencies of Ca2+ oscillations (glutamate-mediated synaptic transmission) were increased. Interestingly, the overexpression of IAP activated mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), and this activation was required for the IAP-dependent biological effects. After down-regulation of the endogenous IAP by small interfering RNA, MAPK activity, synaptic protein levels, and glutamate release decreased. These observations suggest that the IAP plays important roles in dendritic outgrowth and synaptic transmission in developing cortical neurons through the activation of MAPK.
Signal peptide peptidase (SPP) is an intramembrane-cleaving protease identified by its cleavage of several type II membrane signal peptides after signal peptidase cleavage. Here we describe a novel, quantitative, cell-based SPP reporter assay. This assay utilizes a substrate consisting of the NH2 terminus of the ATF6 transcription factor fused to a transmembrane domain susceptible to SPP cleavage in vitro. In cells, cleavage of the substrate releases ATF6 from the membrane. This cleavage can be monitored by detection of an epitope that is unmasked in the cleaved substrate or by luciferase activity induced by the cleaved ATF6 substrate binding to and activating an ATF6 luciferase reporter construct. Using this assay we show that (i) SPP is the first aspartyl intramembrane-cleaving protease whose activity increases proportionally to its overexpression and (ii) selectivity of various SPP and gamma-secretase inhibitors can be rapidly evaluated. Because this assay was designed based on data suggesting that SPP has an orientation distinct from presenilin and cleaves type II membrane proteins, we determined whether the segment of SPP located between the two presumptive catalytic aspartates was in the lumen or cytoplasm. Using site-directed mutagenesis to insert an N-linked glycosylation site we show that a portion of this region is present in the lumen. These data provide strong evidence that although the SPP and presenilin active sites have some similarities, their presumptive catalytic domains are inverted. This assay should prove useful for additional functional studies of SPP as well as evaluation of SPP and gamma-secretase inhibitors.
Even though conventional systemic doses of cimetidine and other histamine H(2) antagonists display minimal brain penetration, central nervous system (CNS) effects (including seizures and analgesia) have been reported after administration of these drugs in animals and man. To test the hypothesis that cimetidine-like drugs produce these CNS effects via inhibition of GABA(A) receptors, the actions of these drugs were studied on seven different, precisely-defined rat recombinant GABA(A) receptors using whole-cell patch clamp recordings. The H(2) antagonists famotidine and tiotidine produced competitive and reversible inhibition of GABA-evoked currents in HEK293 cells transfected with various GABA(A) receptor subunits (IC(50) values were between 10-50 microM). In contrast, the H(2) antagonist ranitidine and the cimetidine congener improgan had very weak (if any) effects (IC(50) &gt; 50 microM). Since the concentrations of cimetidine-like drugs required to inhibit GABA(A) receptors in vitro (greater than 50 microM) are considerably higher than those found during analgesia and/or seizures (1-2 microM), the present results suggest that cimetidine-like drugs do not appear to produce seizures or analgesia by directly inhibiting GABA(A) receptors.
Deleterious 1-methyladenine (1-meA) and 3-methylcytosine (3-meC) lesions are introduced into nucleic acids by methylating agents. It was recently demonstrated that the E. coli AlkB protein and a human homolog, hABH3, can demethylate these lesions both in DNA and RNA. To elucidate the biological significance of the RNA repair, we have tested whether such repair can rescue the function of chemically methylated RNA. We demonstrate that a methylation-induced block in translation of an mRNA can be readily relieved by treatment with AlkB and hABH3 prior to translation. Furthermore, we show that chemical methylation of tRNAPhe inhibits aminoacylation and translation, but that the inhibition can be reversed by AlkB and hABH3. AlkB-mediated repair of 1-meA in tRNA was also observed in E. coli in vivo. Our data demonstrate that AlkB proteins can mediate functional recovery of RNA exposed to methylation damage, supporting the notion that RNA repair is important.
In upright posture, we analyzed the multi-joint coordination during drawing ellipses with the foot in a horizontal plane in classical ballet dancers (Elite) and gymnasts who had no dance training (Novice). In both groups, the stability of the head and the trunk was similar. Furthermore, a comparatively simple synergy inter-relating the movements in the hip, knee and ankle joints, was revealed by the kinematic analysis. However, novices made larger errors in the eccentricity and orientation of ellipses than ballet dancers. Ankle angular excursions were smaller in novices than in dancers whereas hip angular excursions were larger. This study illustrates some rules underlying the ability of the nervous system to integrate multiple degrees of freedom of the body to master body balance while producing complex leg movement trajectories. This study offers a dynamical approach of the problem of redundancy.
Sox-2 is a transcription factor that is expressed by self-renewing and multipotent stem cells of the embryonic neuroepithelium. Very little is however known about Sox-2 expression in the adult brain and therefore we used immunohistochemistry to examine its distribution and co-localization with specific cell markers. We found that Sox-2 was expressed by actively dividing neural progenitor cells in the neurogenic regions in the adult rat brain, the subventricular zone of the forebrain and the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus in the hippocampus. Cells expressing immature neuronal markers were essentially Sox-2 immunonegative. Sox-2 was also found to be expressed by glial fibrillary acidic protein immunopositive astroglia, widely distributed in the brain parenchyma. Given the fact that several studies have established the neurogenic capacity of a specialized type of astroglia in the adult brain, the findings of Sox-2 expression in parenchymal astroglia are of potential interest. We conclude that Sox-2 might, in combination with appropriate cell-specific markers, constitute a useful marker to study the in vivo dynamics of the neural progenitor cell compartment also in the adult brain.
Faces are highly emotive stimuli and we find smiling or familiar faces both attractive and comforting, even as young babies. Do other species with sophisticated face recognition skills, such as sheep, also respond to the emotional significance of familiar faces? We report that when sheep experience social isolation, the sight of familiar sheep face pictures compared with those of goats or inverted triangles significantly reduces behavioural (activity and protest vocalizations), autonomic (heart rate) and endocrine (cortisol and adrenaline) indices of stress. They also increase mRNA expression of activity-dependent genes (c-fos and zif/268) in brain regions specialized for processing faces (temporal and medial frontal cortices and basolateral amygdala) and for emotional control (orbitofrontal and cingulate cortex), and reduce their expression in regions associated with stress responses (hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus) and fear (central and lateral amygdala). Effects on face recognition, emotional control and fear centres are restricted to the right brain hemisphere. Results provide evidence that face pictures may be useful for relieving stress caused by unavoidable social isolation in sheep, and possibly other animal species, including humans. The finding that sheep, like humans, appear to have a right brain hemisphere involvement in the control of negative emotional experiences also suggests that functional lateralization of brain emotion systems may be a general feature in mammals.

Visceral pain is one of the most common forms of pain which is poorly understood. We now studied the influence of imidazoline/guanidinium compounds such as clonidine and guanfacine on visceral pain in the presence or absence of yohimbine and benazoline. To produce visceral pain-related behaviours, formalin (10%) was administered by inserting a fine cannula into the colon via the anus. Each experiment took 1 h. Clonidine (0.001, 0.01 and 0.1 mg/kg, i.p.) and guanfacine (2.5, 5 and 10 mg/kg, i.p.) produced analgesia dose dependently. The clonidine response was inhibited by yohimbine (0.2 mg/kg, i.p.). On the other hand, benazoline (5 mg/kg, i.p.) blocked the antinociceptive effect of guanfacine (5 mg/kg). Benazoline (2.5 and 5 mg/kg) itself also induced analgesia in inflammatory colonic pain. In this study, we used morphine to ensure that the behavioural responses were pain-related. Our results showed that morphine (2.5, 5 and 10 mg/kg, s.c.) produced a dose-dependent antinociception. The morphine (7 mg/kg, s.c.) response was reduced by naloxone (2 mg/kg, i.p.). However, we concluded that both imidazoline (I(2)) and alpha(2)-adrenoceptors may play a role in producing analgesia in visceral pain.
Sensory inputs are relayed to the neocortex by &quot;first-order&quot; thalamic nuclei, the responses of which are determined by ascending inputs from peripheral receptors. In contrast, &quot;higher-order&quot; thalamic nuclei respond poorly to peripheral inputs, and their responses are thought to be determined by descending cortical inputs. We tested this hypothesis by recording from neurons in the higher-order somatosensory posterior medial (POm) nucleus of narcotized rats. As reported previously, POm neurons responded to whisker stimuli with long-latency (median, 27 msec) and low-magnitude responses, consistent with cortically driven responses. However, when we suppressed inhibitory inputs from the subthalamic nucleus zona incerta (ZI), POm responses were of significantly higher magnitude and shorter latency, with many POm neurons responding at latencies consistent with ascending driving inputs from trigeminal nuclei. Our data suggest that POm comprises two neuronal populations: one population is driven by both peripheral and cortical inputs, and the second population responds only to cortical inputs. These findings demonstrate that ZI gates peripheral inputs to POm, enabling it to function both as a first-order and higher-order nucleus. Because ZI innervates all higher-order nuclei, this gating mechanism may exert similar regulation of thalamic processing in other sensory systems.
Switching of the NMDA receptor 2A (NR2A) and NR2B subunits at NMDA receptors is thought to underlie the functional changes that occur in NMDA receptor properties during the developmental epoch when neural plasticity is most pronounced. The cellular expression of NR2A and NR2B and the NR2 synaptic binding protein postsynaptic density-95 (PSD-95) was examined in the mouse somatosensory cortex and thalamus from postnatal day 2 (P2) to P15 using reverse transcription-PCR, in situ hybridization histochemistry, and immunocytochemistry. The localization of NR2A and NR2B subunits and PSD-95 was then studied at synapses in layer IV of somatosensory cortex and in the ventral posterior nucleus of the thalamus using high-resolution immunoelectron microscopy. At both cortical and thalamic synapses, a quantitative switch in the dominant synaptic subunit from NR2B to NR2A was accompanied by a similar change in the cellular expression of NR2A but not of NR2B. Synaptic PSD-95 developed independently, although both NR2A and NR2B colocalized with PSD-95. Displacement of NR2B subunits from synapses was not accompanied by an increase in an extrasynaptic pool of this subunit. Thus, the switch in synaptic NR2 subunit predominance does not occur by changes in expression or displacement from synapses and may reflect the formation of new synapses from which NR2B is lacking.
Cerebellar Purkinje neurons fire spontaneously in the absence of synaptic transmission. P/Q-type voltage-gated calcium channels and calcium-activated potassium channels are required for normal spontaneous activity. Blocking P/Q-type calcium channels paradoxically mimics the effects of blocking calcium-activated potassium channels. Thus, an important function of the P/Q-type calcium channels is to provide calcium for activation of calcium-activated potassium channels. Purkinje neurons express several classes of voltage-gated calcium channels, and the P/Q- and T-type channels make comparable contributions to total calcium entry after an action potential. Here we demonstrate that calcium-activated potassium channels are activated exclusively by calcium entering through P/Q-type voltage-gated calcium channels. This selective coupling is maintained even when calcium flux through voltage-gated channels is increased by increasing the extracellular calcium concentration. Small decreases in P/Q current density are likely to alter spontaneous activity of Purkinje neurons via decreased recruitment of calcium-activated potassium channels. In both human and murine animal models, mutations that decrease P/Q current density in Purkinje neurons also cause cerebellar ataxia. Alterations in the spontaneous activity of Purkinje neurons may be an important contributing factor to the ataxia in these subjects.
Cadherins are synaptically enriched cell adhesion and signaling molecules. In brain, they function in axon targeting and synaptic plasticity. In adult spinal cord, their localization, synaptic affiliation, and role in injury-related plasticity are mostly unexplored. Here, we demonstrate in adult rat dorsal horn that E- and N-cadherin display unique patterns of localization to functionally distinct types of synapses of intrinsic and primary afferent origin. Within the nociceptive afferent pathway to lamina II, nonpeptidergic C-fiber synapses in the deeper half of lamina II (IIi) contain E-cadherin but mostly lack N-cadherin, whereas the majority of the peptidergic C-fiber synapses in the outer half of lamina II (IIo) contain N-cadherin but lack E-cadherin. Approximately one-half of the Abeta-fiber terminations in lamina III contain N-cadherin; none contain E-cadherin. Strikingly, the distribution and levels of these cadherins are differentially affected by sciatic nerve axotomy, a model of neuropathic pain in which degenerative and regenerative structural plasticity has been implicated. Within the first 7 d after axotomy, E-cadherin is rapidly and completely lost from the dorsal horn synapses with which it is affiliated, whereas N-cadherin localization and levels are unchanged; such patterns persist through 28 d postlesion. The loss of E-cadherin thus occurs before the onset of mechanical hyperalgesia (approximately 10-21 d postlesion), as reported previously. Together, the synaptic specificity displayed by these cadherins, coupled with their differential response to injury, suggests that they may proactively contribute to the maintenance of some, and incipient dismantling of other, synaptic circuits in response to nerve injury. Speculatively, such changes may ultimately contribute to subsequently emerging abnormalities in pain perception.
The olfactory bulb plays a critical role in odor discrimination and in processing olfactory cues controlling social behavior in mammals. Given that the pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) type 1 receptor (PAC1) is highly expressed in the olfactory bulb, we examined its role in regulating olfaction and social investigation. We found that olfactory detection of nonsocial stimuli was similar in PAC1-deficient mice and wild-type (WT) littermates. In contrast, PAC1-deficient mice displayed markedly abnormal social behaviors. PAC1-deficient mice exhibited a faster decrease in social investigation after repeated exposure to social cues or ovariectomized female urine compared with WT mice. Moreover, PAC1-deficient females exhibited delayed affiliative behavior when housed with novel males, and PAC1-deficient males displayed excessive sexual mounting toward both females and males as well as reduced aggression and increased licking and grooming toward intruder males. In aggregate, these results uncover PAC1 signaling as an important factor in the development and/or functioning of neural pathways associated with pheromone processing and the regulation of social interactions in mice. In turn, these studies raise the potential clinical relevance of PACAP signaling dysfunctions in neuropsychiatric disorders characterized by social reciprocity impairments such as autism spectrum disorders.
The inability of mature CNS neurons to regenerate injured axons has been attributed to a loss of inherent growth potential of cells and to inhibitory signals associated with myelin and the glial scar. The present study investigated two complementary issues: (1) whether mature CNS neurons can be stimulated to alter their gene expression profile and switch into a strong growth state; and (2) whether inactivating RhoA, a convergence point for multiple inhibitory signals, is sufficient to produce strong regeneration even without activating the growth state of neurons. In the mature rat, retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) normally fail to regenerate axons through the injured optic nerve but can be stimulated to do so by activating macrophages in the eye (e.g., by lens injury). To investigate underlying changes in gene expression, we retrogradely labeled RGCs with a fluorescent dye, performed optic nerve surgery with or without lens injury, and 4 d later, dissociated retinas, isolated RGCs by fluorescence-activated cell sorting, and examined their profiles of gene expression using microarrays. To investigate the effects of inactivating RhoA, we transfected RGCs with adeno-associated viruses carrying a gene for C3 ribosyltransferase. Our results show that, with appropriate stimulation, mature CNS neurons can undergo dramatic changes in gene expression comparable with those seen in regenerating neurons of the PNS, and that RhoA inactivation by itself results in moderate regeneration, and strongly potentiates axon regeneration through the mature optic nerve when the growth state of neurons is activated.
Dynamic changes in synaptic connectivity and strength, which occur during both embryonic development and learning, have the tendency to destabilize neural circuits. To overcome this, neurons have developed a diversity of homeostatic mechanisms to maintain firing within physiologically defined limits. In this study, we show that activity-dependent control of mRNA for a specific voltage-gated Na+ channel [encoded by paralytic (para)] contributes to the regulation of membrane excitability in Drosophila motoneurons. Quantification of para mRNA, by real-time reverse-transcription PCR, shows that levels are significantly decreased in CNSs in which synaptic excitation is elevated, whereas, conversely, they are significantly increased when synaptic vesicle release is blocked. Quantification of mRNA encoding the translational repressor pumilio (pum) reveals a reciprocal regulation to that seen for para. Pumilio is sufficient to influence para mRNA. Thus, para mRNA is significantly elevated in a loss-of-function allele of pum (pum(bemused)), whereas expression of a full-length pum transgene is sufficient to reduce para mRNA. In the absence of pum, increased synaptic excitation fails to reduce para mRNA, showing that Pum is also necessary for activity-dependent regulation of para mRNA. Analysis of voltage-gated Na+ current (I(Na)) mediated by para in two identified motoneurons (termed aCC and RP2) reveals that removal of pum is sufficient to increase one of two separable I(Na) components (persistent I(Na)), whereas overexpression of a pum transgene is sufficient to suppress both components (transient and persistent). We show, through use of anemone toxin (ATX II), that alteration in persistent I(Na) is sufficient to regulate membrane excitability in these two motoneurons.
An influential idea in human motor learning is that there is a consolidation period during which motor memories are transformed from a fragile to a permanent state, no longer susceptible to interference from new learning. The evidence supporting this idea comes from studies showing that the motor memory of a task (A) is lost when an opposing task (B) is experienced soon after, but not if sufficient time is allowed to pass (approximately 6 hr). We report results from three laboratories challenging this consolidation idea. We used an ABA paradigm in the context of a reaching task to assess the influence of experiencing B after A on the retention of A. In two experiments using visuomotor rotations, we found that B fully interferes with the retention of A even when B is experienced 24 hr after A. Contrary to previous reports, in four experiments on learning force fields, we also observed full interference between A and B when they are separated by 24 hr or even 1 week. This latter result holds for both position-dependent and velocity-dependent force fields. For both the visuomotor and force-field tasks, complete interference is still observed when the possible affects of anterograde interference are controlled through the use of washout trials. Our results fail to support the idea that motor memories become consolidated into a protected state. Rather, they are consistent with recent ideas of memory formation, which propose that memories can shift between active and inactive states.
Degeneration of cochlear sensory neurons is an important cause of hearing loss, but the mechanisms that maintain the survival of adult cochlear sensory neurons are not clearly defined. We now provide evidence implicating the neuregulin (NRG)-erbB receptor signaling pathway in this process. We found that NRG1 is expressed by spiral ganglion neurons (SGNs), whereas erbB2 and erbB3 are expressed by supporting cells of the organ of Corti, suggesting that these molecules mediate interactions between these cells. Transgenic mice in which erbB signaling in adult supporting cells is disrupted by expression of a dominant-negative erbB receptor show severe hearing loss and 80% postnatal loss of type-I SGNs without concomitant loss of the sensory cells that they contact. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis of neurotrophic factor expression shows a specific downregulation in expression of neurotrophin-3 (NT3) in the transgenic cochleas before the onset of neuronal death. Because NT3 is critical for survival of type I SGNs during development, these results suggest that it plays similar roles in the adult. Together, the data indicate that adult cochlear supporting cells provide critical trophic support to the neurons, that survival of postnatal cochlear sensory neurons depends on reciprocal interactions between neurons and supporting cells, and that these interactions are mediated by NRG and neurotrophins.

C57BL/6 and DBA/2 mice with cannulae inserted bilaterally in the dorsal hippocampus or the dorsolateral striatum were released from the south arm of a cross maze and trained to find food in the east arm. Probe trials on which mice were released from the north arm were given following short or prolonged training. Prior to the probe trials, mice received intra-hippocampal or intra-striatal injections of lidocaine or saline. Results show that saline-injected C57BL/6 were fundamentally place learners whereas saline-injected DBA/2 mice did not engage any predominant system. Inactivating the hippocampus or the dorsolateral striatum in C56BL/6 mice disrupted place learning without promoting response learning. Inactivating the same brain sites in DBA/2 mice did not affect their behaviour. Thus, contrary to that observed in rats, disrupting the neural substrate of one memory system can abolish learning in that system but does not promote the use of another system in these genotypes.
The retrosplenial cortex, which is situated in a critical position in the flow of information between the hippocampal formation and the neocortex, contributes to spatial memory, but no studies have examined the distinct contribution of each area of the retrosplenial cortex to this behavior. This study tests the hypothesis that the two areas of the retrosplenial granular cortex play distinct roles in spatial learning and memory. Adult, male Sprague-Dawley rats with small, bilateral lesions (ibotenic acid) of the retrosplenial granular cortex were tested for 2 weeks in a repeated acquisition water maze task. Compared to controls, rats with complete lesions of the retrosplenial granular b cortex (Rgb) were slightly, but significantly impaired, whereas rats with lesions of the retrosplenial granular a cortex (Rga) displayed no impairment. Further, the Rgb-lesioned (but not the Rga-lesioned) group was impaired in the probe trials at the end of the first week of training. All animals were tested in the same paradigm for a second week to determine if the learning and memory impairment in the Rgb-lesioned rats simply reflected &quot;delayed learning.&quot; All animals improved their maze performance during the second week of testing, but the Rgb-lesioned group still had no preference for the correct quadrant in the probe trial. Together, these data indicate that Rgb plays a small, independent role in spatial learning and memory. Further, although selective lesions of Rga or Rgb do not cause a large deficit in learning, concomitant destruction of both areas causes a much greater impairment in learning than would be predicted from their independent contributions. The data highlight the unique and complex contribution of each area of the retrosplenial cortex to behavior.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs), and in particular the mGluR group III receptors (subtypes 4, 6, 7, 8) are known to play a role in synaptic plasticity and learning. Here, we report the effect of mGluR7 gene ablation in different learning paradigms. In the acoustic startle response (ASR), no differences were seen between knockout (KO) mice and wildtype (WT) littermates in parameters including prepulse inhibition and habituation. In an open field test, no differences were seen between genotypes in motor activity, exploratory behaviour, and fearful behaviour. In a T-maze reinforced alternation working memory (WM) task, again no difference was seen between groups. However, when increasing the demands on working-memory in a 4-arm and 8-arm maze task, KO mice committed more WM errors than WT littermates thereby uncovering a highly significant difference between the two groups that persisted every day for the whole 9 days of the experiment. In a 4-arm maze with 2 arms baited, KO and wildtype mice committed the same number of LTM errors, whereas KOs committed more WM errors. Altogether, these findings suggest that a lack of mGluR7 mainly impairs short-term working but not long-term memory performance while having no effect on sensorimotor processing, non-associative learning, motor activity and spatial orientation. The effects on WM are task-dependent and become apparent in more complex but not simple learning tasks. We discuss how mGluR7 could influence WM.
This study was designed to investigate the effect of single pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) on the isochronic performance of sequential movements which were recorded using a digitising pad. Magnetic stimulation was applied through an 8-shaped magnetic coil over primary motor and premotor cortex at a specific time point while executing the first of a three movement sequence. TMS applied to the premotor cortex showed an alteration effect on the first movement while stimulation of the primary motor cortex influenced the second movement in the sequence. Results suggest that the premotor cortex is involved in online monitoring and controlling of spatio-temporal features of trajectories while the motor cortex contributes to the execution of movements. Isochrony is maintained to a high degree under TMS which has been found in other studies to delay reaction times. The results show that although TMS has a significant influence on motor performance, isochrony is a robust component of motor programs, not readily to be disturbed.
The present experiment examined the individual and combined effects of systemic injection and oral ingestion of lithium chloride (LiCl) on both within and across session shifts in palatability. Male rats fitted with intraoral cannulae received two conditioning days in which they were injected with either LiCl or sodium chloride (NaCl) and were then presented with brief intraoral infusions of a sucrose plus LiCl or NaCl solution. The individual taste reactivity responses during the intraoral infusions were videotaped and later analyzed for response frequency. Forty-eight hours after the second conditioning day the same sucrose plus salt solution was presented again in the absence of any injection. The present results demonstrate that systemic injections of LiCl result in profound within session and across session decreases in ingestive responding accompanied by increased active and passive aversive responses. Animals receiving LiCl by injection as well as ingestion demonstrated an exaggerated response. Rats which received LiCl only through intraoral infusions produced the same pattern of decreased ingestive responding to the sucrose plus salt flavored tastant on each test trial suggesting little or no across session conditioning effects. A two process model by which animals may regulate toxicosis is discussed.
The neurobehavioral dissociation between place navigation and cued navigation has been central to contemporary thinking regarding the psychological processes involved in spatial behavior. In cases where locale (place) cues and taxon cues (e.g., beacons) are present it has been suggested that navigation may be controlled by either stimulus type in isolation, or, alternatively, by both simultaneously. In this report we provide evidence that place cues and beacons sequentially control navigation during a single trip to a visible goal. Rats were trained to navigate to a visible escape platform in a circular swimming pool surrounded by numerous visual cues and the kinematics and accuracy of the trajectories to the platform were analyzed. Shortly after initiating a trajectory to the visible platform, animals routinely engaged in stimulus sampling behaviors (e.g., horizontal head scans) which were consistently associated with changes in accuracy (heading error) and swim velocity. Subsequently, animals swam quickly and accurately to the visible platform suggesting that the sampling behaviors correspond to a shift in exteroceptive stimulus control. Consistent with this idea, removal or relocation of the platform disrupted navigation following the stimulus sampling behaviors, whereas the initial trajectory was unaffected. In contrast, changes in the distal cue constellation selectively disrupted the initial trajectory. The results showing that navigation to a visible goal is controlled sequentially by locale and taxon cues are discussed in relation to contemporary theories of navigation.
Prepulse inhibition is modulated by dopaminergic drugs and is disrupted in attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, as well as mental illnesses such as schizophrenia. Spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) have been proposed as an animal model of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder and show marked alterations of dopaminergic regulation of behaviour. SHR showed significantly lower startle amplitude than Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats and Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats, but no difference in startle habituation. Baseline percentage prepulse inhibition was higher in SHR and WKY rats than in SD rats. Treatment with amphetamine caused significant disruption of prepulse inhibition in SHR and WKY rats, but not SD rats. In contrast, treatment with apomorphine caused prepulse-dependent disruption of prepulse inhibition in SD rats only. Both MK-801 and 8-OH-DPAT treatment caused disruption of prepulse inhibition in all three rat strains. This study shows differential changes in startle level and prepulse inhibition in SHR, however these rats are not uniformly different from either WKY rats or SD rats and WKY rats differ in a number of respects from SD rats. In conclusion, these data further reveal altered dopaminergic regulation of behaviour in SHR, but also shows that caution is needed about the control strain used to compare these animals with.
The alpha-conotoxins MI and GI display stronger affinities for the alphagamma agonist site on the Torpedo californica electrocyte nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (ACHR) than for the alphadelta agonist site, while alpha-conotoxin SI binds with the same affinity to both sites. Prior studies reported that the arginine at position 9 on GI and the tyrosine at position 111 on the receptor gamma subunit were responsible for the stronger alphagamma affinities of GI and MI, respectively. This study was undertaken to determine if the alpha-conotoxin midchain cationic residues interact with Torpedo gammaY111. The findings show that lysine 10 on MI is responsible for the alphagamma selectivity of MI and confirm the previously reported importance of R9 on GI and on the SI analogue, SIP9R. The results also show that gammaY111 contributes substantially to the selective alphagamma high affinity of all three peptides. Double-mutant cycle analyses reveal that, in the alphagamma site, K10 on MI and R9 on SIP9R interact with the aromatic ring of gammaY111 to stabilize the high-affinity complex, while in contrast, R9 on GI does not. The substitution of Y for R at position 113 on the delta subunit converts the alphadelta site into a high-affinity site for MI, GI, and SIP9R through the interacting of deltaY113 with K10 on MI and with R9 on both GI and SIP9R. The overall data show that the residues in the two sites with which MI interacts, other than at gamma111/delta113, are either the same or similar enough to exert equivalent effects on MI, indicating that MI binds in the same orientation at the alphagamma and alphadelta sites. Similar findings show that SIP9R probably also binds in the same orientation at the wild-type alphagamma and alphadelta sites. The finding that R9 on GI interacts closely with deltaR113Y but not with gammaY111 means that GI binds in different orientations at the alphagamma and alphadelta sites. This report also discusses the molecular basis of the difference in the MI high-affinity sites on Torpedo and embryonic mouse muscle ACHRs.
Visual attention is attracted by salient stimuli that 'pop out' from their surroundings. Attention can also be voluntarily directed to objects of current importance to the observer. What happens in the brain when these two processes interact?

A simple and rapid high-performance liquid chromatographic method with fluorescence detection was developed for the determination of loratadine in small volume plasma samples. Liquid-liquid extraction of loratadine and diazepam (as internal standard) from plasma samples was performed with n-butyl alcohol/n-hexane (2:98, v/v) in alkaline condition followed by back-extraction into diluted perchloric acid. Chromatography was carried out using a C8 column (250 x 4.6 mm, 5 microm) under isocratic elution with acetonitrile-20 mM sodium dihydrogen phosphate-triethylamine (43:57:0.02, v/v), pH 2.4. Analyses were run at a flow-rate of 1.0 ml/min at room temperature. The method was specific and sensitive with a quantitation limit of 0.62 ng/ml and a detection limit of 0.2 ng/ml at a signal-to-noise ratio of 3:1. The mean absolute recovery of loratadine from plasma was 84%, while the intra-and inter-day coefficient of variation and percent error values of the assay method were all less than 9.7%. Linearity was assessed in the range of 0.62-20 ng/ml in plasma with a correlation coefficient of greater than 0.999. The method has been used to analyze several hundred human plasma samples for bioavailability studies.
Nicotine increases satiety and reduces food intake (FI). We hypothesize that nicotine influences FI via alteration of serotonin (5HT) and dopamine (DA) concentration in ventromedial nucleus (VMN) and lateral hypothalamic area (LHA). Microdialysis cannulas were implanted into ipsilateral VMN and contralateral LHA. Nicotine or vehicle was infused for 60 min into VMN of overnight food-deprived rats, followed by ad lib food for 40 min. Hypothalamic changes in 5HT and DA concentrations were measured every 20 min. Intra-VMN nicotine induced a long-lasting increase in 5HT concentration and an increase in DA for a short duration in the VMN, associated with an increase in 5HT in the LHA. Our data suggest that the nicotine-induced hypophagia correlates with VMN and LHA monoaminergic changes.
The effects of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and LiCl on conditioned taste aversion acquisition using intraoral infusions as the method of taste delivery was examined. Rats received two pairings of an intraorally delivered sucrose (5 ml) taste with the effects of a systemic injection of LPS, LiCl or NaCl. The magnitude of conditioning was quantified by scoring taste reactivity responses to a brief intraoral infusion of sucrose in the absence of any drug injection. Rats previously conditioned with LiCl or LPS displayed clear evidence of conditioned aversion with increased oral rejection responses relative to saline controls. Our results suggest activation of the immune system with LPS can condition consummatory aspects of ingestion when this conditioning involves intraoral fluid presentation.
Retinal images move when the eyes move across a stationary object, or alternatively, when the object moves while the eyes are stationary. Orientation selective cells in V1 showed preference for these two types of retinal image slip. Furthermore, if an orientation cell preferred moving objects, the response to an element of a complex image was modulated by background stimuli placed outside the cell's receptive field. However, the response of cells, that showed no preference for a moving object, was hardly affected by the background. These results indicate that figure and ground are already segregated in the very early stage of visual processing.
Humans are poor at detecting changes to visual scenes occurring during brief disruptions. It is unclear whether this 'change blindness' results from failure to process the relevant item before the change, or failure to compare/recall the item after the change. We recorded pre-change multi-unit activity in area V1 of monkeys performing a change detection task. The animals were rewarded for making a saccade to the changing figure. Figure-ground related activity was observed, even when no correct saccade was made. However, for the changing figure, pre-change activity was stronger in correct trials than in incorrect trials. We conclude that small differences in pre-change figure-ground segregation have predictive value in whether the change will be successfully detected.
Recent attention research suggests that factors other than low-level sensory processes modulate perception across the visual field, with right parieto-temporal cortex playing a critical role in directing visual attention to peripheral events. Here we examine how different degrees of attentional demand at fixation dynamically affect detection of abrupt visual onsets in the periphery. In young healthy subjects, peripheral detection was significantly disrupted bilaterally when there was high attention demand at fixation. Right parieto-temporal lesioned patients, tested with a simplified version of task, demonstrated bilateral shrinkage of their available visual field, worse to the contralesional side, under increased attentional demand at fixation. These findings demonstrate how the effective visual field is dynamically modulated by the deployment of attention in health and, more severely, following right parieto-temporal damage.
Human electrophysiological studies have found that the processing of faces and other objects differs reliably at approximately 150 ms after stimulus onset, faces giving rise to a larger occipitotemporal field potential on the scalp, termed the N170. We hypothesize that visual expertise with nonface objects leads to the recruitment of early face-related categorization processes in the occipitotemporal cortex, as reflected by the N170. To test this hypothesis, the N170 in response to laterally presented faces was measured while subjects concurrently viewed centrally presented, novel, nonface objects (asymmetric &quot;Greebles&quot;). The task was simply to report the side of the screen on which each face was presented. Five subjects were tested during three event-related potential sessions interspersed throughout a training protocol during which they became experts with Greebles. After expertise training, the N170 in response to faces was substantially decreased ( approximately 20% decrease in signal relative to that when subjects were novices) when concurrently processing a nonface object in the domain of expertise, but not when processing untrained objects of similar complexity. Thus, faces and nonface objects in a domain of expertise compete for early visual categorization processes in the occipitotemporal cortex.
Huntingtin-associated protein 1 (HAP1) was identified as an interactor of the gene product (Huntingtin) responsible for Huntington's disease and found to be a core component of the stigmoid body. Even though HAP1 is highly expressed in the brain, detailed information on HAP1 distribution has not been fully described. Focusing on the neuroanatomical analysis of HAP1-mRNA expression using in situ hybridization histochemistry, the present study clarified its detailed regional distribution in the entire mouse brain. Mouse HAP1 (Hap1)-mRNAs were abundantly expressed in the limbic-related forebrain regions and midline/periventricular brainstem regions including the olfactory bulb, limbic-associated cortices, hippocampus, septum, amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, preoptico-hypothalamic regions, central gray, raphe nuclei, locus coeruleus, parabrachial nuclei, nucleus of the solitary tract, and area postrema. In contrast, little expression was detected in the striatum and thalamus, implying that Hap1 is associated with neurodegeneration-sparing regions rather than target lesions in Huntington's disease. The distribution pattern, resembling that of the stigmoid body, suggests that HAP1 and the stigmoid body are implicated in protection from neuronal death rather than induction of neurodegeneration in Huntington's disease, and that they play an important role in integrating instinct behaviors and underlying autonomic, visceral, arousal, drive, memory, and neuroendocrinergic functions, particularly during extensive homeostatic or emotional processes. These data will provide an important morphological base for a future understanding of functions of HAP1 and the stigmoid body in the brain.
Stress in doctors is a product of the interaction between the demanding nature of their work and their often obsessive, conscientious and committed personalities. In the face of extremely demanding work, a subjective lack of control and insufficient rewards are powerful sources of stress in doctors. If demands continue to rise and adjustments are not made, then inevitably a &quot;correction&quot; will occur, which may take the form of &quot;burnout&quot; or physical and/or mental impairment. Doctors need to reclaim control of their work environment and employers need to recognise the need for doctors to participate in decisions affecting their working lives. All doctors should be aware of predictors of risk and signals of impairment, as well as available avenues of assistance. Relevant medical organisations (eg, the Colleges, hospital administrations, and medical defence organisations) need to develop and rehearse effective response pathways for assisting impaired doctors.

To help elucidate how distortion-product otoacoustic emissions propagate from their cochlear sites of origin to the middle ear, their group delays were compared with basilar-membrane and organ of Corti travel times measured in guinea pig, gerbil, and chinchilla.
Syringomyelia is an important cause of neurological deficit. Most cases of non-traumatic syringomyelia occur in association with a Chiari malformation. We present three unusual examples of syringomyelia with such an association. The first case is that of syringomyelia in a young woman with Marfan's syndrome, a spontaneous CSF leak and intractable intracranial hypotension. The second is a woman with long-standing lumbo-peritoneal shunt for pseudotumour cerebri who developed an acquired Chiari malformation. A young woman with a Dandy-Walker cyst that herniated into the upper cervical canal is the third case. These cases provide a basis for discussion of the pathogenesis and management of syringomyelia and the Chiari malformation in such cases.


3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine [(MDMA) or ecstasy] is a popular club drug often used in combination with ethanol. In the current study, we investigated the effects of MDMA and ethanol combinations on locomotor activity and body temperature of rats. For four consecutive days, male Long-Evans rats were treated daily with a 10-mg/kg dose of MDMA with or without a 1.5-g/kg dose of ethanol. 3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine increased spontaneous activity (on average +1,140%), and this increase was potentiated by ethanol on all days (on average +1,710%). Moreover, ethanol inhibited the MDMA-induced hyperthermia (on average -1.3 degrees C) by the first day of treatment, but not on subsequent treatment days, supporting the suggestion that this effect may undergo tolerance. These observations seem to indicate that combined ethanol-MDMA may induce effects on locomotor activity and thermoregulation that involve separate mechanisms, the first one being less sensitive to tolerance than the second one might be. Results of our study have important implications for understanding the motivation and the health risks of polydrug abusers combining ecstasy and ethanol.
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors are ion channels activated by the neurotransmitter glutamate and are important mediators of neuronal signal transduction. Ethanol inhibits ion flux through NMDA receptors at concentrations that are associated with behavioral signs of intoxication. The overall sensitivity of NMDA receptors to ethanol is influenced by factors, including subunit composition and interactions with cytoskeletal elements. Results of studies also support the suggestion that the ethanol inhibition on NR1/2A receptors is reduced by Fyn kinase-mediated tyrosine phosphorylation. However, tyrosine kinases also reduce the high-affinity zinc sensitivity of NR1/2A receptors, supporting the suggestion that kinase-dependent effects on ethanol inhibition may be secondary to relief of zinc inhibition. In the current study, the effect of Fyn kinase on the ethanol inhibition of NR1/2A receptors was determined under conditions in which zinc sensitivity is eliminated. Human embryonic kidney 293 (HEK 293) cells were transiently transfected with wild-type or mutant NMDA subunits, and glutamate-activated currents were measured by using patch-clamp electrophysiology. Inclusion of the tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor potassium bisperoxo(1,10-phenanthroline)oxovanadate (V) [bpV(phen)] in the recording pipette eliminated the potentiation of NR1/2A currents by heavy metal chelators. Under these conditions, Fyn kinase did not reduce ethanol inhibition of wild-type receptors. Fyn kinase also had no effect on the magnitude of ethanol inhibition of zinc-insensitive NR1/2A(H128S) receptors. Together, results of the current study indicate that Fyn kinase does not directly affect the ethanol sensitivity of NR1/2A receptors.



Expression profiling data is available for many diverse tissues throughout the body, allowing for exciting hypothesis testing of critical concepts such as cellular development, differentiation, normative function, and disease pathogenesis. The central nervous system is an ideal structure to evaluate relationships between functional genomics and expression data. Recent developments in gene array technologies, specifically cDNA microarray platforms, have made it easier to try to understand the multiplicity of gene alterations that occur within the brains of animal models and postmortem human tissues. However, unlike structures have one principal cell type, the brain contains diverse populations of phenotypically distinct cell types. A goal of modern molecular and cellular neuroscience is to assay gene expression from homogeneous populations of cells within a defined region without potential contamination by expression profiles of adjacent neuronal subtypes and non-neuronal cells. This is a difficult task that demands a multidisciplinary approach that is highlighted in this review within the context of neurodegenerative pathology.
Presenilins are polytopic, integral proteins that control intramembranous proteolysis at the &quot;gamma-&quot; and &quot;epsilon-&quot; cleavage sites of the Alzheimer amyloid-beta precursor protein (APP) to yield amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) and the APP intracellular domain (AICD). We have overexpressed a constitutively active, pathogenic form of PS1 (known as PS1 Delta exon 9) together with its substrate, APP-C99, in Spodoptera frugiperda (Sf9) cells. Sf9 cells have been reported to lack endogenous gamma-secretase, an unexpected finding since there exists an insect homologue of PS1. In our hands, neither intact insect cells coexpressing PS1 Delta exon 9/APP-C99 nor the aqueous homogenates of these cells displayed obvious products of the gamma- or epsilon-secretase reactions, as reported. Surprisingly, when APP-C99-expressing cells were homogenized in 3[(3-cholamidopropyl) dimethylammonio]-2-hydroxypropanesulfonic acid (CHAPSO), a detergent known to support gamma-secretase activity, subsequent incubation led to the accumulation of an AICD-like peptide (AICD-L). Aspartyl proteinase inhibitors were effective in preventing the appearance of AICD-L, but inhibitors of other classes of proteinases were ineffective. Immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry of AICD-L revealed its identity as the minor of the two known AICDs.

Hypertension has been suspected of being associated with Alzheimer disease (AD). To study this problem, a case-control study investigating the association between hypertension and cognitive decline was conducted as a secondary analysis of data from more than 700 patients diagnosed with AD who had been randomly assigned to the placebo arm of a clinical trial. Additional analyses were undertaken to investigate the effects of baseline disease severity, age, gender, apolipoprotein genotype, and the use of antihypertensive medication in this population. This study found evidence of an association between hypertension and increased cognitive decline in AD patients over a 6-month period. After controlling for baseline disease severity, a pooled odds ratio (OR) was estimated to be 1.6 (95% confidence interval, 1.0-2.7) and found to be statistically significant (p = 0.048). Secondary analyses controlling for gender and apolipoprotein genotype showed no significant effect on the association between hypertension and cognitive decline. With regard to age, patients younger than 65 years with hypertension were more likely to have increased cognitive decline than patients of the same age without hypertension (odds ratio = 6.9, 95% confidence interval, 1.5-31.1; p = 0.005). Treatment with antihypertensives did not appear to provide protection from cognitive decline. Increased cognitive decline among those older than 65 years was comparable for hypertensive and normotensive subjects. This study, examining a large population of patients with AD, provides evidence that the rate in cognitive decline measured over a period of 6 months is accelerated by a state of hypertension in patients younger than 65 years.

Smoking cessation attempts are often complicated by dysphoria/depression, weight gain, craving, and other nicotine withdrawal symptoms. Fluoxetine's antidepressant and anorectant properties, along with its capacity to attenuate compulsive behavior, suggest that this medication might facilitate smoking cessation treatment. We examined the effect of fluoxetine on smoking cessation in the context of a program that included group cognitive-behavioral therapy (six weeks) and transdermal nicotine patch(ten weeks). In a double-blind randomized trial of fluoxetine for smoking cessation, 150 daily smokers were assigned to placebo (n=48), 20 mg (n=51), or 40 mg fluoxetine (n=51). Fluoxetine did not significantly improve smoking cessation rates, either for those with or without major depressive disorder(MDD)histories or elevated current depression. Our results suggest that fluoxetine may moderate withdrawal symptoms, even if that was not manifested in improved smoking cessation rates. Our results, however, clearly favor the use of fluoxetine if weight gain is a major clinical obstacle to smoking cessation.
The MAPT H1 haplotype has been associated with four-repeat (4R) tauopathies, including progressive supranuclear palsy, corticobasal degeneration, and argyrophilic grain disease. More controversial is that the same haplotype has been associated with Parkinson disease (PD). Using H1-specific single-nucleotide polymorphisms, we demonstrate that MAPT H1 is a misnomer and consists of a family of recombining H1 alleles. Population genetics, linkage disequilibrium, and association analyses have shown that specific MAPT H1 subhaplotypes are preferentially associated with Parkinson disease. Using a sliding scale of MAPT H1-specific haplotypes--in age/sex-matched PD cases and controls from central Norway--we have refined the disease association to within an approximately 90-kb interval of the 5' end of the MAPT locus.
The experimentally induced cryptorchid mouse model is useful for elucidating the in vivo molecular mechanism of germ cell apoptosis. Apoptosis, in general, is thought to be partly regulated by the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Here, we analyzed the function of two closely related members of the ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolase (UCH) family in testicular germ cell apoptosis experimentally induced by cryptorchidism. The two enzymes, UCH-L1 and UCH-L3, deubiquitinate ubiquitin-protein conjugates and control the cellular balance of ubiquitin. The testes of gracile axonal dystrophy (gad) mice, which lack UCH-L1, were resistant to cryptorchid stress-related injury and had reduced ubiquitin levels. The level of both anti-apoptotic (Bcl-2 family and XIAP) and prosurvival (pCREB and BDNF) proteins was significantly higher in gad mice after cryptorchid stress. In contrast, Uchl3 knockout mice showed profound testicular atrophy and apoptotic germ cell loss after cryptorchid injury. Ubiquitin level was not significantly different between wild-type and Uchl3 knockout mice, whereas the levels of Nedd8 and the apoptotic proteins p53, Bax, and caspase3 were elevated in Uchl3 knockout mice. These results demonstrate that UCH-L1 and UCH-L3 function differentially to regulate the cellular levels of anti-apoptotic, prosurvival, and apoptotic proteins during testicular germ cell apoptosis.
A number of techniques attempt to objectively quantify various clinical characteristics associated with spastic hypertonia and related motor disorders. These range in cost, complexity, physiologic basis of measured response, and invasiveness. With a greater range of treatment options for spasticity and an increase in the number of centers participating in studies of interventions for spasticity, published reports reflect increasing use of objective quantification techniques. We review studies that highlight the potential utility of neurophysiologic techniques, including the H-reflex, F-wave, and flexion withdrawal reflex, in the objective evaluation of response to intrathecal baclofen administration. The accumulated knowledge suggests that neurophysiologic evaluation is useful for assessing spinal cord responsiveness, and we recommend it as an adjunct to clinical evaluation when judging the overall effectiveness of intrathecal baclofen administration.
Primary cultures of granule cells (GC) from rat cerebellar cortex were used to determine whether bioelectric activity, via a Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent kinase (CaMK) signaling cascade, modulates expression and exon selection in the inositol trisphosphate receptor type 1 (IP(3)R1). IP(3)R1 contains or lacks three exons (S1, S2, and S3) that are regulated in a regionally and temporally specific manner. The neuronal, or long, form of IP(3)R1 is distinguished from peripheral tissues by inclusion of the S2 exon. Although previous studies indicated that IP(3)R1 are undetectable in the cerebellar granular layer in vivo, receptor protein and mRNA are induced in cultured GC grown in medium supplemented with 25 mM KCl or NMDA, two trophic agents that promote long-term survival, compared with GC grown in 5 mM KCl. IP(3)R1 induction in response to 25 mM KCl or NMDA is attenuated by coaddition of voltage-sensitive calcium channel or NMDA receptor antagonists, respectively. Actinomycin D, CaMK, and calcineurin antagonists likewise suppress induction. Unlike the major variants of IP(3)R1 in Purkinje neurons, which lack S1 and S3, GC grown with trophic agents express mRNA containing these exons. Both neuronal types contain S2. Evidence obtained using mutant mice with Purkinje cell lesions, laser-microdissected GC neurons from slices, and explant cultures indicates that GC predominantly express the S1-containing variant of IP(3)R1 in vivo.
The present study employs selective estrogen receptor (ER) agonists to determine whether 17beta-estradiol-induced neuroprotection in global ischemia is receptor mediated and, if so, which subtype of receptor (ERalpha or ERbeta) is predominantly responsible. Halothane-anesthetized female C57Bl/6J mice were ovariectomized, and osmotic minipumps containing ERbeta agonist diarylpropiolnitrile (DPN) (8 mg.kg(-1).day(-1), n = 12) or vehicle (50% DMSO in 0.9% saline) (n = 9) or ERalpha agonist propyl pyrazole triol (PPT) (2 mg.kg(-1).day(-1), n = 13) or vehicle (50% DMSO in 0.9% saline) (n = 10) were implanted subcutaneously. One week later transient global ischemia was induced by bilateral carotid artery occlusion under halothane anesthesia, and the mice were perfusion fixed 72 h later. ERbeta agonist DPN significantly reduced ischemic damage by 70% in the caudate nucleus and 55% in the CA1 region compared with vehicle controls (P &lt; 0.05, Mann-Whitney U-statistic). In contrast, pretreatment with the ERalpha agonist PPT had no effect on the extent of neuronal damage compared with controls. The data indicate a significant estrogen receptor-mediated neuroprotection in a global cerebral ischemia model involving ERbeta.
This study was done to investigate the effects of microinjections of adrenomedullin (ADM), a vasoactive neuropeptide, in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) on mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR) in urethane-anesthetized rats, and to assess the potential roles of glutamate and nitric oxide (NO) in these effects. Unilateral injections of ADM (0.01 or 0.1 pmol) into the RVLM significantly increased MAP and HR in a dose-dependent manner, whereas ADM at 0.001 pmol was ineffective. Microinjections of ADM (0.01 pmol) outside the RVLM had no effects on MAP or HR. Coinjections of a putative ADM receptor antagonist, ADM(22-52) (0.01 pmol), abolished the increases in MAP and HR evoked by ADM (0.01 pmol). The vasopressor effects of ADM (0.01 pmol) in the RVLM were abolished by coinjections of either dizocilpine hydrogen maleate (a selective NMDA glutamate receptor antagonist, 500 pmol) or 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (a selective non-NMDA glutamate receptor antagonist, 50 pmol). The ADM-induced vasopressor effects were also abolished by coadministration of either 7-nitroindazole sodium salt (a selective neuronal NO synthase inhibitor, 0.05 pmol) or methylene blue (a soluble guanylyl cyclase inhibitor, 100 pmol). These results suggest that ADM in the RVLM stimulates increases in MAP and HR through ADM receptor-mediated mechanisms. These effects are mediated by glutamate via both NMDA and non-NMDA receptors. NO, derived from neuronal NO synthase, also contributes to the ADM-induced vasopressor effects via a soluble guanylyl cyclase-associated signaling pathway.


Technological developments in imaging guidance, intraoperative imaging, and microscopy have pushed neurosurgeons to the limits of their dexterity and stamina. The introduction of robotically assisted surgery has provided surgeons with improved ergonomics and enhanced visualization, dexterity, and haptic capabilities. This article provides a historical perspective on neurosurgical robots, including image-guided stereotactic and microsurgery systems. The future of robot-assisted neurosurgery, including the use of surgical simulation tools and methods to evaluate surgeon performance, is discussed.
Our aim in this observational, prospective, noncontrolled study was to detect, in 29 patients who underwent abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) surgery, correlations between the incidence of postoperative organ failure and intraoperative changes in arterial and portal blood lactate; changes in intramucosal sigmoid pH (pHi); differences between sigmoid Pco(2) and arterial Pco(2) (DeltaCO(2)); and hemoglobin (Hb). Hb, arterial blood lactate concentrations, pHi, and DeltaCO(2) (air tonometry) were recorded at the start of anesthesia (T0), before aorta clamping (T1), 30 minutes after clamping (T2), and at the end of surgery (T3). Portal venous lactate concentrations were recorded at T1 and T2. Patients were stratified into two groups: group A patients had no postoperative organ failure, and group B patients had one or more organ failures. As compared with group A (n = 16), group B patients (n = 13) had a lower pHi value at T2 and T3 and a higher DeltaCO(2) at T3. A pHi value of &lt;7.15 was a predictor of organ failure, with a sensitivity of 92.3%, a specificity of 68.8%, and positive and negative predictive values of 70.6% and 91.7%, respectively, whereas a DeltaCO(2) value of &gt;28 mm Hg predicted later organ failure with a sensitivity of 92.3%, a specificity of 62.5%, and positive and negative predictive values of 66.6% and 90.9%, respectively. Portal venous lactate concentrations were larger in group B at T2 (P &lt; 0.001), and an increase &gt;or=5 g/dL predicted later postoperative organ failure with a sensitivity of 92.3%, a specificity of 100%, and positive and negative predictive values of 100% and 94.1%, respectively. The comparison of the receiving operator characteristic curves to test the discrimination of each variable and the logistic regression analysis revealed that the increase in portal lactate was the best predictor for the development of postoperative organ failure. Hb concentration was significantly smaller in group B at T0 (13.8 +/- 1.0 g/dL versus 12.2 +/- 2.2 g/dL) and T2 (10.9 +/- 1.2 g/dL versus 9.1 +/- 1.9 g/dL). In conclusion, both pHi and DeltaCO(2) are reasonably sensitive prognostic indices of organ failures after AAA surgery, but they are less specific and accurate than portal venous lactate.
Opioid tolerance and addiction could be discussed as two types of plasticity or counteradaptation, at the cellular level and through neuronal circuits. Cellular counteradaptation mechanisms include receptor desensitization through phosphorylation and endocytosis and through altered gene expression. The former mechanisms are related to the acute tolerance mechanisms, while the latter to chronic one. From current studies, it is known that various phosphorylation steps, such as protein kinase C (PKC) and G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) kinase (GRK) regulate endocytosis. Of interest is that there are some differences in the physiological roles between opioid receptor endocytosis and other GPCR ones. Endocytosis of the opioid receptor is conceived as a recycling and resensitization step rather than the desensitization step. PKC phosphorylation inhibits endocytosis (PKC hypothesis). Therefore the PKC inhibitor attenuates acute analgesic tolerance. The agonist, which shows high-endocytosis stimulation, therefore makes less significant tolerance liability (RAVE hypothesis). Chronic tolerance is more likely related to the mechanisms through plastic modulation of neuronal circuits, where anti-opioidergic neurons are involved. The knockout mice lacking the receptors for anti-opioidergic nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) or glutamatergic neurons show weak or no morphine tolerance and dependence. As their gene expression or protein expression increases during chronic morphine treatments, we propose the hypothesis that the enhanced anti-opioid system may cause a counteradaptation to show tolerance and dependence. By a novel electroporation technique to deliver the receptor into the brain of knockout mice, we succeeded in determining the specific locus for the site of anti-opioid (through GluRepsilon1 or NR2A) action. All these results suggest that enhanced anti-opioid systems may contribute to the development of morphine tolerance and dependence, and their contributions could be brain locus specific.
CART peptides have been shown to be peptide neurotransmitters and endocrine factors in a series of cumulative studies over the past eight years or so. This brief review touches on three aspects of CART: CART as a mediator or modulator of mesolimbic dopamine, CART's regulation by glucocorticoids, and CART as a regulator of feeding, satiety, and body weight. There have been several recent reviews and publications on various aspects of CART peptides. These aspects include the sequence and numbering of the peptides, and their structure, processing, and roles in various physiologic processes.
There are two known autosomal dominant genes for the hereditary ulcero-mutilating neuropathies: SPTLC1 (hereditary sensory neuropathy type 1) and RAB7 (Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2B). We report a family with autosomal dominant ulcero-mutilating neuropathy, developing in the teens and characterized by ulcers, amputations, sensory involvement in the feet but no motor features. Sequencing the RAB7 gene showed a novel heterozygous A to C mutation, changing asparagine to threonine at codon 161. The mutation is situated adjacent to a previously identified valine to methionine mutation at codon 162, implying a hotspot for mutations in the highly conserved C terminus of RAB7.
Hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy (HSAN) type II is an autosomal recessive disorder clinically characterized by distal and proximal sensory loss that is caused by the reduction or absence of peripheral sensory nerves. Recently, a novel gene called HSN2 has been found to be the cause of HSAN type II in five families from Newfoundland and Quebec. Screening of this gene in an HSAN type II Lebanese family showed a 1bp deletion mutation found in a homozygous state in all affected individuals. This novel mutation supports the hypothesis that HSN2 is the causative gene for HSAN type II.
The hereditary spastic paraplegias (HSPs) are a group of clinically and genetically heterogeneous disorders characterized by progressive lower-limb spasticity. In this study, we performed linkage analysis on an autosomal recessive pure HSP family and mapped the disease to chromosome 10q22.1-10q24.1, a locus partially overlapping the existing SPG9 locus. We have either identified a novel locus for pure recessive HSP (SPG27), or we have found the first case of allelic disorders with different mode of inheritance in HSP. If the disorders are indeed allelic, our results have reduced the SPG9 interval by 3Mb with D10S536 and D10S1758 as flanking markers.
Recent reports suggest that enhancement of memory performance while chewing gum is a fairly robust phenomenon. The processes underlying the effect are not known, but may involve glucose delivery, context-dependent effects and arousal mechanisms amongst others. This brief commentary outlines the main findings from these studies and raises some issues regarding interpretation, methodology and future research directions.


Thirteen compounds were isolated from the CH2Cl2 fraction of Machilus thunbergii as phospholipase Cgamma1 (PLCgamma1) inhibitors. These compounds were identified as nine lignans, two neolignans, and two flavans by spectroscopic analysis. Of these, 5,7-di-O-methyl-3',4'-methylenated (-)-epicatechin (12) and 5,7,3'-tri-O-methyl (-)-epicatechin (13) have not been reported previously in this plant. In addition, seven compounds, machilin A (1), (-)-sesamin (3), machilin G (5), (+)-galbacin (9), licarin A (10), (-)-acuminatin (11) and compound 12 showed dose-dependent potent inhibitory activities against PLCgamma1 in vitro with IC50 values ranging from 8.8 to 26.0 microM. These lignans, neolignans, and flavans are presented as a new class of PLCgamma1 inhibitors. The brief study of the structure activity relationship of these compounds suggested that the benzene ring with the methylene dioxy group is responsible for the expression of inhibitory activities against PLCgamma1. Moreover, it is suggested that inhibition of PLCgamma1 may be an important mechanism for an antiproliferative effect on the human cancer cells. Therefore, these inhibitors may be utilized as cancer chemotherapeutic and chemopreventive agents.


M-channels (M-current), encoded by KCNQ2/3 K(+) channel genes, have emerged as novel drug targets for a number of neurological disorders. The lack of direct high throughput assays combined with the low throughput of conventional electrophysiology (EP) has impeded rapid screening and evaluation of K(+)-channel modulators. Development of a sensitive and efficient assay for the direct measurement of M-current activity is critical for identifying novel M-channel modulators and subsequent investigation of their therapeutic potential. Using a stable CHO cell line expressing rat KCNQ2/3 K(+) channels confirmed by EP, we have developed and validated a nonradioactive rubidium (Rb(+)) efflux assay in a 96-well plate format. The Rb(+) efflux assay directly measures the activity of functional channels by atomic absorption spectroscopy using the automated Ion Channel Reader (ICR) 8000. The stimulated Rb(+) efflux from KCNQ2/3-expressing cells was blocked by the channel blockers XE991 and linopirdine with IC(50) values of 0.15 microM and 1.3 microM, respectively. Twelve compounds identified as KCNQ2/3 openers were further assessed in this assay, and their EC(50) values were compared with those obtained with EP. A higher positive correlation coefficient between these two assays (r = 0.60) was observed than that between FlexStation membrane potential and EP assays (r = 0.23). To simplify the assay and increase the throughput, we demonstrate that EC(50) values obtained by measuring Rb(+) levels in the supernatant are as robust and consistent as those obtained from the ratio of Rb(+) in supernatant/lysate. By measuring the supernatant only, the throughput of ICR8000 in an eight-point titration is estimated to be 40 compounds per day, which is suitable for a secondary confirmation assay.
Cell migration is vital for many physiological processes, and its modulation is likely to be of therapeutic benefit. In this study we have developed fluorescence image-based chemokinesis and chemotaxis assays on the Cellomics (Pittsburgh, PA) ArrayScan platform, which would be suitable for industrial drug discovery in a variety of fields. Studying the migratory characteristics of neural stem cells is of interest for understanding the therapeutic potential of these cells, in terms of both cellular transplantation and the activation of endogenous populations of stem cells. Growth conditions were identified whereby human neural precursors could be maintained as neurospheres and plated out into microtitre plates for high-content assays. Chemokinesis was assessed using fluorescent bead-coated 96-well microtitre plates, whilst chemotaxis was assessed using BD Biosciences (Oxford, UK) Fluoroblok 24-well plates. Assays for both chemokinesis and chemotaxis were developed that were quantified automatically using the ArrayScan and appropriate algorithms. Using the two complementary techniques, foetal bovine serum was observed to have chemokinetic effects on the cells, whilst platelet-derived growth factor isoform AB was chemotactic. The two assays described here are suitable for screening for novel modulators of cell migration, or for performing more detailed mechanistic follow-up studies. These assays enable us to perform cell motility studies with minimal laboratory handling, in an automated manner, thereby allowing quantitative studies of cell behaviour to be incorporated in a routine drug discovery screening cascade.
Age-related impairments in associative learning have been found in studies using classical conditioning of motor responses. However, it is as yet unclear whether conditioning of fear responses is similarly affected by aging. K. S. La Bar et al. (2004) aimed to address this issue by studying age effects on fear conditioning applying a discrimination paradigm. Considering these results, this commentary discusses methodological issues in investigating fear conditioning as well as similarities and differences between associative learning of motor and autonomic responses with respect to neuronal substrates, susceptibility to aging, and the role of awareness of stimulus contingencies in mediating aging effects.
Repeated cocaine (0.5 mg/kg) exposure throughout adolescence stimulates offensive aggression in hamsters. These studies examined whether the cocaine-induced aggressive response was regulated by serotonin Type 3 (5-HT(3)) receptor activity and correlated with altered 5-HT(3) receptor expression. Cocaine-treated Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus) were tested for aggression after the administration of either the 5-HT(3) antagonist 3-tropanylindole-3-carboxylate methiodide (tropisetron; 0.01-1.20 mg/kg) or the 5-HT(3) agonist l-(m-chlorophenyl)-biguanide hydrochloride (mCPBG; 5.0-15.0 mg/kg), alone or in combination. Tropisetron alone dose dependently reduced cocaine-induced aggression, with a significant reduction at 0.3 mg/kg, whereas mCPBG was ineffective. mCPBG administered prior to tropisetron required a higher dose (1.2 mg/kg) of antagonist to block aggression, indicating a selective 5-HT(3) effect. Cocaine-treated hamsters showed altered 5-HT-sub-3 immunoreactivity in several brain areas implicated in aggression control. These data support a role for 5-HT(3) receptors in adolescent cocaine-induced aggression.
The authors investigated whether corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) within the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) is a critical component of the neural circuitry mediating conditioned defeat. In this model, hamsters that have experienced social defeat subsequently display only submissive-defensive agonistic behavior instead of territorial aggression. Conditioned defeat was significantly reduced following infusion of the CRF receptor antagonist D-Phe CRF((12-41)) into the BNST but not into the CeA. In another experiment, hamsters given unilateral lesions of the CeA and infusions of D-Phe CRF((12-41)) into the contralateral BNST displayed significantly less submissive behavior than did controls. These data suggest that CRF acts within a neural circuit that includes the amygdala and the BNST to modulate agonistic behavior following social defeat.
Acquisition of odor-guided or visually-guided delayed win-shift behavior was evaluated in rats after lidocaine-induced inactivation within the agranular insular area of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) or the prelimbic area of the PFC. Additional sites and tasks were used to control for neuroanatomical and behavioral specificity of lidocaine inactivation of the agranular insular and prelimbic areas. Results showed that acquisition of the odor-guided delayed win-shift task was dependent on the agranular insular area, whereas acquisition of the visually-guided version was dependent on the prelimbic area. This dissociation suggests that the stimulus modality used is critical for revealing working memory functions of different PFC subregions. The described methods provide a complementary means to study working memory in PFC subregions using a radial-arm maze.
To assess the interaction between spatial and procedural memory systems, the authors developed a learning protocol in the water maze using a rising &quot;Atlantis&quot; platform that requires rats to learn to swim to a specific location and, once there, to learn a &quot;dwelling&quot; response to raise the platform. In this protocol, the effects of temporal inactivation of the dorsal hippocampus with the AMPA/kainate receptor antagonist LY326325 on different memory phases were investigated. Hippocampal inactivation impaired acquisition of the searching task, mainly because of disruption of procedural learning. Inactivation also impeded consolidation and retrieval of spatial information, while leaving expression of dwelling responses intact. These findings challenge the idea of a sharp demarcation between spatial and procedural learning with respect to hippocampal involvement.
Recent evidence suggests that the maintenance of a reactivated contextual-fear memory requires a protein-synthesis-dependent reconsolidation process in the hippocampus (K. Nader, 2003). In contrast, the authors report a systematic set of experiments that failed to find evidence that the rat's reactivated memory for context becomes labile and requires a new protein to restabilize. Although injecting the protein-synthesis inhibitor into the dorsal hippocampus or intracerebroventricularly following the reactivation of the context memory had no effect, these same treatments did impair the initial consolidation of the context memory and the consolidation of a contextual-fear memory. These results suggest that there may be important constraints determining when a reactivated memory requires reconsolidation. The authors offer 2 hypotheses about the nature of these constraints.
This study addressed the amygdala's role in avoidance conditioning in rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus). Intra-amygdalar muscimol infusion before 60 or 120 conditioning trials blocked training-induced neuronal activity (TIA) in the medial geniculate (MG) nucleus. One hundred twenty trials with muscimol blocked TIA permanently, during conditioning with muscimol and then later without muscimol; 60 trials with muscimol blocked TIA only when muscimol was present. Cingulate cortical TIA was blocked only when muscimol was present. Behavioral learning did not occur with muscimol, but later learning was facilitated (i.e., savings occurred) in rabbits initially given muscimol plus training. These results define the time period wherein amygdalar processes initiate TIA in the MG nucleus and suggest that distinct forms of amygdalar processes induce TIA in the MG nucleus and cingulate cortex.
Fear conditioning has provided a useful model system for studying associative emotional learning, but the impact of healthy aging has gone relatively unexplored. The present study investigated fear conditioning across the adult life span in humans. A delay discrimination task was employed using visual conditioned stimuli and an auditory unconditioned stimulus. Awareness of the reinforcement contingencies was assessed in a postexperimental interview. Compared with young adult participants, middle-aged and older adults displayed reductions in unconditioned responding, discriminant conditioning, and contingency awareness. When awareness and overall arousability were taken into consideration, there were no residual effects of aging on conditioning. These results highlight the importance of considering the influence of declarative knowledge when interpreting age-associated changes in discriminative conditioned learning.
Intracellular Ca2+ plays an important role in a variety of second messenger cascades. The function of Ca2+ is mediated, in part, by Ca2+-binding proteins such as calmodulin, calretinin, calbindin, neurocalcin, recoverin, and visinin-like proteins (VILIPs). These proteins are highly expressed in rat olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) and are localized to distinct intracellular regions. In the present study, we have identified another Ca2+-binding protein, hippocalcin, in the rat olfactory epithelium (OE). Olfactory/brain hippocalcin shows high sequence homology with hippocalcins expressed in mice and humans. Hippocalcin was predominantly localized to the olfactory cilia, the site of the initial events of olfactory signal transduction, and was found to regulate the activity of ciliary adenylate cyclases (ACs) and particulate guanylyl cyclases (GCs) in a Ca2+-dependent manner. These data indicate that hippocalcin is expressed in rat ORNs, and is likely to regulate second messenger cascades in a Ca2+-dependent manner.
The transport of glucuronides across the endoplasmic reticulum membrane is an important step in the overall process of biotransformation, although the mechanism remains unclear and the participating transporters are unidentified. Using a rapid filtration assay in combination with liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, we measured the transport of a variety of beta-D-glucuronides in rat liver microsomes and investigated the substrate specificity of the participating transporter(s) by inhibition studies. Time-dependent and bi-directional transport of phenolphthalein glucuronide was detected and the kinetic parameters for transport were determined. The K(m) and V(max) values of high affinity transport were 26microM and 3.9nmol/min/mg protein, respectively. Phenolphthalein glucuronide transport was inhibited by 4,4'-diisothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid and N-ethylmaleimide. Transport inhibition studies revealed competition between three glucuronides: phenolphthalein glucuronide, estradiol 17-glucuronide and naphthol AS-BI glucuronide indicating that they share a common transporter in the endoplasmic reticulum membrane. Their transport was inhibited by phenolphthalein, but was not affected by p-nitrophenyl glucuronide, naphthyl glucuronide or d-glucuronate. Morphine 3-glucuronide transport was not inhibited by any of the latter four compounds or by phenolphthalein glucuronide. This novel experimental approach has produced data consistent with the presence of multiple (at least three) transporters catalyzing the transport of glucuronides through the endoplasmic reticulum membrane. These data also indicate that the size and/or shape of the aglycone rather than the glucuronic acid moiety per se is an important determinant of transporter specificity.
The influence of low repetition rate pulsed magnetic fields (LRMF) on the evoked potential (population spike) recorded from mouse hippocampal slices was investigated. LRMF were applied according to two protocols. In protocol A, LRMF applied with a constant strength (15 mT) and frequency ranging from 0.03 to 0.5 Hz resulted in an amplification of the potential. Although the frequency of 0.16 Hz was the most effective, enhancing the population spike by over 280%, it also caused an increase in spontaneous activity, seizures, and cessation of neuronal activity in 50% of the slices. In protocol B, LRMF were applied with a variable intensity (9-15 mT) and in cycles of different duration ranging from 5 to 20 min. While an increase in the amplitude of the population spike was observed in all slices exposed to LRMF applied according to protocol B, the longest exposure was the most effective. Neither seizures nor an increase in the spontaneous activity were observed in this group of the slices. These results support and extend our previous data and characterize further the relation between the pattern of applied magnetic fields and their influence on the nervous system.

This commentary provides reflections on the current state of affairs in research on EEG frontal asymmetries associated with affect. Although considerable progress has occurred since the first report on this topic 25 years ago, research on frontal EEG asymmetries associated with affect has largely evolved in the absence of any serious connection with neuroscience research on the structure and function of the primate prefrontal cortex (PFC). Such integration is important as this work progresses since the neuroscience literature can help to understand what the prefrontal cortex is &quot;doing&quot; in affective processing. Data from the neuroscience literature on the heterogeneity of different sectors of the PFC are introduced and more specific hypotheses are offered about what different sectors of the PFC might be doing in affect. A number of methodological issues associated with EEG measures of functional prefrontal asymmetries are also considered.
The dipeptidyl aminopeptidase-like protein DPPX (DPP6) associates with Kv4 potassium channels, increasing surface trafficking and reconstituting native neuronal ISA-like properties. Dipeptidyl peptidase 10 (DPP10) shares with DPP6 a high amino acid identity, lack of enzymatic activity, and expression predominantly in the brain. We used a two-electrode voltage-clamp and oocyte expression system to determine if DPP10 also interacts with Kv4 channels and modulates their expression and function. Kv4.2 coimmunoprecipitated with HA/DPP10 from extracts of oocytes heterologously expressing both proteins. Coexpression with DPP10 and HA/DPP10 enhanced Kv4.2 current by approximately fivefold without increasing protein level. DPP10 also remodeled Kv4.2 kinetic and steady-state properties by accelerating time courses of inactivation and recovery (taurec: WT = 200 ms, +DPP10 = 78 ms). Furthermore, DPP10 introduced hyperpolarizing shifts in the conductance-voltage relationship (approximately 19 mV) as well as steady-state inactivation (approximately 7 mV). The effects of DPP10 on Kv4.1 were similar to Kv4.2; however, distinct biophysical differences were observed. Additional experiments suggested that the cytoplasmic N-terminal domain of DPP10 determines the acceleration of inactivation. In summary, DPP10 is a potent modulator of Kv4 expression and biophysical properties and may be a critical component of somatodendritic ISA channels in the brain.

The rapidly evolving changes in working patterns, career structure and the regulation of training of doctors have provided an ideal opportunity for proposals to improve the programme for the training of neurosurgeons. The Education and Training Committee of the Society of British Neurological Surgeons (D.G. Hardy, A. J. W. Steers, N. T. Gurusinghe, P. M. Foy, P. van Hille, R. A. Cowie, H. A. Crockard, O. Sparrow and S. Burn) has, in recent months, worked closely with the Specialist Advisory Committee (SAC) in neurosurgery, Department of Health (Modernizing Medical Careers Group, H. A. Crockard, A. Havers, T. Hobbs) and colleagues from the major neuroscience specialties to develop a new programme based on a 'Common Stem' approach. This article describes the principles of the programme. The proposals have received approval by the Council of the SBNS, the Presidents of the four Surgical Royal Colleges and the Senate of Surgery.
Serotonin 5-HT(7) receptors are present in astrocytes. Understanding their role in this type of cell would greatly benefit from the identification of astroglial cell lines expressing this receptor type. The aim of the present study was to assess the expression of native 5-HT(7) receptors and 5-HT(7) receptor mRNA in a number of human glioblastoma cell lines, by means of cAMP measurements, Western blot analysis and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis. 5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), 5-carboxamidotryptamine (5-CT), 5-methoxytryptamine (5-MeOT) and 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT) induced concentration-dependent stimulations of cAMP accumulation in the human glioblastoma cell lines, U-373 MG, U-138 MG, U-87 MG, DBTRG-05MG, T98G, H4, CCF-STTG1 and Hs 683. The rank order of potency was 5-CT&gt;5-HT=5-MeOT&gt;8-OH-DPAT. The effect of 5-CT was inhibited in a concentration-dependent manner by the selective 5-HT(7) receptor antagonist SB-269970 in all human glioblastoma cells. Schild analyses yielded slope factors close to unity (0.89-1.13) and pA(2) values of 8.69-9.05. Western blot analysis revealed the presence of immunoreactive bands corresponding to the human 5-HT(7) receptor in extracts of all human glioblastoma cell lines. The presence of the three splice variants of the 5-HT(7) receptor (5-HT(7(a/b/d))) was visualized by RT-PCR analysis with specific primers in all human glioblastoma cell lines. In conclusion, human glioblastoma cell lines express functional 5-HT(7) receptors and the three splice variants of the corresponding mRNA. These cell lines could serve as model systems of native 5-HT(7) receptors in glial cells to investigate their putative role in processes like release of neurotrophic factors or inflammatory cytokines.
We recently provided evidence for a functional link between cannabinoid and opioid endogenous systems in relapse to heroin-seeking behaviour in rats. In the present study, we aimed at investigating whether the previously observed cross-talk between cannabinoids and opioids could be extended to mechanisms underlying relapse to cannabinoid-seeking behaviour after a prolonged period of abstinence. In rats previously trained to intravenously self-administer the synthetic cannabinoid receptor (CB1) agonist WIN 55,212-2 (12.5 microg kg(-1) inf(-1)) under a fixed ratio (FR1) schedule of reinforcement, noncontingent nonreinforced intraperitoneal (i.p.) priming injections of the previously self-administered CB1 agonist (0.25 and 0.5 mg kg(-1)) as well as heroin (0.5 mg kg(-1)), but not cocaine (10 mg kg(-1)), effectively reinstate cannabinoid-seeking behaviour following 3 weeks of extinction. The selective CB1 receptor antagonist SR 141716A (0.3 mg kg(-1) i.p.) does not reinstate responding when given alone, but completely prevents the cannabinoid-seeking behaviour triggered by WIN 55,212-2 or heroin primings. The nonselective opioid antagonist naloxone (1 mg kg(-1) i.p.) has no effect on operant behaviour per se, but significantly blocks cannabinoid- and heroin-induced reinstatement of cannabinoid-seeking behaviour. These results provide the first evidence of drug-induced reinstatement of cannabinoid-seeking behaviour, and further strengthen previous findings on a cross-talk between the endogenous cannabinoid and opioid systems in relapse mechanisms to drug-seeking.

A collaborative study of human transmissible spongiform encephalopathies has been carried out from 1993 to 2000 and includes data from 10 national registries, the majority in Western Europe. In this study, we present analyses of predictors of survival in sporadic (n = 2304), iatrogenic (n = 106) and variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (n = 86) and in cases associated with mutations of the prion protein gene (n = 278), including Gerstmann-Strussler-Scheinker syndrome (n = 24) and fatal familial insomnia (n = 41). Overall survival for each disease type was assessed by the Kaplan-Meier method and the multivariate analyses by the Cox proportional hazards model. In sporadic disease, longer survival was correlated with younger age at onset of illness, female gender, codon 129 heterozygosity, presence of CSF 14-3-3 protein and type 2a prion protein type. The ability to predict survival based on patient covariates is important for diagnosis and counselling, and the characterization of the survival distributions, in the absence of therapy, will be an important starting point for the assessment of potential therapeutic agents in the future.
We describe the clinical features of 103 patients presenting with fixed dystonia and report the prospective assessment and investigation of 41 of them. Most patients were female (84%) and had a young age of onset [mean 29.7 (SD 13.1) years]. A peripheral injury preceded onset in 63% and spread of dystonia to other body regions occurred in 56%. After an average follow-up of 3.3 years (overall disease duration 8.6 years), partial (19%) or complete (8%) remission had occurred in a minority of patients. The fixed postures affected predominantly the limbs (90%), and rarely the neck/shoulder region (6%) or jaw (4%). In the prospectively studied group, pain was present in most patients and was a major complaint in 41%. Twenty percent of patients fulfilled criteria for Complex Regional Pain Syndrome (CRPS). No consistent investigational abnormalities were found and no patient tested (n = 25) had a mutation in the DYT1 gene. Thirty-seven percent of patients fulfilled classification criteria for documented or clinically established psychogenic dystonia; 29% fulfilled DSM-IV (Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders, 4th edition) criteria for somatization disorder, which was diagnosed only after examination of the primary care records in many cases; and 24% fulfilled both sets of criteria. Ten percent of the prospectively studied and 45% of the retrospectively studied patients did not have any evidence of psychogenic dystonia, and detailed investigation failed to reveal an alternative explanation for their clinical presentation. Detailed, semi-structured neuropsychiatric assessments in a subgroup of 26 patients with fixed dystonia and in a control group of 20 patients with classical dystonia revealed dissociative (42 versus 0%, P = 0.001) and affective disorders (85 versus 50%, P = 0.01) significantly more commonly in the fixed dystonia group. Medical and surgical treatment was largely unsuccessful. However, seven patients who underwent multidisciplinary treatment, including physiotherapy and psychotherapy, experienced partial or complete remission. We conclude that fixed dystonia usually, but not always, occurs after a peripheral injury and overlaps with CRPS. Investigations are typically normal, but many patients fulfil strict criteria for a somatoform disorder/psychogenic dystonia. In a proportion of patients, however, no conclusive features of somatoform disorder or psychogenic disorder can be found and, in these patients, whether this disorder is primarily neurological or psychiatric remains an open question. Whilst the prognosis is overall poor, remissions do occur, particularly in those patients who are willing and able to undergo multidisciplinary treatment including physiotherapy and psychotherapy, suggesting that this type of treatment should be recommended to these patients.
Leber hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) is a maternally inherited form of retinal ganglion cell degeneration leading to optic atrophy which is caused by point mutations in the mitochondrial genome (mtDNA). Three pathogenic mutations (positions 11778/ND4, 3460/ND1 and 14484/ND6) account for the majority of LHON cases and they affect genes that encode for different subunits of mitochondrial complex I. Excitotoxic injury to retinal ganglion cells and the optic nerve has been previously hypothesized, especially given the high susceptibility of this neural cell type to glutamate toxicity. Osteosarcoma-derived cytoplasmic hybrids (cybrids) generated from six unrelated LHON patients, two cell lines for each pathogenic mutation, were compared with cybrids obtained from three healthy controls. Molecular and biochemical analyses showed that excitatory amino acid transporter 1 (EAAT1)/GLAST is the most active glutamate transporter in this cellular model. The glutamate uptake maximal velocity was significantly reduced in all LHON cybrids compared with control cybrids. This reduction was correlated in a mutation-specific fashion with the degree of mitochondrial production of reactive oxygen species, which is enhanced in LHON cybrids. Our findings support the hypothesis that the genetically determined mitochondrial dysfunction in LHON patients leads to impaired activity of the EAAT1 glutamate transporter. This observation is particularly relevant since EAAT1 is the major means of glutamate removal in the inner retina and this prevents retinal ganglion cells being damaged as a result of excitotoxicity.
Motoneurons in the spinal cord have intrinsic voltage-dependent persistent inward currents (PICs; e.g. persistent calcium currents) that amplify synaptic inputs by three- to five-fold in addition to providing a sustained excitatory drive that allows motoneurons to fire repetitively following a brief synaptic excitation. In this study, we examined whether prolonged involuntary muscle spasms in subjects with long-term injury to the spinal cord are mediated by the activation of PICs in the motoneuron. To examine this in the human, we used a paired motor unit analysis technique where the firing frequency of one motor unit of the pair (control unit) was used to estimate the synaptic drive to the motoneuron pool, including the drive to a second higher-threshold motor unit of the pair (test unit). The degree to which a motoneuron PIC helped to sustain the discharge of a test motor unit (self-sustained firing) was determined from the reduction in control unit firing at de-recruitment (DeltaF) compared with recruitment of the test unit. This DeltaF value corresponds to the reduction in synaptic drive needed to counteract the intrinsic PIC and, thus, was used an indirect measure of this current. In the nine motor unit pairs studied, the average estimated synaptic drive, or control unit firing rate, required to recruit a test motor unit at the onset of a muscle spasm was significantly higher (by 43%) than the estimated synaptic drive during de-recruitment at the end of a muscle spasm. This indicated that a motoneuron PIC, and associated self-sustained firing, facilitated the firing of the test units during the prolonged muscle spasms. In addition, in all subjects tested (seven out of seven), we observed that following a muscle spasm or voluntary contraction, spontaneous and self-sustained firing of motor units could continue for many seconds, even minutes, at very low discharge rates (average 5.2 +/- 1.6 Hz) with extremely low spike-to-spike variability (coefficient of variation = 5.4 +/- 1.6%). Moreover, increases in synaptic drive (noise) to the spontaneously firing units with voluntary muscle contractions or muscle spasms increased both the mean firing rate of the motor units in addition to their firing variability. This suggests that the slow spontaneous firing commonly observed in chronic spinal injury likely occurs without appreciable synaptic noise and is likely driven to a substantial degree by PICs intrinsic to the motoneuron because it is self-sustained and very regular.
Normal ageing as well as age-associated pathological conditions, such as Alzheimer's disease, are associated with modifications of language processing. In particular, an impaired performance in semantic tasks, associated with relatively spared syntactic processing, has been suggested to be the hallmark of the language disorder of Alzheimer's disease. The present experiment tests semantic and syntactic aspects of language processing at the same time, using an on-line paradigm, in patients with Alzheimer's disease, compared with elderly and young controls. Normal ageing was associated with a profile of performance, which was slowed but qualitatively comparable with that of young controls. Both gender agreement and congruent sentential semantics resulted in facilitation relative to baseline in young and elderly controls, with no significant interference effects of incongruent grammatical and semantic information. In contrast, Alzheimer's disease patients presented both facilitation and interference effects. These findings suggest that interference effects are amplified by dementia, and may result from defective inhibitory processes due to Alzheimer's disease pathology.
This study sought to investigate the recent claim by H.-O. Karnath and his colleagues that the crucial locus of neurological damage in neglect patients lies in the right superior temporal gyrus (STG), and not in the right posterior parietal cortex (PPC) as conventionally thought. Using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), we first tested the involvement of the right STG in a task commonly used in the diagnosis of neglect, the landmark task. No evidence was found for a critical involvement of the right STG in the processing of this task, though evidence was found for the involvement of the right PPC. In contrast, however, when we examined the effects of TMS on exploratory search, a double dissociation between right STG and right PPC was found. When the processing of conjunction items was required, involvement of the right PPC (and not STG) was found in accordance with our previous research. When a difficult exploratory search through feature items was required, however, the right STG (not PPC) was found to be involved. A hitherto unknown role for right STG in visual search tasks was thus uncovered. These data suggest that conclusions about the area of brain damage resulting in neglect-like symptoms are highly dependent on the task used to diagnose them, with lesions in right PPC leading to deficits on the landmark task and conjunction visual search, and lesions in right STG resulting in deficits in feature based serial exploratory search tasks.
Diabetic neuropathy is characterized by slowing of conduction velocity and axonal atrophy. Both of these cardinal features of neuropathy might be linked to impaired neurofilament investment of axons. Since neurofilaments form the critical structural latticework of axons, their importance in neuropathy is of interest. We tested directly the relationship of neurofilaments to diabetic neuropathy by superimposing streptozotocin-generated diabetes on a unique but viable transgenic mouse described by Eyer and Peterson. These mice express a fusion protein in which the carboxyl terminus of the high molecular weight neurofilament protein (Nf-H) was replaced by beta-galactosidase, in turn blocking normal neurofilament export and rendering axons completely lacking neurofilaments. Despite similar levels of hyperglycaemia, diabetic mice lacking neurofilaments developed progressive slowing of conduction velocity in their motor and sensory fibres between 4 and 8 weeks after the onset of diabetes (P &lt; 0.05), unlike diabetic mice with normal neurofilaments, who developed only mild evidence of neuropathy over the same time-frame. Diabetic mice without neurofilaments, but not those with neurofilaments, had a progressive decline in the amplitude of the caudal nerve compound action potential and there were trends toward increased axonal atrophy in diabetics lacking neurofilaments. Single daily doses of insulin that restored normoglycaemia (0.1 IU subcutaneous insulin daily 5 of 7 days weekly for 4 weeks) reversed conduction slowing and restored sensory axon calibre. Our findings indicate that abnormalities in neurofilament export or transport alone cannot account for features of diabetic neuropathy. Instead, neurofilaments may allow axons to better resist the ravages of diabetes. Our findings also confirm the impact of insulin on reversing the phenotype.
Although multiple sclerosis is considered to be an autoimmune disease in the CNS, the immune responses that take place in the CNS and lymphoid organs remain to be elucidated. Here, we have successfully induced various subtypes of experimental autoimmune encephalitis (EAE) in LEW.1AV1 rats carrying RT1(av1) on the Lewis background genes by immunization with recombinant rat myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) in various solutions with adjuvants. The purpose of the present study was to analyse in more detail the clinical and immunopathological features of MOG-induced EAE in LEW.1AV1 rats. Immunization with high doses of soluble MOG with pertussis toxin induced acute, frequently fatal EAE, whereas medium doses of partially aggregated MOG without pertussis toxin produced relapsing and remitting EAE. Secondary progressive EAE was induced in some rats by immunization with the immunization protocol having an intermediate nature between the above two. The optic nerve (approximately 60% of the immunized rats) and spinal cord (100%) were frequently involved and detectable both clinically and pathologically, while there was no lesion in the cerebrum. Histological examination revealed that, despite variety in the clinical subtypes, progression of the pathological processes was strikingly uniform, i.e. initial inflammation with minimal demyelination followed by predominant demyelination with minimal lymphocyte infiltration. These findings suggest that the lesion during the later stage is maintained by humoral factors. Taken together, this experimental system can serve as a model of neuromyelitis optica. Further analysis will provide useful information to elucidate the pathogenesis and to develop immunotherapy for neuromyelitis optica and multiple sclerosis.
From the viewpoint of biology, learning and education can be defined as the processes of forming neuronal connections in response to external environmental stimuli, and of controlling or adding appropriate stimuli, respectively. Learning and education can thus be studied as a new field of natural sciences with the entire human life span as its subject, thus including various problems such as fetal environment, childcare, language acquisition, general/special education, and rehabilitation. Non-invasive imaging of higher-order brain functions in humans will clarify the brain's developmental processes, and will provide various evidence for learning sciences. This new approach is called 'developing the brain' or 'brain science and education'. The origin of the concept and its present state are described and its future prospects are briefly analyzed.
The neuronal ceroid-lipofuscinoses (NCLs) are recessively inherited lysosomal storage diseases, currently classified into 8 forms (CLN1-CLN8). Collectively, the NCLs constitute the most common group of progressive encephalopathies of childhood, and present with visual impairment, psychomotor deterioration and severe seizures. Despite recent identification of the underlying disease genes, the mechanisms leading to neurodegeneration and epilepsy in the NCLs remain poorly understood. To investigate these events, we examined the patterns of storage deposition, neurodegeneration, and glial activation in the hippocampus of patients with CLN1, CLN2, CLN3, CLN5 and CLN8 using histochemistry and immunohistochemistry. These different forms of NCL shared distinct patterns of neuronal degeneration in the hippocampus, with heavy involvement of sectors CA2-CA4 but relative sparing of CA1. This selective pattern of degeneration was also observed in immunohistochemically identified interneurons, which exhibited a graded severity of loss according to phenotype, with calretinin-positive interneurons relatively spared. Furthermore, glial activation was also regionally specific, with microglial activation most pronounced in areas of greatest neuronal loss, and astrocyte activation prominent in areas where neuronal loss was less evident. In conclusion, the NCLs share a common pattern of selective hippocampal pathology, distinct from that seen in the majority of temporal lobe epilepsies.
Studies have suggested that the neuroprotective actions of alpha7 nicotinic agonists arise from activation of receptors and not from the extensive desensitization which rapidly follows activation. Here, we report that the alpha7-selective nicotinic antagonist, methyllycaconitine (MLA), protects against beta-amyloid-induced neurotoxicity; whereas the alpha4beta2-selective antagonist, dihydro-beta-erythroidine, does not. These findings suggest that neuroprotective actions of alpha7-acting agents arise from receptor inhibition/desensitization and that alpha7 antagonists may be useful neuroprotective agents.
In vivo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was used to observe the effect of acutobin, a purified thrombin-like enzyme (TLE), isolated from the snake venom of Deinagkistrodon acutus, on MRI-detected brain lesion volume and tissue perfusion deficit in a hyperglycemic rat right middle cerebral artery occlusion/reperfusion (MCAO/R) model. Acutobin (0.75 U/ml) was intravenously injected with a dosage of 2.5 U/kg body weight 30 min after MCAO (MCAO duration=60 min) and again 24 h after reperfusion. Multislice diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) and single-slice dynamic bolus tracking gradient echo (GE) imaging were sequentially acquired before and after MCAO/R. DWI-detected lesion volume was significantly (p&lt;0.05) reduced by 24-31% from 350+/-45, 369+/-45 and 374+/-36 mm(3) in the saline-treated group to 239+/-17, 282+/-26 and 259+/-32 mm(3) at 3, 4 and 24 h after reperfusion in the acutobin-treated group, respectively. Residual cerebral blood flow (CBF) in the right hemisphere recovered and remained at approximately 80% of normal perfusion over the measurement period in the acutobin-treated group, compared to approximately 40% in the saline-treated group. Mortality at 1 week after MCAO/R in the acutobin-treated group was significantly lower (25% mortality) than the saline control group (85% mortality). Our results indicate that acutobin improves brain tissue perfusion and reduces infarct volume and mortality in the hyperglycemic rat MCAO/R model.
Regulators of G-protein signaling (RGS) play a key role in the signal transduction of G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). Specifically, RGS proteins function as GTPase accelerating proteins (GAPs) to dampen or &quot;negatively regulate&quot; GPCR-mediated signaling. Our group recently showed that RGS4 effectively GAPs Galpha(i)-mediated signaling in CHO cells expressing the serotonin-1A (5-HT(1A)) receptor. However, whether a similar relationship exists in vivo has yet to be identified. In present studies, a replication-deficient herpes simplex virus (HSV) was used to elevate RGS4 mRNA in the rat dorsal raphe nuclei (DRN) while extracellular levels of 5-HT in the striatum were monitored by in vivo microdialysis. Initial experiments conducted with noninfected rats showed that acute administration of 8-OH-DPAT (0.01-0.3 mg/kg, subcutaneous [s.c.]) dose dependently decreased striatal levels of 5-HT, an effect postulated to result from activation of somatodendritic 5-HT(1A) autoreceptors in the DRN. In control rats receiving a single intra-DRN infusion of HSV-LacZ, 8-OH-DPAT (0.03 mg/kg, s.c.) decreased 5-HT levels to an extent similar to that observed in noninfected animals. Conversely, rats infected with HSV-RGS4 in the DRN showed a blunted neurochemical response to 8-OH-DPAT (0.03 mg/kg, s.c.); however, increasing the dose to 0.3 mg/kg reversed this effect. Together, these findings represent the first in vivo evidence demonstrating that RGS4 functions to GAP Galpha(i)-coupled receptors and suggest that drug discovery efforts targeting RGS proteins may represent a novel mechanism to manipulate 5-HT(1A)-mediated neurotransmitter release.
There is growing behavioural evidence that the phospholipid growth factor lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) modulates nociceptive responses in vivo. The present study investigated further the effects of LPA on peripheral nociceptive processing. Effects of intraplantar injection of LPA on ongoing and peripheral mechanically evoked responses of spinal neurons were studied in vivo. In addition, LPA-evoked responses of adult rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons were studied with calcium imaging. To determine whether LPA may also act at the level of the spinal cord, LPA receptor G-protein coupling in lumbar spinal cord sections was studied with in vitro autoradiography of guanylyl 5'-[g-[(35)S]thio]triphosphate ([(35)S]GTPgammaS) binding. Intraplantar injection of LPA (5 microg/5 microl) significantly increased the duration (P&lt;0.001) and frequency of spinal neuronal firing (P&lt;0.01), compared to vehicle. Intraplantar injection of LPA (1 microg/5 microl) did not significantly alter innocuous and noxious mechanically evoked responses of spinal neurons, but a higher dose of LPA (5 microg) significantly (P&lt;0.05) attenuated mechanically evoked responses of spinal neurons. Calcium imaging studies demonstrated that LPA (0.001-3 microM) increases intracellular calcium concentration in adult DRG neurons, suggesting that LPA can produce direct effects on. Incubation of spinal cord sections with LPA (1 microM) significantly (P&lt;0.001) increased [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding in the superficial laminae of the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, suggesting that LPA may also have biological effects at this level. These data provide further evidence that exogenous LPA can modulate nociceptive processing and suggest that this may be mediated by a direct effect on primary afferent nociceptors.
Aging is associated with at least down-regulation of several cellular functions and diminished responsiveness to internal and external signals, and possibly with direct cell death. Consequently, pharmacological manipulations may be less effective in aged than in young organisms. In the present study, we investigated whether the basal forebrain cholinergic neurons and the estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) which they contain respond to changes in estrogen availability in aged female mice. The mice were sham-operated, ovariectomized, or ovariectomized and treated with 17beta-estradiol at the age of 18 months. Three months later, the mice were perfused and brain sections were double immunostained for choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and ERalpha. Cell counting with a stereological method revealed that changes in the estrogen level have no effect on the total number of ChAT-immunoreactive (ir) neurons in the basal forebrain. However, the percentage of ChAT-ir neurons containing ERalpha-ir was higher in the ovariectomized mice than in the sham-operated or estrogen-treated mice. This was specific for the medial septum and vertical diagonal band of Broca. The findings indicate that even at old age the ERalphas in cholinergic cells are able to respond to changes in estrogen levels, though in a region-specific manner. This is naturally important for studies aiming to develop therapies for the elderly.
Neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) are a pathological hallmark of many neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP17). However, the cellular origin and the consequence of the NFT formation are poorly understood. Epidemiological evidence suggests a much higher occurrence of dementia in stroke patients. This may represent the pathogenesis of sporadic AD, which accounts for the majority of AD occurrence. Here we show that after a transient cerebral ischemia, hyperphosphorylated tau accumulates in cortical neurons in a site-specific manner. The hyperphosphorylated tau presents a conformation similar to those present in human tauopathies, and colocalizes largely with signs of apoptosis. Our current study suggests that tau hyperphosphorylation may contribute to the brain damage induced by transient cerebral ischemia, and may be involved in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders in patients after stroke. Further, these results indicate that ischemic neuronal damage and apoptosis associates with tau hyperphosphorylation, and potentially NFTs formation. Finally, our results also suggest that neuronal apoptosis may be a therapeutic target in preventing tauopathy-related neurodegenerative diseases.
Our view of vertebrate nociceptive processing is ever changing with the discovery of novel molecules that differentially affect sensory responses to noxious and innocuous stimulation and might be involved specifically in chronic pain states. In order to understand the physiology of nociception and design novel analgesics for intractable chronic pain, it is essential to uncover precisely what changes occur between a normal nociceptive processing state and hypersensitive chronic pain states in the spinal cord following different types of injury. An important area of focus for future work in this area will be the cellular and molecular mechanisms of neuronal plasticity that occur.
Withdrawal reflexes are the simplest centrally organized responses to painful stimuli, making them popular models for the study of nociception. Until recently, it was believed that withdrawal was a single reflex response involving excitation of all flexor muscles in a limb with concomitant inhibition of extensors. However, recent findings suggest that withdrawal reflexes are tailored to produce the most appropriate movement according the site at which the stimulus is applied, which could require extensors to act as the primary movers. This idea is supported by new evidence obtained from the direct measurement of limb movements, although these data indicate that differentiation of withdrawal reflexes is most readily seen from stimuli applied to the plantar surface of the foot. Injurious stimuli augment the protective function of reflexes by enhancing (sensitizing) reflexes that protect the injured site and inhibiting those reflexes that might exacerbate the insult. The areas from which a reflex can be sensitized closely match those from which the reflex itself can be evoked, provided that the spinal cord is intact. If descending pathways are interrupted, sensitization can be evoked from a much wider area. Thus, the exact movement made in a withdrawal reflex is determined by the location of the evoking stimulus and whether the reflex sensitized or inhibited after an injury depends on the relationship between the site of the injury and the movement made by the reflex. The factors should be borne in mind when designing experiments in which reflexes are used as the end point in studies of nociception.
Electrophysiological responses of nociceptive sensory afferent fibres in the skeletal muscle of the chicken (Gallus domesticus) were examined using mechanical and chemical stimulation. The activity of single nociceptive afferent fibres was recorded from micro-dissected filaments of the fibular and lateral tibial nerves, which innervate the fibularis longus and lateral gastrocnemius muscles. Seventeen putative nociceptive fibres were identified by mechanical stimulation (muscle compression). Conduction velocities (CVs) ranged from 2.8 to 11.3 m/s (mean 5.8; S.E.M.+/-0.9 m/s). Response thresholds to tissue compression ranged from 38 to 126 kPa (mean 81; S.E.M.+/-4 kPa). Increases in pressure intensity, above individual fibre thresholds (x2 moderate; x3 noxious), produced intensity dependent increases in discharge rates. Fibres exhibited slowly adapting, irregular discharges lasting the duration of the stimulus and showed no spontaneous activity in the absence of mechanical stimulation. Intramuscular injection of acetic acid (1% v/v in isotonic saline; pH 2.8) in to the receptive field area stimulated discharge activity in 13 of the 17 (76%) pressure sensitive fibres. Acid injection resulted in prolonged irregular single or intermittent clustered discharges, which continued beyond the 15-min recording period. This study demonstrates the existence of nociceptive sensory fibres in chicken skeletal muscle that are able to respond to and encode acute tissue threatening and subjectively painful stimuli. The physiological characteristics of these nociceptive afferents are consistent with mammalian group III skeletal muscle nociceptors. These findings support the suggestion of a common, acute nociceptive response function in skeletal muscle in avians and other vertebrate classes.
This study characterised and compared the properties of chemically sensitive nociceptors in the avian nasal and oral epithelia recorded from either microelectrode stabs of the trigeminal ganglion (nasal mucosa) or microdissected twigs of the nasopalatine nerve (palatine mucosa) in urethane anaesthetized hens. A total of 146 slowly and rapidly adapting nasal and palate mechanically sensitive receptors were identified exhibiting von Frey thresholds to mechanical stimulation ranging from 0.2 to 8.3 g (mean 3.21+/-2.28 g, n=39) in the nasal cavity and &lt;0.1 to 15 g (mean 2.17+/-2.69 g, n=62) in the palate. Receptive fields were situated throughout the nasal cavity and palate. A subset of receptors (classified as polymodal nociceptors) exhibited chemical sensitivity when exposed to noxious levels of ammonia gas, and some polymodal afferents also responded to acetic acid vapour or carbon dioxide exposure. Responses to ammonia were characterised by delayed onset, rapid prolonged discharge patterns usually outlasting the chemical stimulation. Clear concentration-response relationships were apparent for chemically receptive afferents in both the nasal and oral cavities, although curve shape varied considerably between receptors. Statistical comparisons of the responses of polymodal nociceptors in each mucosal region revealed no significant difference between their mechanical thresholds, but nasal afferents exhibited lower chemical (ammonia) thresholds and higher maximal firing rates. These response characteristics highlight distinct sensitivities to potentially painful chemical stimulation between epithelial areas. These effects may be due to the inherent properties of the nociceptors in each region but are also likely to reflect the role of the perireceptor environment in mediating peripheral nociception.

EEG and MEG scalp data were simultaneously recorded while human participants were performing a duration discrimination task in visual and auditory modality, separately. Short durations were used ranging from 500 to 900 ms, among which participants had to discriminate a previously memorized 700-ms &quot;standard&quot; duration. Behavioral results show accurate but variable performance within and between participants with expected modality effects: the percentage of responses was greater and the mean response time was shorter for auditory than for visual signals. Sustained electric and magnetic activities were obtained correlatively to duration estimation, but with distinct spatiotemporal properties. Electric CNV-like potentials showed fronto-central negativity in both modalities, whereas magnetic sustained fields were distributed with respect to the modality of the interval to be timed. Time courses of these slow brain activities were found to be dependent on stimulus duration but not on its modality nor on the recording signal (EEG or MEG). Source reconstruction demonstrated that these sustained potentials/fields were generated by superimposed contributions from visual and auditory cortices (sustained sensory responses, SSR) and from prefrontal and parietal regions. By using these two complementary techniques, we thus demonstrated the involvement of frontal and parietal cerebral cortex in human timing.
Ten-month-old infants and adults were tested in an auditory oddball paradigm in which 50-ms tones were separated by 1500 ms (standard interval) and occasionally 500 ms (deviant interval). Both infants and adults showed marked brain responses to the tone that followed a deviant inter-stimulus interval (ISI). Specifically, the timing-deviance event-related-potential (ERP) difference waves (deviant-ISI ERP minus standard-ISI ERP) yielded a significant, fronto-centrally distributed, mismatch negativity (MMN) in the latency range of 120-240 ms post-stimulus for infants and 110-210 ms for adults. A robust, longer latency, deviance-related positivity was also obtained for infants (330-520 ms), with a much smaller and later deviance-related positivity observed for adults (585-705 ms). These results suggest that the 10-month-old infant brain has already developed some of the same mechanisms as adults for detecting deviations in the timing of stimulus events.
Humans and other animals demonstrate the ability to perceive and respond to temporally relevant information with characteristic behavioral properties. For example, the response time distributions in peak-interval timing tasks are well described by Gaussian functions, and superimpose when scaled by the criterion duration. This superimposition has been referred to as the scalar property and results from the fact that the standard deviation of a temporal estimate is proportional to the duration being timed. Various psychological models have been proposed to account for such responding. These models vary in their success in predicting the temporal control of behavior as well as in the neurobiological feasibility of the mechanisms they postulate. A review of the major interval timing models reveals that no current model is successful on both counts. The neurobiological properties of the basal ganglia, an area known to be necessary for interval timing and motor control, suggests that this set of structures act as a coincidence detector of cortical and thalamic input. The hypothesized functioning of the basal ganglia is similar to the mechanisms proposed in the beat frequency timing model [R.C. Miall, Neural Computation 1 (1989) 359-371], leading to a reevaluation of its capabilities in terms of behavioral prediction. By implementing a probabilistic firing rule, a dynamic response threshold, and adding variance to a number of its components, simulations of the striatal beat frequency model were able to produce output that is functionally equivalent to the expected behavioral response form of peak-interval timing procedures.
Anandamide (arachidonoylethanolamide or AEA) is an endocannabinoid that acts at vanilloid (VR1) as well as at cannabinoid (CB1/CB2) and NMDA receptors. Here, we show that AEA, in a dose-dependent manner, causes cell death in cultured rat cortical neurons and cerebellar granule cells. Inhibition of CB1, CB2, VR1 or NMDA receptors by selective antagonists did not reduce AEA neurotoxicity. Anandamide-induced neuronal cell loss was associated with increased intracellular Ca(2+), nuclear condensation and fragmentation, decreases in mitochondrial membrane potential, translocation of cytochrome c, and upregulation of caspase-3-like activity. However, caspase-3, caspase-8 or caspase-9 inhibitors, or blockade of protein synthesis by cycloheximide did not alter anandamide-related cell death. Moreover, AEA caused cell death in caspase-3-deficient MCF-7 cell line and showed similar cytotoxic effects in caspase-9 dominant-negative, caspase-8 dominant-negative or mock-transfected SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. Anandamide upregulated calpain activity in cortical neurons, as revealed by alpha-spectrin cleavage, which was attenuated by the calpain inhibitor calpastatin. Calpain inhibition significantly limited anandamide-induced neuronal loss and associated cytochrome c release. These data indicate that AEA neurotoxicity appears not to be mediated by CB1, CB2, VR1 or NMDA receptors and suggest that calpain activation, rather than intrinsic or extrinsic caspase pathways, may play a critical role in anandamide-induced cell death.
We previously identified a novel N-terminally processed form of galectin-1, galectin-1beta (Gal-1beta) whose expression was induced by DeltaFosB. In the present study, the biochemical properties and biological functions of Gal-1beta were compared with the full-length form of galectin-1 (Gal-1alpha). We first purified recombinant mouse Gal-1alpha and beta (rmGal-1alpha, beta) to near homogeneity. The rmGal-1alpha exists as a monomer under oxidized conditions and forms a dimer under reduced conditions, while the rmGal-1beta exists as a monomer regardless of redox conditions. The affinity of rmGal-1beta to beta-lactose was approximately two-fold lower than that of rmGal-1alpha under reduced conditions. The viability of Jurkat cells efficiently decreased when they were exposed to rmGal-1alpha, however, rmGal-1beta barely induced such a reduction. In contrast, both rmGal-1alpha and rmGal-1beta exhibited an equivalent capacity to promote axonal regeneration from the dorsal root ganglion explants. Our results suggest that the biochemical properties of rmGal-1beta determine its biological functions.
Caspase 3 activation has been implicated in cell death following a number of neurodegenerative insults. To determine whether caspase genes can affect the susceptibility of cells to neurodegeneration, a transgenic mouse line was created, expressing human caspase 3 under control of its own promoter. The human gene was regulated by the murine homeostatic machinery and human procaspase 3 was expressed in the same tissues as mouse caspase 3. These novel transgenic mice appeared phenotypically and developmentally normal and survived in excess of 2 years. Behavioural assessment using the 5-choice serial reaction time task found no differences from wild-type littermates. Caspase activity was found to be tightly regulated under physiological conditions, however, significantly larger lesions were obtained when transgenic mice were subjected to focal cerebral ischaemia/reperfusion injury compared to wild-type littermates. These data demonstrate that mice overexpressing human caspase 3 are essentially normal, however, they have increased susceptibility to degenerative insults.
The survival of motor neuron ( SMN1) gene product, SMN, is detected both in the cytoplasm and in nuclear gems and cajal bodies. We show here that SMN exon 6 is essential both for formation of its nuclear foci and for its cytoplasmic localization. However, exon 7 inhibits the formation of SMN nuclear foci but promotes SMN cytoplasmic localization. More interestingly, we find that a random C-terminal tag of five or more amino acids downstream of exon 6 is sufficient to inhibit the occurrence of multiple nuclear foci and to promote cytoplasmic localization of SMNDelta7, the primary product of the SMN2 gene. Moreover, SMNDelta7 proteins that bear spinal muscular atrophy mutations in exon 6 either showed defects in nuclear foci formation or enhanced cytoplasmic localization. We conclude that exon 6 and exon 7 synergistically regulate SMN distribution that may require specific exon 6 motifs but is independent of specific sequences in exon 7.
An imbalanced phosphorylation system is recognized to be one of the main reasons for Alzheimer-like hyperphosphorylation of cytoskeletal proteins. However, little is known about the strategies rectifying the lesions caused by this disrupted phosphorylation. To search for the means to arrest Alzheimer-like damages and explore the underlying mechanisms, in this study we treated N2a/peuht40 cells with okadaic acid (OA), a specific inhibitor of protein phosphatase-2A (PP-2A) and PP-1, to mimic an Alzheimer-like phosphatase-deficient system and then used heat preconditioning (42 degrees C for 1 hour) to induce the expression of inducible heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) in the cells. We observed that heat preconditioning arrested OA-induced hyperphosphorylation of neurofilament (NF) protein at SMI34 and SMI33 epitopes as well as hyperphosphorylation of tau at Tau-1 and PHF-1 epitopes. It counteracted OA-induced decrease in PP-2A activity with a concurrent inhibition in constitutive activity of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) and cyclic adenosine 5'-monophosphate-dependent protein kinase A (PKA). Conversely, quercetin, a recognized blocker of stress-responsive Hsp70 expression, diminished the effects caused by heat preconditioning. These results suggested that Hsp70 antagonized OA-induced Alzheimer-like NF and tau hyperphosphorylation, and the restoration of PP-2A and inhibition of MAPKs-PKA activity might be part of the underlying mechanisms for the rectification of OA-induced hyperphosphorylation.
The identification of Mendelian mutations in rare forms of familial Parkinson's disease (PD) have provided significant insights into the molecular pathogenesis of this common complex disorder. DJ-1 is the third of four genes known to be definitively causal in familial PD, the three others being alpha-synuclein, parkin and the recently identified PINK1. Mutations in the DJ-1 gene were identified in two European families, a Dutch kindred harbouring a large homozygous genomic deletion encompassing exons 1-5 of the gene and an Italian kindred with a homozygous L166P missense mutation. The clinical phenotype of the two families was similar to that of parkin cases. Age of onset was in the mid-thirties with good responsiveness to l-dopa and slow disease progression. Focal dystonias and blepharospasm were also evident as were behavioural disturbances early in the course of the disease. To date, there are no studies of pathological material from known DJ-1 patients. It therefore remains to be determined whether these patients form Lewy bodies and/or Lewy neurites, the eosinophilic fibrillary inclusions that contain predominantly alpha-synuclein and that are the pathological hallmark of PD.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most common neurodegenerative motor disorders, marked by chronic progressive loss of neurons in the substantia nigra. It has long been believed that PD is caused by environmental factors. The discovery of genetic factors involved in PD has improved the understanding of the pathology of the disease. The first gene found to be mutated in PD encodes for the presynaptic protein alpha-synuclein. alpha-Synuclein is a major component of Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites, which represent the morphological hallmarks of the disease. The mechanisms by which alpha-synuclein is involved in nigral cell death remain poorly understood. Moreover, the factors triggering the formation of alpha-synuclein-positive inclusion bodies remain enigmatic. Indeed, even the normal cellular functions of alpha-synuclein and of the other synucleins (beta-synuclein and gamma-synuclein) are still unknown. Several lines of evidence suggest that they play a role in the regulation of vesicular turnover under normal nonpathological conditions.
Although the maximum human lifespan has not increased in recent history, average life expectancy has risen dramatically since the beginning of the last century. Lengthening of lifespan has little merit if the quality of life is not preserved. In the elderly, the decline in memory and cognitive abilities is of great concern, as is motor weakening, which increases with age. The dopaminergic system mediates some aspects of manual dexterity, in addition to cognition and emotion, and may be especially vulnerable to aging. Therefore, the aging of this system has both clinical and vocational aspects. This review includes studies quantitating age-related changes of the nigrostriatal system, with emphasis on the use of stereological methods, and provides tables of stereological studies performed in the nigrostriatal system.
As for any other cell population, the development, cell fate, and properties of mesencephalic dopaminergic (mesDA) neurons are ultimately controlled at the transcriptional level. The genes for two transcription factors Engrailed-1 ( En1) and Engrailed-2 ( En2) play an essential role in the development and maintenance of these cells. They belong to a family of genes that have been investigated in Drosophila for more than half a century. The products of these genes are all characterized by homeotic tissue transformation and a highly conserved protein sequence, the homeobox. En1 and En2 act upon at least two steps of the differentiation of mesDA neurons. They take part in the regionalization event, which gives rise to the neuroepithelium that provides the precursor cells in the ventral midbrain with the fibroblast growth factor 8 signal necessary for their induction. Additionally, these genes are required in postmitotic mesDA neurons in which they are expressed from embryonic day 12 continuously into adulthood. In mutant mice homozygous null for En1 and En2, the neurons are generated in the ventral midbrain, become postmitotic, and begin to express their neurotransmitter phenotype. However, thereafter, they rapidly die by apoptosis. Cell mixing experiments in vitro and in vivo have demonstrated that the engrailed requirement for the survival of mesDA neurons is cell-autonomous. The inactivation of engrailed by RNA interference induces apoptosis in less than 24 h. These data suggest that the engrailed genes control an essential mechanism for the survival of mesDA neurons.

A major neuropathological feature of Parkinson's disease (PD) is the loss of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neuron. Patients exhibit motor symptoms, including bradykinesia, rigidity, and tremor. Neural grafting has been reported to restore striatial dopaminergic neurotransmission and induce symptomatic relief. The major limitation of cell replacement therapy for PD is the shortage of suitable donor tissue. The present review describes the possible sources of cells, including embryonic stem cells and somatic adult stem cells, both of which potentially could be used in cell therapy for PD, and discusses the advantages and disadvantages of each cell type.
The homeobox gene Pitx3 plays an important part in the development and function of vertebrate midbrain dopaminergic neurons. Re-localization of the genetic defect in the mouse mutant aphakia to the Pitx3 locus, together with the subsequent identification of two deletions causing the gene to be silent, has been the hallmark of several studies into the role of Pitx3. In this review, we summarize the data and reflect on the role of Pitx3 in the development of dopamine neurons in the midbrain. The data indicate that Pitx3 is essential for the survival of dopamine neurons located in the substantia nigra compacta during development. Molecular analysis of the underlying mechanisms might provide new insights for understanding the selective degeneration observed in Parkinson patients.
The ubiquitin proteasome system is an important cellular pathway that ubiquitinates damaged proteins and degrades them via the 26S proteasome. Abnormalities of this pathway can result in molecular protein aggregation and have been associated with Parkinson's disease (PD). UCHL-1, an enzyme central to the system, possesses catalytic hydrolase activity that can hydrolyze peptide-ubiquitin bonds and recycle ubiquitin monomers for re-use in the same process. Recently, UCHL-1 has been shown to possess a second dimerisation-dependent ligase activity and, at least in vitro, this ligase activity promotes alpha synuclein aggregation. UCHL-1 was first implicated in PD by the discovery of an I93M mutation identified in a German sib-pair with probable autosomal dominant PD. Although no further UCHL-1 mutations have been identified, a common non-synonymous S18Y polymorphism has been suggested to reduce disease susceptibility in non-mendelian forms of PD. In vitro functional data support this protective effect, with evidence that S18Y possesses reduced ligase activity compared with wild type UCHL-1. One study has found increased hydrolase activity associated with S18Y, although another study has not. Important issues regarding UCHL-1 and its role in PD remain inconclusive, especially regarding the pathogenicity of the mendelian I93M mutation. This review tries to address some of these uncertainties.
Cervicogenic headache is still a controversial disease entity, and good and reliable treatment is lacking. In the present randomized, sham-controlled, patient- and evaluator-blinded study, 12 patients with a disabling, long-standing and treatment-resistant strictly unilateral cervicogenic headache were included. The diagnosis was based on purely clinical criteria. Six were randomized to receive radiofrequency neurotomy of facet joints C2-C6 ipsilateral to the pain, and six were randomized to sham treatment. Patients were followed for 2 years with diary registration of pain for 14-days periods after 1, 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months, and also followed with algometry and neck mobility measurements at 3, 12 and 24 months. Side-effects were minor and short-lasting, and those patients who were treated with neurotomy were somewhat improved at 3 months, but later there were no marked differences between the groups. In conclusion, the procedure is probably not beneficial in cervicogenic headache.
Abnormalities in the migration of cortical neurons to ectopic sites can be caused by prenatal exposure to ethanol. In extreme cases, cells migrate past the pial surface and form suprapial heterotopias or 'warts'. We used organotypic slice cultures from 17-day-old rat fetuses to examine structural and molecular changes that accompany wart formation. Cultures were exposed to ethanol (0, 200, 400 or 800 mg/dl) and maintained for 2-32 h. Fixed slices were sectioned and immunolabeled with antibodies directed against calretinin, reelin, nestin, GFAP, doublecortin, MAP-2 and NeuN. Ethanol promoted the widespread infiltration of the marginal zone (MZ) with neurons and the focal formation of warts. The appearance of warts is time- and concentration-dependent. Heterotopias comprised migrating neurons and were not detected in control slices. Warts were associated with breaches in the array of Cajal-Retzius cells and with translocation of reelin-immunoexpression from the MZ to the outer limit of the wart. Ethanol also altered the morphology of the radial glia. Thus, damage to the integrity of superficial cortex allows neurons to infiltrate the MZ, and if the pial-subpial glial barrier is also compromised these ectopic neurons can move beyond the normal cerebral limit to form a wart.
Laminar specificity is one of the most striking features of neocortical circuitry. To explore the molecular basis of this specificity, particularly in relation to thalamocortical connectivity, we searched for the genes expressed in the upper cortical layers by constructing a subtraction cDNA library that was enriched for genes expressed in layer 4 of perinatal rat somatosensory cortex. Differential screening, sequence analysis and in situ hybridization demonstrated that a new unc5 family member (unc5h4), deltex-like gene, stem cell factor (SCF) and myocyte-specific enhancer factor-2C (MEF-2C) were specifically expressed in layer 4 or layers 2/3-4 at postnatal day 7, by when laminar organization and fundamental cortical circuitries have been established. In terms of regional specificity, unc5h4 and SCF signals were stronger in sensory cortices, whereas MEF-2C and deltex-like gene were expressed rather uniformly in all neocortical regions. Analysis during development demonstrated that expression of these genes was pronounced between late embryonic and early postnatal developmental stages, except for MEF-2C expression, which continued in later stages. These results demonstrate that certain types of molecules including transcription factors, receptor and ligand molecules, are expressed specifically in the upper layers of the developing neocortex, suggesting a role in laminar specification of cortical cells and circuitry.
Neurogranin is a postsynaptic substrate for protein kinase C (PKC). It has been identified in the central nervous system, and the expression has been related to postsynaptic plasticity. Using non-radioactive in situ hybridization histochemistry, we investigated whether mRNA expression of neurogranin varied among the cerebral region and cell types. In most areas of the neocortex excluding area OC (the primary visual area), intense signals were observed in the pyramidal cells in layers III, V and VI. In area OC, intense signals were observed in layers IV as well as layers III and VI. We previously showed that intense signals for GAP-43, a presynaptic PKC substrate, were observed in relay neurons of the lateral geniculate nucleus. From this result and the present result in area OC, we conclude that both pre- and postsynaptic PKC substrates (GAP-43 and neurogranin) are abundant in the geniculocortical synapses. In the hippocampus, intense signals were observed in the pyramidal cells in the subiculum. Taken together with our previous study showing intense signals for GAP-43 in Ammon's horn, the result indicates that both PKC substrates are abundant in the connections between neurons in Ammon's horn and in the subiculum.
Citing a line from ancient Sanskrit wisdom, &quot;there is nothing in the world so purifying as knowledge,&quot; John Timpane urges the adoption of a roots-up process by which citizens, in organized forums, deliberate critical neuroethical issues. The author suggests several ways such a deliberative process might play out with some top neuroethics issues--enhancement, stem-cell research, and the use of &quot;brainprints&quot;--to show how the citizen groups might form consensus recommendations. &quot;We have time before the wave of the new neuroscience crests,&quot; he writes. &quot;Best to discuss it now before the wave is upon us.&quot;
Applied science may once again play a decisive role in changing the face of armed conflict, and the rest of human affairs, by shifting the battlefield to our very brains. The national-security establishment--and particularly the Pentagon's Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA)--supports research at the intersection of neuroscience and national security that could ultimately enable authorities to do things like enhance (or muddle, or erase) memory, monitor crowds for individuals whose brain patterns correlate with aggressive behaviors, or control weapons from afar merely with thoughts. What are the dangers of such information falling into &quot;the wrong hands,&quot; and are there any &quot;right hands&quot; for this kind of knowledge? Is any extension of human abilities justified by the need for government to protect its society?
Despite a large and growing interest in applying brain science to the ends of justice, the implications of neuroscience for the law are still unclear. But Stephen Morse argues that, unless discoveries about the brain radically change our conception of ourselves, they are unlikely to fundamentally alter legal doctrine. For most challenges the findings might raise to justice, equality, and liberty, he writes, the law has rich theoretical resources with which to address them. On the other hand, the author acknowledges, one can easily imagine substantial changes in particular doctrines.
Generations of brain-imaging studies have provided increasingly detailed information about the complexity of human behavior, but few lines of investigations better illustrate the intricacy of the brain's workings than the neural processes involved in lying or deceiving. And perhaps none make clearer the difficulty of accurately distinguishing between truthfulness and untruthfulness with new imaging technology. Moreover, we must ask ourselves if we are laying a foundation of risk regarding the very idea of creating brain maps of behavior and personal identity and whether these maps are ready for such real-world applications as law, employment, and insurance. When technology of this kind moves out of the hands of researchers and becomes available for practical uses, the lives of individuals and future of our society may be profoundly affected.
Dramatic advances in neuroscience have created fast-rising expectations for improvements in the health and well-being of people around the world. But fulfilling this promise is proving to be neither quick nor easy, and not for scientific reasons alone. Alan Leshner urges that neuroscientists not only address the significant challenges of their own investigations but also be willing to participate in ethical and legal dialogues with colleagues and non-colleagues alike.
Increasingly, scientists are observing and recording human emotions through neuroimaging. Such capability is causing widespread uneasiness, writes Adina Roskies, for it has the potential to result in a sort of demystification of the mental that makes freedom of the will seem impossible and threatens to leave us open to manipulation as never before. Relax, the author argues: Moral responsibility is fundamentally social, and self-control is what makes us free. Understanding cognitive function may cause us to revise, but will not force us to abandon, common notions of moral responsibility and control.
Greater knowledge of the human brain has enabled us to begin devising therapies to rescue or modify memory for the afflicted, such as Alzheimer's patients or post-traumatic stress disorder victims. This same knowledge could also allow us to alter how normal, healthy memory operates; we may become able to enhance memory and learning through biological intervention. But the brain consists of complex, interactive networks, and unintended consequences could easily occur. Moreover, memory is woven into our individuality. Altering our memory processes therefore risks altering us fundamentally. We may not be able to resist opening this neuroscientific Pandora's Box, John Gabrieli writes, but we must proceed with all the wisdom we can muster.
Like filings to a magnet, issues of all shapes, sizes, and degrees of importance are sticking to the idea of neuroethics. Martha Farah, an early thinker in this new field, proposes that, numerous as they are, the problems actually fall into just three categories. She finds that neuroethics has made a quick start sizing up many practical--and some unique--questions swirling up from brain science, but, she writes, watch for challenges that reach beyond these to the metaphysical. Neuroscience may one day explain in terms of neural tissue virtually all aspects of human cognition and emotion--realms traditionally deemed apart from physical law. Thus, we should also expect neuroethics to grapple with our fundamental distinction between persons and mere &quot;things.&quot; If mental processes prove to result from purely physical events, this opens to question our notions of consciousness, spirituality, free will, and moral responsibility.


Over the last ten years, methods of cerebral imaging have revolutionized our knowledge of cognitive processes in humans. An impressive number of papers dealing with cerebral imaging for olfaction have been published to date. Whereas the early works revealed those structures participating in the processing of odours presented passively to subjects, researchers later recorded brain activity when subjects performed specific olfactory tasks based on memory, emotion and identification. From these results, we suggest that there is a dissociation of olfactory processes, with involvement of the right hemisphere in memory processes and the left hemisphere in emotional processes. The review concludes with a summary of how these lateralized processes are consistent with the gestalt-nature of our olfactory perception.
Generalization of a conditioned taste aversion (CTA) is based on similarities in taste qualities shared by the aversive substance and another taste substance. CTA experiments with rats have found that an aversion to a variety of sweet stimuli will cross-generalize with monosodium glutamate (MSG) when amiloride, a sodium channel blocker, is added to all solutions to reduce the taste of sodium. These findings suggest that the glutamate anion elicits a sweet taste sensation in rats. CTA experiments, however, generally do not indicate whether two substances have different taste qualities. In this study, discrimination methods in which rats focused on perceptual differences were used to determine if they could distinguish between the tastes of MSG and four sweet substances. As expected, rats readily discriminated between two natural sugars (sucrose, glucose) and two artificial sweeteners (saccharin, SC45647). Rats also easily discriminated between MSG and glucose, saccharin and, to a lesser extent, SC45647 when the taste of the sodium ion of MSG was reduced by the addition of amiloride to all solutions, or the addition of amiloride to all solutions and NaCl to each sweet stimulus to match the concentration of Na+ in the MSG solutions. In contrast, reducing the cue function of the Na+ ion significantly decreased their ability to discriminate between sucrose and MSG. These results suggest that the sweet qualities of glutamate taste is not as dominate a component of glutamate taste as CTA experiments suggest and these qualities are most closely related to the taste qualities of sucrose. The findings of this study, in conjunction with other research, suggest that sweet and umami afferent signaling may converge through a taste receptor with a high affinity for glutamate and sucrose or a downstream transduction mechanism. These data also suggest that rats do not necessarily perceive the tastes of these sweet stimuli as similar and that these sweet stimuli are detected by multiple sweet receptors.
Glycerol, a linear triol, is a sweet tastant for mammals but it has not previously been recognized to stimulate the sense of taste in insects. Here we show by electrophysiological experimentation that it effectively stimulates the labellar sugar receptor cell of Drosophila. We also show that in accord with the electrophysiological observations, the behavioral feeding response to glycerol is dose dependent. 3-Amino-1,2-propanediol inhibited the response of the sugar receptor cell to glycerol, specifically and competitively, while it had almost no effect on responses to sucrose, D-glucose, D-fructose and trehalose. In the null Drosophila mutant for the trehalose receptor (DeltaEP19), the response to glycerol showed no change, in sharp contrast with a characteristic drastic decrease in the response to trehalose. The glycerol concentration-response curves for I-type and L-type labellar hairs were statistically indistinguishable, while those for sucrose, D-glucose, D-fructose and trehalose were clearly different. These all indicate the presence of a specific receptor site for glycerol. The glycerol site was characterized by comparing the effectiveness of various derivatives of glycerol. Based on this structure-taste relationship of glycerol, a model is proposed for the glycerol site including three subsites and two steric barriers, which cannot accommodate carbon-ring containing sugars such as D-glucose.


The development of the corpus callosum depends on a large number of different cellular and molecular mechanisms. These include the formation of midline glial populations, and the expression of specific molecules required to guide callosal axons as they cross the midline. An additional mechanism used by callosal axons from neurons in the neocortex is to grow within the pathway formed by pioneering axons derived from neurons in the cingulate cortex. Data in humans and in mice suggest the possibility that different mechanisms may regulate the development of the corpus callosum across its rostrocaudal and dorsoventral axes. The complex developmental processes required for formation of the corpus callosum may provide some insight into why such a large number of human congenital syndromes are associated with agenesis of this structure.

Among the numerous theories that explain the process of aging, the mitochondrial theory of aging has received the most attention. This theory states that electrons leaking from the ETC (electron transfer chain) reduce molecular oxygen to form O2*- (superoxide anion radicals). O2*-, through both enzymic and non-enzymic reactions, can cause the generation of other ROS (reactive oxygen species). The ensuing state of oxidative stress results in damage to ETC components and mtDNA (mitochondrial DNA), thus increasing further the production of ROS. Ultimately, this 'vicious cycle' leads to a physiological decline in function, or aging. This review focuses on recent developments in aging research related to the role played by mtDNA. Both supportive and contradictory evidence is discussed.

Gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB), a naturally occurring metabolite of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), has been postulated to act as a specific agonist of GHB receptors and as well as a weak GABA(B) receptor agonist. To date, 6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-5-hydroxy-5H-benzocyclohept-6-ylideneacetic acid (NCS-382), a semirigid compound structurally related to GHB, is the only compound reported to be an antagonist of the GHB receptor sites. In this article we review the in vivo and in vitro pharmacological properties of NCS-382 and its interaction with GHB and GABA(B) receptors. Binding studies have demonstrated that NCS-382 is a stereoselective ligand for GHB-binding sites, with both, the high and the low component of population, showing the same distribution of GHB receptors. Indeed, this compound did not display affinity for GABA(A), GABA(B), or any other known receptors, while conflicting data have been reported as to its selective antagonist action at GHB receptor. Only a few studies have shown that NCS-382 antagonizes GHB-induced effect, but a re-evaluation of all data reported in the literature suggests that the antagonistic effect of this compound could be due to an indirect action at GABA(B) receptors. As revealed by several behavioral studies, NCS-382 fails to antagonize GHB discriminative stimuli, GHB-induced inhibition of locomotor activity and ataxia or suppression of operant responses. Moreover, it is capable of either eliciting qualitatively similar effects to those of GHB or enhancing some actions of GHB. In addition, the NCS-382-sensitive electrophysiological effects of endogenous and exogenous GHB observed in vivo have not been completely replicated in vitro. The only electrophysiological action of GHB antagonized in vitro by NCS-382 required a previous blockade of GABA(B) receptors. We concluded that NCS-382 is a good ligand but not a selective antagonist for GHB receptor.
Understanding common pharmacologic and clinical &quot;class&quot; actions associated with atypical antipsychotics certainly reveals how these agents are alike, but what about unique differences from one agent to another? Atypical antipsychotics are also a heterogeneous group of agents that have complex pharmacologic entities, acting upon multiple dopamine receptors (D2, D1, D3, and D4) and multiple serotonin receptors (5-HT2A, 5-HT2C, 5-HT1A, and 5-HT1D, among others). Atypical antipsychotics also interact with noradrenergic (alpha 1- and alpha 2-adrenergic receptor blockade), histaminergic (H1-receptor blockade), and cholinergic (muscarinic M1 blockade) neurotransmitter systems as well as with monoamine (D, 5-HT, and norepinephrine reuptake blockade) transporters. However, no two atypical antipsychotics possess the same portfolio of actions upon all of these additional neurotransmitter systems.
Over the last 25 years, there has been a rapid expansion of our knowledge base of social phobia (SP). Although there are a number of well-validated treatment modalities, including pharmacotherapy and cognitive-behavioral therapy, significant gaps remain in our ability to achieve full remission in most patients. Despite advances in the neurobiology of SP, the etiology has yet to be determined. Investigations examining potential predictors of response have provided little guidance in selecting an appropriate treatment modality. These gaps in our knowledge have pushed us to examine issues related to treatment resistance. This paper presents a review of the current literature and issues related to treatment-resistant SP, including a discussion of the functional impairment associated with SP, definitions of treatment response and remission, as well as outcome measures that have been used in clinical investigations of SP. In addition, criteria for a standard treatment trial, predictors of treatment response, a review of treatment resistance studies, and potential directions for future research are examined. The most promising strategies to attain remission, will likely involve augmenting selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors or serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors with agents such as anticonvulsants, benzodiazepines, and antipsychotics as well as combining pharmacotherapy with cognitive-behavioral therapy. Our current treatment target of simply attaining a response needs to be refocused, so that an asymptomatic state and high end state functioning become the final goal of treatment.
Here, ERPs were employed to characterise the residual face processing of FE, a patient with extensive damage to the ventral temporal-occipital cortex and a dense prosopagnosia. Alarge N170 was present in FE and he performed well in tests of face structural processing. Covert recognition of the faces of personal acquaintances was demonstrated with P300 oddball experiments. The onset latency of the P300 effect was normal, indicating fast availability of covert memory. The scalp topography of this component in FE was different from that of the P3b, presenting a centro-frontal maximum. FE also presented larger skin conductance responses to familiar than to unfamiliar faces. The amplitudes of both the single-trial P300s and the SCRs triggered by familiar faces were positively correlated with the degree of person-familiarity that FE had for the poser. He performed at chance when asked to select between the face of a familiar person and that of an unfamiliar person on the basis of explicit recognition, whereas he selected more the previously known face if the forced choice was based on trustworthiness or a vague sense of familiarity. The results suggest that in FE, early face processing was relatively intact and covert recognition was fast. Neural structures involved in the processing of emotional or social cues possibly mediate the covert recognition present in FE.
While inductive and deductive reasoning are considered distinct logical and psychological processes, little is known about their respective neural basis. To address this issue we scanned 16 subjects with fMRI, using an event-related design, while they engaged in inductive and deductive reasoning tasks. Both types of reasoning were characterized by activation of left lateral prefrontal and bilateral dorsal frontal, parietal, and occipital cortices. Neural responses unique to each type of reasoning determined from the Reasoning Type (deduction and induction) by Task (reasoning and baseline) interaction indicated greater involvement of left inferior frontal gyrus (BA 44) in deduction than induction, while left dorsolateral (BA 8/9) prefrontal gyrus showed greater activity during induction than deduction. This pattern suggests a dissociation within prefrontal cortex for deductive and inductive reasoning.
This study investigated the importance of competitive work as compared to participating in community-based activities and having no regular daily activity for people with long-term mental illness. One hundred and three persons visiting an outpatient unit and representing the three targeted occupational conditions were randomized to the study and assessed on satisfaction with daily occupations, health, and wellbeing. Persons with work were more satisfied with their daily occupations and were interviewer-rated as better functioning than the other groups, but the groups did not differ on self-ratings of health and wellbeing. Unexpectedly, people participating in community-based activities did not show better satisfaction or functioning than those without regular daily activity. It was concluded that competitive work should be an urgent end goal for services designed for occupational or vocational support.
Chronic symptoms of abdominal pain and irregular bowel habits in women evoke a broad differential diagnosis including irritable bowel syndrome, infection, malabsorption, and inflammatory bowel disease. Endometriosis, a common disorder in young women that can involve the intestinal tract, deserves consideration as well. Intestinal endometriosis is typically asymptomatic; however, when symptoms occur, they can mimic those of irritable bowel syndrome. Identifying intestinal endometriosis can be challenging, but historical points and key clinical features aid in diagnosis.
Isoprostanes are a family of prostaglandin-like compounds that are generated in vivo by free radical attack of esterified arachidonic acid and then released in free form in biological fluids. Since their discovery in 1990, they have been extensively used as biomarkers of lipid peroxidation and oxidative damage in an increasing number of human diseases. Few members of the isoprostane family are biologically active and could contribute to the functional consequences of oxidant injury. The present review summarises the current knowledge on formation and biological activities of these lipid peroxidation products, focusing on their role as valuable biomarkers to investigate the involvement of oxidative stress in the pathogenesis of infant and adult central nervous system diseases. In addition to isoprostanes, a new class of free radical-mediated peroxidation products, named neuroprostanes, is discussed. Neuroprostanes derive from peroxidation of docosahexaenoic acid, a polyunsatured fatty acid particularly abundant in neurons, and may represent a more selective index of brain oxidant injury than isoprostanes. In spite of some discrepancies in the results reported in different studies, isoprostane and neuroprostane levels in human biological fluids, as well as in experimental models of brain diseases, appear to be valuable indicators not only to monitor the occurrence and the causal role of oxidative stress in brain pathologies, but also for critical selection and evaluation of appropriate antioxidant therapies.
The potential of amyloid-beta (Abeta) immunization as a disease-modifying therapy for Alzheimer's disease is limited by the occurrence of encephalitic side effects in a subset of treated patients. The encephalitis was not predicted from immunization studies in transgenic, Abeta-depositing mice. More recently, studies in these same mice indicate that passive immunization with certain anti-Abeta antibodies can induce microhemorrhage. Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) may play a key role in determining the risk for these complications. Because aged nonhuman primates (NHPs) have a more human-like immune system than rodents, and because NHPs naturally develop senile plaques and CAA with age, NHPs appear to be important, adjunctive models for assessing the efficacy and safety of immunotherapeutics for Alzheimer's disease. Conversely, the ability to model the complications of Abeta immunotherapy will be important for elucidating the bases of these complications, and for developing protocols that minimize or eliminate the risks of these serious adverse effects.
Currently, there are five phase I clinical trials of recombinant adeno-associated viral vectors for the treatment of neurological disorders that are approved or likely to be approved shortly. Two trials are testing different strategies to treat Parkinson's disease (PD), the third trial is aimed at treating Canavan's disease, a pediatric leukodystrophy, the fourth trial targets Alzheimer's disease (AD), and the fifth will attempt to target the lysosomal storage disorder, Batten's disease. All four clinical trials rely on the de novo expression of an enzyme or a trophic factor to correct neuropathology. Ironically, the theories used to choose enzymes for the two PD trials were widely divergent, whereas the enzymatic strategy used for one of the PD trials and the Canavan's trial have remarkable similarities. Other gene therapy treatment strategies for PD and other disorders, such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, are also on the horizon.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is used to investigate where the neural implementation of specific cognitive processes occurs. The standard approach uses linear convolution models that relate experimentally designed inputs, through a haemodynamic response function, to observed blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) signals. Such models are, however, blind to the causal mechanisms that underlie observed BOLD responses. Recent developments have focused on how BOLD responses are generated and include biophysical input-state-output models with neural and haemodynamic state equations and models of functional integration that explain local dynamics through interactions with remote areas. Forward models with parameters at the neural level, such as dynamic causal modelling, combine both approaches, modelling the whole causal chain from external stimuli, via induced neural dynamics, to observed BOLD responses.
Neurons utilize mRNA transport and local translation as a means to influence development and plasticity. The molecular mechanisms for this mRNA sorting involve the recognition of cis-acting sequences by distinct mRNA binding proteins that have a dual role, acting in both mRNA transport and translational regulation. Other proteins play a part in the assembly of messenger ribonucleoprotein complexes into transport granules. mRNA binding proteins are crucial targets of phosphorylation signals that regulate local translation. Fragile X syndrome and spinal muscular atrophy have emerged as two genetic neurological diseases that could result, in part, from impaired assembly, localization, and translational regulation of these messenger ribonucleoproteins.



The technique of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has the capacity to acquire data with spatial and temporal resolution that far exceeds other currently available methods of non-invasive investigation of brain function. This coupled with its ability for serial studies makes it an attractive prospect for investigating the effects of pharmacological agents in the brain. Recent advances in fMRI have been made in the areas of reward and dependence, brain trauma and injury, psychotropic drugs and pain using small animals. Although the use of fMRI in pharmacological studies is becoming popular, there are various associated complications, such as the possible interference of drugs with the mechanisms that give rise to the pharmacological fMRI signal, and local or global cardiovascular changes that might produce functional responses unrelated to neural activity. Consideration of these concerns, coupled with careful attention to experimental detail and verification procedures, promises to make pharmacological fMRI use a valuable tool for understanding the actions of drugs in the brain.
The rewarding effects of drugs of abuse have been linked to increases in dopamine transmission. However, changes in brain chemistry and morphology that are produced in addiction underlie the long-lasting vulnerability to relapse and are more closely linked with the adaptations in excitatory transmission. The drug-induced changes in excitatory transmission seem to be pathologic exacerbations of normal forms of brain plasticity, and they occur in the brain areas linked by neuroimaging studies in addicted patients to craving and relapse. This review describes the brain adaptations produced in excitatory transmission by addictive drugs and identifies new potential sites of pharmacotherapeutic intervention to ameliorate addiction.
The interaction between the integrin alpha4beta1 receptor on superior cervical ganglion (SCG) neurons and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) in cardiac tissue has been implicated in proper development of the sympathetic innervation of the heart (Wingerd et al. [2002] J Neurosci 22:10772-10780). In this study, we examined the expression and function of alpha4beta1 and VCAM-1 in developing rat SCG and heart. In vitro, the alpha4beta1-dependent neurite outgrowth on VCAM-1 decreased by approximately 50% from postnatal day 1 to 6. This down-regulation was correlated with a shift in alpha4 isoform and a shift in alpha4 localization from neurites to cell bodies. This altered localization was also observed in vivo but on a different time scale. alpha4 was detected on most developing SCG neurons and on macrophages and blood vessels. In the heart, alpha4 was detected on sympathetic axons, but the percentage of alpha4-positive fibers decreased with age. VCAM-1 immunoreactivity was abundant in heart tissue throughout development, in close proximity to sympathetic axons. The regulation of alpha4beta1 function, and localization of alpha4 and VCAM-1, are consistent with a role for the alpha4beta1--VCAM-1 interaction in extension of sympathetic axons into the myocardium.
A genomic DNA ( Dd-cdc25) encoding the protein phosphatase cdc25 was isolated from the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. The Dd-cdc25 DNA sequence, with a length of 2,958 bp, encodes a protein consisting of 986 amino acid (aa) residues. The sequence shares significant identities with cdc25 from human, mouse, Xenopus, Drosophila, and Shizosaccharomyces pombe, particularly at the C-terminal region including the catalytic site for phosphatase activity. The deduced Dictyostelium cdc25 protein (Dd-cdc25) has the highest molecular mass (109.9 kDa) in several cdc25 species so far reported and contains four regions consisting of unusually long asparagine repeats (22-31) in the sequence. Unexpectedly, however, Western blot analysis using a specific antibody raised against the C terminus (aa 892-986) of Dd-cdc25 demonstrated that the protein exists as a short form (56 kDa), which has the C-terminal active site of phosphatase, during the course of Dictyostelium development. The Western blot analysis also revealed marked changes in the phosphorylated state of the Dd-cdc25, coupling with cellular development.
Normal adolescent development is often accompanied by transient emotional and behavioral problems. For most individuals with postpubertal-onset adjustment problems, there is a resolution by early adulthood and relative stability through the adult life span. But for a minority, adjustment problems escalate during adolescence and portend the development of serious mental illness in adulthood. In this article, we explore adolescent behavioral changes and neurodevelopmental processes that might contribute to stress sensitivity and vulnerability for the emergence of the mental disorders. Of particular interest is the role that hormonal changes might play in the expression of genetic vulnerabilities for psychopathology. Drawing on recent findings from clinical research and behavioral neuroscience, we describe the ways in which postpubertal hormones might alter brain function and, thereby, behavior. It is concluded that there are both activational and organization effects of hormones on the adolescent brain, and these contribute to developmental discontinuities in behavioral adjustment. Implications for adult psychopathology and preventive intervention are discussed.
The vertebrate inner ear arises from an ectodermal thickening, the otic placode, that forms adjacent to the presumptive hindbrain. Previous studies have suggested that competent ectodermal cells respond to Fgf signals from adjacent tissues and express two highly related paired box transcription factors Pax2a and Pax8 in the developing placode. We show that compromising the functions of both Pax2a and Pax8 together blocks zebrafish ear development, leaving only a few residual otic cells. This suggests that Pax2a and Pax8 are the main effectors downstream of Fgf signals. Our results further provide evidence that pax8 expression and pax2a expression are regulated by two independent factors, Foxi1 and Dlx3b, respectively. Combined loss of both factors eliminates all indications of otic specification. We suggest that the Foxi1-Pax8 pathway provides an early 'jumpstart' of otic specification that is maintained by the Dlx3b-Pax2a pathway.

Pulsating electrostatic field (PESF) therapy was investigated to assess the possibility of increasing the resting metabolic rate (RMR) in 14 adult females. The pumping effect of positive calcium and hydrogen ions was obtained by 30 min daily exposure to negative PESF, adjusted individually between 2 and 9 kV. This treatment could result in a buffering effect on blood pH and reduction of the rouleaux formation of erythrocytes, thus ameliorating the oxygen exchange potential and the red cell circulation in the capillary system. After PESF therapy, the average RMR (measured by indirect calorimetry) of 1255 kcal was increased on average by 323 kilocalories, indicating a possible role of PESF in the obesity treatment.

The aim of this study was to delineate possible longitudinal cognitive changes in adult patients with a long history of pharmacoresistant partial epilepsy. Thirty-six patients and thirty healthy controls were investigated at baseline. A reassessment was conducted, with median test intervals of 4.8 years for the patients and 3.1 years for controls. A standardized battery was used for assessment of general cognitive level and memory. At baseline, patients performed at a significantly lower level on general cognition, immediate recall of pairs of associated words, and retention of learned words and visuospatial stimuli, compared with controls. Analyses of change over time in the patients disclosed significant verbal memory decline in retention of pairs of associated words. Group comparisons of change over time revealed adverse effects in the performance aspect of general cognition on the patients. Also, group comparisons indicated impaired performance across time for the patients in retention of pairs of associated words and retention of visuospatial stimuli. The adverse effect on memory and general cognition in this patient group over the period was clear-cut when compared with the longitudinal changes in an adequate control group.
Fractal methods were used to analyze quantitative differences in secretory membrane activities of two rat prostate cancer cell lines (Mat-LyLu and AT-2) of strong and weak metastatic potential, respectively. Each cell's endocytic activity was determined by horseradish peroxidase uptake. Digital images of the patterns of vesicular staining were evaluated by multifractal analyses: generalized fractal dimension (Dq) and its Legendre transform f(alpha), as well as partitioned iterated function system -- semifractal (PIFS-SF) analysis. These approaches revealed consistently that, under control conditions, all multifractal parameters and PIFS-SF codes determined had values greater for Mat-LyLu compared with AT-2 cells. This would agree generally with the endocytic/vesicular activity of the strongly metastatic Mat-LyLu cells being more developed than the corresponding weakly metastatic AT-2 cells. All the parameters studied were sensitive to tetrodotoxin (TTX) pre-treatment of the cells, which blocked voltage-gated Na+ channels (VGSCs). Some of the parameters had a &quot;simple&quot; dependence on VGSC activity, whereby pre-treatment with TTX reduced the values for the MAT-LyLu cells and eliminated the differences between the two cell lines. For other parameters, however, there was a &quot;complex&quot; dependence on VGSC activity. The possible physical/physiological meaning of the mathematical parameters studied and the nature of involvement of VGSC activity in control of endocytosis/secretion are discussed.
Autophagy (which includes macro-, micro-, and chaperone-mediated autophagy) is an important biological mechanism for degradation of damaged/obsolete macromolecules and organelles. Ageing non-dividing cells, however, progressively accumulate oxidised proteins, defective organelles and intralysosomal lipofuscin inclusions, suggesting inherent insufficiency of autophagy. To learn more about the role of macroautophagy in the turnover of organelles and lipofuscin formation, we inhibited autophagic sequestration with 3-methyladenine (3 MA) in growth-arrested human fibroblasts, a classical model of cellular ageing. Such treatment resulted in a dramatic accumulation of altered lysosomes, displaying lipofuscin-like autofluorescence, as well as in a moderate increase of mitochondria with lowered membrane potential. The size of the late endosomal compartment appeared not to be significantly altered following 3 MA exposure. The accumulation of lipofuscin-like material was enhanced when 3 MA administration was combined with hyperoxia. The findings suggest that macroautophagy is essential for normal turnover of lysosomes. This notion is supported by reports in the literature of lysosomal membrane proteins inside lysosomes and/or late endosomes, as well as lysosomes with active hydrolases within autophagosomes following vinblastine-induced block of fusion between lysosomes and autophagosomes. The data also suggest that specific components of lysosomes, such as membranes and proteins, may be direct sources of lipofuscin.
Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus (TMEV) infection of the CNS induces an immune-mediated demyelinating disease in susceptible mouse strains and serves as a relevant infection model for human multiple sclerosis. However, it is not yet clear what immunological parameters determine the susceptibility of SJL/J mice compared to resistant mice. We have here compared the TMEV-specific CD8(+) T cell responses in highly susceptible SJL/J mice with those of highly resistant C57BL/6 mice. Our results clearly indicate that the levels of initial responses of infiltrating CD8(+) T cells to viral capsid proteins are higher in resistant C57BL/6 mice compared to susceptible SJL/J mice. However, the level of virus-specific CD8(+) T cells was much more rapidly reduced in resistant C57BL/6, resulting in a higher CD8(+) T cell level in SJL/J mice later in viral infection. The activation states, cytokine production, as well as the cytolytic function of the CD8(+) T cells were similar to each other in these mice. These results suggest that an initial induction of a vigorous CD8(+) T cell response to TMEV is critically important for the resistance to virally induced demyelinating disease.
Thiethylperazine (Torecan) is a piperazine phenothiazine employed to relieve vertigo. Its use may be associated with extrapyramidal side effects (dystonia, akathisia, tardive dyskinesia) (Sulkava, 1984), but parkinsonism has rarely been described. We describe a woman who, 1 month after the onset of thiethylperazine treatment, developed parkinsonism that disappeared 2 months after withdrawal of the drug. However, cerebral single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with the dopamine (DA) D2 receptors ligand 123I-iodobenzamide (123I-IBZM) revealed a persistent reduced DA D2 receptors activity (by 45%) in the basal ganglia (BG), which may be clinically not effective.
Mutations in the dysferlin gene (DYSF) on chromosome 2p13 cause distinct phenotypes of muscular dystrophy: limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type 2B (LGMD2B), Miyoshi myopathy (MM), and distal anterior compartment myopathy, which are known by the term 'dysferlinopathy'. We performed mutation analyses of DYSF in 14 Italian patients from 10 unrelated families with a deficiency of dysferlin protein below 20% of the value in normal controls by immunoblotting analysis. We identified 11 different mutations, including eight missense and three deletion mutations. Nine of them were novel mutations. We also identified a unique 6-bp insertion polymorphism within the coding region of DYSF in 15% of Italian population, which was not observed in East Asian populations. The correlation between clinical phenotype and the gene mutations was unclear, which suggested the role of additional genetic and epigenetic factors in modifying clinical symptoms.
Many neurological pathologies are related to misfolded proteins. During folding and assembly in the endoplasmic reticulum, the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subunits undergo several conformational changes to acquire the ability to bind ligands. After folding and maturation, by mechanisms largely unknown, receptors are exported to the cell surface. We investigated the maturational role of the extracellular C-terminal segment located at the boundary between the extracellular and the transmembrane domains. In the functional chimeric alpha7-5HT3A receptor used as a model system, amino acids from the C-terminal segment were successively deleted or mutated. Upon progressive shortening of the peptide we observed less and less alpha-bungarotoxin binding sites until no sites could be detected when the entire peptide had been deleted (chimera Del 5). Protein synthesis and pentameric assembly were not altered. In Del 5 transfected cells, pentameric receptors present in the endoplasmic reticulum were not detected on the cell surface where Del 5 proteins appeared as patches. With the Del 5 chimera, export of proteins to the cell surface diminished to about half that of wild-type. We propose that the C-terminal segment plays a double role: (i) through an interaction between the penultimate tyrosine residue of the C-terminal segment and the Cys loop of the N-terminal domain, it locks the receptor in a mature alpha-bungarotoxin binding conformation; (ii) this mature conformation, in turn, masks a retention signal present in the first transmembrane segment allowing properly assembled and matured receptors to escape to the cell surface.
The geometric properties of bounded space have attracted considerable attention as a source of spatial information that can guide goal navigation. Although the use of geometric information to navigate has been observed in every species studied to date, the neural mechanisms that support the representation of geometric information are still debated. With the purpose of investigating this topic, we trained pigeons with lesion to the hippocampal formation to search for food in a rectangular-shaped arena containing one wall of a different color that served as the only distinctive environmental feature. Although lesioned pigeons learned the task even faster than control animals, probe trials showed that they were insensitive to geometric information. Control animals could encode and use both geometric and feature information to locate the goal. By contrast, lesioned pigeons relied exclusively on the feature information provided by the wall of a different color. The results indicate that the avian hippocampal formation is critical for learning the geometric properties of space in homing pigeons.
The opioid and cannabinoid systems co-operate to regulate physiological processes such as nociception and reward. The endocannabinoid system may be a component of the brain reward circuitry and thus play a role not only in cannabinoid tolerance/dependence, but also in dependence/withdrawal for other misused drugs. We provide evidence of a cannabinoid mechanism in an animal model of morphine drug-seeking behaviour, referred to as behavioural sensitization. The present study was designed to test the effects of the CB1 cannabinoid receptor antagonist SR141716A in two different phases of morphine sensitization (induction and expression) and to measure the brain contents of arachidonoylethanolamide (anandamide, AEA) and 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG), the two main endogenous ligands for cannabinoid receptors in the different phases of morphine sensitization. The cannabinoid antagonist modified the signs of morphine sensitization when administered in the expression phase, whereas co-administration of SR141716A and morphine in the induction phase only slightly affected the behavioural responses, suggesting that CB1 receptor blockade attenuates the behavioural manifestations of morphine sensitization but not its development. AEA and 2-AG were affected differently by morphine during the two phases of behavioural sensitization. The alterations were in opposite directions and specific for the cerebral area analysed (caudate putamen, nucleus accumbens, hippocampus and prefrontal cortex). The results suggest that the endocannabinoid system undergoes profound changes during the different phases of sensitization to morphine in rats, providing a possible neurochemical basis for the previously observed cross-sensitization between opiates and cannabinoids.
The variability of quantal size depends on both presynaptic (profile of the neurotransmitter concentration in the cleft) and postsynaptic (number and gating properties of postsynaptic receptors) factors. Here we have examined the possibility that at nonsaturated synapses in cultured hippocampal neurons, changes in both the transmitter concentration peak and its clearance from the synaptic cleft may influence the variability of spontaneous miniature synaptic GABAergic currents (mIPSCs). We found that, in contrast to the slow-off GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline, fast-off competitive antagonists such as SR-95103 and TPMPA differentially blocked small and large mIPSCs. In the presence of flurazepam, a drug believed to increase the affinity of GABA for GABAAR, small mIPSCs were enhanced more efficiently than large events. Moreover, the addition of dextran, which increases the viscosity of the extracellular fluid, preferentially increased small mIPSCs with respect to large ones. These observations suggest that changes in the concentration peak and the speed of GABA clearance in the cleft may be an important source of synaptic variability. The study of the correlation between peak amplitude and kinetics of mIPSCs allowed determination of the relative contribution of transmitter peak concentration vs. time of GABA clearance. Small synaptic responses were associated with fast onset and decay kinetics while large amplitude currents were associated with slow kinetics, indicating a crucial role for GABA synaptic clearance in variability of mIPSCs. By using model simulations we were able to estimate the range of variability of both the concentration and the speed of clearance of the GABA transient in the synaptic cleft.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is involved in the modulation of synaptic transmission in the spinal cord, and several circumstantial lines of evidence suggest that it has the ability to modulate the activity of the NMDA receptor. Here we dissect the signalling mechanisms by which BDNF exerts its neuromodulatory role on the NMDA receptor subunit 1 (NR1). Using a preparation of adult isolated dorsal horn with dorsal roots attached, we found that electrical stimulation of roots induced a concomitant release of BDNF and an increased phosphorylation of NR1, which was partly prevented by the BDNF sequestering molecule, TrkB-IgG. Using a second approach in vitro, we confirmed that both exogenous glutamate and BDNF (but not other neurotrophins) were able to induce NR1 phosphorylation, in particular at residue Ser-897. NR1 phosphorylation induced by BDNF was blocked by a TrkB inhibitor, an ERK inhibitor and a PKC inhibitor but not a PKA inhibitor. Activation of PKC using exogenous PMA also led to NR1 phosphorylation. Together these data suggest that BDNF modulates the activity of the receptor by phosphorylation via the kinases ERK and PKC.
Parkinson's disease is a debilitating disorder that results from the death of dopaminergic neurones in the substantia nigra. Subthalamic nucleus neurones use glutamate as their neurotransmitter and send excitatory projections to the substantia nigra. Changes in both the mean firing rate and firing pattern of neurones of the subthalamic nucleus have been found in patients with this disease. This has led to the suggestion that hyperactivity of the subthalamic nucleus may be involved in the pathology of the dopaminergic neurones. Subthalamic nucleus lesions or treatment with glutamatergic antagonists can be neuroprotective in animal models of Parkinson's disease but until now there has been no direct evidence that hyperactivity of subthalamic nucleus neurones can lead to downstream cell death. Here we show that lesions of the rat globus pallidus (a treatment that has been shown to increase subthalamic nucleus neuronal activity) result in a significant reduction of the number of dopaminergic neurones in the substantia nigra.
Reactive nitrogen species are thought to be involved in both hypoxic-ischemic and cytokine-induced brain injury, including periventricular leukomalacia (PVL), the major pathological substrate of cerebral palsy in premature infants. PVL appears to be the result of perinatal inflammatory events and hypoxic-ischemic injury to the cerebral white matter. The chronic disturbance of myelination resulting from PVL suggests that developing oligodendrocytes (OLs) are involved in its pathogenesis. We hypothesized that nitric oxide (NO) could participate in the pathogenesis of PVL through a toxic effect on developing OLs. Using primary cultures of highly enriched OLs we found that NO is toxic to developing OLs (O4+, O1-, MBP-), with an EC50 value of 236 +/- 125 microm of DETANOnoate. Peroxynitrite formation does not appear to be involved in NO toxicity in developing OLs, as determined by the failure of peroxynitrite scavengers as well as superoxide dismutase overexpression to prevent NO-induced toxicity. Similarly, several pathways involving PARP, excitotoxicity, guanylyl cyclase and caspase activation were not related to NO toxicity to developing OLs. NO toxicity to OLs resulted in ATP depletion and loss of mitochondrial membrane potential (DeltaPsi) in developing OLs. Apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) has been shown to be involved in caspase-independent cell death, and we found that AIF translocated from mitochondria into the nucleus upon NO exposure. In conclusion, we suggest that the vulnerability of developing OLs to NO involves mitochondrial dysfunction and translocation of AIF from mitochondria to nuclei.
Expression of specific gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)) receptor subunit genes in neurons is affected by endogenous modulators of receptor function such as neuroactive steroids. This effect of steroids appears to be mediated through modulation of GABA(A) receptor signalling mechanisms that control the expression of specific receptor subunit genes. Furthermore, the specific outcomes of such signalling appear to differ among neurons in different regions of the brain. Neuroactive steroids such as the progesterone metabolite allopregnanolone might thus exert differential effects on GABA(A) receptor plasticity in distinct neuronal cell populations, likely accounting for some of the physiological actions of these compounds. Here we summarise experimental data obtained both in vivo and in vitro that show how fluctuations in the concentration of allopregnanolone regulate both the expression and function of GABA(A) receptors and consequently affect behaviour. Such regulation is operative both during physiological conditions such as pregnancy and lactation as well as in pharmacologically induced states such as pseudopregnancy and long-term treatment with steroid derivatives or anxiolytic-hypnotic drugs. Accordingly, long-lasting exposure of GABA(A) receptors to ethanol, as well as its withdrawal, induces marked effects on receptor structure and function. These results suggest the possible synergic action between endogenous steroids and ethanol in modulating the functional activity of specific neuronal populations.
Numerous applications of genomic technologies have enabled the assembly of unprecedented inventories of genes, expressed in cells under specific physiological and pathophysiological conditions. Complementing the valuable information generated through functional genomics with the integrative knowledge of protein expression and function should enable the development of more efficient diagnostic tools and therapeutic agents. Proteomic analyses are particularly suitable to elucidate posttranslational modifications, expression levels and protein-protein interactions of thousands of proteins at a time. In this review, two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (2D-PAGE) investigations of brain tissues in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, Down syndrome and schizophrenia, and the construction of 2D-PAGE proteome maps of the brain are discussed. The role of the Human Proteome Organization (HUPO) as an international coordinating organization for proteomic efforts, as well as challenges for proteomic technologies and data analysis are also addressed. It is expected that the use of proteomic strategies will have significant impact in neuropharmacology over the coming decade.
Four families of potassium channels with different structures, functional characteristics and pharmacological sensitivity, are distinguished in neurons: voltage-gated (K(v)), calcium-activated (K(Ca)), inward rectifier (K(ir)) and two-pore (K(2P)) K(+) channels. During the last 15 years, numerous studies have demonstrated that the opening of some of these K(+) channels plays an important role in the antinociception induced by agonists of many G-protein-coupled receptors (alpha(2)-adrenoceptors, opioid, GABA(B), muscarinic M(2), adenosine A(1), serotonin 5-HT(1A) and cannabinoid receptors), as well as by other antinociceptive drugs (nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs [NSAIDs], tricyclic antidepressants, etc.) and natural products. Several specific types of K(+) channels are involved in antinociception. The most widely studied are the ATP-sensitive K(+) channels (K(ATP)), members of the K(ir) family, which participate in the antinociception induced by many drugs that activate them in both the central and the peripheral nervous system. The opening of G-protein-regulated inwardly rectifying K(+) channels (GIRK or K(ir)3), K(v)1.1 and two types of K(Ca) channels, the small- and large-conductance calcium-activated K(+) channels (SK and BK channels, respectively), also play a role in the antinociceptive effect of different drugs and natural products. Recently, drugs that open K(+) channels by direct activation (such as openers of neuronal K(v)7 and K(ATP) channels) have been shown to produce antinociception in models of acute and chronic pain, which suggests that other neuronal K(+) channels (e.g. K(v)1.4 channels) may represent an interesting target for the development of new K(+) channel openers with antinociceptive effects.
Putative interactions between the Human Ether-a-go-go Related Gene (HERG), QT interval prolongation and Torsades de Pointes (TdP) are now integral components of any discussion on drug safety. HERG encodes for the inwardly rectifying potassium channel (I(Kr)), which is essential to the maintenance of normal cardiac function. HERG channel mutations are responsible for one form of familial long QT syndrome, a potentially deadly inherited cardiac disorder associated with TdP. Moreover, drug-induced (acquired) QT interval prolongation has been associated with an increase in the incidence of sudden unexplained deaths, with HERG inhibition implicated as the underlying cause. Subsequently, a number of non-cardiovascular drugs which induce QT interval prolongation and/or TdP have been withdrawn. However, a definitive link between HERG, QT interval prolongation and arrhythmogenesis has not been established. Nevertheless, this area is subject to ever increasing regulatory scrutiny. Here we review the relationship between HERG, long QT syndrome and TdP, together with a summary of the associated regulatory issues, and developments in pre-clinical screening.


Oral and intravenous challenge paradigms with the direct 5-HT agonist meta-chlorophenylpiperazine (m-CPP) in panic disorder (PD) have shown only moderate sensitivity or selectivity of the panicogenic effects in PD. However, the results of a study examining the effects of rapid intravenous administration of 0.1 mg/kg of m-CPP in healthy volunteers suggested that this approach may be a more selective and sensitive panicogenic paradigm in PD. We therefore compared the behavioural, neuroendocrine and physiological effects of rapid intravenous administration of 0.1 mg/kg of m-CPP in 10 patients with PD and 10 healthy controls. Panic attacks were significantly more provoked in patients with PD (90%) compared to healthy controls (0%). Effects on the behavioural, but not on the neuroendocrine and physiological parameters, were significantly greater in patients. Our data suggests that the behavioural effects of rapid intravenous administration of 0.1 mg/kg of m-CPP in patients with PD indeed show a unique combination of high sensitivity and selectivity.
Prepulse inhibition of startle is a model of sensorimotor gating, which is disrupted in alcoholism, as well as mental illnesses such as schizophrenia. The fawn-hooded (FH) rat strain has been used as an animal model of alcoholism. FH rats showed significantly lower startle amplitude than Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats and Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats. Increasing doses of the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT caused disruption of PPI, with the effect being significantly greater in FH rats compared to WKY rats. In all strains, treatment with 0.5 mg/kg of 8-OH-DPAT significantly reduced PPI. In contrast, 0.1 mg/kg of 8-OH-DPAT caused disruption only in the FH strain. Treatment with amphetamine, apomorphine and MK-801 also significantly reduced PPI, however, there was no difference between the strains. This study shows increased sensitivity of FH rats to the disruption of PPI caused by 5-HT(1A) receptor stimulation, suggesting a link between 5-HT(1A) receptors, sensorimotor gating and aspects of the FH rat phenotype.
The use of local agents to achieve hemostasis is an old and complex subject in surgery. Their use is almost mandatory in spinal surgery. The development of new materials in chemical hemostasis is a continuous process that may potentially lead the surgeon to confusion. Moreover, the more commonly used materials have not changed in about 50 years. Using chemical agents to tamponade a hemorrhage is not free of risks. Complications are around the corner and can be due either to mechanical compression or to phlogistic effects secondary to the material used. This paper reviews about 20 animal and clinical published studies with regard to the chemical properties, mechanisms of action, use and complications of local agents.
In the present study, we investigated the effect of fasting on photoentrainment of the peripheral circadian oscillator in the mammalian heart. Northern blotting showed that a single light pulse applied at an appropriate time in constant darkness, caused obvious phase-shifting in the circadian expression rhythm of the mammalian clock gene Period2 (mPer2) even in the hearts of food-deprived mice. Fasting did not significantly affect either the phase or the light-induced phase-shifts of the mPer2 rhythm. Although several studies of temporal feeding restriction have indicated that feeding is the dominant timing cue for mammalian peripheral oscillators, our findings suggest that feeding is not essential for mammals to induce phase resetting of the circadian oscillator in the heart.
It is well known that circulating leptin concentrations correlate with adiposity in both humans and rodents and decrease after fasting, energy restriction, or weight loss. The goal of the present study was to confirm whether the decreases of copulatory behavior and the increases of ingestive behavior in STZ-induced diabetic male rats could be reversed by i.c.v. administration of leptin. Adult male Wistar-Imamichi rats aged 9 weeks were used for the studies. Males received a single injection of STZ (60 mg/kg, i.p.) and vehicle. During the experiment, individual body weight, and food and water intake were measured. The copulatory and ingestive behaviors in STZ-induced diabetic males were observed at 2 and 4 weeks after STZ. At 6 weeks after STZ, leptin (10 microg/10 microl) or aCSF (artificial cerebrospinal fluid) was injected through a lateral ventricle cannula and the above two behaviors were observed again. The i.c.v. leptin injection to STZ-induced diabetic males resulted in a significant increase of ejaculation frequencies (3.6 +/- 0.26 vs. 2.9 +/- 0.30 times) and a significant decrease in amount of food ingested (36.2 +/- 1.93 vs. 23.2 +/- 3.76 g), compared with the aCSF-injected control (p&lt;0.01). These findings suggest that the copulatory and ingestive behaviors in i.c.v. leptin-injected STZ diabetic males were restored to levels equivalent to those in control males.
Ultrasonic vocalizations (USVs) emitted by rodent pups, mouse, rat, Syrian hamster, vole, and Mongolian gerbil, were compared as a basic study for a screening test of anti-panic drugs. USVs of rodent pups, separated from their mother under a low temperature condition, were collected by Real-Time Spectrogram (RTS) apparatus, and transformed into spectrograms and power spectra by SIGNAL software. Waveforms of USVs emitted by the rodent pups showed several characteristic features, and species specificity of USVs was shown. We think that the species specificity might be due to differences of the anatomical structures in the respiratory tract and respiratory patterns in rodent pups.
This study used repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) to investigate the roles of the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) and supplementary motor area (SMA) in short (500 ms) and long (2 s) interval timing. The results were compared with rTMS over the leg area of motor cortex, an area not thought to be involved with time estimation. rTMS was delivered during one of two phases of a time reproduction task: at the onset of the Estimation Phase (presentation of the interval to be timed) and at the onset of the Reproduction Phase (subjects' reproduction of the timed interval). There was a significant main effect of Site (SMA vs. right DLPFC vs. leg motor area) due to the fact that rTMS over the right DLPFC caused subjects to underestimate time intervals compared with rTMS over the leg motor area. There was also a significant three-way interaction between Site, Duration and Phase (Estimation Phase vs. Reproduction Phase) that post hoc analyses showed was due to underestimation of long intervals when rTMS was given over the right DLPFC at the start of the Reproduction Phase. There was no effect of rTMS over the right DLPFC or SMA in the short interval task. This is consistent with previous studies showing that the right DLPFC is important in estimating time intervals in the seconds-range. In addition, we suggest that the selectivity of the rTMS effect for the Reproduction Phase indicates that the right DLPFC plays a particular role in memory processes.
Single pulses of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) were applied to the right hemisphere over either the hand sensory area, the hand motor area (M1), ventral premotor area (vPM), dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, or 10 cm away from head (sham stimulation) in order to test the effect on motor evoked potentials (MEPs) elicited by single pulse TMS or transcranial electrical stimulus (TES) over the left M1 or the somatosensory evoked potential (SEP) elicited by an electrical stimulus to the right median nerve. The interstimulus intervals (ISIs) for MEP experiments were 50, 100, 150, 200, 300 and 400 ms, with those for SEP experiments being adjusted for the impulse conduction time from the wrist to the cortex. TMS over the right M1 reduced MEPs elicited by TMS of the left motor cortex at ISIs of 50-150 ms, whereas MEPs produced by TES were unaffected. TMS over M1 and vPM facilitated the contralateral cortical median nerve SEPs at an ISI of 100-200 ms, whereas it had no effect on tibial nerve SEPs or paired median nerve stimulation SEP. Based on these results, we conclude that at around 150-ms intervals, TMS over the motor areas (M1 and vPM) reduces the excitability of the contralateral motor area. This has a secondary effect of enhancing the responsiveness of the sensory cortex through cortico-cortical connections.
This paper presents ILGM (the Infant Learning to Grasp Model), the first computational model of infant grasp learning that is constrained by the infant motor development literature. By grasp learning we mean learning how to make motor plans in response to sensory stimuli such that open-loop execution of the plan leads to a successful grasp. The open-loop assumption is justified by the behavioral evidence that early grasping is based on open-loop control rather than on-line visual feedback. Key elements of the infancy period, namely elementary motor schemas, the exploratory nature of infant motor interaction, and inherent motor variability are captured in the model. In particular we show, through computational modeling, how an existing behavior (reaching) yields a more complex behavior (grasping) through interactive goal-directed trial and error learning. Our study focuses on how the infant learns to generate grasps that match the affordances presented by objects in the environment. ILGM was designed to learn execution parameters for controlling the hand movement as well as for modulating the reach to provide a successful grasp matching the target object affordance. Moreover, ILGM produces testable predictions regarding infant motor learning processes and poses new questions to experimentalists.
Can chromatic information be used for the fast on-line control of action? In order to find out we asked subjects to tap a red square as quickly as possible. In half of the trials the red square's position changed as soon as the subject's hand started to move. We examined how quickly subjects could adjust their movements to this change. In half of the trials there was also a green square of the same luminance as the red one. If there was a green square, and the red square's position changed, the change consisted of the two squares exchanging places, so that all that really changed was the squares' colours. In such cases subjects could not have adjusted their movements without having analysed the colour. Nevertheless, subjects could respond adequately within as little as 120 ms. This was even so if the squares' luminances changed considerably at the moment that the subject's hand started to move. Thus, chromatic information can be used for the fast on-line control of action.
To investigate expression, subcellular localization and mechanisms of translocation of phosphatidylcholine-specific phospholipase C (PC-PLC) during the cell proliferative response, biochemical, immunoblotting, and immunofluorescence analyses were performed on quiescent and mitogen-stimulated NIH-3T3 fibroblasts. Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), insulin and 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate induced, in 10-60 min, PC-PLC translocation from a perinuclear cytoplasmic area to the plasma membrane. Following cell exposure to PDGF (60 min), the overall PC-PLC expression increased up to 2-3x, while the enzyme activity increased 5x in total cell lysates, 2x in the plasma membrane, and 4x in the nucleus; moreover, confocal laser scanning microscopy showed a progressive externalization of PC-PLC on the outer plasma membrane surface and its accumulation in the nuclear matrix. Pre-incubation of cells with the PC-PLC inhibitor tricyclodecan-9-yl potassium xanthate (D609), before PDGF-stimulation, not only reduced the enzyme activity in total cell lysates as well as in plasma membrane and nuclear fractions, but also blocked the mechanisms of PC-PLC subcellular redistribution. These effects were associated with a D609-induced long-lasting cell cycle block in Go.
Neovascularization stimulated by IGF-1 mediated induction of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is one of the leading causes of blindness in humans. It plays a central role in the pathogenesis of proliferative diabetic retinopathy (DR), neovascular glaucoma, exudative age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and retinopathy of prematurity. Neovascularization is a multi-step process that involves complex interactions of a variety of mitogenic factors such as VEGF and IGF-I which are produced locally in the human eye by a variety of cells including retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells, retinal capillary pericytes, endothelial cells, Mueller cells and ganglion cells. We hypothesized that somatostatin would inhibit the IGF-1 signal transduction pathway in RPE cells, resulting in decreased VEGF production. We have observed expression of somatostatin receptor protein in retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells of the human eye using immunohistochemistry and have confirmed expression of somatostatin receptors in cultured human RPE cells using reverse transcriptase-PCR. IGF-1 induced a dose dependent increase in IGF-1R phosphorylation and in VEGF mRNA levels in cultured human RPE cells. Somatostatin and octreotide, a somatostatin analogue, inhibited IGF-1 receptor (IGF-1R) phosphorylation and decreased VEGF production. Both IGF-1R phosphorylation and accumulation of VEGF mRNA were inhibited by physiological levels of somatostatin and octreotide (1 nM). These results demonstrate somatostatin and octreotide mediated attenuation of both IGF-1R signal transduction and VEGF mRNA accumulation via somatostatin receptor type 2 (sst2). Furthermore, these data suggest a rationale for the use of octreotide as a prophylactic and therapeutic option in disease states that cause ocular neovascularization.
The ageing process causes a reduction in the regenerative potential of skeletal muscles eventually leading to diminished muscle strength. In this work we investigated if ageing affects the excitation-contraction coupling mechanism in human myotubes derived from human satellite cells, thereby contributing to the loss in muscle strength in the aged. To test this hypothesis, satellite cells from differently aged donors were differentiated in vitro and the maturation of the excitation-contraction mechanism was followed by the videoimaging technique monitoring the efficiency of such a mechanism in generating intracellular calcium transients. Our experiments showed a delay in the establishment of the excitation-contraction coupling mechanism depending on the age of the donor. Remarkably, the effect was reproducible in human satellite cells from a young donor aged in vitro, suggesting that the delayed functional maturation was strictly dependent on the number of satellite cell divisions and independent from the host environment.
Following avulsion of a spinal ventral root, motoneurons that project through the avulsed root are axotomized. Avulsion between, for example, L2 and L6 leads to denervation of hind limb muscles. Reimplantation of an avulsed root directed to the motoneuron pool resulted in re-ingrowth of some motor axons. However, most motoneurons display retrograde atrophy and subsequently die. Two neurotrophic factors, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), promote the survival of motoneurons after injury. The long-term delivery of these neurotrophic factors to the motoneurons in the ventral horn of the spinal cord is problematic. One strategy to improve the outcome of the neurosurgical reinsertion of the ventral root following avulsion would involve gene transfer with adeno-associated viral (AAV) vectors encoding these neurotrophic factors near the denervated motoneuron pool. Here, we show that AAV-mediated overexpression of GDNF and BDNF in the spinal cord persisted for at least 16 weeks. At both 1 and 4 months post-lesion AAV-BDNF- and -GDNF-treated animals showed an increased survival of motoneurons, the effect being more prominent at 1 month. AAV vector-mediated overexpression of neurotrophins also promoted the formation of a network of motoneuron fibers in the ventral horn at the avulsed side, but motoneurons failed to extent axons into the reinserted L4 root towards the sciatic nerve nor to improve functional recovery of the hind limbs. This suggests that high levels of neurotrophic factors in the ventral horn promote sprouting, but prevent directional growth of axons of a higher number of surviving motoneurons into the implanted root.
FGF-2, a potent multifunctional and neurotrophic growth factor, is widely expressed in the brain and upregulated in cerebral ischemia. Previous studies have shown that intraventricularly or systemically administered FGF-2 reduces the size of cerebral infarcts. Whether endogenous FGF-2 is beneficial for the outcome of cerebral ischemia has not been investigated. We have used mice with a null mutation of the fgf2 gene to explore the relevance of endogenous FGF-2 in brain ischemia. Focal cerebral ischemia was produced by occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (MCAO). We found a 75% increase in infarct volume in fgf2 knock-out mice versus wild type littermates (P &lt; 0.05). This difference in the extent of ischemic damage was observed after 24 h, and correlated with decreased viability in fgf2 mutant mice following MCA occlusion. Increased infarct volume in fgf2 null mice was associated with a loss of induction in hippocampal BDNF and trkB mRNA expression. These findings indicate that signaling through trkB may contribute to ameliorating brain damage following ischemia and that bdnf and trkB may be target genes of FGF-2. Together, our data provide the first evidence that endogenous FGF-2 is important in coping with ischemic brain damage suggesting fgf2 as one crucial target gene for new therapeutic strategies in brain ischemia.
Since excitotoxicity is hypothesized to contribute to cell death in Huntington's disease (HD), we examined the susceptibility of striatal and hippocampal neurons to glutamate-induced cell death. Striatal cultures were more susceptible to glutamate-triggered toxicity than sister hippocampal cultures. Dose-response curves were equivalent when secondary toxicity was blocked with application of the NMDA receptor antagonist, MK801, or enhanced with the pan-specific glutamate transport blocker, TBOA, following excitotoxin removal. TBOA failed to alter the dose-response characteristics of striatal excitotoxicity, ruling out reverse operation of glutamate transporters. Striatal cultures expressed less EAAC1 and less membrane-associated EAAC1, GLT1, and GLAST than hippocampal cultures. Antisense down-regulation of EAAC1 increased the sensitivity of hippocampal cultures to glutamate, indicating that this transporter can act as an important neuroprotectant. Thus, the relative expression levels of glutamate transporters, even in parts of the brain where they are considered adequately expressed, appear to influence the sensitivities of different neuronal populations to excitotoxicity.
Histamine H(3) receptor agonists and antagonists have been evaluated in numerous in vitro and in vivo animal models to better understand how H(3) receptors modulate neurotransmitter function in the central nervous system. Likewise, behavioural models have explored the hypothesis that changes in neurotransmitter release could enhance cognitive function in human diseases. This review examines the reported effects of H(3) receptor ligands and how they influence cognitive behaviour. These data are interpreted on the basis of different cognitive domains that are relevant to neuropsychiatric diseases. Because of the diversity of H(3) receptors, their function and their influence on neurotransmitter systems, considerable promise exists for H(3) ligands to treat diseases in which aspects of learning and memory are impaired. However, because of the complexities of the histaminergic system and H(3) receptors and the lack of clinical data so far, proof of principle for use in human disease remains to be established.
Potassium channels have re-emerged as attractive targets for overactive bladder and other urological diseases in recent years, in part due to an enhanced understanding of their molecular heterogeneity, tissue distribution, functional roles and regulation in physiological and pathological states. Cloning and heterologous expression analysis, coupled with the advancement of improved high-throughput screening techniques, have enabled expeditious identification of selective small-molecule openers and blockers for ATP-sensitive K+ channels, Ca2+-activated K+ channels and voltage-dependent K+ channel-KQT-like subfamily (KCNQ) members, and has paved the way in the assessment of efficacy and adverse effects in preclinical models. This review focuses on the rationale for molecular targeting of K+ channels, the current status of target validation, including preclinical proof-of-concept studies, and provides perspectives on the limitations and hurdles to be overcome in realising the potential of these targets for diverse urological indications such as overactive bladder, erectile dysfunction and prostate diseases.
Insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) protects neurons of the peripheral nervous system from apoptosis, but the underlying signaling pathways are not well understood. We studied IGF-I mediated signaling in embryonic dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons. DRG neurons express IGF-I receptors (IGF-IR), and IGF-I activates the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt pathway. High glucose exposure induces apoptosis, which is inhibited by IGF-I through the PI3K/Akt pathway. IGF-I stimulation of the PI3K/Akt pathway phosphorylates three known Akt effectors: the survival transcription factor cyclic AMP response element binding protein (CREB) and the pro-apoptotic effector proteins glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta) and forkhead (FKHR). IGF-I regulates survival at the nuclear level through accumulation of phospho-Akt in DRG neuronal nuclei, increased CREB-mediated transcription, and nuclear exclusion of FKHR. High glucose increases expression of the pro-apoptotic Bcl protein Bim (a transcriptional target of FKHR). However, IGF-I does not regulate Bim or anti-apoptotic Bcl-xL protein expression levels, which suggests that IGF-I neuroprotection is not through regulation of their expression. High glucose also induces loss of the initiator caspase-9 and increases caspase-3 cleavage, effects blocked by IGF-I. These data suggest that IGF-I prevents apoptosis in DRG neurons by regulating PI3K/Akt pathway effectors, including GSK-3beta, CREB, and FKHR, and by blocking caspase activation.
Though the etiology of Parkinson's disease (PD) remains unclear, alpha-synuclein (alpha-SN) is regarded as a major causative agent of PD. Several lines of evidence indicate that immunological abnormalities are associated with PD for unknown reasons. The present study was performed to assess whether peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) show altered alpha-SN expression in PD patients and to identify its functions, which may be related to peripheral immune abnormalities in PD. alpha-SN was found to be expressed more in 151 idiopathic PD (IPD) patients than in 101 healthy controls, who nevertheless showed as age-dependent increases. By in vitro transfection, alpha-SN expression was shown to be correlated with glucocorticoid sensitive apoptosis, possibly caused by the enhanced expression of glucocorticoid receptor (GR), caspase activations (caspase-8, caspase-9), CD95 up-regulation, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. An understanding of the correlation between alpha-SN levels and apoptosis in the presence of the coordinated involvement of multiple processes would provide an insight into the molecular basis of the disease. The present study provides a clue that the alpha-SN may be one of the primary causes of the immune abnormalities observed in PD and offers new targets for pharmacotherapeutic intervention.
The blood reduced glutathione (GSH)/GSH disulfide (GSSG) ratio is an index of the oxidant/antioxidant balance of the whole body. Nevertheless, data indicating GSH and GSSG physiological levels are still widely divergent, especially those on GSSG, probably due to its low concentration. Standardization in methodological protocols and sample manipulation could help to minimize these discrepancies. Therefore, we have investigated how plasma reduced GSH, which is rapidly oxidized after blood withdrawal, could alter the blood GSSG measurement if the sample is not suitably processed. We have observed that an increase in plasma GSH concentration, due to red blood cell hemolysis, is responsible for a significant overestimation of blood GSSG level. Our results show that, before performing blood GSSG determination, thiols have to be rapidly blocked, to avoid possible pitfalls in GSSG measurement, in particular when hemolysis is present.

A complex response of the trunk muscles occurs to restore equilibrium in response to movement of the support surface. Intra-abdominal pressure (IAP) is considered to contribute to control of the trunk. This study investigated the contribution of IAP to the postural response to multidirection support-surface translation. IAP was recorded with a thin-film pressure transducer inserted via the nose into the stomach and trunk motion was recorded with an optoelectronic system with markers over the spinous process of L1. A pattern of trunk movement was recorded in response to the support-surface translations that was consistent with a 'hip' strategy of postural control. The trunk moved in a manner appropriate to move the centre of gravity over the new base of support. IAP was increased with movement in each direction, but varied in timing and amplitude between translation directions. In general, the IAP was greater with translations in the sagittal plane compared to the frontal plane and was initiated earlier for translations in the backward direction. These data indicate that IAP contributes to the postural response associated with support-surface translation and suggest that this is consistent with stiffening the spine.
Noise, chemicals and genetic defects are all common causes of irreversible hearing loss, which at present have no cure. Gene therapy may soon be utilized in both the protection and the treatment of these exogenous and endogenous sources of hearing loss. Gene therapy technology is rapidly developing and the inner ear is a particularly feasible model for gene therapy. This review outlines our current understanding of the mechanisms behind deafness and prospects for treatment, discusses the inner ear model in detail and reviews the efforts that have been made in inner ear gene therapy. Finally, the proposed next steps will be discussed. The viral mediated delivery of neurotrophins and antioxidants offers imminent promise in preventing and treating exogenous hearing loss and improving cochlear implant therapy.

Memory and the expression of learned behaviors by an organism are often triggered by contextual cues that resemble those that were present when the initial learning occurred. In state-dependent learning, the cue eliciting a learned behavior is a neuroactive drug; behaviors initially learned during exposure to centrally acting compounds such as ethanol are subsequently recalled better if the drug stimulus is again present during testing. Although state-dependent learning is well documented in many vertebrate systems, the molecular mechanisms underlying state-dependent learning and other forms of contextual learning are not understood. Here we demonstrate and present a genetic analysis of state- dependent adaptation in Caenorhabditis elegans. C. elegans normally exhibits adaptation, or reduced behavioral response, to an olfactory stimulus after prior exposure to the stimulus. If the adaptation to the olfactory stimulus is acquired during ethanol administration, the adaptation is subsequently displayed only if the ethanol stimulus is again present. cat-1 and cat-2 mutant animals are defective in dopaminergic neuron signaling and are impaired in state dependency, indicating that dopamine functions in state-dependent adaptation in C. elegans.
To elucidate spatial and temporal profiles of the protein kinase C (PKC) activation in relation to neuronal functions including synaptic plasticity, we tried to detect PKC translocation in living brain slices. We first developed brain region-specific and inducible gammaPKC-GFP transgenic mice using a tetracycline (tet)-regulated system. In the transgenic mice, the expression of gammaPKC-GFP was region-specifically regulated by the promoter and abolished by the administration of doxycycline. Cerebellar slices from the mice were utilized for intracellular recording and fluorescence imaging of gammaPKC-GFP in Purkinje cells. GFP fluorescence was uniformly distributed from soma to dendritic arbor. When mGluR agonists were applied, the intensity was transiently increased at the edge of the dendrite and concomitantly decreased in the cytoplasm, indicating that gammaPKC translocated to the plasma membrane. This transient change in the pattern of GFP fluorescence simultaneously occurred throughout the Purkinje cell dendrites by agonist stimulation. Translocation of gammaPKC-GFP was also induced by electrical stimulation of parallel fibres. However, the event was not restricted at the distal dendrites, propagated forwardly along the dendritic tree and reached to the proximal trunk close to the soma. Time course of the propagation was slower than the electrical signal and Ca(2+) waves and faster than conveying molecules through microtubules. The present results indicate that PKC signals activated locally by parallel fibre input could propagate to the soma through dendrites in living Purkinje neurones. The findings may provide us with a new insight for understanding molecular mechanisms of the synaptic plasticity including cerebellar long-term depression.
Catecholaminergic neurons are affected in several neurological and psychiatric diseases. Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) is the first, rate-limiting enzyme in catecholamine synthesis. We report a knockin mouse expressing Cre-recombinase from the 3'-untranslated region of the endogenous Th gene by means of an internal ribosomal entry sequence (IRES). The resulting Cre expression matches the normal pattern of TH expression, while the pattern and level of TH are not altered in the knockin mouse. Crossings with two different LacZ reporter mice demonstrated Cre-mediated genomic recombination in TH expressing tissues. In addition, LacZ was found in some unexpected cell populations (including oocytes), indicating recombination due to transient developmental TH expression. Our novel knockin mouse can be used for generation of tissue-specific or general knockouts (depending on scheme of crossing) in mice carrying genes flanked by loxP sites. This knockin mouse can also be used for tracing cell lineages expressing TH during development.
Phenotypic characteristics of cells in the developing human telencephalic wall were analyzed using electron microscopy and immunocytochemistry with various glial and neuronal cell markers. The results suggest that multiple defined cell types emerge in the neocortical proliferative zones and are differentially regulated during embryonic development. At 5-6 weeks gestation, three major cell types are observed. Most proliferating ventricular zone (VZ) cells are labeled with radial glial (RG) markers such as vimentin, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), and glutamate astrocyte-specific transporter (GLAST) antibodies. A subpopulation of these RG cells also express the neuronal markers beta III-tubulin, MAP-2, and phosphorylated neurofilament SMI-31, in addition to the stem cell marker nestin, indicating their multipotential capacity. In addition, the presence of VZ cells that immunoreact only with neuronal markers indicates the emergence of restricted neuronal progenitors. The number of multipotential progenitors in the VZ gradually decreases, whereas the number of more restricted progenitors increases systematically during the 3-month course of human corticogenesis. These results suggest that multipotential progenitors coexist with restricted neuronal progenitors and RG cells during initial corticogenesis in the human telencephalon. Since the multipotential VZ cells disappear during the major wave of neocortical neurogenesis, the RG and restricted neuronal progenitors appear to serve as the main sources of cortical neurons. Thus, the diversification of cells in human VZ and overlying subventricular zone (SVZ) begins earlier and is more pronounced than in rodents.
Breakdown of the blood-brain barrier is a feature of acute and chronic neurodegenerative changes, yet the relationship between astrocytes and the mature barrier remains unclear. We studied this role of astrocytes in vivo using a gliotoxin and evaluated changes in three vascular tight junction markers. Male Fisher F344 rats given systemic 3-chloropropanediol showed astrocytic loss in the inferior colliculus from 12-24 h until the lesion was repopulated 8-28 days later. Within 6 h of astrocyte loss, microvessels in this area began to demonstrate a loss of the normal paracellular localization of the transmembrane proteins occludin and claudin-5 and cytoplasmic zonula occludens-1, which correlated with focal vascular leak of dextran (10 kDa) and fibrinogen. Platelet endothelial adhesion molecule-1 staining revealed that there was no loss of the endothelial lining. Between 4-8 days, severe downregulation of tight junction protein expression was observed, which subsequently returned over the same time period as astrocytes repopulated the lesion. Unexpectedly, dextran and fibrinogen leak from vessels had ceased at 6 days, well before the return of occludin and claudin-5 to appropriate paracellular domains. Control nonvulnerable cortical tissue showed no change in astrocyte morphology and tight junction expression over the same time course. Our data supports a primary role for astrocytic contact in the expression of occludin, claudin-5, and zonula occludens-1 in the mature brain vasculature in vivo. However, barrier integrity to dextran (10 kDa) and fibrinogen can be restored in the absence of astrocytes and tight junction proteins (occludin, claudin-5, and zonula occludens-1).
Haemophilia is characterized by intra-articular and intramuscular bleeding episodes. Although much work has been carried out into post-bleeding mechanisms in both synovial joints and muscles, the picture is not yet clear. A firm post-bleeding rehabilitation protocol is of utmost importance for people with haemophilia. The use of the International Classification of Functioning Disability and Health reveals that information worldwide is on body level, whereas the goals of patients with haemophilia implicitly aim at optimal functional recovery. This interferes much more with activities and participation in society. The Functional Independence Score for Haemophilia and the Post-bleeding Protocol Based on Functional Milestones are examples of post-bleeding approaches that deal more with function. Two cases will emphasize the value of this approach.
We present a program evaluation of the Phillips Lead Project, a 5-year study of the effectiveness of culture-specific, peer education in maintaining low blood lead levels of children in an inner-city neighborhood. We conducted focus groups to understand how project participants felt about the various strategies employed by the Lead Project. The purpose of this article is to describe their reactions to the project and make recommendations concerning appropriate educational strategies for lead poisoning prevention projects being undertaken in similar communities. Although this project was a research study, many of its methods, and participants' reactions to those methods, are relevant to non-research prevention programs and may be generalizable to other health issues besides lead poisoning.
Comb-filtered noise (CFN, derived from white noise by suppressing regularly spaced frequency regions) was presented for 3 s followed by two types of test stimuli. One test stimulus (SB) was comprised of spectra centered in the stop-band regions of the CFN and the other test stimulus (PB) of spectra centered in the band pass regions of the CFN. Magnetoencephalographically recorded N1m responses evoked by SB stimuli were decreased relative to the N1m response evoked by PB stimuli. This effect was maximal when the interval between the CFN and test stimuli was short (0.5 s) but was detected at intervals up to 2 s. The results suggest lateral inhibition in the auditory cortex and point to a decay of inhibition lasting on the order of seconds.
The spatial resolution achievable using magnetoencephalography (MEG) beamformer techniques is inhomogeneous across the brain and is related directly to the amplitude of the underlying electrical sources [Barnes and Hillebrand, Hum Brain Mapp 2003;18:1-12; Gross et al., Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2001;98:694-699; Van Veen et al., IEEE Trans Biomed Eng 1997;44:867-860; Vrba and Robinson, Proc 12th Int Conf Biomagn 2001]. We set out to examine what an adequate level of spatial sampling of the brain volume is in a realistic situation, and what implications these inhomogeneities have for region-of-interest analysis. As a basis for these calculations, we used a simple retinotopic mapping experiment where stimuli were 17-Hz reversing gratings presented in either left or right visual hemifield. Beamformer weights were calculated based on the covariance of the MEG data in a 0-80 Hz bandwidth. We then estimated volumetric full-width half-maximum (FWHM) maps at a range of sampling levels. We show that approximately 10% of the 1 mm cubic voxels in the occipital volume have a FWHM smoothness of &lt;5 mm, and 80% &lt;10 mm in three subjects. This was despite relatively low mean signal-to-noise ratios (SNR) values of 1.5. We demonstrate how visualization of these FWHM maps can be used to avoid some of the pitfalls implicit in beamformer region-of-interest analysis.
In this study, a tetracycline-regulated lentiviral vector system, based on the tetracycline-dependent transactivator rtTA2(S)-M2, was developed for controlled expression of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) in the rat brain. Expression of the marker gene green fluorescent protein (GFP) and GDNF was tightly regulated in a dose-dependent manner in neural cell lines in vitro. Injection of high-titer lentiviral vectors into the rat striatum resulted in a 7-fold induction of GDNF tissue levels (1060 pg/mg tissue), when doxycycline (a tetracycline analog) was added to the drinking water. However, low levels of GDNF (150 pg/mg tissue) were also detected in animals that did not receive doxycycline, indicating a significant background leakage from the vector system in vivo. The level of basal expression was markedly reduced when a 10-fold lower dose of the tetracycline-regulated GDNF vector was injected into the striatum (3-11 pg/mg tissue), and doxycycline-induced GDNF tissue levels obtained in these animals were about 190 pg/mg tissue. Doxycycline-induced expression of GDNF resulted in a significant downregulation of the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) protein in the intact striatum. Removal of doxycycline from the drinking water rapidly (within 3 days) turned off transgenic GDNF mRNA expression and GDNF protein levels in the tissue were completely reduced by 2 weeks, demonstrating the dynamics of the system in vivo. Accordingly, TH protein expression returned to normal by 2-8 weeks after removal of doxycycline, indicating that GDNF-induced downregulation of TH is a reversible event.
The fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster has provided insight into the role of genes in behavior, some of which have relevant implications for humans. Mutants induced or engineered in the laboratory have contributed to our understanding of biological rhythms, learning, memory, neurodegenerative disease and drug response. Studies of naturally occurring genetic variation in behavior have advanced our understanding of what kinds of variants arise spontaneously and contribute to behavior.
A dysfunction of the serotonergic and noradrenergic pathways is commonly accepted as playing a major role in the aetiology of depression. Serotonergic cell bodies, located in the raphe nucleus, send projections to various parts of the brain where they are involved in the control of mood, movement, emotions such as anxiety and regulate behaviours such as eating, sexual activity and the feeling of pleasure. Similarly, the noradrenergic neurons, located in the locus coeruleus, project to the same regions where they regulate, in addition, attention and cognition. A further projection to the cerebellum regulates motor control. A dysfunction at the level of the monoamine neurons thus results in the classical symptoms of depression. In addition to these ascending pathways, however, the neurons in the raphe nucleus and the locus ceruleus also project to the spinal cord. These descending pathways serve to inhibit input from the intestines, the skeletal muscles and other sensory inputs. Under normal conditions, these inhibitory effects are modest, but in times of stress, in the interests of the survival of the individual, they can completely inhibit the input from painful stimuli. A dysfunction at the level of the serotonergic and noradrenergic neurons can thus affect both the ascending and descending pathways resulting in the psychological and somatic symptoms of depression but also in physical painful symptoms.
We evaluate the applicability of a biologically-motivated algorithm to select visually-salient regions of interest in video streams for multiply-foveated video compression. Regions are selected based on a nonlinear integration of low-level visual cues, mimicking processing in primate occipital, and posterior parietal cortex. A dynamic foveation filter then blurs every frame, increasingly with distance from salient locations. Sixty-three variants of the algorithm (varying number and shape of virtual foveas, maximum blur, and saliency competition) are evaluated against an outdoor video scene, using MPEG-1 and constant-quality MPEG-4 (DivX) encoding. Additional compression radios of 1.1 to 8.5 are achieved by foveation. Two variants of the algorithm are validated against eye fixations recorded from four to six human observers on a heterogeneous collection of 50 video clips (over 45 000 frames in total). Significantly higher overlap than expected by chance is found between human and algorithmic foveations. With both variants, foveated clips are, on average, approximately half the size of unfoveated clips, for both MPEG-1 and MPEG-4. These results suggest a general-purpose usefulness of the algorithm in improving compression ratios of unconstrained video.


The application of a weak (1 microTesla) complex magnetic field pattern with a relevant electrophysiological signature produced an analgesic response in rats to thermal stimuli when the pattern was presented once every 4 sec for 30 min through iron-core solenoids. In one experiment, the burst-firing pattern was presented once every 4 s for 30 min and restricted to the positive polarity, negative polarity or a bipolar equivalent. The strongest analgesia occurred when the burst-firing pattern was presented with positive polarity or as the typical bipolar signal. Administrations of the burst-firing pattern once per week for four consecutive weeks produced analgesia that was clearly evident during the first, third, and fourth weeks but not during the second week of treatment. A telephone sensor coil (that can be readily obtained from local electronic shops) was then used instead of the solenoids along with an audio (.wav) file to generate the magnetic field; the analgesia was still apparent. However, when the magnetic pattern was generated from a compact disc source the analgesia was not evoked. The current results suggest that these fields can be generated through simple commercial devices controlled by available computer software.
In classical eyeblink conditioning, non-specific emotional responses to the aversive shock unconditioned stimulus (US), which are presumed to coincide with the development of fear, occur early in conditioning and precede the emergence of eyeblink responses. This two-process learning model was examined by concurrently measuring fear and eyeblink conditioning in the freely moving rat. Freezing served as an index of fear in animals and was measured during the inter-trial intervals in the training context and during a tone conditioned stimulus (CS) presented in a novel context. Animals that received CS-US pairings exhibited elevated levels of fear to the context and CS early in training that decreased over sessions, while eyeblink conditioned responses (CRs) developed gradually during acquisition and decreased during extinction. Random CS-US presentations produced a similar pattern of fear responses to the context and CS as paired presentations despite low eyeblink CR percentages, indicating that fear responding was decreased independent of high levels of learned eyeblink responding. The results of paired training were consistent with two-process models of conditioning that postulate that early emotional responding facilitates subsequent motor learning, but measures from random control animals demonstrate that partial CS-US contingencies produce decrements in fear despite low levels of eyeblink CRs. These findings suggest a relationship between CS-US contingency and fear levels during eyeblink conditioning, and may serve to clarify further the role that fear conditioning plays in this simple paradigm.





A phenomenological model with time-varying excitation and inhibition was developed to study possible neural mechanisms underlying changes in the representation of temporal envelopes along the auditory pathway. A modified version of an existing auditory-nerve model [Zhang et al., J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 109, 648-670 (2001)] was used to provide inputs to higher hypothetical processing centers. Model responses were compared directly to published physiological data at three levels: the auditory nerve, ventral cochlear nucleus, and inferior colliculus. Trends and absolute values of both average firing rate and synchrony to the modulation period were accurately predicted at each level for a wide range of stimulus modulation depths and modulation frequencies. The diversity of central physiological responses was accounted for with realistic variations of model parameters. Specifically, enhanced synchrony in the cochlear nucleus and rate-tuning to modulation frequency in the inferior colliculus were predicted by choosing appropriate relative strengths and time courses of excitatory and inhibitory inputs to postsynaptic model cells. The proposed model is fundamentally different than others that have been used to explain the representation of envelopes in the mammalian midbrain, and it provides a computational tool for testing hypothesized relationships between physiology and psychophysics.

Sampling designs dictated by stereology have proven very useful in recent years to estimate in situ the total number of deposited particles, or of macrophages, in different lung compartments at the light microscopical level. The sampling methods are based on parallel slabs which are subsequently subsampled by disectors. The resulting number estimators are unbiased irrespective of tissue shrinkage or swelling, and they are readily applicable in other contexts (notably in neuroscience). Several variants of the design are available, however, and, although they all yield the same number estimates, their precision, and the mathematical prediction of it, vary among the different estimators and are subjected to theoretical improvement. The present paper constitutes a detailed survey of the latest advances, and it illustrates methods and formulae alike by way of a real example stemming from an earlier study on particle retention and clearance.



Medical school and other health science outreach programs to educate and recruit precollege students always have relied on successful collaborative efforts. Creighton University shares the value, significance, and strategies of involving teacher education professionals in several of its current outreach programs, including HPPI, Brains Rule! Neuroscience Expositions, and HHMI Build a Human Project. The education department partner serves as an essential team member in the development, implementation, assessment, and dissemination of these projects to promote science and mathematics achievement and interest in medical careers. Specific examples and mistakes to avoid are included.

Single O-linked N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) sugar residues can compete with phosphate groups to occupy specific sites on certain nuclear and cytosolic proteins. Here we show that inhibiting cellular kinase activities resulted in changes in protein O-glycosylation levels in heat-stable cytoskeletal protein fractions derived from primary neuronal cells. As increased phosphorylation of the microtubule-associated protein tau is one of the pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease and glycosylation may play an influential role in this process. We observed a significant decrease in the protein O-GlcNAc glycosylation of a tau-enriched cytoskeletal fraction generated from AD post-mortem brain samples as compared with control, suggesting an inverse relationship between the two post-translational modifications. Finally, cells transfected with the cDNA coding for O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT) displayed altered tau phosphorylation patterns as compared with control cells, suggesting that changes in tau glycosylation may influence its phosphorylation state. The specificity of the changes in the phosphorylation of individual amino acid residues provides evidence for a targeted O-glycosylation of tau.

This paper reviews the concept of repetition compulsion (RC) from Freud's original formulation to recent contributions from psychoanalysis and the neurosciences. Literature on RC presented four major controversies: (1) Does RC describe a broad range of dysfunctional repetitive behaviors, or only the repetition of severe traumatic experiences? (2) Is RC an attempt to achieve mastery and control of a traumatic experience, or to reach a particular psychic state as analgesia or excitement, which reduces the perception of emotional pain? (3) Is the death instinct an acceptable explanation for RC? (4) Is RC a useful, meaningful, and specific concept? The author describes his personal perspective on RC which integrates psychodynamic and biological contributions. Clinical material is provided.
Psychoanalytic psychotherapy in clinical practice is traditionally a long-term treatment conducted by well-trained psychotherapists. However, very few studies have been published that evaluate the effects of such treatment. To redress this lack of studies, 55 individuals selected for long-term psychoanalytic psychotherapy (average, 3 years) were invited to participate in a naturalistic study. The psychotherapists had a mean of 15 years of professional experience. The 36 patients who completed psychotherapy manifested a substantial reduction in symptomatic suffering and decreased levels of character pathology, as measured by the Karolinska Psychodynamic Profile (KAPP) and the Karolinska Scales of Personality. Generally, such changes were not found in the individuals who did not engage in treatment. In the therapy group, improvements were found on eight KAPP subscales defining different aspects of character: Intimacy and Reciprocity, Frustration Tolerance, Regression in the Service of the Ego, Coping with Aggressive Affects, Conceptions of Bodily Appearance and their Significance for Self-esteem, Sexual Function, Sexual Satisfaction, and Personality Organization. The results indicate that individuals who engaged in psychotherapy improved their capacity to handle crucial aspects of life and reduced their symptomatic suffering.
The dentate nucleus is phylogenetically the most recent nucleus in the cerebellum. Owing to its connections to the thalamus and the prefrontal cortex it may be involved in the symptomathology in schizophrenia and other psychiatric illnesses. In this stereological study we implemented the smooth fractionator, which combines the unbiased principles of the optical fractionator with a new and more efficient sampling strategy to the dentate nucleus. The smooth fractionator represents the most efficient sampling strategy described so far in stereology, in terms of reducing the sampling variance and thus increasing the efficiency. It is the first application of the smooth fractionator to human brain tissue and presents estimations of total number of neurons in the dentate nuclei of eight patients with schizophrenia compared to eight control persons. The total number of neurons in the dentate nucleus was estimated to 3.36 x 10(6) in subjects with schizophrenia, which was not statistically significant different from 3.65 x 10(6) in control subjects (P = 0.63). The advantages and disadvantages of the smooth fractionator method are discussed and its precision in practical application is estimated.
Both heat stress and vestibular activation alter autonomic responses; however, the interaction of these two sympathetic activators is unknown. To determine the effect of heat stress on the vestibulosympathetic reflex, eight subjects performed static head-down rotation (HDR) during normothermia and whole body heating. Muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA; peroneal microneurography), mean arterial blood pressure (MAP), heart rate (HR), and internal temperature were measured during the experimental trials. HDR during normothermia caused a significant increase in MSNA (Delta5 +/- 1 bursts/min; Delta53 +/- 14 arbitrary units/min), whereas no change was observed in MAP, HR, or internal temperature. Whole body heating significantly increased internal temperature (Delta0.9 +/- 0.1 degrees C), MSNA (Delta10 +/- 3 bursts/min; Delta152 +/- 44 arbitrary units/min), and HR (Delta25 +/- 6 beats/min), but it did not alter MAP. HDR during whole body heating increased MSNA (Delta16 +/- 4 bursts/min; Delta233 +/- 90 arbitrary units/min from normothermic baseline), which was not significantly different from the algebraic sum of HDR during normothermia and whole body heating (Delta15 +/- 4 bursts/min; Delta205 +/- 55 arbitrary units/min). These data suggest that heat stress does not modify the vestibulosympathetic reflex and that both the vestibulosympathetic and thermal reflexes are robust, independent sympathetic nervous system activators.
A repeated-measures, waiting list control design was used to assess efficacy of a social skills intervention for autistic spectrum children focused on individual and group LEGO play. The intervention combined aspects of behavior therapy, peer modeling and naturalistic communication strategies. Close interaction and joint attention to task play an important role in both group and individual therapy activities. The goal of treatment was to improve social competence (SC) which was construed as reflecting three components: (1) motivation to initiate social contact with peers; (2) ability to sustain interaction with peers for a period of time: and (3) overcoming autistic symptoms of aloofness and rigidity. Measures for the first two variables were based on observation of subjects in unstructured situations with peers; and the third variable was assessed using a structured rating scale, the SI subscale of the GARS. Results revealed significant improvement on all three measures at both 12 and 24 weeks with no evidence of gains during the waiting list period. No gender differences were found on outcome, and age of clients was not correlated with outcome. LEGO play appears to be a particularly effective medium for social skills intervention, and other researchers and clinicians are encouraged to attempt replication of this work, as well as to explore use of LEGO in other methodologies, or with different clinical populations.
The centrosome is the major microtubule organizing center in mammalian cells. During interphase, the single centrosome is duplicated and the progeny centrosomes then serve as the spindle poles during mitosis. Little is known about the signals that drive centrosome doubling. In these studies, various inhibitors and molecular approaches were used to demonstrate a role for the Stat pathway in regulating the events of centrosome doubling. Both piceatannol and a dominant negative behaving Stat3 adenovirus were able to disrupt centrosome duplication in hydroxyurea-arrested Chinese hamster ovary cells, demonstrating that Stat3 is a key signaling molecule in the events of centrosome duplication. Investigation into the role of Stat3 signaling during centrosome production demonstrated that Stat3 does not directly regulate the transcription of the centrosome genes encoding gamma-tubulin and PCM-1. Instead, Stat3 apparently regulated gamma-tubulin levels through post-transcriptional mechanisms whereas PCM-1 levels actually increased when Stat3 was inhibited, suggesting more complex mechanisms for regulating PCM-1 production. These studies demonstrate that Stat3 plays a vital role in centrosome duplication events, although the downstream targets of Stat3 activation leading to centrosome production remain to be established. The proposed signaling pathway utilizes Stat3 as a fundamental signaling molecule that directs the production of the various centrosome proteins indirectly.
The discovery of sequence motifs that mediate protein-protein interactions, coupled with the availability of protein amino acid sequence data, allows for the identification of putative protein binding pairs. The present studies were based on our identification of an amino acid sequence in phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C-gamma1 (PLC-gamma1) that fits the consensus sequence for a mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) binding site, termed the D-domain. Extracellular signal-regulated kinase 2 (ERK2), an MAPK, and phospho-ERK2 were bound by an immobilized peptide sequence containing the identified PLC-gamma1 D-domain. Furthermore, a peptide containing the PLC-gamma1 D-domain was able to competitively inhibit the in vitro phosphorylation of recombinant PLC-gamma1 by recombinant phospho-ERK2, whereas a control peptide derived from a distant region of PLC-gamma1 was ineffective. Similarly, the peptide containing the PLC-gamma1 D-domain, but not the control peptide, competitively inhibited the in vitro phosphorylation of Elk-1 and c-Jun catalyzed by recombinant phospho-ERK2 and phospho-c-Jun N-terminal kinase 3 (phospho-JNK3), another type of MAPK, respectively. Incubation of anti-PLC-gamma1 immunocomplexes isolated from rat brain with recombinant phospho-ERK2 opposed the increase in PLC-gamma1-catalyzed hydrolysis of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-P(2) (PtdIns(4,5)P(2)), which was produced by a tyrosine kinase associated with the immunocomplexes, whereas in vitro phosphorylation of recombinant PLC-gamma1 by recombinant phospho-ERK2 did not alter PLC-gamma1-catalyzed PtdIns(4,5)P(2) hydrolysis. These studies have uncovered a previously unidentified mechanism for the integration of PLC-gamma1- and ERK2-dependent signaling.
Synapsins are synaptic vesicle-associated phosphoproteins involved in the regulation of neurotransmitter release and synapse formation; they are substrates for multiple protein kinases that phosphorylate them on distinct sites. We have previously found that injection of synapsin into Helix snail neurons cultured under low-release conditions increases the efficiency of neurotransmitter release. In order to investigate the role of phosphorylation in this modulatory action of synapsins, we examined the substrate properties of the snail synapsin orthologue recently cloned in Aplysia (apSyn) for various protein kinases and compared the effects of the intracellular injection of wild-type apSyn with those of its phosphorylation site mutants. ApSyn was found to be an excellent in vitro substrate for cAMP-dependent protein kinase, which phosphorylated it at high stoichiometry on a single site (Ser-9) in the highly conserved domain A, unlike the other kinases reported to phosphorylate mammalian synapsins, which phosphorylated apSyn to a much lesser extent. The functional effect of apSyn phosphorylation by cAMP-dependent protein kinase on neurotransmitter release was studied by injecting wild-type or Ser-9 mutated apSyn into the soma of Helix serotonergic C1 neurons cultured under low-release conditions, i.e. in contact with the non-physiological target neuron C3. In this model of impaired neurotransmitter release, the injection of wild-type apSyn induced a significant enhancement of release. This enhancement was virtually absent after injection of the non-phosphorylatable mutant (Ser-9--&gt;Ala), but it was maintained after injection of the pseudophosphorylated mutant (Ser-9--&gt;Asp). These functional effects of apSyn injection were paralleled by marked ultrastructural changes in the C1 neuron, with the formation of extensive interdigitations of neurite-like processes containing an increased complement of C1 dense core vesicles at the sites of cell-to-cell contact. This structural rearrangement was virtually absent in mock-injected C1 neurons or after injection of the non-phosphorylatable apSyn mutant. These data indicate that phosphorylation of synapsin domain A is essential for the synapsin-induced enhancement of neurotransmitter release and suggest that endogenous kinases phosphorylating this domain play a central role in the regulation of the efficiency of the exocytotic machinery.
It is well known that aging leads to a degeneration of the vascular system. Hence, one may hypothesize that spontaneous oscillations decrease in the cerebral microvasculature with aging. Accordingly, the authors investigated the age dependency of spontaneous oscillations in the visual cortex during rest and functional activation. Functional near-infrared spectroscopy was used because it is particularly sensitive to the microvasculature. Visual stimulation led to an increase of oxyhemoglobin, total hemoglobin, and a decrease of deoxyhemoglobin, without any influence of age. Peaks of normalized power spectral density were detected for spontaneous low-frequency (0.07 to 0.11 Hz) and very-low-frequency (0.01 to 0.05 Hz) oscillations, with a higher amplitude for oxyhemoglobin than for deoxyhemoglobin. Spontaneous low-frequency oscillations of oxyhemoglobin and deoxyhemoglobin declined strongly with aging during both rest and visual stimulation. Reduction of spontaneous low-frequency oscillations might indicate a declining spontaneous activity in microvascular smooth muscle cells, in conjunction with an increased vessel stiffness with aging.
In studies designed to evaluate the therapeutic window for treatment of traumatic brain injury, the caspase 3 inhibitor z-DEVD-fmk improved neurologic function and reduced lesion volumes when administered at 1 but not at 4, 8, or 24 hours after injury. Moreover, neither caspase 3 nor PARP, a caspase 3 substrate, were cleaved in injured, untreated cortex from 1 to 72 hours after injury. Few cortical neurons expressed active caspase 3 or were TUNEL positive from 6 to 24 hours after injury, and TUNEL staining was primarily Type I (necrotic). Nissl staining revealed extensive neuronal necrosis in the injured cortex from 6 to 24 hours after impact. Considered together, these data suggested that z-DEVD-fmk may reduce neuronal necrosis, so we used an in vitro model of necrotic cell death induced by maitotoxin to test this further and explore the potential mechanism(s) involved. Z-DEVD-fmk (1 nM-100 microM) significantly attenuated maitotoxin induced neuronal cell death and markedly reduced expression of the 145 kD calpain-mediated alpha-spectrin breakdown product after maitotoxin injury. Neither the 120 kD caspase-mediated alpha-spectrin cleavage product nor cathepsin B were expressed after maitotoxin injury. In a cell free assay, z-DEVD-fmk reduced hydrolysis of casein by purified calpain I. Finally, z-DEVD-fmk reduced expression of the 145 kD calpain-mediated alpha-spectrin cleavage fragment after traumatic brain injury in vivo. These data suggest that neuroprotection by z-DEVD-fmk may, in part, reflect inhibition of calpain-related necrotic cell death.
AMPA receptor potentiators enhance AMPA receptor-mediated glutamatergic neurotransmission and may have therapeutic potential as cognitive enhancers or antidepressants. The anatomical basis for the action of AMPA receptor potentiators is unknown. The aim of this study was to determine the effects of the biarylpropylsulfonamide AMPA receptor potentiator, LY404187 (0.05 to 5 mg/kg subcutaneously), upon cerebral glucose utilization and c-fos expression using 14C-2-deoxglucose autoradiography and c-fos immunocytochemistry. LY404187 (0.5 mg/kg) produced significant elevations in glucose utilization in 28 of the 52 anatomical regions analyzed, which included rostral neocortical areas and the hippocampus, as well the dorsal raphe nucleus, lateral habenula, and locus coeruleus. No significant decreases in glucose utilization were observed in any region after LY404187 administration. The increases in glucose utilization with LY404187 (0.5 mg/kg) were blocked by pretreatment with the AMPA receptor antagonist LY293558 (25 mg/kg), indicating that LY404187 acts through AMPA receptor-mediated mechanisms. LY404187 (0.5 mg/kg) also produced increases in c-fos immunoreactivity in the cortex, locus coeruleus, and the dorsal raphe nucleus. These studies demonstrate neuronal activation in key brain areas that are associated with memory processes and thus provide an anatomical basis for the cognitive enhancing effects of AMPA receptor potentiators.
New directions in educational assessment and instruction are supported by recent advances in the neurosciences. Among these are early identification of potential learning problems through brief, efficient assessments of specific language skills that predict later reading outcomes; early intervention that systematically targets critical linguistic processing skills; and the necessity of stimulating all functions of a reading, writing, or computing brain.
Social and emotional processing uses neural systems involving structures ranging from the brain stem to the associational cortex. Neuroimaging research has attempted to identify abnormalities in components of these systems that would underlie the behavioral abnormalities seen in disorders of social and emotional processing, notably autism spectrum disorders, the focus of this review. However, the findings have been variable. The most replicated anatomic finding (a tendency toward large brains) is not modular, and metabolic imaging and functional imaging (although showing substantial atypicality in activation) are not consistent regarding specific anatomic sites. Moreover, autism spectrum disorder demonstrates substantial heterogeneity on multiple levels. Here evidence is marshaled from a review of neuroimaging data to support the claim that abnormalities in social and emotional processing on the autism spectrum are a consequence of systems disruptions in which the behaviors are a final common pathway and the focal findings can be variable, downstream of other pathogenetic mechanisms, and downstream of more pervasive abnormalities.

Group versus individual verbal and visuospatial memory outcome following epilepsy surgery was evaluated by a non-parametric method in 25 left and 29 right temporal lobectomy patients. Twenty-five controls were assessed twice. Analyses of change at an individual level evaluated by this statistical approach based on paired-ranks were compared to results with a method based on distances (Reliable Change). The left temporal lobectomy group deteriorated in the two verbal memory variables (p &lt; 0.01 and 0.05). High levels of individual changes unexplained by group patterns were disclosed in the three memory variables analyzed in the patients. Significant individual change, although less pronounced, also occurred in the controls. Group versus individual outcome was adequately distinguished by the non-parametric method. To properly analyze memory change after epilepsy surgery, evaluation at group and individual level ought to combined.
In 1948, Seymour S. Kety and Carl F. Schmidt published back-to-back papers in the JCI that are widely acknowledged as landmarks. Upon publication, the studies resolved a century-old debate, irrefutably demonstrating that cerebral blood flow is regionally regulated. The reported findings turned out to be so powerful in their implications that they provided the inspirational spark that illuminated a brand-new field: functional brain imaging. Thus these papers are landmarks of the rarest kind, not only ending a controversy, but also giving birth to one of the most exciting fields within modern day neuroscience.



Atypical antipsychotics are a major advance in the management of schizophrenia. The reevaluation of widely held risk/benefit assessments of the various atypical antipsychotics provides an opportunity to improve treatment patterns. The best available clinical trial evidence indicates that efficacy among the atypical antipsychotics (at equivalent doses) is very similar, but safety and tolerability profiles differ significantly. Atypical antipsychotics differ markedly in their potential to cause metabolic disturbances, including obesity, diabetes, dyslipidemia, and the metabolic syndrome; clozapine and olanzapine carry the greatest risks, atypical antipsychotics like risperidone and quetiapine have lower risks, and newer agents like ziprasidone and aripiprazole are associated with minimal metabolic risks. Results from the Atypical Antipsychotic Therapy and Metabolic Issues (AtAMI) survey define important opportunities for improving medical and psychiatric outcomes during atypical antipsychotic therapy. (See accompanying article by Newcomer et al) Additional educational and research efforts are required to increase understanding of common conditions such as the metabolic syndrome, increase awareness of uncommon but serious events like diabetic ketoacidosis, and pancreatitis, and identify appropriate strategies for monitoring the risks/benefits of atypical antipsychotic therapy. As clinicians refine practice patterns regarding the atypical antipsychotics, they may require additional knowledge and resources to fully incorporate risk/benefit considerations and optimize long-term psychiatric and medical outcomes.
The gene coding for cardioacceleratory peptide 2b (CAP2b; pELYAFPRV) has been isolated and sequenced from the moth Manduca sexta (GenBank accession #AY649544). Because of its significant homology to the CAPA gene in Drosophila melanogaster, this gene is called the Manduca CAPA gene. The Manduca CAPA gene is 958 nucleotides long with 29 untranslated nucleotides from the beginning of the sequence to the putative start initiation site. The CAPA gene has a single open reading frame, 441 nucleotides long, that codes for a predicted precursor protein of 147 amino acids. The predicted prepropeptide encodes a single copy of each of three deduced propeptides, a CAP2b propeptide, with a Q substituted for an E at the N-terminus (QLYAFPRVa), and two novel CAP2b-related propeptides (DGVLNLYPFPRVa and TEGPGMWFGPRLa). To reduce confusion and to adopt a more standardized nomenclature, we rename pELYAFPRVa as Mas-CAPA-1 and assign the names of Mas-CAPA-2 to DGVLNLYPFPRVa and Mas-PK-1 (Pyrokinin-1) to TEGPGMWFGPRLa. The spatial and temporal expression pattern of the CAPA gene in the Manduca central nervous system (CNS) was determined in all major post-embryonic stages using in situ hybridization techniques. The CAPA gene is expressed in a total of 27 pairs of neurons in the post-embryonic Manduca CNS. A total of 16 pairs of cells is observed in the brain, two pairs in the sub-esophageal ganglion (SEG), one pair in the third thoracic ganglion (T3), one pair in each unfused abdominal ganglion (A1-A6) and two pairs in the fused terminal ganglion. The mRNA from the CAPA gene is present in nearly every ganglion in each post-embryonic stage. The number of cells expressing the CAPA gene varies during post-embryonic life, starting at 54 cells in first-instar larvae and declining to a minimum of 14 cells midway through adult development.
Oxidative stress may alter the functions of many proteins including the Slo1 large conductance calcium-activated potassium channel (BKCa). Previous results demonstrated that in the virtual absence of Ca2+, the oxidant chloramine-T (Ch-T), without the involvement of cysteine oxidation, increases the open probability and slows the deactivation of BKCa channels formed by human Slo1 (hSlo1) alpha subunits alone. Because native BKCa channel complexes may include the auxiliary subunit beta1, we investigated whether beta1 influences the oxidative regulation of hSlo1. Oxidation by Ch-T with beta1 present shifted the half-activation voltage much further in the hyperpolarizing direction (-75 mV) as compared with that with alpha alone (-30 mV). This shift was eliminated in the presence of high [Ca2+]i, but the increase in open probability in the virtual absence of Ca2+ remained significant at physiologically relevant voltages. Furthermore, the slowing of channel deactivation after oxidation was even more dramatic in the presence of beta1. Oxidation of cysteine and methionine residues within beta1 was not involved in these potentiated effects because expression of mutant beta1 subunits lacking cysteine or methionine residues produced results similar to those with wild-type beta1. Unlike the results with alpha alone, oxidation by Ch-T caused a significant acceleration of channel activation only when beta1 was present. The beta1 M177 mutation disrupted normal channel activation and prevented the Ch-T-induced acceleration of activation. Overall, the functional effects of oxidation of the hSlo1 pore-forming alpha subunit are greatly amplified by the presence of beta1, which leads to the additional increase in channel open probability and the slowing of deactivation. Furthermore, M177 within beta1 is a critical structural determinant of channel activation and oxidative sensitivity. Together, the oxidized BKCa channel complex with beta1 has a considerable chance of being open within the physiological voltage range even at low [Ca2+]i.
Pathogenic T cells in organ-specific autoimmune diseases use a limited number of TCR alpha- and beta-chains. In experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) induced in Lewis rats by immunization with myelin basic protein, encephalitogenic T cells mainly use Vbeta8.2 TCR and clonal expansion of the Vbeta8.2 spectratype containing the EAE-specific complementarity-determining region 3 (CDR3) sequence, DSSYEQYFGPG, is found in the spinal cord throughout the course of clinical EAE. In the present study we performed temporal and spatial analyses of Vbeta8.2 spectratype expansion by CDR3 spectratyping and subsequent DNA hybridization with a probe specific for the encephalitogenic CDR3 sequence to elucidate the kinetics of encephalitogenic T cells during the induction phase after neuroantigen sensitization. It was demonstrated that Vbeta8.2 spectratype expansion and/or the positive signal in Southern blot were first detected in the regional lymph nodes as early as day 3 postimmunization and was disseminated over the lymphoid organs by day 6. Because perfusion of immunized rats with PBS erased the positive signals on day 3 postimmunization, the majority of Vbeta8.2-positive encephalitogenic T cells at the very early stage would reside within the lymphatic or blood vessels. Furthermore, removal of the draining lymph node 1, 3, and 6 days after immunization in the foot pad did not ameliorate clinical EAE. These findings strongly suggest that encephalitogenic T cells disseminate throughout the whole body very rapidly after sensitization. Analysis of pathogenic T cells at the clonal level provides useful information for designing effective immunotherapy.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a slowly progressive neurodegenerative disorder mainly characterized by degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra and the ventral tegmental area, in combination with a varying loss of central noradrenergic (locus coeruleus), cholinergic (nucleus basalis of Meynert) and serotonergic (dorsal raphe nuclei) integrity, leading to a multitude of motor and non-motor behavioral disturbances. Apart from the clinical motor hallmarks, in the early stages of disease, subtle cognitive dysfunction might be seen comprising mainly executive dysfunction, with secondary visuospatial and mnemonic disturbances. In about 20-40% of patients, these problems may eventually proceed to dementia, which constitutes an important risk factor for caregiver distress, decreased quality of life and nursing home placement. Dementia in PD is typically characterized by a progressive dysexecutive syndrome with attentional deficits and fluctuating cognition, often accompanied by psychotic symptoms. It is thought to be the result of a combination of both subcortical and cortical changes. PD-related dopaminergic deficiency in the nucleus caudatus and mesocortical areas (due to degeneration of projections from the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area) and cholinergic deficiency in the cortex (due to degeneration of ascending projections from the nucleus basalis of Meynert), combined with additional Alzheimer-pathology and cortical Lewy bodies, may greatly contribute to dementia. Current treatment of dementia in PD is based on compensation of the profound cholinergic deficiency. Recent studies with the cholinesterase inhibitors galantamine, donepezil and rivastigmine show promising results in improving cognition and ameliorating psychotic symptoms, which must further be confirmed in randomized controlled trials.
The cognitive and behavioral sequelae (i.e., nonmotor profile) of Parkinson's disease (PD), with executive dysfunction and depression being most prominent, have typically been overshadowed due to an emphasis on motor symptomatology. The apparent categorization of PD as a disorder isolated to the dopaminergic system may be a generalization of the disease pathology. Dopamine therapy, used for the treatment of motor symptoms, has not consistently been shown to resolve nonmotor impairments. Research evidence indicates that nondopaminergic neurotransmitter systems (i.e., serotonergic, noradrenergic, &amp; cholinergic) are disrupted in PD and may contribute to cognitive and behavioral dysfunction. Furthermore, Lewy bodies within cortical and subcortical structures can add to the nonmotor profile in PD. Pharmacological interventions for the treatment of cognitive and behavioral impairments associated with PD are few, especially for nondemented patients. The current review of the literature highlights evidence that associates nonmotor dysfunctions with neurochemical and clinicopathological correlates of PD.
The sensation of pain can be dramatically altered in response to injury or disease. This sensitization can occur at the level of the primary sensory neuron, and can be mediated by multiple biochemical mechanisms, including, but not limited to, changes in gene transcription, changes in translation, stability, or subcellular localization of translated proteins, and posttranslational modifications. This review focuses on posttranslational modifications to ion channels expressed in primary sensory neurons that form the machinery driving peripheral sensitization and pain hypersensitivity. Studies published to date show strong evidence for modulation of ion channels involved in transduction and transmission of nociceptive inputs coincident with biophysical and behavioral sensitization. The roles of phosphorylation and oxidation/reduction reactions of voltage-dependent sodium, potassium, and calcium channels are discussed, as well as phosphorylation-mediated modulation of sensory transduction channels.
Acute noxious stimuli activate a specialized neuronal detection system that generates sensations of pain and, generally, adaptive behavioral responses. More persistent noxious stimuli notably those associated with some chronic injuries and disease states not only activate the pain-signaling system but also dramatically alter its properties so that weak stimuli produce pain. These hyperalgesic states arise from at least two distinct broad classes of mechanisms. These are peripheral and central sensitization associated with increased responsiveness of peripheral nociceptor terminals and dorsal horn neurons, respectively. Here we review the key features of these sensitized states and discuss the role of one neurotrophic factor, nerve growth factor, as a peripheral mediator of sensitization and of another factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, as a mediator of central sensitization. We use as a specific example the pain induced by acid stimuli. We review the neurobiology of such pain states, and discuss how acid stimuli both initiate sensitization and how the neuronal processing of acid stimuli is subject to sensitization.
Several myelin-derived proteins are inhibitory cues that contribute to the lack of regeneration of the CNS and inhibit neurite outgrowth from some neurons in vitro. This inhibition is blocked if neurons are exposed to neurotrophins before encountering the inhibitors. Here, we demonstrate that chimaerin, one of the Rho GTPase activating proteins, is transcriptionally up-regulated after exposure to neurotrophins in post-natal cerebellar neurons. The expression of alpha chimaerin in the cerebellum is developmentally correlated with the abolishment of the inhibitory effect of myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG). Ectopic expression of alpha chimaerin in cerebellar neurons results in resistance to MAG in regard to neurite outgrowth. These results suggest that up-regulated expression of chimaerin counteracts the activation of RhoA, which is a key molecule in transducing inhibitory signals in neurons.
Elevated beta-amyloid is thought to trigger the onset of Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease is marked by progressive loss of cognitive function, an early symptom of which is episodic memory deficits. Impairment of episodic memory is linked to hippocampal pathology. We investigated the signal transduction consequences of exposure to nanomolar to low micromolar concentrations of aggregate forms of beta-amyloid in the hippocampus. We found that, in addition to activation of ERK MAPK and its downstream target ribosomal S6 kinase in hippocampal slice cultures following acute exposure to oligomeric beta-amyloid(1-42), ERK activation also requires phosphoinositide-3 kinase activity. These effects were contingent on the alpha7 subtype of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor. Hippocampal slice cultures treated acutely with oligomeric beta-amyloid(1-42) did not exhibit JNK MAPK activation; however, chronic exposure to oligomers or high molecular weight aggregates of beta-amyloid(1-42) led to JNK MAPK activation coincident with ERK MAPK down-regulation. In contrast to the effects of acute application of oligomeric beta-amyloid(1-42), nicotine activated ERK MAPK via alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors utilizing protein kinase A as an intermediate. In conclusion, we found that both the physical state and duration of exposure to beta-amyloid are determinants of MAPK recruitment in hippocampus. We also found that nicotine and beta-amyloid activate ERK MAPK via alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors but use distinct intermediate kinases. These data indicate the existence of differential coupling of alpha7 to downstream targets depending on the type of ligand that leads to receptor activation.
The environmental context in which psychostimulant drugs are experienced influences their ability to induce immediate early genes (IEGs) in the striatum. When given in the home cage amphetamine induces IEGs predominately in striatonigral neurons, but when given in a novel test environment amphetamine also induces IEGs in striatopallidal neurons. The source of the striatopetal projections that regulate the ability of amphetamine to differentially engage these two striatofugal circuits has never been described. We report that transection of corticostriatal afferents selectively blocks, whereas enhancement of cortical activity with an ampakine selectively augments, the number of amphetamine-evoked c-fos-positive striatopallidal (but not striatonigral) neurons. In addition, blockade of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling cascade preferentially inhibits the number of amphetamine-evoked c-fos-positive striatopallidal neurons. These results suggest that glutamate released from corticostriatal afferents modulates the ability of amphetamine to engage striatopallidal neurons through an ERK/MAPK signaling-dependent mechanism. We speculate that this may be one mechanism by which environmental context facilitates some forms of drug experience-dependent plasticity, such as psychomotor sensitization.
Hypothermia has been demonstrated to be an effective neuroprotective strategy in a number of models of ischaemic and excitotoxic neurodegeneration in vitro and in vivo. Reduced glutamate release and free radical production have been postulated as potential mechanisms underlying this effect but no definitive mechanism has yet been reported. In the current study, we have used oxygen-glucose deprivation in organotypic hippocampal slice cultures as an in vitro model of cerebral ischaemia. When assessed by propidium iodide fluorescence, reducing the temperature during oxygen-glucose deprivation to 31-33 degrees C was significantly neuroprotective but this effect was lost if the initiation of hypothermia was delayed until the post-insult recovery period. The neuroprotective effects of hypothermia were associated with a significant decrease in both nitric oxide production, as assessed by 3-amino-4-aminomethyl-2',7'-difluorofluorescein fluorescence, and superoxide formation. Further, hypothermia significantly attenuated NMDA-induced nitric oxide formation in the absence of hypoxia/hypoglycaemia. We conclude that the neuroprotective effects of hypothermia are mediated through a reduction in nitric oxide and superoxide formation and that this effect is likely to be downstream of NMDA receptor activation.
Elucidation of the biochemical steps leading to the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced degeneration of the nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) pathway has provided new clues to the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease. In line with the enhancement of MPTP toxicity by diethyldithiocarbamate (DDC), here we demonstrate how other cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2E1 inhibitors, such as diallyl sulphide (DAS) and phenylethylisothiocyanate (PIC), also potentiate the selective DA neurone degeneration in C57/bl mice. In addition, we show that CYP 2E1 is present in the brain and in the basal ganglia of this mouse strain, as measured by RT-PCR, western blot analysis and immunohistochemistry. A kinetic analysis of MPTP and its metabolites, by means of the microdialysis technique in the striatum, indicates that no detoxification metabolic pathway is affected by any of these inhibitors. This does not rule out, however, that an undetected detoxification pathway involving CYP 2E1 is operating. In order to provide direct evidence for this isozyme involvement, CYP 2E1 knockout mice were challenged with MPTP or the combined treatment. Here we show that these transgenic mice have a low sensitivity to MPTP alone, similar to their wild-type counterparts, suggesting that it is likely that transgenic mice compensate for the missing enzyme. However, DDC pretreatment completely fails to enhance MPTP toxicity in CYP 2E1 knockout mice, whereas this enhancement is regularly present in wild-type animals. This study indicates that the occurrence of CYP 2E1 in C57/bl mouse brain is relevant to MPTP toxicity, and suggests that this isozyme may have a detoxificant role related to the efflux transporter of the toxin.
We tested the hypothesis that experimentally produced epilepsy (by kindling) may induce changes in GABAA receptor expression in some but not all interneuron populations. Using laser capture microdissection and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (QPCR) analysis, GABAA receptor alpha subunit expression in calbindin- (CBir) and parvalbumin- (Parvir) immunoreactive interneurons was compared between normal brains and brains in which amygdala kindled seizure responses were permanently established. Two weeks after the last seizure response, Cbir neurons in the hilus and/or perirhinal cortex up-regulated the expression of alpha2, alpha3 and alpha5 subunit mRNAs up to 900%. In contrast, no changes were found in Parvir neurons. In Cbir neurons contralateral to the amygdala kindling site alpha1 subunit mRNA expression was increased. In both Cbir and Parvir neurons, the coordinated subunit expression patterns ipsilateral (fully kindled) and contralateral (partially kindled) to the kindling site suggested that permanent and transient co-expressional relationships occur respectively. In the perirhinal cortex alpha2 protein was up-regulated in the processes but not in the cell somas of calbindin-positive neurons, whereas alpha3 subunit protein expression was up-regulated on the cell bodies of Cbir neurons in the hilus. These data indicate that different interneuron populations may selectively reorganize their GABAA subunit expression in response to seizures.
The present study investigated the role of alpha2A-adrenoceptor (alpha2A-AR) subtype in the regulation of noradrenaline (NA) and dopamine (DA) release in the nucleus accumbens (NAc). The effect of locally infused and systemically injected alpha2-AR agonist, dexmedetomidine (DMT), and alpha2-AR antagonist, atipamezole, on NA and DA release was investigated in alpha2A-AR knockout and control mice by using in vivo microdialysis. In addition, we compared the drug effects on DA and NA release in the NAc to their effect on locomotor activity. Baseline NA and DA concentrations did not differ between genotypes. Local infusion of DMT decreased, in a concentration-dependent manner, NA, but not DA, levels in the control mice. However, systemic injection of DMT decreased both NA and DA levels in the control mice. In both cases DMT had no effects on transmitter release in alpha2A-AR knockout mice. Our results suggest that alpha2-ARs regulate the release of NA, but not DA, at the terminal level in the NAc. However, alpha2-ARs regulate DA release in the NAc indirectly by their effect on DA neurones in the ventral tegmental area via an unknown mechanism. In both cases the regulation is mediated by alpha2A-adrenoceptor subtype. Also the modulation of locomotor activity by alpha2-AR agonist and antagonist seems to be mediated via alpha2A-adrenoceptors.
Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) protects hippocampus from age-related and irradiation-induced changes that lead to impairment in synaptic function; the evidence suggests that this is due to its anti-inflammatory effects, specifically preventing changes induced by the proinflammatory cytokine, interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta). In this study, we have investigated the possibility that EPA may prevent the effects of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) administration, which have been shown to lead to deterioration of synaptic function in rat hippocampus. The data indicate that treatment of hippocampal neurones with EPA abrogated the LPS-induced increases in phosphorylation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase, c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), the transcription factor, c-Jun and the mitochondrial protein, Bcl-2. In parallel, we report that intraperitoneal administration of LPS to adult rats increases phosphorylation of JNK, c-Jun and Bcl-2 in hippocampal tissue and that these changes are coupled with increased IL-1beta concentration. Treatment of rats with EPA abrogates these effects and also blocks the LPS-induced impairment in long-term potentiation in perforant path-granule cell synapses that accompanies these changes. We propose that the neuroprotective effect of EPA may be dependent on its ability to inhibit the downstream consequences of JNK activation.
Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is a widely adopted animal model system for studying human multiple sclerosis that affects the central nervous system (CNS). To understand the underlying pathogenic mechanisms of the autoimmune T cell response, localization, enumeration and characterization of autoreactive T cells are essential. We assessed encephalitogenic proteolipid protein epitope (PLP(139-151))-specific T cells in the periphery and CNS of SJL/J mice using MHC class II I-As multimers during both pre-clinical and clinical phases of PLP-induced EAE in conjunction with T cell function. Our results strongly suggest that PLP(139-151)-specific CD4+ T cells first expand primarily in the CNS-draining cervical lymph nodes and then migrate to the CNS. In the CNS, these PLP-specific CD4+ T cells accumulate, become activated and differentiate into effector cells that produce IFN-gamma in response to the self-peptide.
The present study examined the modulating effects of an intrahippocampal injection of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) on brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) mRNA expression 0.5, 2, 4, and 6 h following contextual fear conditioning, a task known to increase BDNF mRNA, in rats. Contextual fear conditioning produced a time-dependent increase in BDNF mRNA that varied by region of hippocampus. IL-1beta blocked or reduced these increases in BDNF mRNA in the CA1, CA2, and dentate gyrus regions of the hippocampus, but had no effect in cortical regions. These data support the idea that IL-1beta-produced memory deficits may be mediated via BDNF mRNA reductions in hippocampus.
Chronic restraint stress, administered during early infection with Theiler's virus, was found to exacerbate the acute central nervous system (CNS) viral infection and the subsequent demyelinating phase of disease (an animal model of Multiple Sclerosis (MS)) in SJL male and female mice. During early infection, stressed mice displayed decreased body weights and spontaneous activity; while increased behavioral signs of illness and plasma corticosterone (CORT) levels. During the subsequent chronic demyelinating phase of disease, previously stressed mice had greater behavioral signs of the chronic phase, worsened rotarod performance, and increased inflammatory lesions of the spinal cord. In addition, mice developed autoantibodies to myelin basic protein (MBP), proteolipid protein peptide (PLP139-151), and myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein peptide (MOG33-55).
Cerebrospinal fluid prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) levels are elevated in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), which suggests that they are involved in neurodegeneration. We previously reported that TNF-alpha derived from human macrophages, in response to beta-amyloid or amyloidogenic C-terminal peptide, is a main mediator of inflammatory neurotoxicity. In a continuation of this work, the present study investigated the direct effect of PGE2, one of the major prostaglandins produced in the brain, on cell viability in SH-SY5Y neuronal cells treated with TNF-alpha. PGE2 did not promote neurotoxicity, but rather had a strong protective effect against TNF-alpha by ameliorating TNF-alpha-induced apoptosis and also by rescuing the intracellular level of beta-catenin, a key transducer of the Wnt signaling pathway. PGE2-mediated stabilization of beta-catenin was accompanied by T-cell factor/lymphoid enhancer factor (Tcf/Lef)-mediated transcriptional activation, which was followed by an increase in the cyclinD1 level. Pharmacological studies provided further evidence supporting the notion that PGE2-mediated neuroprotection against TNF-alpha involves the stimulation of Tcf/Lef signaling through EP1-, EP2-, and EP4-mediated increases of beta-catenin in SH-SY5Y cells. In addition, this PGE2 effect appears to be dependent on the activation of protein kinase A, phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, phospholipase C, and to a lesser extent protein kinase C. Thus, the molecular mechanism governing the inhibitory effect of PGE2 against TNF-alpha may involve the activation and cross talk of multiple signal transduction and play an important role in regulating the survival of neurons during the neurotoxic inflammatory response associated with neurodegenerative diseases including AD.
In this brief article, we report preliminary results from an NIH-funded project to use functional brain imaging to study the natural history of neurodegeneration during the earliest clinical stages of PD. We used positron emission tomography (PET) to measure DAT binding (18F-FPCIT), resting glucose metabolism (18FFDG), and brain activation (H215O) responses in 20 newly diagnosed PD patients. The longitudinal study is being conducted at three time points for each measurement during a 5-year period. The interim results indicate the evolution of abnormal metabolic brain networks and activation responses occurring in parallel with presynaptic nigrostriatal dopamine dysfunction in early PD.
Motor neuron damage and cortical spinal tract (CST) degeneration are pathological features of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). We combined whole-brain diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and three-dimensional magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging (MRSI) to study the CST at different locations. Eight ALS patients were compared with normal controls. Fractional anisotropy (FA) and mean diffusivity (MD), and the ratio of N-acetyl-aspartate (NAA) to creatine (Cr) were measured at various locations in the CST, including the subcortical white matter (SWM), centrum semiovale (CS), periventricular white matter (PV), posterior limb of the internal capsule (PIC) and cerebral peduncle (CP). Patients showed significantly lower FA than controls in the CST, including the SWM, CS, PV and PIC. Although there was a trend towards elevated MD in ALS patients, this did not reach statistical significance. NAA/Cr ratios were also decreased in ALS patients compared with normal controls, with significant differences in the SWM and PV but not in PIC. Combined whole-brain DTI and MRSI can detect axonal degeneration in ALS. Measurements of FA obtained in the SWM, CS, PV and PIC, and NAA/Cr ratios in the SWM and PV yield the most robust results.
Of the 206 patients who contracted Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) in Singapore five developed large artery cerebral infarctions. Four patients were critically-ill and three died. Intravenous immunoglobulin was given to three patients. An increased incidence of deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism was also observed among the critically-ill patients. We believe our experience warrants an increased vigilance against stroke and other thrombotic complications among critically-ill SARS patients in future outbreaks, especially if treatment such as intravenous immunoglobulin, that increases pro-thrombotic tendency, is contemplated.
The pathway to solving simple Mendelian inherited neurological disease is now well established. Barely a month goes by without new linkage data or mutations in a novel gene being reported. These developments are giving insights into a range of neurological conditions from the cortex to the muscle. However, most of these diseases are individually rare, and one of the major challenges facing neuroscience is to devise methods to find the genetic variants that confer risk of common diseases and differential response to treatment. This latter area is an important emerging field known as pharmacogenomics. Unlike Mendelian genetics where effective strategies are well established, the strategies for detecting moderate genetic effects in populations have been problematic. It is likely that a combination of techniques will be used, involving both linkage analysis and linkage disequilibrium mapping. In this review we consider some of the approaches that can be taken to resolve the common genetic variation underlying common disease.








CGRP peptide, a widely expressed constituent of sensory neurons, plays important roles in nerve function and repair when axons are severed. CGRP synthesis declines, yet peptide nonetheless accumulates in severed axon endbulbs. In this work we explore an apparent selective and ongoing expression of CGRP peptide in regenerative sensory axon sprouts. Following sural nerve crush in rats out to 14 days, regenerating and branching sensory axons had intense and selective expression of CGRP, not associated with endbulbs. Parent L4 and L5 perikarya and axons in the sural nerve proximal to crush, however, did not exhibit such heightened CGRP presence. Instead, back labeling of regenerating axons with fluorogold or diamidino yellow labeled perikarya with reduced CGRP expression. Similarly, ATF-3, a robust marker of axotomized neurons, was associated with reduced, rather than elevated expression of alphaCGRP mRNA. Unexpectedly, however, we identified an enlarged secondary population of intact uninjured neurons, frequently smaller and projecting to the dorsal horn with new and heightened intense CGRP expression but not ATF-3- or tracer-labeled. Distal regenerating sensory axons selectively express CGRP peptide despite reduced perikaryal content, a phenomenon not explained by simple accumulation. Having an injured neighbor neuron, however, may also paradoxically alter how CGRP is expressed in intact neurons.
Xeroderma pigmentosum group A (XPA) is a hereditary disorder characterized by cutaneous symptoms and progressive neurodegeneration. Since XPA patients exhibit peripheral neuropathy, neuronal deafness, rigidity, dysphagia, and laryngeal dystonia, it is indispensable for investigation of the neurodegeneration to analyze brainstem and basal ganglia lesions clinically and pathologically; we have previously shown the role of oxidative stress in the development of basal ganglia lesions. Here we immunohistochemically examined the expression of neurotransmitters, calcium-binding proteins, and neuropeptides in the brainstem, basal ganglia, and thalamus in 5 XPA autopsy cases. In the brainstem, immunoreactivity for tyrosine hydroxylase, tryptophan hydroxylase, and calbindin-D28K was severely reduced throughout the brainstem in all the XPA cases. Nevertheless, the expressions of parvalbumin, substance P, and methionine-enkephalin in the brainstem were comparatively preserved; the exception being reduced immunoreactivity for them in the cochlear and dorsal column nuclei in 3 cases. The large cell neurons in the putamen were preferentially reduced, the immunoreactivity for tyrosine hydroxylase reflecting the dopaminergic afferent and efferent pathways was severely affected, and the expression of 3 calcium binding proteins (i.e. parvalbumin, calbindin-D28K, and calretinin) was disturbed in various ways. The expression of substance P and methionine-enkephalin, which are involved in the efferent pathways in the basal ganglia, in the globus pallidus and substantia nigra was spared. It is speculated that the selective damage to the dopamine system in the basal ganglia and the disturbed monoaminergic expression in the brainstem could be related to clinical abnormalities such as the rigidity, laryngeal dystonia, and several neurophysiological changes. Functional analysis of autopsy brains will facilitate clarification of the pathogenesis of the neurodegeneration in XPA.
DNA microarray technology is based on the principle of hybridization between 2 complementary strands of nucleic acids, one being fixed into a solid membrane, the other being the sample to analyze. This has resulted in a very powerful method to examine differential gene expression between samples, and has been widely used in the study of tumors. The application of DNA microarray technology to the study of the nervous system has to consider several properties of the nervous tissue: composition of various neuronal types, as well as astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and microglia; regional and area differences; developmental and age-dependent variations; and functional and pathological status. Moreover, human samples are usually obtained postmortem following variable agonal periods and postmortem delays between death and tissue preservation, which are accompanied by variable RNA degradation. Yet human postmortem nervous tissue stored in brain banks offers a unique opportunity to facilitate material for the study of diseases of the nervous system and to gain direct understanding on the mechanisms of disease. This review analyzes the application of DNA microarray technology to current practice using brain-banked tissues in order to recognize and minimize sub-optimal processing of brain samples and to correct pitfalls due to inadequate procedures. Also discussed are RNA preservation and RNA degradation effects on expression pattern assessments, analysis of individual versus pooled samples, array normalization, types of DNA chip platforms, whole genomic analysis versus specialized chips, and microgenomics. Minimizing RNA degradation and improving detection of resistant RNA in postmortem brain has been considered in detail in order to improve the efficiency and reliability of DNA microarray technology employed in the study of human postmortem nervous tissue.
Information processing in the brain is believed to require coordinated activity across many neurons. With the recent development of techniques for simultaneously recording the spiking activity of large numbers of individual neurons, the search for complex multicell firing patterns that could help reveal this neural code has become possible. Here we develop a new approach for analyzing sequential firing patterns involving an arbitrary number of neurons based on relative firing order. Specifically, we develop a combinatorial method for quantifying the degree of matching between a &quot;reference sequence&quot; of N distinct &quot;letters&quot; (representing a particular target order of firing by N cells) and an arbitrarily long &quot;word&quot; composed of any subset of those letters including repeats (representing the relative time order of spikes in an arbitrary firing pattern). The method involves computing the probability that a random permutation of the word's letters would by chance alone match the reference sequence as well as or better than the actual word does, assuming all permutations were equally likely. Lower probabilities thus indicate better matching. The overall degree and statistical significance of sequence matching across a heterogeneous set of words (such as those produced during the course of an experiment) can be computed from the corresponding set of probabilities. This approach can reduce the sample size problem associated with analyzing complex firing patterns. The approach is general and thus applicable to other types of neural data beyond multiple spike trains, such as EEG events or imaging signals from multiple locations. We have recently applied this method to quantify memory traces of sequential experience in the rodent hippocampus during slow wave sleep.
CA1 pyramidal neurons from animals that have acquired a hippocampus-dependent task show a reduced slow postburst afterhyperpolarization (sAHP). To understand the functional significance of this change, we examined and characterized the sAHP activated by different patterns of synaptic stimuli and its impact on postsynaptic signal integration. Whole cell current-clamp recordings were performed on rat CA1 pyramidal neurons, and trains of stratum radiatum stimuli varying in duration, frequency, and intensity were used to activate the AHP. At -68 mV, a short train of subthreshold stimuli (20-150 Hz) generated only the medium AHP. In contrast, just two suprathreshold stimuli &gt;50 Hz triggered a prominent sAHP sensitive to bath-applications of isoproterenol, carbachol, or intracellularly applied BAPTA, suggesting that the underlying current is the Ca2+-activated K+ current, the sIAHP. The sAHP magnitude was positively related to stimulus train duration and frequency, consistent with its dependence on intracellular Ca2+ accumulation for activation. About 20% of neurons recorded did not have a sAHP. In response to high-frequency suprathreshold stimuli, these neurons developed a pronounced afterdepolarization (ADP) and multiple action potential firing. The ADP magnitude increased with successive stimuli and was positively related to stimulus intensity and frequency. It was sensitive to bath-applications of thapsigargin and nitrendipine, and abolished by d-AP5, indicating that it is supported by intracellular Ca2+ release, the L-type Ca2+ influx, and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated influx. In the presence of D-AP5, we were unable to trigger an ADP with maximal stimulus intensity. Pharmacologically eliminating the sAHP allowed neurons to develop an ADP with the original stimulus train. We propose that the slow AHP acts to facilitate Mg2+ re-block of the activated NMDA receptors, thereby reducing temporal summation and preventing an NMDA receptor-dependent ADP during intense synaptic events. Neuromodulation of the sAHP may thus affect information throughput and regulate NMDA receptor-mediated plasticity.
The spinal network coordinating locomotion is comprised of a core of glutamate and glycine interneurons. This network is modulated by several transmitter systems including spinal GABA interneurons. The purpose of this study is to explore the contribution of GABAergic neurons to the regulation of locomotor burst frequency in the lamprey model. Using gabazine, a competitive GABAA antagonist more specific than bicuculline, the goal was to provide a detailed analysis of the influence of an endogenous activation of GABAA receptors on fictive locomotion, as well as their possible interaction with GABAB and involvement of GABAC receptors. During N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-induced fictive locomotion (ventral root recordings in the isolated spinal cord), gabazine (0.1-100 microM) significantly increased the burst rate up to twofold, without changes in regularity or &quot;burst quality.&quot; Gabazine had a proportionately greater effect at higher initial burst rates. Picrotoxin (1-7.5 microM), a less selective GABAA antagonist, also produced a pronounced increase in frequency, but at higher concentrations, the rhythm deteriorated, likely due to the unspecific effects on glycine receptors. The selective GABAB antagonist CGP55845 also increased the frequency, and this effect was markedly enhanced when combined with the GABAA antagonist gabazine. The GABAC antagonist (1,2,5,6-tetrahydropyridine-4-yl)methylphosphinic acid (TPMPA) had no effect on locomotor bursting. Thus the spinal GABA system does play a prominent role in burst frequency regulation in that it reduces the burst frequency by &lt; or =50%, presumably due to presynaptic and soma-dendritic effects documented previously. It is not required for burst generation, but acts as a powerful modulator.
Synaptic vesicles are released stochastically, and therefore stimuli that increase a neuron's synaptic input might increase noise at its spike output. Indeed this appears true for neurons in primary visual cortex, where spike output variability increases with stimulus contrast. But in retinal ganglion cells, although intracellular recordings (with spikes blocked) showed that stronger stimuli increase membrane fluctuations, extracellular recordings showed that noise at the spike output is constant. Here we show that these seemingly paradoxical findings occur in the same cell and explain why. We made intracellular recordings from ganglion cells, in vitro, and presented periodic stimuli of various contrasts. For each stimulus cycle, we measured the response at the stimulus frequency (F1) for both membrane potential and spikes as well as the spike rate. The membrane and spike F1 response increased with contrast, but noise (SD) in the F1 responses and the spike rate was constant. We also measured membrane fluctuations (with spikes blocked) during the response depolarization and found that they did increase with contrast. However, increases in fluctuation amplitude were small relative to the depolarization (&lt;10% at high contrast). A model based on estimated synaptic convergence, release rates, and membrane properties accounted for the relative magnitudes of fluctuations and depolarization. Furthermore, a cell's peak spike response preceded the peak depolarization, and therefore fluctuation amplitude peaked as the spike response declined. We conclude that two extremely general properties of a neuron, synaptic convergence and spike generation, combine to minimize the effects of membrane fluctuations on spiking.
Experiments were carried out in urethane-anesthetized rats to evaluate the hypothesis that the red nucleus has functional connections with the hippocampal formation. Depth profiles of electrical stimulation in experiment 1 confirmed that stimulation administered to the red nucleus elicited theta field activity in the hippocampal formation with a linear relationship between stimulus intensity and theta frequency. Experiment 2 showed that microinfusion of local anesthetic procaine hydrochloride into the medial septum resulted in a reversible blockade of theta field activity elicited by electrical stimulation of the red nucleus. In experiment 3, the discharge activity of red nucleus cells was recorded during the field conditions of hippocampal synchrony (theta) and hippocampal asynchrony [large amplitude irregular activity (LIA)]. Analysis revealed that 26/46 (56%) of red nucleus cells were theta-related, whereas the remaining 20 (44%) were nonrelated. The majority of theta-related cells were classified as tonic theta-on. A brief increase above the basal discharge rate of tonic theta-on red nucleus cells during LIA predicted the transition from LIA to theta with 400- to 500-ms latency. Furthermore, higher frequency transitional discharges predicted higher theta frequencies, whereas higher discharge rates during theta predicted shifts to higher theta frequencies. The results supported the conclusion that the red nucleus, traditionally associated with motor functions, is functionally connected with the neural circuitry involved in the generation of theta band oscillation and synchrony in the hippocampal formation, in agreement with the predictions of the sensorimotor integration model of hippocampal function.
A series of experiments by our group suggest that the initiation and development of neurogenic inflammation in rats are mainly mediated by dorsal root reflexes (DRRs), which are conducted centrifugally from the spinal dorsal horn in primary afferent nocieptors. In this study, DRRs were recorded in anesthetized rats from single afferent fibers in the proximal ends of cut dorsal root filaments at the L4-L6 level and tested for responses to intradermal injection of capsaicin. Sympathectomy combined with pharmacological manipulations were employed to determine if the capsaicin-evoked enhancement of DRRs was subject to sympathetic modulation. DRRs could be recorded from both myelinated (Abeta and Adelta) and unmyelinated (C) afferent fibers. After capsaicin was injected intradermally into the plantar foot, a significant enhancement of DRRs was seen in C- and Adelta-fibers but not in Abeta-fibers. This enhancement of DRRs evoked by capsaicin injection was almost completely prevented by sympathectomy. However, if peripheral alpha1-adrenoceptors were activated by intra-arterial injection of phenylephrine, the enhancement of DRRs evoked by capsaicin could be restored, whereas no such restoration was seen following pretreatment with an alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist, UK14,304. Under sympathetically intact conditions, the enhanced DRRs following capsaicin injection could be blocked by administration of terazosin, an alpha1-adrenoceptor antagonist, but not by administration of yohimbine, an alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist. These results provide further evidence that the DRR-mediated neurogenic inflammation depends in part on intact sympathetic efferents acting on peripheral alpha1-adrenoceptors, which augment the sensitization of primary afferent nociceptors induced by capsaicin injection, helping trigger DRRs that produce vasodilation.
The problem of how the nervous system fuses sensory information from multiple modalities for upright stance control remains largely unsolved. It is well established that the visual, vestibular, and somatosensory modalities provide position and rate (e.g., velocity, acceleration) information for estimation of body dynamics. However, it is unknown whether any particular property dominates when multisensory information is fused. Our recent stochastic analysis of postural sway during quiet stance suggested that sensory input provides more accurate information about the body's velocity than its position or acceleration. Here we tested this prediction by degrading major sources of velocity information through removal/attenuation of sensory information from vision and proprioception. Experimental measures of postural sway were compared with model predictions to determine whether sway behavior was indicative of a deficit in velocity information rather than position or acceleration information. Subjects stood with eyes closed on a support surface that was 1) fixed, 2) foam, or 3) sway-referenced. Six measures characterizing the stochastic structure of postural sway behaved in a manner consistent with model predictions of degraded velocity information. Results were inconsistent with the effect of degrading only position or acceleration information. These findings support the hypothesis that velocity information is the most accurate form of sensory information used to stabilize posture during quiet stance. Our results are consistent with the assumption that changes in sway behavior resulting from commonly used experimental manipulations (e.g., foam, sway-referencing, eyes closed) are primarily attributed to loss of accurate velocity information.

The authors report a patient with biopsy-proven temporal arteritis who manifested Charles Bonnet syndrome (CBS). Treatment with steroid resulted in prompt resolution of visual hallucinations, despite persistent visual loss, suggesting that cerebral ischemia is a cofactor for the development of CBS.
Neurodevelopmental treatment (NDT) is the most used rehabilitation approach in the treatment of patients with stroke in the Western world today, despite the lack of evidence for its efficacy. The aim of this study was to conduct an intervention check and measure the nurses' competence, in positioning stroke patients according to the NDT approach. The sample consisted of 144 nurses in six neurological wards who were observed while positioning stroke patients according to the NDT approach. The nurses' combined mean competence scores within the wards was 195 (70%) of 280 (100%) possible, and for each ward the mean score varied between 181 (65%) and 206 (74%). This study indicates that nurses working in hospitals where the NDT approach has been implemented have the knowledge and skills to provide NDT nursing.
Neuronal pathway finding is crucial for structured cellular organization and development of neural circuits within the nervous system. Neuronal pathway finding within the visual system has been extensively studied and therefore is used as a model to review existing knowledge regarding concepts of this developmental process. General principles of neuron pathway finding throughout the nervous system exist. Comprehension of these concepts guides neuroscience nurses in gaining an understanding of the developmental course of action, the implications of different anomalies, as well as the theoretical basis and nursing implications of some provocative new therapies being proposed to treat neurodegenerative diseases and neurologic injuries. These therapies have limitations in light of current ethical, developmental, and delivery modes and what is known about the development of neuronal pathways.
Although multiple sclerosis (MS) does not typically reduce life expectancy, there has been relatively little systematic investigation of the experiences and health-related concerns of people aging with this disease. A current search of the database CINAHL produced no articles when the search terms &quot;multiple sclerosis,&quot; &quot;nursing&quot; and &quot;aging&quot; were used. To initiate more dialogue about the role of nurses in addressing the issues and concerns of people aging with MS, a cross-sectional descriptive study was conducted using both qualitative interviews and the administration of standardized instruments to elicit information about the health concerns and service needs of 27 people with MS 55 years of age and older. Qualitatively, participants perceived that they had less freedom and required more assistance than same age peers who do not have MS. Scores from standardized instruments support these perceptions. Participants expressed unmet needs in the areas of housework, physical therapy, MS support groups, religious service attendance, information and referral, check-in services, assistive technology use, social activities, personal care, and care coordination. To address these perceptions and needs, neuroscience nurses need to be aware of and sensitive to the challenges of aging with MS. In addition, nurses must be prepared to discuss and provide information, resources, and referrals on a wide range of health, social, and wellness-related services.
CNS synapses are complex sites of cell-cell communication. Identification and characterization of the protein components of synapses will lead to a better understanding of the mechanisms of neurotransmission and plasticity. We applied multidimensional protein identification technology (MudPIT) to purified, guanidine-solubilized postsynaptic fractions to identify novel synaptically localized molecules. We identified several actin-associated proteins known to regulate actin polymerization and control cell motility in nonneural cells that have not previously been associated with CNS synaptic function. One of these is lasp-1, an actin-associated LIM and SH3 domain-containing protein. We show that lasp-1 is strongly expressed by CNS neurons and is concentrated at synaptic sites. Overall, the preponderance of actin-associated proteins in postsynaptic density fractions, and specifically those involved in actin reorganization, suggests that there are many modes by which the state of synaptic F-actin polymerization and, hence, synaptic physiology are affected.
Benefits of cochlear prostheses for the deaf are dependent on survival and excitability of the auditory nerve. Degeneration of deafferented auditory nerve fibers is prevented and excitability maintained by immediate replacement therapy with exogenous neurotrophic factors, in vivo. It is important to know whether such interventions are effective after a delay following deafness, typical for the human situation. This study evaluated the efficacy of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and ciliary neurotrophic factor axokine-1 analogue (CNTF Ax1) application, 2 or 6 weeks postdeafening, in preventing further degeneration and a decrease in excitability. Guinea pigs were deafened and implanted with intracochlear stimulating electrodes, a scala tympani cannula-osmotic pump system, and auditory brainstem response (ABR) recording electrodes. Subjects received BDNF + CNTF Ax1 or artificial perilymph (AP) treatment for 27 days, beginning at 2 or 6 weeks following deafening. Electrical (E) ABR thresholds increased following deafening. After 1 week, in the 2-weeks-delayed neurotrophic factor treatment group, EABR thresholds decreased relative to AP controls, which were statistically significant at 2 weeks. In the 6-week delay group, a tendency to enhanced EABR sensitivity began at 2 weeks of treatment and increased thereafter, with a significant difference between neurotrophic factor- and AP-treated groups across the treatment period. A clear, statistically significant, enhanced survival of spiral ganglion cells was seen in both neurotrophic factor treatment groups relative to AP controls. These findings demonstrate that BDNF + CNTF Ax1 can act to delay or possibly even reverse degenerative and, likely apoptotic, processes well after they have been activated. These survival factors can rescue cells from death and enhance electrical excitability, even during the period of degeneration and cell loss when the spiral ganglion cell population is reduced by &gt;50% (6 weeks). It is noteworthy that this same degree of ganglion cell loss, secondary to receptor damage, is typically observed after a period equivalent to some years of deafness in humans.

Currently, there is no definitive diagnostic test for traumatic brain injury (TBI) to help physicians determine the seriousness of injury or the extent of cellular pathology. Calpain cleaves alphaII-spectrin into breakdown products (SBDP) after TBI and ischemia. Mean levels of both ipsilateral cortex (IC) and cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) SBDP at 2, 6, and 24 h after two levels of controlled cortical impact (1.0 mm and 1.6 mm of cortical deformation) in rats were significantly elevated by injury. CSF and IC SBDP levels were significantly higher after severe (1.6 mm) injury than mild (1.0 mm) injury over time. The correlation between CSF SBDP levels and lesion size from T2-weighted magnetic resonance images 24 hours after TBI as well as correlation of tau and S100beta was assessed. Mean levels of CSF SBDP (r = 0.833) and tau (r = 0.693) significantly correlated with lesion size while levels of CSF S100beta did not (r = 0.188). Although levels of CSF and IC SBDP and lesion size are all significantly higher after 1.6 mm than 1.0 mm injury, the correlation between CSF SBDP and lesion size was not significant following the removal of controls from the analysis. This indicates CSF SBDP is a reliable marker of the presence or absence of injury. Furthermore, larger lesion sizes 24 h after TBI were negatively correlated with motor performance on days 1-5 after TBI (r = -0.708). Based on these data, evaluation of CSF SBDP levels as a biomarker of TBI is warranted in clinical studies.
Psychological factors play an important role in the aetiopathogenesis of temporomandibular disorders (TMD), as demonstrated by an increase in stress, anxiety, depression and somatization in TMD patients. The aim of this work was to investigate the presence of mood and panic-agoraphobic symptoms in different groups of TMD patients by means of a spectrum approach to psychopathology. A total of 131 subjects were included in this study and TMD signs and symptoms were investigated by means of a standardized clinical examination. Two self-report questionnaires were used to evaluate mood (MOODS-SR) and panic-agoraphobic (PAS-SR) spectrum. anova and Bonferroni's post hoc test for multiple comparisons were used to compare mean scores of all TMD groups for MOODS-SR, PAS-SR and all their domains. Results revealed a significantly higher prevalence of both mood (P &lt; 0.001) and panic-agoraphobic (P &lt; 0.01) symptoms in myofascial pain patients than in all other diagnostic groups (TMD-free, disc displacement and joint disorders). With regard to mood spectrum, strong differences emerged for all domains evaluating depressive symptoms. As for the panic-agoraphobic spectrum, myofascial pain patients differed from the other groups for the presence of stress sensitivity, panic, separation anxiety, hypochondriac and agoraphobic symptoms. It was concluded that myofascial pain patients differed from those with disc displacement, joint disorders and no TMD in relation to some psychopathological symptoms, while the last three groups presented very similar profiles.

We examined neuroprotective effects of beta-estradiol, dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEA-S) against N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-induced neurotoxicity in primary cultured rat hippocampal neurons. All three steroids demonstrated neuroprotective effects. Time-course studies revealed that steroid cotreatment for only 15 min at the same time as exposure to NMDA, but neither pretreatment nor addition of steroids for 24 h after NMDA-mediated neuroprotective effects. This indicates that short-term actions of these steroids are critical for this process. Acute treatment with beta-estradiol dose dependently inhibited NMDA-induced intracellular Ca(2+) increases, which strongly correlated with its neuroprotective effect via L-type voltage-gated calcium channels. Acute treatment with DHEA, but not with DHEA-S, significantly inhibited nitric oxide (NO) production and Ca(2+)-sensitive NO synthase (NOS) activity caused by NMDA stimulation. An NOS inhibitor, N(G)-monomethyl-L-arginine acetate was also protective against NMDA-induced neurotoxicity. These data indicate that beta-estradiol may exert neuroprotective effects mainly by reducing Ca(2+) increases but that DHEA may act by inhibiting NOS activity. Treatment with the sigma-1 receptor (Sig-1R) antagonists rimcazole or BD1063 (1-[2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)ethyl]-4-methylpiperazine dihydrochloride) partially, but significantly, reversed the neuroprotective effect of DHEA-S against NMDA-induced neurotoxicity, whereas muscimol, a GABA-A-receptor agonist, did not. This suggests that the neuroprotective effect of DHEA-S may be mediated via Sig-1R, at least in part. Together, our data suggest that the neurosteroid family members beta-estradiol, DHEA, and DHEA-S exert neuroprotective effects through different nongenomic mechanisms.
Methamphetamine intoxication causes long-lasting damage to dopamine nerve endings in the striatum. The mechanisms underlying this neurotoxicity are not known but oxidative stress has been implicated. Microglia are the major antigen-presenting cells in brain and when activated, they secrete an array of factors that cause neuronal damage. Surprisingly, very little work has been directed at the study of microglial activation as part of the methamphetamine neurotoxic cascade. We report here that methamphetamine activates microglia in a dose-related manner and along a time course that is coincident with dopamine nerve ending damage. Prevention of methamphetamine toxicity by maintaining treated mice at low ambient temperature prevents drug-induced microglial activation. MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine), which damages dopamine nerve endings and cell bodies, causes extensive microglial activation in striatum as well as in the substantia nigra. In contrast, methamphetamine causes neither microglial activation in the substantia nigra nor dopamine cell body damage. Dopamine transporter antagonists (cocaine, WIN 35,428 [(-)-2-beta-carbomethoxy-3-beta-(4-fluorophenyl)tropane 1,5-naphthalenedisulfonate], and nomifensine), selective D1 (SKF 82958 [(+/-)-6-chloro-7,8-dihydroxy-3-allyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrobromide]), D2 (quinpirole), or mixed D1/D2 receptor agonists (apomorphine) do not mimic the effect of methamphetamine on microglia. Hyperthermia, a prominent and dangerous clinical response to methamphetamine intoxication, was also ruled out as the cause of microglial activation. Together, these data suggest that microglial activation represents an early step in methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity. Other neurochemical effects resulting from methamphetamine-induced overflow of DA into the synapse, but which are not neurotoxic, do not play a role in this response.
Nonconvulsive seizures (NCSs) after traumatic and ischemic brain injury are often refractory to antiepileptic drug therapy and are associated with a decline in patient outcome. We recently characterized an in vivo rat model of focal brain ischemia-induced NCS and here sought to evaluate potential pharmacological treatments. Electroencephalographic activity was recorded continuously for 24 h in freely behaving rats subjected to permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo). Rats were treated with an antiepileptic drug from one of seven different drug classes at ED(50) and 2x ED(50) doses (as reported in other rat seizure models), delivered as a single i.v. injection 20 min post-MCAo. Vehicle-treated rats (n = 9) had an 89% incidence of NCS with an average number of NCS of 8.6 +/- 1.9. The latency to onset of NCS was 32.5 +/- 3.4 min post-MCAo with an average duration of 49.1 +/- 8.2 s/event. The high doses of ethosuximide, gabapentin, fos-phenytoin, and valproate significantly reduced the incidence of NCS (11, 14, 14, and 38%, respectively), whereas midazolam, phenobarbital, and dextromethorphan had no significant effect at either dose. Across treatment groups, there was a low but significant correlation between the number of NCS events per animal and volume of brain infarction (r = 0.352). Antiepileptic drug therapy that prevented the occurrence of NCS also reduced mortality from 26 to 7%. Based on combined effects on NCS, infarction, neurological recovery, and mortality, ethosuximide and gabapentin were identified as having the best therapeutic profile.

There is a growing consensus that developmental dyslexia is associated with a phonological-core deficit. One symptom of this phonological deficit is a subtle speech-perception deficit. The auditory basis of this deficit is still hotly debated. If people with dyslexia, however, do not have an auditory deficit and perceive the underlying acoustic dimensions of speech as well as people who read normally, then why do they exhibit a categorical-perception deficit? A potential answer to this conundrum lies in the possibility that people with dyslexia do not adequately handle the context-dependent variation that speech signals typically contain. A mathematical model simulating such a sensitivity deficit mimics the speech-perception deficits attributed to dyslexia. To assess the nature of the dyslexic problem, the authors examined whether children with dyslexia handle context dependencies in speech differently than do normal-reading individuals. Contrary to the initial hypothesis, children with dyslexia did not show less context sensitivity in speech perception than did normal-reading individuals at auditory, phonetic, and phonological levels of processing, nor did they reveal any categorization deficit. Instead, intrinsic properties of online phonological processes, not phonological representations per se, may be impaired in dyslexia.

The relationships between emotional arousal and cognition in humans represent an important field in cognitive neuroscience. Studies examining the characteristics of emotion-induced memory enhancement and the mechanisms through which these effects occur are becoming increasingly common. This article describes three affordable laboratory exercises of relevance to the growing interest in this field. Specifically, Experiment one reviews a protocol for examining memory, hypermnesia, reminiscence, and primacy/recency effects for emotional and neutral words. Experiments two and three provide opportunities to examine the relationships between blood glucose level and memory for either a list of pictures or the spatial location of pictures. Each laboratory exercise contains a certain amount of flexibility and is malleable to the specific needs of the instructor. For example, the use of blood glucose monitoring may be of value to a variety of different exercises examining stress and/or emotional arousal and the stimuli used in each of the protocols may be varied, creating opportunities for a number of different novel exercises. A series of questions have been provided at the end of each exercise in order to help stimulate inclass discussion. The potential application of this line of research in cognitive neuroscience is conveyed through a list of references where glucose has been used to attenuate cognitive deficits in Alzheimer's disease, age-related cognitive decline, and other neuropsychological conditions.
The Neuroscience and Humanities Summer Institute, hosted by Allegheny College, opened doors of opportunity, perception, and creativity for faculty and students across the nation. Offered first in 2002, and a second time in June of 2004, this weeklong event was designed to provide a medium for fostering development of interdisciplinary courses linking neuroscience and the humanities (e.g., the fine arts, philosophy and language). During the Institute, participants attended presentations by Allegheny faculty introducing the six courses of this type that they have developed starting in 2000, lectures by guest speakers, workshops, and discussion modules. Participants were encouraged to gather ideas about Allegheny's neuroscience and humanities courses and formulate specific plans to take back to their schools. These opportunities and experiences resulted in the formation of valuable connections and the development of ideas around the links between neuroscience and humanities.
In this article, Caroline Brown, a literature professor who focuses on American and African Diasporic writing, and Alexia Pollack, a biology professor with expertise in neuropharmacology, recount their experiences teaching across the disciplines in one another's respective classrooms, finding points of intersection and divergence, and creating classroom dialogues from the resultant encounters. Central to this process is permitting students to enter discipline-specific discourses from other disciplinary perspectives. In Caroline Brown's first year general education seminar, Examining Consciousness, a course constructed around the study of the representation of the brain through the reading of scientific writings, popular essays, personal narratives, fiction, and poetry, Alexia Pollack presented scientific lectures on neurotransmission, brain organization and structure, with an emphasis on how the brain is affected by drug addiction and organic disease. In Alexia Pollack's undergraduate and graduate courses, Neurobiology and Biology of Learning and Memory, Caroline Brown lectured on the intersection of artistry and science in American literature, tracing the depiction of learning and memory in Realistic, Modern, and Post-Modern novels, and how scientific developments influenced their representation. During these encounters the students were introduced to discipline-specific approaches, which were distinct from the perspectives of their respective classrooms. As a result, larger classroom discussions were created, allowing students to perceive intersecting dimensions of very different disciplines. This conceptual flexibility permitted students to &quot;think outside the box&quot; in order to develop a more complete appreciation of their particular discipline and to recognize its place in the world at large.
Infrared sensors, commonly used to detect the position of an animal subject in a maze or runway, are reliable and unobtrusive, but expensive if purchased commercially. I describe a functional equivalent to commercial sensors, available at a fraction of the cost. With only a few inexpensive components and the ability to solder, an investigator can create inexpensive sensors that work with commonly used commercial equipment.

Individual-level lateralisations are common among vertebrates, however population-level preferences are usually reserved for specific tasks. In humans, handedness is thought to be related to the hemispheric processing of specific aspects of language, including speech. Although nonhuman primates do not possess speech, gibbons are known to produce elaborate vocal displays often referred to as song. To investigate the evolutionary effects of singing on hand preference, this study examined leading limb preference during brachiation in the large-bodied, melodious gibbon, Hylobates syndactylus (siamangs). A total of 13 male and 12 female siamangs were observed in captive and semi-captive settings for leading limb preference during vocal and nonvocal behaviour. No significant results were found for the effect of vocalisation at the group level, although individual-level data indicated a trend towards a right shift in the vocal condition, especially for females, where 8 out of 12 demonstrated a greater reliance on a right leading limb during the vocal versus nonvocal conditions. Males were not found to possess significant preferences in either the vocal or nonvocal conditions alone, however when condition data were combined, the number of individual males lateralised was significantly greater than predicted by chance. These findings support individual, but not population-level, effects for vocalisation on leading limb preference in siamangs, and emphasise the importance of testing for sex difference in handedness and lateralisation research.

In the past decade, intracellular antibodies have proven to be a useful tool in obtaining the phenotypic knock-out of selected gene function in different animal and plant systems. This strategy is based on the ectopic expression of recombinant forms of antibodies targeted towards different intracellular compartments, exploiting specific targeting signals to confer the new intracellular location. The functional basis of this technology is closely linked to the ability of intracellular antibodies to interact with their target antigens in vivo. This interaction allows either a direct neutralising effect or the dislodgement of the target protein from its normal intracellular location and, by this mechanism, the inactivation of its function. By using this approach, the function of several antigens has been inhibited in the cytoplasm, the nucleus, and the secretory compartments. In this article, we shall describe all the steps required for expressing single-chain Fv fragments in different subcellular compartments of mammalian cells and their subsequent use in knock-out experiments, starting from a cloned single-chain Fv fragment. This will include the analysis of the solubility properties of the new scFv fragment in transfected mammalian cells, the intracellular distribution of the antigen-antibody complex, and the resulting phenotype.
The management of patients with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a frequent, yet challenging task in both primary care and gastroenterology practice. A diagnostic strategy guided by keen clinical judgment should focus on positive symptom criteria and on the absence of alarm symptoms. In younger patients lacking alarm features, invasive testing has a low-yield. The presence of food intolerance and underlying celiac disease should be excluded. The usefulness of fecal tests such as calprotectin and lactoferrin to exclude organic bowel disease is not adequately established. In patients with moderate to severe symptoms who fail initial therapeutic trials, further tests can be performed in tertiary care settings, such as transit measurement and tests for diagnosing pelvic floor dysfunction. Treatment strategies for IBS are currently directed at the predominant symptoms. In diarrhea-predominant IBS, opioids (e.g. loperamide) and the 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist alosetron are efficacious. In constipation-predominant IBS, fiber and bulk laxatives are traditionally used, but their efficacy is variable and may worsen symptoms. The 5-HT(4) receptor agonist tegaserod is efficacious in female patients with IBS and constipation. In patients with IBS and abdominal pain, antispasmodics and antidepressants can be used, with the best evidence supporting the prescription of tricyclic antidepressants. The efficacy of psychological treatments in terms of relieving the symptoms of IBS is still uncertain. Limited evidence suggests that anti-enkephalinase agents, somatostatin analogues, alpha(2)-receptor agonists, opioid antagonists, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, probiotics and herbal treatments may be useful in IBS patients.

Neurotrophic factors delivered to the injured spinal cord have been shown to enhance axonal growth, prevent neuronal degeneration and partially improve sensorimotor function. The present study examined the effects of NT-4/5 on growth of spinal and supraspinal axons, glia, and functional outcome after spinal cord injury. Adult Fischer 344 rats received spinal cord dorsal hemisections or complete transections at the midthoracic level. Fibroblasts modified to secrete NT-4/5 or green fluorescent protein as controls were immediately grafted to the lesion site. Axonal growth responses were determined between 3 and 6 months postinjury by retrograde and anterograde tracing and immunohistochemistry. Motor axons, coerulospinal, reticulospinal, and propriospinal axons responded to NT-4/5 delivery after thoracic spinal cord injury with significantly increased axonal penetration into NT-4/5 secreting grafts compared to GFP-expressing control grafts. Axonal growth beyond NT-4/5-producing grafts and functional recovery were not observed. Numerous Schwann cells, but not oligodendrocytes, were present within NT-4/5-secreting grafts and remyelinated axons inside the graft. Thus, NT-4/5 and BDNF appear to be interchangeable to elicit substantial axonal growth in the injured spinal cord.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) family ligands are target-derived trophic factors for several neuronal subpopulations. They promote survival and neurite outgrowth through binding to specific members of the GDNF family receptor alpha (GFR alpha) and subsequent activation of the RET tyrosine kinase receptor. Using compartmentalized cultures of sympathetic neurons, we have studied the mechanism of GDNF retrograde signaling. Our results demonstrate the presence of GDNF receptors RET and GFR alpha 1 in the two cellular compartments, cell bodies and distal axons. Addition of GDNF to either compartment initiated local signaling, including activation of RET and its downstream effectors AKT and ERK1/2. Addition of GDNF to distal axons induced a retrograde signal leading to neuronal survival and neurite outgrowth. Retrograde signaling was associated with retrograde transport of radiolabeled GDNF and GFR alpha 1, as well as activation of RET and AKT, but not of ERK1/2, in cell bodies. No anterograde signal propagation or transport was observed. Our results suggest a general mechanism for retrograde signaling initiated at distal axons through tyrosine kinase receptors.

Nora Volkow claims to have always been curious about the workings of the human brain. Even as a medical student in her native Mexico, she investigated animal behavior with the ultimate goal of understanding human motivation. Upon completing her medical studies, in the early 80s, she moved to the U.S. to take advantage of emerging neuroimaging technologies, first during her psychiatry residency at New York University and Brookhaven National Laboratory, and then as a faculty member at the University of Texas in Houston. In Houston, Volkow embarked on seminal studies into human drug use and the functioning brain, which she continued to pursue, again at Brookhaven, during the subsequent two decades. Volkow established herself as an eminent researcher and proponent of neuroscience, and her insights into the brain have greatly advanced our appreciation of human behavior and motivation. In 2003, she took up her present position as Director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse.
Alzheimer's disease is characterized pathologically by senile plaques in the brain. The major component of senile plaques is amyloid-beta (Abeta), which is cleaved from Alzheimer's Abeta protein precursor (AbetaPP). Recently, information regarding the cytoplasmic tail of AbetaPP has started to emerge, opening up various insights into the physiological roles of AbetaPP and its pathological role in Alzheimer's disease. The cytoplasmic domain of AbetaPP shares the evolutionarily conserved GYENPTY motif, which binds to a number of adaptor proteins containing the phosphotyrosine interaction domain (PID). Among the PID-containing proteins, this article focuses on four groups of adaptor proteins of AbetaPP: Fe65, X11, mDab1, and c-Jun N-terminal kinase-interacting protein 1b/islet-brain 1.
A &quot;partial&quot; rodent model for schizophrenia has been used to characterize the regulation of hippocampal genes in response to amygdalar activation. At 96 h after the administration of picrotoxin into the basolateral nucleus, we have observed an increase in the expression of genes associated with 18 different monoamine (ie adrenergic alpha 1, alpha 2 and beta 2, serotonergic 5HT5b and 5HT6, dopamine D4 and muscarinic m1, m2 and m3) and peptide (CCK A and B, angiotensin 1A, mu and kappa opiate, FSH, TSH, LH, GNRH, and neuropeptide Y) G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). These latter receptors are associated with three different G protein signaling pathways (Gq, Gs, and Gi) in which significant changes in gene expression were also noted for adenylate cyclase (AC4), phosphodiesterase (PDE4D), protein kinase A (PKA), and protein kinase C (PKC). Quantitative RT-PCR was used to validate the results and demonstrated that there were predictable increases of three GPCRs selected for this analysis, including the dopamine D4, alpha 1b, and CCK-B receptors. Eight out of the nine monoamine receptors showing these changes have moderate to high affinity for the atypical antipsychotic, clozapine. Taken together, these results suggest that amygdalar activation may play a role in the pathophysiology and treatment of psychosis by regulating the activity of multiple GPCR and metabolic pathways in hippocampal cells.

Recent motor control theories suggest that the brain uses internal models to plan and control accurate movements. An internal model is thought to represent how the biomechanics of the arm interacting with the outside world would respond to a motor command; therefore it can be seen as a predictive model of the reafference that helps the system plan ahead. Moreover, adaptation studies show that humans can learn multiple internal models. It is not clear, however, whether and how contextual cues are used to switch among competing internal models, which are required to compensate for altered environments. To investigate this question, we asked healthy participants to perform center-out pointing movements under normal and distorted visual feedback (0 degrees , 30 degrees counterclockwise, and 60 degrees clockwise rotation of hand-screen cursor relationships) conditions. The results suggest that humans can learn multiple environments simultaneously and can use contextual cues to facilitate adaptation and to recall the appropriate internal model of the visuomotor transformation.
Although one of the criteria for the diagnosis of developmental coordination disorder (DCD) suggests learning impairments, there is a lack of studies investigating motor adaptation in these children. This study examined the ability of 7 children with DCD to adapt to a novel visuomotor relationship by exposing them to a 45 degrees visual feedback rotation while they performed a center-out drawing task, and compared their performance with that of 7 normally developing children. The results show that the children with DCD were less affected by the feedback distortion than the control children, and did not show aftereffects, suggesting they had a less well-defined internal model. A principal component analysis of the performance variables during early and late exposure showed that the variables accounting for most of the variance in the trajectories are different between the 2 groups, suggesting that underlying control processes might operate differently in the 2 groups of children.
Calligraphic writing presents many challenges for motor control, including: learning and recall of stroke sequences; critical timing of stroke onsets and durations; fine control of grip and contact forces; and letterform invariance under size scaling, which entails fine control of stroke directions and amplitudes during recruitment and derecruitment of musculoskeletal degrees of freedom. Experimental and computational studies in behavioral neuroscience have progressed toward explaining the learning, planning, and control exercised in tasks that share features with calligraphic writing and drawing. This article highlights component operations ranging from parallel sequence representations to fine force control. Treated in succession are: competitive queuing models of sequence representation, performance, learning, and recall; letter size scaling and motor equivalence; cursive handwriting models in which sensory-motor transformations are performed by circuits that learn inverse differential kinematic mappings; and fine-grained control of timing and transient forces by circuit models that learn to solve inverse dynamics problems.
The onset of tics in adulthood is rare and, unlike the childhood variety, there is commonly a secondary environmental cause. We present four cases (1 man, 3 women) with an adult onset tic disorder (mean age of onset, 36 years; range, 27-42 years) associated with the presence of serum antibasal ganglia antibodies (ABGA). One patient had motor tics and unusual motor stereotypies, 2 had multiple motor and vocal tics, and the remaining patient had motor tics only. Concomitant psychiatric disturbance was noted in 3 cases. In 2 cases, there was a close temporal relationship between upper respiratory tract infection and the subsequent onset of tics. Imaging was possible in three cases and was normal in two but revealed a lesion involving the right caudate and lentiform nuclei in the other. We suggest that there might be a causal relationship between ABGA and the clinical syndrome in these cases and that ABGA should be considered as a possible etiology for adult-onset tics.
Corticobasal degeneration (CBD) is a neurodegenerative parkinsonian disorder of unknown cause that shows considerable clinical heterogeneity. In CBD, activated microglia have been shown to be associated closely with the extensive tau pathology found in the affected basal ganglia, brainstem nuclei, and cortical regions. We report on the use of [(11)C](R)-(1-[2-chlorophenyl]-N-methyl-N-[1-methylpropyl]-3-isoquinoline carboxamide) (PK11195) positron emission tomography (PET), a marker of peripheral benzodiazepine binding sites (PBBS) that are expressed by activated microglia, to demonstrate in vivo the degree and distribution of glial response to the degenerative process in 4 patients with CBD. Compared with normal age-matched controls, the CBD patient group showed significantly increased mean [(11)C](R)-PK11195 binding in the caudate nucleus, putamen, substantia nigra, pons, pre- and postcentral gyrus, and the frontal lobe. [11C](R)-PK11195 PET reveals a pattern of increased microglial activation in CBD patients involving cortical regions and the basal ganglia that corresponds well with the known distribution of neuropathological changes, which may therefore help to characterize in vivo the underlying disease activity in CBD.
We report on a case of reversible Pisa syndrome developed after treatment with galantamine in a patient with Alzheimer's disease without previous exposure to neuroleptic or other cholinesterase inhibitors. Complete and persistent resolution of the syndrome was achieved several weeks after botulinum toxin type-A injection.
Task-specific dystonia significantly impairs the performance of approximately 8% of musicians [Lederman RJ. Muscle Nerve 2003;27:549-561]. We describe hand dystonia in two professional musicians experienced while playing tabla, a percussion instrument.

The present study addressed whether the excitability of motor axons could be documented by tracking a target submaximal contraction force rather than a target submaximal compound muscle action potential (CMAP). In 10 subjects, multiple excitability measures were recorded using the Trond protocol, tracking twitch contraction force and the CMAP in response to stimulation of the median nerve at the wrist and twitch force to stimulation at the motor point. With stimulation at the wrist, the findings were virtually identical with force tracking and CMAP tracking for indices dependent on unconditioned thresholds (stimulus-response curves; strength-duration properties) and when the conditioning stimulus was subthreshold (threshold electrotonus; current-threshold relationship). However, when the conditioning stimulus was supramaximal, as in recovery cycle studies, thresholds for the target force were lower in all subjects than for the target CMAP. There was variability between different subjects in the extent of this offset. However, force tracking can still be used to follow changes in refractoriness and supernormality when membrane potential changes during an experiment. The excitability indices differed with motor point stimulation, but it is argued that this could be due to the geographic dispersion of motor axons at the motor point in addition to or instead of differences in biophysical properties of the stimulated nodes. Thus, tracking twitch contraction force is a potentially valuable alternative to tracking the CMAP, but is more complicated and the results need to be interpreted with caution.
To understand a neural circuit completely requires simultaneous recording from most of the neurons in that circuit. Here we report recording and spike sorting techniques that enable us to record from all or nearly all of the ganglion cells in a patch of the retina. With a dense multi-electrode array, each ganglion cell produces a unique pattern of activity on many electrodes when it fires an action potential. Signals from all of the electrodes are combined with an iterative spike sorting algorithm to resolve ambiguities arising from overlapping spike waveforms. We verify that we are recording from a large fraction of ganglion cells over the array by labeling the ganglion cells with a retrogradely transported dye and by comparing the number of labeled and recorded cells. Using these methods, we show that about 60 receptive fields of ganglion cells cover each point in visual space in the salamander, consistent with anatomical findings.
Rhythmic movements, such as walking, chewing or scratching, are phylogenetically old motor behaviors found in many organisms, ranging from insects to primates. In contrast, discrete movements, such as reaching, grasping or kicking, are behaviors that have reached sophistication primarily in younger species, particularly primates. Neurophysiological and computational research on arm motor control has focused almost exclusively on discrete movements, essentially assuming similar neural circuitry for rhythmic tasks. In contrast, many behavioral studies have focused on rhythmic models, subsuming discrete movement as a special case. Here, using a human functional neuroimaging experiment, we show that in addition to areas activated in rhythmic movement, discrete movement involves several higher cortical planning areas, even when both movement conditions are confined to the same single wrist joint. These results provide neuroscientific evidence that rhythmic arm movement cannot be part of a more general discrete movement system and may require separate neurophysiological and theoretical treatment.
Several studies have shown that the information conveyed by bell-shaped tuning curves increases as their width decreases, leading to the notion that sharpening of tuning curves improves population codes. This notion, however, is based on assumptions that the noise distribution is independent among neurons and independent of the tuning curve width. Here we reexamine these assumptions in networks of spiking neurons by using orientation selectivity as an example. We compare two principal classes of model: one in which the tuning curves are sharpened through cortical lateral interactions, and one in which they are not. We report that sharpening through lateral interactions does not improve population codes but, on the contrary, leads to a severe loss of information. In addition, the sharpening models generate complicated codes that rely extensively on pairwise correlations. Our study generates several experimental predictions that can be used to distinguish between these two classes of model.
Human endogenous retroviruses (HERVs) constitute 8% of the human genome and have been implicated in both health and disease. Increased HERV gene activity occurs in immunologically activated glia, although the consequences of HERV expression in the nervous system remain uncertain. Here, we report that the HERV-W encoded glycoprotein syncytin is upregulated in glial cells within acute demyelinating lesions of multiple sclerosis patients. Syncytin expression in astrocytes induced the release of redox reactants, which were cytotoxic to oligodendrocytes. Syncytin-mediated neuroinflammation and death of oligodendrocytes, with the ensuing neurobehavioral deficits, were prevented by the antioxidant ferulic acid in a mouse model of multiple sclerosis. Thus, syncytin's proinflammatory properties in the nervous system demonstrate a novel role for an endogenous retrovirus protein, which may be a target for therapeutic intervention.
A neurobiological model for pair-bond formation has emerged from studies in monogamous rodents. The neuropeptides oxytocin and vasopressin contribute to the processing of social cues necessary for individual recognition. Mesolimbic dopamine is involved in reinforcement and reward learning. Concurrent activation of neuropeptide and dopamine receptors in the reward centers of the brain during mating results in a conditioned partner preference, observed as a pair bond. Differential regulation of neuropeptide receptor expression may explain species differences in the ability to form pair bonds. These and other studies discussed here have intriguing implications for the neurobiology of social attachment in our own species.
The pubertal transition to adulthood involves both gonadal and behavioral maturation. A developmental clock, along with permissive signals that provide information on somatic growth, energy balance and season, time the awakening of gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons at the onset of puberty. High-frequency GnRH release results from disinhibition and activation of GnRH neurons at puberty onset, leading to gametogenesis and an increase in gonadal steroid hormone secretion. Steroid hormones, in turn, both remodel and activate neural circuits during adolescent brain development, leading to the development of sexual salience of sensory stimuli, sexual motivation, and expression of copulatory behaviors in specific social contexts. These influences of hormones on reproductive behavior depend in part on changes in the adolescent brain that occur independently of gonadal maturation. Reproductive maturity is therefore the product of developmentally timed, brain-driven and recurrent interactions between steroid hormones and the adolescent nervous system.
Understanding the mechanisms that give rise to sex differences in the behavior of nonhuman animals may contribute to the understanding of sex differences in humans. In vertebrate model systems, a single factor-the steroid hormone testosterone-accounts for most, and perhaps all, of the known sex differences in neural structure and behavior. Here we review some of the events triggered by testosterone that masculinize the developing and adult nervous system, promote male behaviors and suppress female behaviors. Testosterone often sculpts the developing nervous system by inhibiting or exacerbating cell death and/or by modulating the formation and elimination of synapses. Experience, too, can interact with testosterone to enhance or diminish its effects on the central nervous system. However, more work is needed to uncover the particular cells and specific genes on which testosterone acts to initiate these events.
The potential benefits of neuroscientific research into sexuality are great, but neuroscientists must participate in debates over the social, forensic and therapeutic implications of their findings. If serious research in sexuality is to be supported by the public, researchers must continue to earn society's trust with responsible and thoughtful presentation of their work.

In extinction, an animal learns that a previously conditioned stimulus (CS+) no longer predicts delivery of a salient reinforcer (unconditioned stimulus, UCS). Rodent studies indicate that extinction relies on amygdala-prefrontal interactions and involves formation of memories that inhibit, without actually erasing, the original conditioning trace. Whether extinction learning in humans follows similar neurobiological principles is unknown. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to measure human brain activity evoked during olfactory aversive conditioning and extinction learning. Neural responses in orbitofrontal cortex and amygdala were preferentially enhanced during extinction, suggesting potential cross-species preservation of learning mechanisms that oppose conditioning. Moreover, by manipulating UCS aversiveness via reinforcer inflation, we showed that a CS+ retains access to representations of UCS value in distinct regions of ventral prefrontal cortex, even as extinction proceeds.
The synapse is a highly organized cellular specialization whose structure and composition are reorganized, both positively and negatively, depending on the strength of input signals. The mechanisms orchestrating these changes are not well understood. A plausible locus for the reorganization of synapse components and structure is actin, because it serves as both cytoskeleton and scaffold for synapses and exists in a dynamic equilibrium between F-actin and G-actin that is modulated bidirectionally by cellular signaling. Using a new FRET-based imaging technique to monitor F-actin/G-actin equilibrium, we show here that tetanic stimulation causes a rapid, persistent shift of actin equilibrium toward F-actin in the dendritic spines of rat hippocampal neurons. This enlarges the spines and increases postsynaptic binding capacity. In contrast, prolonged low-frequency stimulation shifts the equilibrium toward G-actin, resulting in a loss of postsynaptic actin and of structure. This bidirectional regulation of actin is actively involved in protein assembly and disassembly and provides a substrate for bidirectional synaptic plasticity.
Many different types of integrate-and-fire models have been designed in order to explain how it is possible for a cortical neuron to integrate over many independent inputs while still producing highly variable spike trains. Within this context, the variability of spike trains has been almost exclusively measured using the coefficient of variation of interspike intervals. However, another important statistical property that has been found in cortical spike trains and is closely associated with their high firing variability is long-range dependence. We investigate the conditions, if any, under which such models produce output spike trains with both interspike-interval variability and long-range dependence similar to those that have previously been measured from actual cortical neurons. We first show analytically that a large class of high-variability integrate-and-fire models is incapable of producing such outputs based on the fact that their output spike trains are always mathematically equivalent to renewal processes. This class of models subsumes a majority of previously published models, including those that use excitation-inhibition balance, correlated inputs, partial reset, or nonlinear leakage to produce outputs with high variability. Next, we study integrate-and-fire models that have (nonPoissonian) renewal point process inputs instead of the Poisson point process inputs used in the preceding class of models. The confluence of our analytical and simulation results implies that the renewal-input model is capable of producing high variability and long-range dependence comparable to that seen in spike trains recorded from cortical neurons, but only if the interspike intervals of the inputs have infinite variance, a physiologically unrealistic condition. Finally, we suggest a new integrate-and-fire model that does not suffer any of the previously mentioned shortcomings. By analyzing simulation results for this model, we show that it is capable of producing output spike trains with interspike-interval variability and long-range dependence that match empirical data from cortical spike trains. This model is similar to the other models in this study, except that its inputs are fractional-gaussian-noise-driven Poisson processes rather than renewal point processes. In addition to this model's success in producing realistic output spike trains, its inputs have long-range dependence similar to that found in most subcortical neurons in sensory pathways, including the inputs to cortex. Analysis of output spike trains from simulations of this model also shows that a tight balance between the amounts of excitation and inhibition at the inputs to cortical neurons is not necessary for high interspike-interval variability at their outputs. Furthermore, in our analysis of this model, we show that the superposition of many fractional-gaussian-noise-driven Poisson processes does not approximate a Poisson process, which challenges the common assumption that the total effect of a large number of inputs on a neuron is well represented by a Poisson process.
A number of findings suggest that the preferences of neighboring neurons in the inferior temporal (IT) cortex of macaque monkeys tend to be similar. However, a recent study reports convincingly that the preferences of neighboring neurons actually differ. These findings seem contradictory. To explain this conflict, we propose a new view of information representation in the IT cortex. This view takes into account sparse and local neuronal excitation. Since the excitation is sparse, information regarding visual objects seems to be encoded in a distributed manner. The local excitation of neurons coincides with the classical notion of a column structure. Our model consists of input layer and output layer. The main difference from conventional models is that the output layer has local and random intra-layer connections. In this paper, we adopt two rings embedded in three-dimensional space as an input signal space, and examine how resultant information representation depends on the distance between two rings that is denoted as D. We show that there exists critical value for the distance Dc. When D &gt; Dc the output layer becomes able to form the column structure, this model can obtain the distributed representation within the column. While the output layer acquires the conventional information representation observed in the V1 cortex when D &lt; Dc. Moreover, we consider the origin of the difference between information representation of the V1 cortex and that of the IT cortex. Our finding suggests that the difference in the information representations between the V1 and the IT cortices could be caused by difference between the input space structures.

Dopamine (DA) autooxidation, and consequent formation of neurotoxic DA-derived quinones and reactive oxygen species, has been implicated in dopaminergic cell death and, hence, in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). Stimulation of pathways involved in the detoxication of DA-quinones in the brain is hypothesized to be an effective means to limit oxidative stress and to confer neuroprotection in PD. In this respect, the inducible flavoprotein NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase (NQO1) is of particular interest as it is directly implicated in the detoxication of DA-quinones and, in addition, has broad spectrum anti-oxidant properties. To study the potential pathophysiological role of NQO1 in PD, the cellular expression of NQO1 was examined in the mesencephalon of PD patients and age-matched controls. In the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc), NQO1 was found to be expressed in astroglial and endothelial cells and, albeit less frequently, also in dopaminergic neurons. Moreover, while overt NQO1 immunoreactivity was absent in the surrounding nervous tissue, in the Parkinsonian SNpc a marked increase in the astroglial and neuronal expression of NQO1 was consistently observed.
A homogeneous time-resolved fluorescence immunoassay for detection of beta-amyloid (A beta) peptides has been adapted for quantification of A beta(40) and A beta(42) accumulation in brains of APP695SWE transgenic mice. These over-express human beta APP(swe), beta-amyloid precursor protein (beta-APP) containing the K670N/M671L 'Swedish' familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) mutation. Both peptides start to accumulate in this line from about 260 to 280 days of age. Co-expression of a human presenilin-1 (PS1) transgene containing the A246E FAD mutation accelerates deposition and also favors-at least initially-accumulation of A beta(42) so that the A beta(2):A beta(40) ratio of peptides from 7- to 12-month-old APP695SWE x PS1A246E animals is significantly elevated above that observed throughout the lifetime of APP695SWE mice. These findings, supported by parallel immunohistochemical staining and surface-enhanced laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight (SELDI-TOF) mass spectrometry data, offer important longitudinal characterization of two mouse models of cerebral amyloidosis. Application of the same extraction and quantitation procedures to samples of temporal cortex from AD sufferers indicates however that A beta(40) is only a minor component of beta-amyloid in humans.
Ontogenetic abnormalities in the regulation of the cortical cholinergic input system are hypothesized to mediate early-life cognitive limitations (ECL) that later escalate, based on reciprocal interactions between a dysregulated cholinergic system and age-related neuronal and vascular processes, to mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and, subsequently, for a majority of subjects, senile dementia. This process is speculated to begin with the disruption of trophic factor support of the basal forebrain ascending cholinergic system early in life, leading to dysregulation of cortical cholinergic transmission during the initial decades of life and associated limitations in cognitive capacities. Results from neurochemical and behavioral experiments support the possibility that aging reveals the vulnerability of an abnormally regulated cortical cholinergic input system. The decline of the cholinergic system is further accelerated as a result of interactions with amyloid precursor protein metabolism and processing, and with cerebral microvascular abnormalities. The determination of the developmental variables that render the cortical cholinergic input system vulnerable to age-related processes represents an important step toward the understanding of the role of this neuronal system in the age-related decline in cognitive functions.
We have explored the molecular mechanism underlying amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta)-mediated cytotoxicity in vitro. Exposure of murine cerebral endothelial cells (CECs) or C6 glioma cells to Abeta25-35 resulted in dose-dependent cell death. Ceramide is a pro-apoptotic lipid mediator. Forced elevation of cellular ceramide levels, either by application of an exogenous C2 ceramide analogue or bacterial sphingomyelinase that induces endogenous ceramide release from sphingomyelin, mimicked Abeta25-35 cytotoxicity in both CECs and C6 glioma cells. Abeta25-35-induced synthesis of ceramide was selectively mediated by activation of neutral sphingomyelinase (nSMase), but not acidic sphingomyelinase (aSMase) or ceramide synthase. Both 3-O-Me-SM and N-acetyl-L-cysteine, the selective and nonselective pharmacological inhibitors of nSMase, respectively, suppressed nSMase activation, ceramide production, and cytotoxic action induced by Abeta25-35 in CECs. Furthermore, genetic knockdown of nSMase by an antisense strategy rendered C6 glioma cells specifically resistant to Abeta25-35 cytotoxicity without affecting their vulnerability to serum deprivation. Together, nSMase activation with subsequent ceramide production may contribute, at least partially, to Abeta25-35 cytotoxicity in cell types with cerebral endothelial and glial lineage.
Experimental models of traumatic brain injury have been developed to replicate selected aspects of human head injury, such as contusion, concussion, and/or diffuse axonal injury. Although diffuse axonal injury is a major feature of clinical head injury, relatively few experimental models of diffuse traumatic brain injury (TBI) have been developed, particularly in smaller animals such as rodents. Here, we describe the pathophysiological consequences of moderate diffuse TBI in rats generated by a newly developed, highly controlled, and reproducible model. This model of TBI caused brain edema beginning 20 min after injury and peaking at 24 h post-trauma, as shown by wet weight/dry weight ratios and diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging. Increased permeability of the blood-brain barrier was present up to 4 h post-injury as evaluated using Evans blue dye. Phosphorus magnetic resonance spectroscopy showed significant declines in brain-free magnesium concentration and reduced cytosolic phosphorylation potential at 4 h post-injury. Diffuse axonal damage was demonstrated using manganese-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging, and intracerebral injection of a fluorescent vital dye (Fluoro-Ruby) at 24-h and 7-day post-injury. Morphological evidence of apoptosis and caspase-3 activation were also found in the cerebral hemisphere and brainstem at 24 h after trauma. These results show that this model is capable of reproducing major biochemical and neurological changes of diffuse clinical TBI.
Some patients with degenerative neurological diseases have a release of the vestibular-ocular reflex (VOR), as detected by passive head movement during visual fixation on a moving target (&quot;doll's eyes&quot;maneuver). However, a positive doll's eyes sign might be induced by other defects and the purpose of this article is to describe a new ocular sign of cortical dysfunction, the visual facial grasp. We observed three patients, one with progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), another with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) and a third with cortico-basal degeneration (CBD) all of whom appeared to demonstrate a release of the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) with passive head movements. Whereas the patient with PSP, who was unable to inhibit the VOR regardless of the visual target used probably had a true release of the VOR, the patients with AD and CBD were able to inhibit this reflex when the visual target was the examiner's moving face. These two patients also exhibited spontaneous preference for visual fixation on the examiner's face and improvement in smooth pursuit when the examiner's face was the visual target. This clinical observation suggests that the deficits in these two patients with AD and CBD were related to the emergence of a primitive stimulus-bound behavior, the visual facial grasp.
The question of whether information relevant to meaning (semantics) and structure (syntax) relies on a common language processor or on separate subsystems has proved difficult to address definitively because of the confounds involved in comparing the two types of information. At the sentence level syntactic and semantic judgments make different cognitive demands, while at the single word level, the most commonly used syntactic distinction (between nouns and verbs) is confounded with a fundamental semantic difference (between objects and actions). The present study employs a different syntactic contrast (between count nouns and mass nouns), which is crossed with a semantic difference (between naturally occurring and man-made substances) applying to words within a circumscribed semantic field (foodstuffs). We show, first, that grammaticality judgments of a patient with semantic dementia are indistinguishable from those of a group of age-matched controls, and are similar regardless of the status of his semantic knowledge about the item. In a second experiment we use the triadic task in a group of age-matched controls to show that similarity judgments are influenced not only by meaning (natural vs. manmade), but also implicitly by syntactic information (count vs. mass). Using the same task in a patient with semantic dementia we show that the semantic influences on the syntactic dimension are unlikely to account for this pattern in normals. These data are discussed in relation to modular vs. nonmodular models of language processing, and in particular to the semantic-syntactic distinction.
Positron emission tomography (PET) has proved to be a highly successful technique in the qualitative and quantitative exploration of the human brain's neurotransmitter-receptor systems. In recent years, the number of PET radioligands, targeted to different neuroreceptor systems of the human brain, has increased considerably. This development paves the way for a simultaneous analysis of different receptor systems and subsystems in the same individual. The detailed exploration of the versatility of neuroreceptor systems requires novel technical approaches, capable of operating on huge parametric image datasets. An initial step of such explorative data processing and analysis should be the development of novel exploratory data-mining tools to gain insight into the &quot;structure&quot; of complex multi-individual, multi-receptor data sets. For practical reasons, a possible and feasible starting point of multi-receptor research can be the analysis of the pre- and post-synaptic binding sites of the same neurotransmitter. In the present study, we propose an unsupervised, unbiased data-mining tool for this task and demonstrate its usefulness by using quantitative receptor maps, obtained with positron emission tomography, from five healthy subjects on (pre-synaptic) serotonin transporters (5-HTT or SERT) and (post-synaptic) 5-HT(1A) receptors. Major components of the proposed technique include the projection of the input receptor maps to a feature space, the quasi-clustering and classification of projected data (neighbourhood formation), trans-individual analysis of neighbourhood properties (trajectory analysis), and the back-projection of the results of trajectory analysis to normal space (creation of multi-receptor maps). The resulting multi-receptor maps suggest that complex relationships and tendencies in the relationship between pre- and post-synaptic transporter-receptor systems can be revealed and classified by using this method. As an example, we demonstrate the regional correlation of the serotonin transporter-receptor systems. These parameter-specific multi-receptor maps can usefully guide the researchers in their endeavour to formulate models of multi-receptor interactions and changes in the human brain.
Recent papers have reported that neuronal death in patients with Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and cerebral ischemia has its origin in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). IRE1alpha is one of the ER stress transducers that detect the accumulation of unfolded proteins in the ER. IRE1alpha mediates two major cellular responses, which are the unfolded protein response (UPR), a defensive response, and apoptosis that leads to cell death. However, little is known about the regulatory mechanisms that select between the UPR and apoptosis. We identified Jun activation domain-binding protein-1 (JAB1) as a molecule that interacts with IRE1alpha using a yeast two-hybrid system. We demonstrated that JAB1 binds to IRE1alpha in the absence of stress, but that binding is decreased by ER stress inducers. Moreover, mutant JAB1 down-regulates the UPR signaling pathway through tight binding with IRE1alpha. These results suggested that JAB1 may act as a key molecule in selecting the UPR or cell death by association and dissociation with IRE1alpha.
Pentylenetetrazole (PTZ) injection causes seizures in rodents and this is used in several models of epilepsy. In the present study a low dose (20 mg/kg) was injected into rats in order to analyze metabolic disturbances caused by subconvulsive amounts of PTZ. Intraperitoneal injection of PTZ was followed, 30 min later, by injection of [1-(13C)]glucose plus [1,2-(13C)]acetate and 15 min thereafter decapitation. Analyses of extracts from cerebrum, subcortex and cerebellum were performed using 13C NMRS and HPLC. Whereas convulsive doses of PTZ lead to most pronounced changes in cerebellum [J. Neurochem. 85 (2003) 1200], it could be shown that subconvulsive doses affected mainly amino acid metabolism in cerebrum. In glutamatergic neurons in the cerebrum PTZ affected both the metabolic and releasable pools of glutamate, whereas, in the subcortex and cerebellum only the metabolic pool was affected. This could be deducted from the findings that less [4-(13C)]glutamine, [3,4-(13C)]glutamate and [2-(13C)]aspartate, which are labeled from [1-(13C)]glucose, were detected in this area. Glial metabolism was also changed as evidenced by the decreased pyruvate carboxylation versus pyruvate dehydrogenation ratio both in cerebrum and subcortex. Comparison between convulsive and nonconvulsive doses of PTZ lead to the hypothesis that changes observed in the cerebellum are mainly due to seizures, whereas those in cerebrum and subcortex are coupled to the action of the chemical stimulant.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a prevalent age-related motor dysfunction resulting from the hyperactivity of the indirect striatal pathway, which is controlled in an antagonistic manner by inhibitory dopamine D2 and facilitatory adenosine A(2A) receptors. Thus, dopamine precursors like l-DOPA are the standard therapy and A(2A) antagonists are now tested as anti-parkinsonians. Increased free radicals levels occur on aging and are proposed to be a contributing factor for PD. We now tested if free radicals affected A(2A) and D2 receptors in striatal membranes of young adult (2 months) and old (24 months) rats. The A(2A) receptor antagonist [3H]SCH 58261 bound to striatal membranes with a KD of 0.9 nM and a Bmax of 953 fmol/mg protein in young rats and with a KD of 0.8 nM and a Bmax of 725 fmol/mg protein in aged rats (24% decrease). The D2 receptor antagonist [3H]raclopride bound to striatal membranes with a KD of 4.0 nM and a Bmax of 598 fmol/mg protein in young rats and with a KD of 4.3 nM and a Bmax of 368 fmol/mg protein in aged rats (38% decrease). Exposure of striatal membranes to a free radical generation system (2 mM FeSO4 and 4 mM ascorbate) caused a similar decrease of [3H]SCH 58261 (35%) and [3H]raclopride (37%) binding in young adult rats but caused a greater decrease of [3H]SCH 58261 (49%) than of [3H]raclopride (20%) binding in aged rats. Thus, in aged rats, there is an unbalance of A(2A)/D2 receptor density favouring A(2A) receptors, which is restored on exposure to free radicals. This supports the hypothesis that the effectiveness of A(2A) receptor antagonists as anti-parkinsonians, demonstrated in young adult animals, may not be affected by a modified A(2A)/D2 receptor density in aged individuals suffering from exposure to increased free radical levels, as occurs in PD.
Oxidative stress has been implicated in several pathologies associated with degenerative processes. Mitochondria are involved in cell death by necrosis or apoptosis due to a large load of Ca2+, the formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), mitochondrial depolarization and the release of cytochrome c that initiates the caspase cascade. Nevertheless, the role of mitochondria in cell death processes induced by hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) has not been fully established. In this study, we analyzed the cytotoxic effect of H2O2 on rho+ human teratocarcinoma (NT2) cells and on mitochondria-DNA depleted rho0 NT2 cells, lacking functional mitochondria. The cells were exposed to H2O2 for 24 h and cell viability was dose-dependently decreased in both cell lines upon H2O2 exposure, although cell susceptibility was higher in rho0 NT2 cells. Moreover a decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential (Deltapsi(m)), mitochondrial cytochrome c release, caspases activation and DNA fragmentation were largely induced by H2O2 and occurred in both cell lines. Nevertheless, increased cell toxicity in rho0 cells upon H2O2 exposure was accompanied by a higher activation of the effector caspases-3 and -6. The data support that, in general, no differences were observed in cells containing functional (rho+) or non-functional (rho0) mitochondria upon H2O2-induced apoptotic cell death.
Alpha synuclein protein may play an important role in familial and sporadic Parkinson's disease pathology. We have induced G209A mutant or wild-type alpha-synuclein expression in stable HEK293 cell models to determine if this influences markers of oxidative stress and damage under normal conditions or in the presence of dopamine or paraquat. Induced wild-type or mutant alpha-synuclein expression alone had no effect upon levels of oxidative stress or damage, as measured by glutathione levels or aconitase activity. Both wild-type and mutant alpha-synuclein expression decreased the oxidative damage induced by paraquat, although the protection was less marked with mutant alpha-synuclein expression. This suggests that alpha-synuclein expression may either have anti-oxidant properties or may upregulate cellular antioxidant levels, a function that was diminished by the G209A mutation. However, mutant but not wild-type alpha-synuclein expression specifically enhanced dopamine associated oxidative damage. Non-expressing cells treated with reserpine to inhibit the vesicular monoamine compartmentalisation produced similar results. However, consistent with the hypothesis that mutant alpha-synuclein disrupts vesicular dopamine compartmentalization, this effect was diminished in cells expressing mutant alpha-synuclein. This may result in increased dopamine metabolism and cause selective oxidative damage to dopaminergic cells.
The dopamine-D3 receptor is of special interest due to its postulated role in the pathophysiology and treatment of schizophrenia and Parkinson's Disease. Increasing evidences support the assumption that the D3 receptors are occupied to a high degree by dopamine at physiological conditions. Research on the functional role of the D3 receptors in brain has however been hampered by the lack of D3 selective ligands. In the present Positron Emission Tomography (PET) study the binding of the novel, putative dopamine-D3 receptor ligand, [11C]RGH-1756 was characterized in the cynomolgus monkey brain. [11C]RGH-1756 was rather homogenously distributed in brain and the regional binding potential (BP) values ranged between 0.17 and 0.48. Pretreatment with unlabelled RGH-1756 decreased radioligand binding to the level of the cerebellum in most brain areas. The regional BP values were lower after intravenous injection of a higher mass of RGH-1756, indicating saturable binding of [11C]RGH-1756. The D2/D3 antagonist raclopride partly inhibited the binding of [11C]RGH-1756 in several brain areas, including the striatum, mesencephalon and neocortex, whereas the 5HT(1A) antagonist WAY-100635 had no evident effect on [11C]RGH-1756 binding. Despite the promising binding characteristics of RGH-1756 in vitro the present PET-study indicates that [11C]RGH-1756 provides a low signal for specific binding to the D3 receptor in vivo. One explanation is that the favorable binding characteristics of RGH-1756 in vitro are not manifested in vivo. Alternatively, the results may support the hypothesis that the dopamine-D3 receptors are indeed occupied to a high extent by dopamine in vivo and thus not available for radioligand binding.
The purpose of this study was to determine the non-adrenergic non-cholinergic inhibitory neurotransmitter in pig jejunum. Intracellular electrical activity was recorded from circular smooth muscle cells. Inhibitory junction potentials (IJPs) evoked by electrical field stimulation were inhibited by tetrodotoxin (1 micromol L(-1)), omega-conotoxin GVIA (0.1 micromol L(-1)) tetrodotoxin, apamin (1 micromol L(-1)), 1-[6-((17beta-3-methoxyestra-1,3,5(10)-trien-17-yl)amino)hexyl]-1H-pyrrole-2,5-dione (U-73122; 10 micromol L(-1)) but not by N omega-nitro-l-arginine (l-NNA; 100 micromol L(-1)), haemoglobin (10 micromol L(-1)), 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ; 10 micromol L(-1)) or 9-(tetrahydro-2-furyl)adenine (SQ-22536; 10 micromol L(-1)). S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP) hyperpolarized the membrane potential. This was inhibited by ODQ (3 micromol L(-1)) and charybdotoxin (0.1 micromol L(-1)). Adenosine-5-triphosphate (ATP; 100 micromol L(-1)) and 2-methylthio ATP (2-MeS-ATP; 100 micromol L(-1)) did not hyperpolarize the membrane potential and 6-N-N-diethyl-beta- gamma -dibromomethylene-d-adenosine-5'-triphosphate (ARL67156; 100 micromol L(-1)) did not modify IJPs. Carbon monoxide (CO; 10%) and tricarbonyl dichlororuthenium dimer ([Ru(CO3Cl2)]2; 100 micromol L(-1)) hyperpolarized the membrane potential however zinc, copper and tin protoporphyrin IX (100 micromol L(-1)) did not alter IJPs. Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) hyperpolarized the membrane potential but 4-Cl-d-Phe6-Leu17-VIP (1 micromol L(-1)) did not modify IJPs. Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide (PACAP)38 (0.5 micromol L(-1)) hyperpolarized the membrane potential. This was inhibited by apamin (1 micromol L(-1)) but not by tetrodotoxin (1 micromol L(-1)). Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide6-38 (1 micromol L(-1)) inhibited IJPs. These data suggest that inhibitory neurotransmission in pig jejunum is mediated partly by PACAP.

Opioid receptors in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract mediate the effects of endogenous opioid peptides and exogenously administered opioid analgesics, on a variety of physiological functions associated with motility, secretion and visceral pain. The studies reviewed or reported here describe a range of in vivo activities of opioid receptor antagonists upon GI function in rodents, focusing on mu receptors. Naloxone, and the peripherally acting mu-opioid receptor antagonists alvimopan and methylnaltrexone, reverse morphine-induced inhibition of GI transit in mice and rats, and morphine- or loperamide-induced inhibition of castor oil-induced diarrhoea in mice. At doses producing maximal reversal of morphine-induced effects upon GI transit, only the central nervous system (CNS) penetrant antagonist naloxone was able to reverse morphine-induced analgesia. Both central and peripheral opioid antagonists may affect GI function and/or visceromotor sensitivity in the absence of exogenous opioid analgesics, suggesting a constitutive role for endogenous opioid peptides in the control of GI physiology. Furthermore, in contrast to naloxone, alvimopan does not produce hypersensitivity to the visceromotor response induced by nociceptive levels of colorectal distension in a rodent model of post-inflammatory colonic hypersensitivity, suggesting that in the periphery endogenous mu-opioid receptor-mediated mechanisms do not regulate colonic sensitivity. The data support the hypothesis that peripherally acting opioid antagonists may be able to selectively block opioid receptors in the GI tract, thereby preserving normal GI physiology, while not blocking the effects of endogenous opioid peptides or exogenous opioid analgesics in the CNS. These findings suggest that the primary sites of action of mu-opioid agonists with respect to inhibition of GI function are in the periphery, whereas analgesic activity resides primarily in the CNS.
Cooperation and competition are two basic modes of social cognition that necessitate monitoring of both one's own and others' actions, as well as adopting a specific mental set. In this fMRI, study individuals played a specially designed computer game, according to a set of predefined rules, either in cooperation with or in competition against another person. The hemodynamic response during these conditions was contrasted to that of the same subjects playing the game independently. Both cooperation and competition stances resulted in activation of a common frontoparietal network subserving executive functions, as well as the anterior insula, involved in autonomic arousal. Moreover, distinct regions were found to be selectively associated with cooperation and competition, notably the orbitofrontal cortex in the former and the inferior parietal and medial prefrontal cortices in the latter. This pattern reflects the different mental frameworks implicated in being cooperative versus competitive with another person. In accordance with evidence from evolutionary psychology as well as from developmental psychology, we argue that cooperation is a socially rewarding process and is associated with specific left medial orbitofrontal cortex involvement.
Converging lines of research in neuroimaging recognize selection as one of the critical functions of prefrontal cortex (e.g., see Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 24, 2001 167). We examined a central thesis of a selection hypothesis (Neuropsychologia 41, 2003 280) that the left inferior frontal gyrus (LIFG) serves as a general mechanism for selecting among competing representations (Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 18, 1995 193). Participants were presented with two sets of letters to remember and then cued to select one set from the two as the target set for subsequent recognition. LIFG showed significantly more activation when the cue elicited a strong need for selection, relative to when it did not, suggesting that the involvement of this area in selection is generalizable beyond semantic retrieval tasks as originally found. This result provides supporting evidence for the selection hypothesis.
The present study examined the interaction of the central executive in working memory with visual attention. Native Chinese participants were given two versions of a number subtraction task, one of low demand and one of high demand, and were asked to ignore a simultaneously presented peripheral distractor. The distractor could be Chinese or Korean characters, familiar or novel to participants, respectively. Compared with the low-demand subtraction task, brain regions commonly associated with central executive functions, including left middle prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate cortex, and precentral gyrus/sulcus, were significantly activated in the high-demand task. Critically, there was a significant interaction between distractor type and task demand. Novel distractors captured attention and elicited automatic visual analysis, shown by primary visual cortex activation, only when the subtraction task was of low demand but not when it was of high demand. The results provide confirmatory evidence that the extent to which higher level cognitive resources, specifically, the central executive component of working memory, are absorbed by a cognitive task has an impact upon automatic processing that occurs in response to distracting items.
The International Classification of Headache Disorders 2nd Edition (ICHD-II), published in 2004, marks an unquestionable progress from the preceding 1988 edition, but the in-depth analysis it offers is not immune from drawbacks and shortcomings. First of all, it is still basically a classification of attacks and not of syndromes. For the migraine group, while the revised classification more accurately characterises migraine with aura, it fails to provide a sufficiently structured description of those forms of migraine without aura that over the years evolve to so-called daily chronic forms. These forms are not adequately recognised as chronic migraine, which ICHD-II includes among the complications of migraine. The inclusion of short-lasting unilateral neuralgiform headache attacks with conjunctival injection and tearing (SUNCT) in the cluster headache group is bound to generate some perplexity, while the recognition of new daily persistent headache (NDPH) included in the group of other primary headaches as a separate clinical entity appears somewhat premature. Doubts are also raised by the actual existence of triptan-overuse headache, which ICHD-II includes in Group 8 among medication-overuse headaches. Finally, the addition of headache attributed to psychiatric disorder, which is certainly a good option in perspective, is not yet supported by an adequate systematisation.
Migraine is a common and chronic disorder. It is considered benign but several studies have suggested it as a rare risk factor for ischaemic stroke. The association is still conflicting and seems to be restricted to particular subgroups of patients (i.e., women under the age of 45, with migraine with aura, and particularly ones who smoke and use oral contraceptives). The pathogenetic mechanisms underlying this condition are not known. We describe 6 cases of migrainous stroke fully meeting the diagnostic criteria of the International Headache Society (IHS). For each patient, demographic and anamnestic data, clinical features, results of laboratory tests and neuroimaging findings were recorded. Five of the 6 cases were women (median age of 29, range from 23 to 40). The man was 36. All patients fulfilled the IHS criteria for migraine with aura. At the time of the event, 2 patients were taking oral contraceptives and smoked, one patient smoked and three patients had no vascular risk factors. The stroke manifested as homonymous hemianopia in 3 patients, lower homonymous quadrantopia in 1 patient and sensory symptom in 1 patient. The neurological examination was normal in 1 case. All patients underwent several tests with negative results: blood test (antithrombin III, protein C or S, autoantibodies), transthoracic and transoesophageal echocardiography, extracranial and intracranial Doppler sonography, and angiography which was not performed in 1 patient. All patients had a cerebral infarct visible on neuroimaging study (MRI): posterior cerebral artery in 4, middle cerebral artery in 1 and anterior cerebral artery in 1. We support the findings reported by others that migrainous stroke is more common in young women affected by migraine with aura. In consideration of the high prevalence of migraine in the population, further research is indicated and necessary to establish if migraine is independent from other vascular risk factors.
Optic neuritis (ON) refers to any inflammatory optic neuropathy. In clinical practice ON is mainly diagnosed by ophthalmologists and less frequently by neurologists. ON diagnostic criteria are included in the Classification of International Headache Society (IHS) and in other classification systems, both in neurological and ophthalmologic fields. The aims of this study were to verify the application of IHS ON diagnostic criteria in clinical practice and the role of the ocular pain qualitative aspects. We performed a partially retrospective (140 cases) and prospective (43 cases) study analysing the clinical characteristics of patients with ON. We observed retro orbital pain in a huge percentage of patients; it was provoked or spontaneous and worsened by eye movements. We found that the new IHS classification criteria (IHS 2004) do not fully satisfy the requirements for ON diagnosis. Further study is necessary to validate the diagnostic criteria of ON in clinical practice.
We examined a group of 18 consecutive patients with spontaneous cerebrospinal fluid leak syndrome (SCSFLS) and investigated clinical, MRI, radioisotope findings and therapeutic outcome of this syndrome.
Following the diagnostic indications of the Guidelines for the diagnosis and therapy of juvenile headache, we present the results of a prospective, multicentre study of headache patients aimed at evaluating the utility of neuroradiologic testing in the diagnosis of headache. A total of 6535 subjects up to age 18 were studied, and 1485 underwent neuroimaging testing based on the indications of the diagnostic Flow-Chart. Abnormal results were observed in 273 (18.5%) subjects. Incidental findings were observed in 138 (9.3%) subjects, not correlated with the headache pathology, whereas alterations that led to the diagnosis of secondary headache were observed in 135 (9.1%) subjects. In conclusion, our data support a greater incidence of positive neuroimaging examinations among patients who underwent testing based on suspicion of a secondary headache pathology when compared with the low percentages observed in study populations.
In most cases, diagnosis of the various headache subtypes is possible through the accurate collection of medical history data. However, sometimes serious problems of differential diagnosis may be encountered. Therefore, the distinction between migraine without aura and tension-type headache is not always easy, the relationship between chronic migraine and medication overuse headache is a complex one, and differentiation of chronic tension-type headache vs. new daily-persistent headache is often problematic. A clear knowledge of the distinctive clinical features of the various headache subtypes is necessary to establish a correct diagnosis in the group of unilateral headaches with short-lived attacks and in the group of headaches with nocturnal onset.
General population studies suggest a non-casual association (co-morbidity) between migraine, major depression and anxiety disorders (panic attack disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, generalised anxiety disorder). The risk of developing affective and anxiety disorders has not increased uniformly in the different migraine subtypes, but it is more elevated in migraine with aura patients. The relationship between migraine and depression is &quot;bi-directional&quot; (i. e., migraineurs have a more than three-fold risk of developing depression compared with non-migraine patients, while depression patients that have never suffered from migraine before have a more than three-fold risk of developing migraine compared with non-depressed patients) and specific (i. e., the presence of migraine or severe non-migraine headache increases a patient's risk of developing depression or panic attack disorder, whereas the presence of depression or panic attack disorder is associated with a greater risk of developing migraine, but not severe non-migraine headache). The association described in this review has significant pathogenetic, clinical and therapeutical implications.
The clinical management of cluster headache (CH) attacks requires a symptomatic treatment that is rapidly effective in resolving or significantly reducing symptoms. First-choice drugs for the symptomatic treatment of CH are subcutaneous sumatriptan at a dose of 6 mg and 100% oxygen inhalation at a rate of 7 l/min for no more than 15 min. Sumatriptan acts by suppressing pain and the accompanying autonomic phenomena, with no substantial differences in its mechanism of action between episodic and chronic CH. The drug can be used for prolonged periods without loss of efficacy or safety and its side-effects are generally mild or moderate. Oxygen inhalation has a number of advantages over drug therapy: it is free from side-effects, has no contraindications--unlike sumatriptan, it can be used in patients with cardiac, cerebral or peripheral vascular disease and with kidney, liver or lung disease--acts rapidly and can be administered several times a day. Its disadvantages are that it is scarcely practical and may induce a &quot;rebound effect&quot;. Sumatriptan nasal spray, zolmitriptan and dihydroergotamine nasal spray are scarcely effective. After the introduction of sumatriptan, ergotamine tartrate has been relegated to a secondary role in the symptomatic treatment of CH. Among other non-drug and topical drug treatment options, hyperbaric oxygen therapy and the intranasal application of 10% cocaine hydrochloride and 10% lidocaine in the sphenopalatine fossa have also proved effective.
Excitatory synapses are located on actin-rich protrusions known as dendritic spines. alpha-Actinin is an actin binding protein enriched in the postsynaptic density (PSD) of excitatory synapses. Because it also binds to NMDA receptors and other PSD components, alpha-actinin has been proposed to link NMDA receptors and the PSD to the underlying actin cytoskeleton of the dendritic spine. Although alpha-actinin has been implicated in modulation of NMDA receptor activity, the cell biological function of alpha-actinin in neurons is unknown. We report here that alpha-actinin is concentrated in spines. Both the actin binding domain and the spectrin repeat region (which interacts with NMDA receptors) of alpha-actinin2 are required for spine targeting. In live imaging experiments, Venus-tagged alpha-actinin2 in dendritic spines showed faster turnover than PSD-95, as determined by fluorescent recovery after photobleaching (FRAP), and individual spines often showed marked fluctuations in alpha-actinin content over a time-scale of minutes. Overexpression of alpha-actinin2 increased the length and density of dendritic protrusions in cultured hippocampal neurons, an effect that requires the actin binding domain and the spectrin repeats of alpha-actinin. These results suggest that alpha-actinin regulates spine morphology and density.
At vertebrate central synapses, it has been demonstrated that a resting pool of synaptic vesicles (SVs) exists that normally does not participate in SV release and recycling. It remains unclear whether SVs within the resting pool are capable of mobilization and fusion. Here, we combine live imaging of SV exo- and endocytosis using pH-sensitive GFP (synapto-pHluorins) with pharmacological and genetic manipulations of the SV cycle at the Drosophila NMJ. We demonstrate that a resting pool of SVs exists at this synapse that encompasses 30-41% of the total SV pool. Under conditions of endocytic blockade, using a temperature-sensitive dynamin mutation, the resting pool of SVs can be mobilized and released. We present a model for the presence of a resting pool of SVs that does not require molecular specification of a subpopulation of SVs.
It is commonly accepted that glutamatergic and GABAergic presynaptic terminals form perfectly matched appositions opposite their appropriate receptors and associated binding proteins. However, recent reports indicate that certain synaptic proteins that are commonly used to identify excitatory or inhibitory synapses can be mismatched, particularly during development. In order to construct a more comprehensive scheme of synapse composition during development, we co-immunolabeled for several principle excitatory and inhibitory proteins over the course of synaptogenesis in cultured hippocampal neurons. We find that although the majority of synaptic appositions are composed of matched clusters of pre- and postsynaptic proteins appropriate for a particular neurotransmitter, many are initially mismatched, even in dendrites receiving both glutamatergic and GABAergic innervation. Over time, the fidelity of GABAergic synapse composition increases such that, despite the persistence of some mismatched components at glutamatergic sites, the incidence of mismatch diminishes at both inhibitory and excitatory synapses. Activation of either GABA-A or NMDA receptors promotes fidelity at GABAergic sites, but NMDA receptor activation promotes mismatching among glutamatergic synapses. Thus, apposition of pre- and postsynaptic elements can occur independent of neurotransmitter specificity and synaptic activity modifies these associations. Our findings support the idea that synapse maturation occurs in several distinct stages, and that these stages are regulated by a combination of activity-dependent and -independent factors.
Perisylvian regions important for auditory processing include Heschl's gyrus (HG), the planum temporale (PT), the posterior superior temporal gyrus (pSTG), and the posterior ascending ramus (PAR). Sex-linked differences in language functions and anatomy have been suggested. To examine sex-linked differences, the authors used MRI to measure HG, PT, pSTG, and PAR volumes. Sex differences were found in right HG and right pSTG volumes but not in the left volumes of these structures. For the PT, there were sex differences in asymmetry; women exhibited leftward asymmetry of the PT, whereas men did not exhibit PT asymmetry. These findings suggest that there are sex-linked differences in the anatomy of primary and association auditory cortices.
Category-specific impairment in living things was examined in patients with temporal lobe damage to investigate whether specific neuroanatomical regions could be identified in processing the knowledge of specific categories. Tasks involving more effortful retrieval naming and less effortful attribute judgment were administered to 3 groups of patients with either bilateral, unilateral left, or unilateral right temporal lobe damage. Category-specific impairment in living things was observed for patients with unilateral or bilateral damage, results that are consistent with previous findings. Depending on its site and extent, the damage in the temporal lobe might lead to deficits in processing or loss of semantic knowledge for living things. Therefore, intact category-specific semantic processes may involve associations among different neural substrates in the temporal lobe.
Traditionally, studies of cognitive aging have focused on comparing the average performance of younger and older adults, whereas variability around the mean has been attributed to task-irrelevant noise. The present study examined the hypothesis that variability in memory performance increases with age and that estrogen helps temper age-related increases in variability. Postmenopausal estrogen users, estrogen and progestin (est + prog) users, and nonusers, as well as younger women, completed 16 blocks of an item-source memory task. Older women showed greater variability than younger women on measures of dispersion and consistency. Estrogen users, but not est + prog users, performed more consistently than nonusers. Overall, age-related increases in variability differed with the type of variability measured, and estrogen use, but not est + prog use, appeared to reduce age-related increases in at least 1 form of variability.
Patients with schizophrenia (n = 41) and healthy comparison participants (n = 46) completed neuropsychological measures of intelligence, memory, and executive function. A subset of each group also completed magnetic resonance diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) studies (fractional anisotropy and cross-sectional area) of the uncinate fasciculus (UF) and cingulate bundle (CB). Patients with schizophrenia showed reduced levels of functioning across all neuropsychological measures. In addition, selective neuropsychological-DTI relationships emerged. Among patients but not controls, lower levels of declarative-episodic verbal memory correlated with reduced left UF, whereas executive function errors related to performance monitoring correlated with reduced left CB. The data suggested abnormal DTI patterns linking declarative-episodic verbal memory deficits to the left UF and executive function deficits to the left CB among patients with schizophrenia.
The locomotor-stimulant effects of cocaine, mediated through inhibition of the dopamine transporter (DAT), can be influenced by environmental factors. Previously, we found that following a short exposure to the testing environment, cocaine induces greater locomotor activation in inbred long-sleep (ILS) mice, compared to inbred short-sleep (ISS) mice. In the present study, all animals received prolonged habituation to the testing chambers prior to cocaine injection, and the results were compared with those from our previous study. When mice were tested with saline on day 1 and with either saline or cocaine (10-20 mg/kg) on day 2, we observed significant locomotor stimulation in ILS, but not ISS, mice at all tested doses of cocaine. Thus, prolonged habituation does not alter the differential responsiveness of these two strains of mice to cocaine. We found no strain differences in striatal cocaine levels. However, [3H]WIN 35,428 binding studies showed a lower number of striatal DATs in ILS, compared to ISS, mice. In vivo analysis of striatal DAT activity revealed not only that ILS mice cleared exogenously applied DA more slowly than ISS mice, but also that cocaine (10 mg/kg) decreased DA clearance selectively in ILS mice. Thus, functional differences in striatal DATs between ILS and ISS mice likely contribute to the differential behavioral activation of cocaine in these two mouse strains.
Dopaminergic axons innervating the prefrontal cortex (PFC) target both pyramidal cells and GABAergic interneurons. Many of these dopamine (DA) axons in the rat coexpress the peptide neurotransmitter neurotensin. Previous electrophysiological data have suggested that neurotensin activates GABAergic interneurons in the PFC. Activation of D2-like DA receptors increases extracellular GABA levels in the PFC, as opposed to the striatum, where D2 receptor activation inhibits GABAergic neurons. Because activation of presynaptic D2 release-modulating autoreceptors in the PFC suppresses DA release but increases release of the cotransmitter neurotensin, D2 agonists may enhance the activity of GABAergic interneurons via release of neurotensin. In order to determine if neurotensin can activate GABAergic interneurons, we treated rats with the peptide neurotensin agonist, PD149163, and examined Fos expression in PFC neurons. Systemic administration of PD149163 increased overall Fos expression in the PFC, but not in the dorsal striatum. PD149163 induced Fos in PFC interneurons, as defined by the presence of calcium-binding proteins, and in pyramidal cells. Pretreatment with the high-affinity neurotensin antagonist, SR48692, blocked neurotensin agonist-induced Fos expression. These data suggest that neurotensin activates interneurons in the PFC of the rat.

In this article, the role of functional imaging for providing objective evidence that grafts of fetal tissue can survive and form connections in Parkinson's and Huntington's disease patients is reviewed. The dissociation between dopamine storage capacity, clinical improvement, and normalization of brain metabolism in PD is discussed, and possible mechanisms underlying the phenomenon of dyskinesias off medication are presented. It is concluded the positron emission tomography and single photon emission computed tomography can provide valuable ancillary information alongside clinical observations but are not currently appropriate modalities for use as surrogate endpoints.
Basic science advances in spinal cord injury and regeneration research have led to a variety of novel experimental therapeutics designed to promote functionally effective axonal regrowth and sprouting. Among these interventions are cell-based approaches involving transplantation of neural and non-neural tissue elements that have potential for restoring damaged neural pathways or reconstructing intraspinal synaptic circuitries by either regeneration or neuronal/glial replacement. Notably, some of these strategies (e.g., grafts of peripheral nerve tissue, olfactory ensheathing glia, activated macrophages, marrow stromal cells, myelin-forming oligodendrocyte precursors or stem cells, and fetal spinal cord tissue) have already been translated to the clinical arena, whereas others have imminent likelihood of bench-to-bedside application. Although this progress has generated considerable enthusiasm about treating what once was thought to be a totally incurable condition, there are many issues to be considered relative to treatment safety and efficacy. The following review reflects on different experimental applications of intraspinal transplantation with consideration of the underlying pathological, pathophysiological, functional, and neuroplastic responses to spinal trauma that such treatments may target along with related issues of procedural and biological safety. The discussion then moves to an overview of ongoing and completed clinical trials to date. The pros and cons of these endeavors are considered, as well as what has been learned from them. Attention is primarily directed at preclinical animal modeling and the importance of patterning clinical trials, as much as possible, according to laboratory experiences.
Multiple sclerosis presents particular and serious problems to those attempting to develop cell-based therapies: the occurrence of innumerable lesions scattered throughout the CNS, axon loss, astrocytosis, and a continuing inflammatory process, to name but a few. Nevertheless, the limited and relatively focused nature of damage to oligodendrocytes and myelin, at least in early disease, the large body of available knowledge concerning the biology of oligodendrocytes, and the success of experimental myelin repair, have allowed cautious optimism that therapies may be possible. Here, we review the clinical and biological problems presented by multiple sclerosis in the context of cell therapies, and the neuroscientific background to the development of strategies for myelin repair. We attempt to highlight those areas where difficulties have yet to be resolved and draw on a variety of more recent experimental findings to speculate on how remyelinating therapies are likely to develop in the foreseeable future.
The clinical studies with intrastriatal transplants of fetal mesencephalic tissue in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients have provided proof-of-principle for the cell replacement strategy in this disorder. The grafted dopaminergic neurons can reinnervate the denervated striatum, restore regulated dopamine (DA) release and movement-related frontal cortical activation, and give rise to significant symptomatic relief. In the most successful cases, patients have been able to withdraw L-dopa treatment after transplantation and resume an independent life. However, there are currently several problems linked to the use of fetal tissue: 1) lack of sufficient amounts of tissue for transplantation in a large number of patients, 2) variability of functional outcome with some patients showing major improvement and others modest if any clinical benefit, and 3) occurrence of troublesome dyskinesias in a significant proportion of patients after transplantation. Thus, neural transplantation is still at an experimental stage in PD. For the development of a clinically useful cell therapy, we need to define better criteria for patient selection and how graft placement should be optimized in each patient. We also need to explore in more detail the importance for functional outcome of the dissection and cellular composition of the graft tissue as well as of immunological mechanisms. Strategies to prevent the development of dyskinesias after grafting have to be developed. Finally, we need to generate large numbers of viable DA neurons in preparations that are standardized and quality controlled. The stem cell technology may provide a virtually unlimited source of DA neurons, but several scientific issues need to be addressed before stem cell-based therapies can be tested in PD patients.


Angelman syndrome is characterized by severe mental retardation, absence of speech, bursts of laughter, ataxia, seizure disorder and facial dysmorphism. This report describes the first 3 children with Angelman syndrome from Bahrain. The diagnosis was based on clinical features and confirmed by the presence of microdeletion of 15q11q13 using fluorescence in situ hybridization.
Acrocallosal syndrome (ACS), is an extremely rare disorder characterized by the absence of corpus callosum (CC), macrocephaly, hypertelorism, pre- and postaxial polydactyly and severe motor and mental retardation. There are only 3 reports of ACS associated with ocular findings, including optic atrophy, esotropia and anophthalmus. We report on the first known Turkish case of ACS associated with unilateral nystagmus in addition to several neurologic abnormalities such as absence of the adhesio interthalamica and many others. A physically and mentally underdeveloped one year-old girl was evaluated for macrocephaly, polydactyly and left-sided nystagmus, which was not recognized until the fourth month. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed external hydrocephaly, triventricular hydrocephaly, midline brain abnormalities including partial agenesis of the CC, cavum septi pellucidi, cavum vergae, and absence of the adhesio interthalamica. The following anomalies were also noted; high arched palate, short nose with broad nasal bridge and anteverted nostrils, macrocephaly, frontal bossing, open and down turned angles of the mouth, hypertelorism, postaxial polydactyly of the left foot, hypertrichiasis, and hypertrichosis. On the basis of these findings, a diagnosis of ACS was made. In addition to neuroimaging, systemic research is needed in all patients presenting with asymmetric nystagmus as such a nystagmus may be associated with various external developmental abnormalities in addition to central nervous system involvement. Our case indicates that asymmetric nystagmus and midline brain abnormalities may also be included in the diagnostic criteria of ACS.
Acute bilateral frontal epidural hematoma developed in a child with long standing hydrocephalus following restoration of ventriculoperitoneal shunt patency. A CT brain scan revealed acute bifrontal epidural hematoma. The epidural hematoma developed as a result of rapid decompression of the hydrocephalus. An emergency neurosurgical evacuation of the hematoma saved the patient from this rather rare and potentially fatal complication that can occur in patients with hydrocephalus.
We report a patient with late onset ataxia who was initially labeled as idiopathic diabetes insipidus for many years. Pathological and radiological investigations revealed Langerhans cell histiocytosis. This case report aims to draw the attention of physicians to this delayed and rare presentation.
We report a case of recent onset headache, sudden mono-ocular blindness and a high erythrocyte sedimentation rate as a manifestation of leptomeningeal metastasis from undiagnosed carcinoma of the breast, mimicking temporal arteritis.











Dizziness is one of the most common presenting symptoms in clinical practice. Yet, the meaning of this symptom is patient-dependent and can span from true vertigo due to vestibular dysfunction to syncope or vertebro-basilar stroke. This review addresses the neurobiological background of vertigo and the most common syndrome of benign paroxysmal positional vertigo, with an outline of the approach towards localization and management of the acute vertiginous patient.
Febrile seizures are the most common seizure disorder in children younger than 5 years of age. Most febrile seizures are brief, do not require any specific treatment or workup, and have benign prognoses. Generalists and pediatricians are frequently faced with anxious parents and are required to make rational decisions regarding the need to investigate and treat such a child. They subsequently need to provide further prognostic information and counseling to the families. The aim of this article is to provide an updated overview of febrile seizures and review the most recent diagnostic and therapeutic recommendations. Despite the progress in the understanding of this benign syndrome, a wide variation in physician evaluation and management persists. However, there is recent evidence that pediatricians are becoming more selective in admitting and investigating children with febrile seizures. Admitted children frequently had complex seizures, status epilepticus, or were ill looking. Considering the full scope of febrile seizures, the yield of investigations that might alter management remains low and does not justify extensive work-up or prolonged hospitalization.

The construction of the Hospital for the Poor was begun in Milan in 1451 at the instigation of Francesco Sforza, Duke of Milan. In contrast to what had happened during the Dark Ages of the Medieval period, the new hospital was extraordinary both in construction and in medical organization. Wards for the patients were separated according to diseases, infective and noninfective, and according to sex. Each patient had his or her own bed and was fed adequately and kept warm. Patients were no longer treated by astrologers or monks but rather by doctors who had studied medicine at the University of Pavia. Each ward had its own doctor and surgeon, and from 1558 on, there was a doctor on duty in the hospital 24 hours a day. The hospital had its own pharmacy and drug reference book. The Hospital for the Poor, or C Granda (Big House), or the Ospedale Maggiore, as it was variously called from the 15th to the 19th centuries, became a training ground for anatomic and clinical studies. It was only in 1929 that a Faculty of Medicine was set up at Ospedale Maggiore.

We describe the conceptual background and practical implementation of some recently developed techniques for the analysis of symbol sequences and symbolic time series. We emphasize their associated software realization, the WinGramm suite of programs, that includes programs for the calculation of conditional entropies, context-free grammatical complexity, algorithmic distance and redundancy, as well as for the generation of surrogates that preserve symbol pairs and triplets. We demonstrate the usefulness of these programs by means of two illustrative examples, taken from computational neuroscience. In the first one, we obtain evidence of the Markovian character of the cortical inter spike intervals of the rat before penicillin treatment, and its disappearance afterwards. In the second one, we extend previous investigations about neural spike-trains generated by the isolated neuron of the slowly adapting stretch receptor organ (SAO), in order to classify sequences of different length of known neural behaviors. We include new spike trains, digitized employing the optimal partition procedure described by Steuer, Molgedey, Ebeling, &amp; Jimenez-Montao, (2001).

As memory and concentration impairments are a frequent complaint in post-menopausal women, this well-defined population was selected to investigate the effect on mood and cognition of chronic treatment with Gincosan. In a double-blind placebo controlled study, post-menopausal women aged 51-66 were randomly assigned to 12 weeks' treatment with Gincosan (320mg/day), containing 120mg Ginkgo biloba, and 200mg Panax ginseng (n = 30), or matched placebo (n = 27). They were given measurements of mood, somatic anxiety, sleepiness, and menopausal symptoms and a battery of cognitive tests before treatment and after 6 and 12 weeks of treatment. There were no significant effects of Gincosan treatment on ratings of mood, bodily symptoms of somatic anxiety, menopausal symptoms, or sleepiness or on any of the cognitive measures of attention, memory or frontal lobe function. Thus, after chronic administration, Gincosan appeared to have no beneficial effects in post-menopausal women.
We have examined the effect of an intradermal injection of phenylephrine (1mg/0.1 ml), an alpha-1-adrenoceptor agonist in normal subjects, and patients with sympathetically-independent (SIP) and sympathetically-maintained pain (SMP). Normal subjects and SIP patients experienced only brief stinging pain, while subsets of both sympathectomized and non-sympathectomized SMP patients (6/9 and 4/8, respectively) experienced an additional abnormal pain response accompanied by mechano-allodynia around the injection site. Both the normal and abnormal pain response after intradermal phenylephrine are similar to those observed with intradermal norepinephrine. In contrast to previous reports in the literature, we found that three sympathectomized SMP patients (who, however, had failed to experience pain relief after surgical sympathectomy despite very good relief after sympathetic blocks) also experienced abnormal pain and mechano-allodynia when phenylephrine was injected to a limb contralateral to the symptomatic sympathectomized extremity. Abnormal pain response evoked by norepinephrine or phenylephrine injection in the ipsilateral symptomatic limb of SMP patients may be due to injury-evoked nociceptor responsiveness to catecholamines. However, such a response in contralateral asymptomatic limbs suggests an additional factor that more likely than not is of central origin and may or may not be related to sympathectomy and its success or failure to treat pain.
In mammals, neonatal positive calcium balance is required for adequate growth. Parathyroid hormone (PTH) plays a central role in this process mainly through its action on the distal nephron. We studied the effect of PTH on cytosolic calcium in distal segments from neonatal rat kidney. PTH elicited a concentration-dependent increase in cytosolic calcium in neonatal distal nephron (EC(50)=0.5 nM) but not in proximal tubules. At similar PTH concentrations the response was higher in the neonatal than in the adult tubules. The response was associated with protein kinase C (PKC), since phorbol myristate acetate (100 nM) increased [Ca(2+)]i, and staurosporin, an inhibitor of PKC, decreased (10 nM) or suppressed (100 nM) the PTH effect. cAMP analogues did not change [Ca(2+)]i. The response was diminished in low external calcium (0.1 mM) and absent at zero calcium, indicating dependency on external calcium. Resting calcium decreased from 80+/-10.8 to 28.6+/-2.6 nM at zero [Ca(2+)]e. PTH and nifedipine increased cytosolic calcium in an additive fashion. We show for the first time that PTH increased cytosolic calcium in the distal nephron of neonatal kidney, in a concentration-dependent pattern and in association with PKC activation. Higher sensitivity of the neonatal tubule might facilitate absorption of this cation during the neonatal period, when growth requires a positive balance of calcium.
Intrauterine infection is a risk factor for developmental brain injuries in childhood. A variety of cytokines known to be toxic to developing brain cells have been isolated from mothers or children at risk for developmental disabilities, and these cytokines have been proposed as mediators of these injuries. We have developed a model of intrauterine inflammation that damages the developing white matter and we now hypothesize that selected cytokines are increased after our experimental inflammatory stimulus. Timed-pregnant Fischer 344 and Lewis rats were injected with 0.1 mg/kg of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) into the cervix at E15. Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), IL-6, and IL-10 were measured in homogenates of fetal brain and placenta at serial time periods within the first 24 h after the inflammatory stimulus. TNF-alpha was increased 20-fold in the placenta and more than 5-fold in the fetal brain after the stimulus. IFN-gamma was only increased within the fetal brain (20-fold) and IL-6 was only increased in the placenta (10-fold). IL-10 was mildly increased in the placenta and was decreased slightly in the fetal brain. Our observations show that an intrauterine inflammatory stimulus can cause large increases in Th1 cytokines within the fetal brain. The placenta can produce selected cytokines but fails to produce IFN-gamma, suggesting that the fetal immune system produces this cytokine in response to our stimulus. By studying placental and brain cytokine responses in models such as ours, the mechanisms responsible for the damage to developing white matter can be determined.
We examined the apparent dissociation of perceived length and perceived position with respect to the Mller-Lyer (M-L) illusion. With the traditional (two-chevron) figure, participants made accurate open-loop pointing responses at the endpoints of the shaft, despite the presence of a strong length illusion. This apparently non-Euclidean outcome replicated that of Mack, Heuer, Villardi, and Chambers (1985) and Gillam and Chambers (1985) and contradicts any theory of the M-L illusion in which mislocalization of shaft endpoints plays a role. However, when one of the chevrons was removed, a constant pointing error occurred in the predicted direction, as well as a strong length illusion. Thus, with one-chevron stimuli, perceived length and location were no longer completely dissociated. We speculated that the presence of two opposing chevrons suppresses the mislocalizing effects of a single chevron, especially for figures with relatively short shafts.
Young adult men are more likely to abuse steroids than individuals with low testosterone, including women, boys and older men. This suggests that circulating testosterone may enhance sensitivity to exogenous androgens. This hypothesis was tested using intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) testosterone self-administration in orchidectomized males without testosterone (Orchx, n=8) and in orchidectomized males with chronic physiologic testosterone replacement (Orchx+T, n=8). Beginning 1 week after surgery, hamsters self-administered testosterone for 4 h/day in operant chambers at three doses (0.1, 1.0 and 2.0 microg/microl), each for 8 days. Afterwards, testosterone was replaced with vehicle for 8 days to test extinction. At 1.0 and 2.0 microg/microl, Orchx+T and Orchx males self-administered similar amounts of testosterone. However, at 0.1 microg/microl testosterone, only Orchx+T males showed a significant preference for the active nose-poke (Orchx+T active: 35.1+/-8.4 responses/4 h [mean+/-S.E.M.] vs. inactive: 16.5+/-1.7 responses/4 h, p&lt;0.05; Orchx active: 16.7+/-4.9 responses/4 h vs. inactive: 13.5+/-3.1 responses/4 h, p&gt;0.05). There was little change in operant behavior during extinction in Orchx+T males. However, when vehicle replaced testosterone, Orchx males extinguished their preference for the active nose-poke hole by day 6. These results support our hypothesis that circulating androgens enhance sensitivity to testosterone self-administration.
There has been much debate regarding the potential influence of stress on epilepsy. Many studies have reported that stress can affect seizure susceptibility through eliciting either proconvulsant or anticonvulsant effects within the nervous system. In this study, we investigated the potential anticonvulsant effect of a 10-min swim stress on convulsions induced by a single systemic injection of lithium chloride followed 4 h later with pilocarpine. Rats pretreated with lithium chloride and exposed to a 10-min swim stressor prior to pilocarpine injection displayed a significant delay to seizure onset compared to unstressed rats or rats exposed to swim stress 10 min after lithium chloride, 2 h after lithium chloride, or immediately after pilocarpine injection. We then determined whether administration of a glucocorticoid antagonist (mifepristone; 10 or 50 mg/kg), an alpha(2)-adrenergic antagonist (yohimbine; 2 or 5 mg/kg), or a nonspecific opioid blocker (naloxone; 0.2 or 1 mg/kg) could prevent the anticonvulsant effect of swim stress. Only the high dose of yohimbine was capable of inhibiting the anticonvulsant effect of swim stress on lithium-pilocarpine seizures. Our findings highlight the importance of an endogenous noradrenergic-dependent anticonvulsant system in mediating the effects of swim stress on seizures. Further studies exploring the benefits of treatments with noradrenergic acting drugs in epilepsy is well warranted.
Conditioned stimuli (CSs) previously associated with heroin are critically involved in activating long-lasting relapse and compulsive drug seeking. This study examined the magnitude of heroin seeking induced by drug-related cues in relation to the total amount of drug exposure during training. Five groups of male Sprague-Dawley rats (n=6/group) were trained by the nose-poking response to self-administer different doses of heroin (0, 0.01, 0.025, 0.05, and 0.1 mg/kg per infusion respectively, one 4-h session daily, limited to 25 infusions per session) under an identical progressive ratio schedule with gradual incremental response requirements. All the rats established stable heroin self-administration within 14 days of self-administration training, and the time needed to obtain all the 25 heroin infusions decreased across sessions. After 14 days of abstinence, heroin seeking elicited by contextual cues (self-administration chamber) or discrete contingent CSs previously associated with heroin infusions was measured in two consecutive 1-h test phases. During both test phases, the rats trained with heroin even at the lowest dose (0.01 mg/kg) showed higher active responses than saline controls, and the active responses were also higher in rats trained with doses of 0.025, 0.05, and 0.10 mg/kg in comparison with those trained with a dose of 0.01 mg/kg. There was no observable dose-dependence increase of responses at doses above 0.025 mg/kg. The results suggested that an increased motivation to seek heroin induced by drug-related cues is associated with the total amount of heroin intake.
The beta amyloid (A beta) protein is a key molecule in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The tendency of the A beta peptide to aggregate, its reported neurotoxicity, and genetic linkage studies, have led to a hypothesis of AD pathogenesis that many AD researchers term the amyloid cascade hypothesis. In this hypothesis, an increased production of A beta results in neurodegeneration and ultimately dementia through a cascade of events. In the past 15 years, debate amongst AD researchers has arisen as to whether A beta is a cause or an effect of the pathogenic process. Recent in vitro and in vivo research has consolidated the theory that A beta is the primary cause, initiating secondary events, culminating in the neuropathological hallmarks associated with AD. This research has led to the development of therapeutic agents, currently in human clinical trials, which target A beta.
The gene transcription factor cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)-responsive element binding (CREB) protein is a nuclear protein that regulates synaptic plasticity via modulating the expression of several (cAMP)-inducible genes. Alcohol addiction is a complex psychiatric disorder and is characterized by a compulsive and uncontrolled pattern of alcohol drinking by an individual in spite of the adverse consequences of its abuse. Ethanol produces both euphoric (reward and reinforcing) and dysphoric (negative withdrawal reactions) effects and these are most likely involved in the initiation and maintenance of alcohol use and abuse. Several neurotransmitter systems in the brain might be involved in the effects of alcohol but the exact molecular mechanisms of both the positive and negative affective states of alcohol abuse are still unclear. Recent research in molecular neurosciences using animal models have identified the role of extended amygdaloid (shell structures of nucleus accumbens [NAc] and central and medial amygdaloid nuclei) CREB signaling in positive and negative affective states of alcohol drinking behaviors. This review article highlights the current findings on the role of nucleus accumbal and amygdaloid CREB signaling in behavioral consequences of alcohol use and abuse.
We present an exact analytical solution of the spectral problem of quasi-one-dimensional scaling quantum graphs. Strongly stochastic in the classical limit, these systems are frequently employed as models of quantum chaos. We show that despite their classical stochasticity all scaling quantum graphs are explicitly solvable in the form E(n) =f (n) , where n is the sequence number of the energy level of the quantum graph and f is a known function, which depends only on the physical and geometrical properties of the quantum graph. Our method of solution motivates a new classification scheme for quantum graphs: we show that each quantum graph can be uniquely assigned an integer m reflecting its level of complexity. We show that a network of taut strings with piecewise constant mass density provides an experimentally realizable analogue system of scaling quantum graphs.
Hydrocephalus is far more complicated than a simple disorder of CSF circulation. Historically, it has been diagnosed using clinical and psychomotor assessment plus brain imaging. The role of physiological measurement to aid diagnosis becomes more appreciated in current clinical practice. This has been reflected by recently formulated guidelines for the management of normal pressure hydrocephalus. Clinical measurement in hydrocephalus is mainly related to intracranial pressure (ICP) and cerebral blood flow. This review lists and discusses most common forms of the methods: CSF infusion study, overnight ICP monitoring, assessment of slow ICP waves, testing pressure reactivity, cerebral autoregulation, CO2 reactivity and PET-CBF studies combined with MRI co-registration. The basics of CSF dynamics modelling are presented and the principles of the assessment of functioning of the implanted hydrocephalus shunts are also discussed. The descriptions of multiple forms of measurement along with clinical illustrations are mainly based on in-house experience of a multidisciplinary group of scientists and clinicians from Cambridge, UK.
Transporting epithelia posed formidable conundrums right from the moment that Du Bois Raymond discovered their asymmetric behavior, a century and a half ago. It took a century and a half to start unraveling the mechanisms of occluding junctions and polarity, but we now face another puzzle: lest its cells died in minutes, the first high metazoa (i.e., higher than a sponge) needed a transporting epithelium, but a transporting epithelium is an incredibly improbable combination of occluding junctions and cell polarity. How could these coincide in the same individual organism and within minutes? We review occluding junctions (tight and septate) as well as the polarized distribution of Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase both at the molecular and the cell level. Junctions and polarity depend on hosts of molecular species and cellular processes, which are briefly reviewed whenever they are suspected to have played a role in the dawn of epithelia and metazoan. We come to the conclusion that most of the molecules needed were already present in early protozoan and discuss a few plausible alternatives to solve the riddle described above.
Active zones are highly specialized sites for release of neurotransmitter from presynaptic nerve terminals. The architecture of the active zone is exquisitely designed to facilitate the regulated tethering, docking, and fusing of the synaptic vesicles with the plasma membrane. Here we present our view of the structural and molecular organization of active zones across species and propose that all active zones are organized according to a common principle in which the structural differences correlate with the kinetics of transmitter release.
Making choices is a fundamental aspect of human life. For over a century experimental economists have characterized the decisions people make based on the concept of a utility function. This function increases with increasing desirability of the outcome, and people are assumed to make decisions so as to maximize utility. When utility depends on several variables, indifference curves arise that represent outcomes with identical utility that are therefore equally desirable. Whereas in economics utility is studied in terms of goods and services, the sensorimotor system may also have utility functions defining the desirability of various outcomes. Here, we investigate the indifference curves when subjects experience forces of varying magnitude and duration. Using a two-alternative forced-choice paradigm, in which subjects chose between different magnitude-duration profiles, we inferred the indifference curves and the utility function. Such a utility function defines, for example, whether subjects prefer to lift a 4-kg weight for 30 s or a 1-kg weight for a minute. The measured utility function depends nonlinearly on the force magnitude and duration and was remarkably conserved across subjects. This suggests that the utility function, a central concept in economics, may be applicable to the study of sensorimotor control.

Attention deficit hyperactivity disorders (ADHD) create major learning barriers for children and significant social and legal handicaps for adults worldwide. Important advances in the genetic basis of the disease have been made, but reliable, biological, diagnostic markers remain elusive. This review takes the position that future progress in treating the core symptom of attention deficits requires a clearer understanding of the neuroscience of attention in normal individuals. Two important achievements in this direction have been the development of tasks that identify activity in the orienting, alerting and conflict networks, and the identification of neurotransmitters that mediate these components. The proven ability of these tasks to identify and characterize response components of &quot;normal&quot; attention argues that they could be used advantageously with patient populations. The categorization of neurotransmitter abnormalities in those with ADHD could clarify whether attention deficits occur within or across attention networks. To realize these goals, we evaluate laboratory studies of attention in humans and animals that address the underlying neurotransmitter systems, primarily norepinephrine and acetylcholine. We propose that key facts about deficits in reflexive and voluntary attention may be understood by a model that includes deficits in brain norepinephrine release and its effects on cholinergic activity in the parietal cortex.
The supramammillary area of the hypothalamus, although small in size, can have profound modulatory effects on the hippocampal formation and related temporal cortex. It can control hippocampal plasticity and also has recently been shown to contain cells that determine the frequency of hippocampal rhythmical slow activity (theta rhythm). We review here its organization and anatomical connections providing an atlas and a new nomenclature. We then review its functions particularly in relation to its links with the hippocampus. Much of its control of behaviour and its differential activation by specific classes of stimuli is consistent with a tight relationship with the hippocampus. However, its ascending connections involve not only caudal areas of the cortex with close links to the hippocampus but also reciprocal connections with more rostral areas such as the infralimbic and anterior cingulate cortices. These latter areas appear to be the most rostral part of a network that, via the medial septum, hippocampus and lateral septum, is topographically mapped into the hypothalamus. The supramammillary area is thus diffusely connected with areas that control emotion and cognition and receives more topographically specific return information from areas that control cognition while also receiving ascending information from brain stem areas involved in emotion. We suggest that it is a key part of a network that recursively transforms information to achieve integration of cognitive and emotional aspects of goal-directed behaviour.







Normal somatic cells have a finite replicative capacity. With each cell division, telomeres (the physical ends of linear chromosomes) progressively shorten until they reach a critical length, at which point the cells enter replicative senescence. Some cells can maintain telomere length by the action of the telomerase enzyme. A recent article described in detail the organization and function of Rtel, a murine gene encoding a DNA helicase-like protein. The Rtel protein was found to be essential for genomic stability and embryonic development and survival, and is proposed to be a dominant regulator of murine telomere length.

Investigation of executive functions is an approach which began with the early description of behavioral disorders induced by frontal damage. The development of neuropsychology has led to the description of a large variety of cognitive disorders. This type of approach has generated a large number of tests which are still used in clinical practice. More recently, theoretical approaches have proposed an organization of executive processes and have documented the diversity of executive functions and related anatomy. These studies have deeply influenced the clinical approach, the assessment and the diagnosis of executive disorders. For clinical practice, these data favor specific assessment of certain key behavioral and cognitive deficits investigated with a battery of tests.

Many recent models of schizophrenia have attempted to explain the so-called first-rank symptoms in terms of a breakdown in the self-monitoring of thoughts and behaviours. These models have focused on the most common symptom of schizophrenia auditory hallucinations-suggesting that they may represent disordered self-monitoring of internal speech. As such, much attention has been given to the role of the temporal and frontal cortices in the clinical presentation of patients with schizophrenia. In this review, we examine the role of the posterior parietal cortex (PPC) in schizophrenia within the context of recent models of self-monitoring deficits in these patients. Attentional dysfunctions and certain impairments of motor control and motor imagery all point towards the involvement of the parietal cortex in the disorder. In particular, we suggest that patients experiencing passivity phenomena (e.g., delusions of control) may have particular impairments of parietal function related to poor utilisation of forward models of intended actions. We also present a novel hypothesis that suggests differential impairments of the left and right parietal cortices in schizophrenia may help explain many of the first-rank symptoms of the disorder.
The aim of this study was to examine serial order processing deficits in 21 schizophrenia patients and 16 age- and education-matched healthy controls. In a spatial serial order working memory task, one to four spatial targets were presented in a randomized sequence. Subjects were required to remember the locations and the order in which the targets were presented. Patients showed a marked deficit in ability to remember the sequences compared with controls. Increasing the number of targets within a sequence resulted in poorer memory performance for both control and schizophrenia subjects, but the effect was much more pronounced in the patients. Targets presented at the end of a long sequence were more vulnerable to memory error in schizophrenia patients. Performance deficits were not attributable to motor errors, but to errors in target choice. The results support the idea that the memory errors seen in schizophrenia patients may be due to saturating the working memory network at relatively low levels of memory load.
The designation of a tumor as anaplastic astrocytoma (AA) reflects a distinct histologic classification of malignant glioma characterized by an abundance of pleomorphic astrocytes with evidence of mitosis. Although these tumors are malignant, they have a better prognosis and a higher likelihood of response to treatment than glioblastoma. Despite advances in brain tumor imaging, making an accurate diagnosis requires the evaluation of tumor tissue and is essential for treatment planning. Currently, most patients undergo maximal surgical debulking of tumor followed by external beam radiation, often with subsequent adjuvant chemotherapy. However, despite the use of these treatment modalities, most tumors recur within a few years and these recurrent tumors are more refractory to subsequent therapies. This review examines the diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment of AAs. Ongoing clinical research investigations are also summarized, reflecting advances in our knowledge of the molecular pathogenesis of these tumors and providing hope for significant improvements in patient outcomes.
Stem cells, while difficult to define, hold great promise as tools for understanding development and as therapy. However, this difficulty in defining stem cells has led to a multiplicity of stem cells that may or may not be distinct. The lack of common standards or definitions, the absence of a common forum for discussion, and the range in the ability to manipulate his/her favorite system of stem cells has led to further fragmentation of a field bedeviled by controversy. I suggest that stratification and classification of stem cells on the basis of their function, characteristics, and capabilities would be of enormous benefit to the community. This absence of uniform nomenclature and classification has led to many contradictory claims as to the abilities of stem cells and has made it very difficult to generalize across systems and cell types. I illustrate the problem by providing two examples of how the lack of uniform definitions has slowed progress. I suggest that the effort to establish a consensus on what constitutes a tissue-specific stem cell (definition) and how one would stratify cells (classification) would greatly facilitate progress and perhaps help resolve some of the outstanding controversies.


Conditions associated with arterial ischaemic stroke in children include a great variety of diseases and triggers such as congenital heart malformations, sickle cell disease, infections and vasculopathies, although up to 50% are cryptogenic. An abnormal vascular status can be demonstrated by vascular imaging in up to 80% of children with ischaemic stroke, and case control studies demonstrate an association between ischaemic stroke in children and hereditary prothrombotic risk factors and infections such as Varicella. Conventional risk factors such as hypertension and dyslipidaemia may also play a role, and most children have several potential triggers rather than one single cause. This review focuses on clinical presentations, imaging methods, stroke subtypes, underlying conditions including prothrombotic risk factors, outcome and recurrence. Although data from randomised controlled trials, on which clinical practice might be based, are sparse, therapeutic approaches and future research directions are discussed.
Half of all vertebrate species are teleost fish. What accounts for this explosion of biodiversity? Recent evidence and advances in evolutionary theory suggest that genomic features could have played a significant role in the teleost radiation. This review examines evidence for an ancient whole-genome duplication (tetraploidization) event that probably occurred just before the teleost radiation. The partitioning of ancestral subfunctions between gene copies arising from this duplication could have contributed to the genetic isolation of populations, to lineage-specific diversification of developmental programs, and ultimately to phenotypic variation among teleost fish. Beyond its importance for understanding mechanisms that generate biodiversity, the partitioning of subfunctions between teleost co-orthologs of human genes can facilitate the identification of tissue-specific conserved noncoding regions and can simplify the analysis of ancestral gene functions obscured by pleiotropy or haploinsufficiency. Applying these principles on a genomic scale can accelerate the functional annotation of the human genome and understanding of the roles of human genes in health and disease.
Understanding the cellular mechanisms that characterize the functional changes of the aged brain is an ongoing and formidable challenge for the neuroscience community. Evidence now links changes in Ca(2+) influx and homeostasis with perturbations induced by the aging process in the function of the main intracellular organelles involved in Ca(2+) regulation: the endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria. New perspectives are also offered by recent gene microarray studies, illustrating the multifactorial nature of the aging process.
The human brain is uniquely powerful with respect to cognitive abilities, yet the hippocampal and neocortical circuits that mediate such complex functions are highly vulnerable to aging. Their selective vulnerability is profoundly manifested in Alzheimer's disease (AD), where degeneration of select neurons leads to a near complete loss of cognitive abilities. Most of us will avoid AD as we age. However, many will experience age-associated cognitive impairment - a decline in cognitive status presenting as deficits in memory and key capacities for strategic use of acquired information. Animal studies suggest that both AD and age-associated cognitive impairment reflect vulnerability of the same circuits. However, neuron death predominates in the former, whereas the latter is probably mediated by synaptic alterations in otherwise intact circuits. Fortunately, such age-related synaptic alterations could be reversible, as suggested by recent studies of hormone replacement.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) are known to regulate synaptic plasticity, neurogenesis and neuronal survival in the adult brain. These two signals co-regulate one another such that 5-HT stimulates the expression of BDNF, and BDNF enhances the growth and survival of 5-HT neurons. Impaired 5-HT and BDNF signaling is central to depression and anxiety disorders, but could also play important roles in the pathogenesis of several age-related disorders, including insulin resistance syndrome, Alzheimer's disease and Huntington's disease. Enhancement of BDNF signaling may be a key mechanism whereby cognitive stimulation, exercise, dietary restriction and antidepressant drugs preserve brain function during aging. Behavioral and pharmacological manipulations that enhance 5-HT and BDNF signaling could help promote healthy brain aging.

Although many individuals with a central scotoma develop eccentric fixation most often beneath or left of the scotoma, little is known about how they come to develop a particular viewing strategy. We investigated this by asking eight subjects with normal vision to read isolated letters, words and text passages while an artificial scotoma covered a central portion of the visual field. We quantified viewing strategy and analysed changes in their viewing behaviour over 8-10 sessions within a two-week period. Subjects read while either a horizontal (n=4) or vertical bar scotoma (n=4), 10 degrees wide, covered the entire horizontal or vertical meridian of the stimulus field. For the horizontal scotoma group: (1) there was an increasing preference to use the inferior visual field for isolated letters/words and text passages, which was essentially complete within the test period; (2) the superior visual field was preferred when reading letters/words initially presented in upper visual space and the inferior visual field when reading letters/words initially presented in lower visual space; (3) in general, variation in viewing strategy according to stimulus position diminished over the sessions for all stimuli. For the vertical scotoma group: (1) two subjects used the left and right visual fields in approximately equal proportion to view isolated letters/words, one subject showed a weak preference to use the left visual field and one subject developed a strong preference for using the right visual field; (2) the text passages could be read with combined use of left and right visual fields in a specific manner; (3) the left visual field was preferred to view stimuli initially presented in left visual space while the right visual field was preferred for words initially presented in right visual space. This effect diminished across sessions. Overall, these findings indicate that (1) a specific viewing strategy can be developed through as little as 5 hours of reading experience without guided training; (2) two distinctly separate retinal areas can be used in an integrated manner during reading; (4) stimulus position in visual space can influence viewing strategy; (5) in general, reading encourages a preference for the inferior over the superior visual field, but not the left over right visual field. Letter/word/text recognition and reading speeds increased progressively across sessions, even after scotoma lateralisation appeared stabilised suggesting that multiple mechanism are involved in adaptive changes.
Primary fixation is never perfectly stable, but is frequently interrupted by slow drifts, microsaccades and saccadic intrusions (SI). SI are involuntary, conjugate movements which take the form of an initial fast movement away from the desired eye position and followed after a short duration, by either a return secondary saccade or a drift. The purpose of this study was to examine the prevalence and metrics of SI in a population of 50 healthy subjects. Using both one and two dimensional recordings we find that all 50 members of the subject group exhibited SI. The SI were bilateral, conjugate and horizontal. No purely vertical SI were detected when examined in three subjects. SI amplitude mean and range was 0.6 degrees +/-0.5 degrees, 0.1 degrees -4.1 degrees; SI frequency mean and range was 18.0+/-14.3 per min, 1.0-54.8 per min; SI duration mean and range was 225+/-150, 20-870 ms. The mean SI amplitude and frequency when SI&lt;0.5 degrees were removed was 0.97 degrees +/-0.56 degrees and 7.0+/-11.4 per min respectively. Age was positively correlated with SI amplitude (p&lt;0.01), but there was no correlation between age and SI frequency. Three of four types of SI monophasic square wave intrusions (MSWI), biphasic square wave intrusions (BSWI) and double saccadic pulses (DSP) were found to be exclusively saccadic, whilst the fourth type, the single saccadic pulses (SSP), were confirmed to exhibit a slow secondary component. MSWI were the most frequently observed SI occurring in 47 out of 50 (94%) of the subjects with a mean amplitude, frequency and duration of 0.7 degrees +/-0.5 degrees, 11.5+/-11.6 per min, and 255+/-147 ms respectively. Mean amplitudes and frequencies for BSWI (n=20), SSP (n=11) and DSP (n=34) were found to be 0.50 degrees +/-0.2 degrees, 1.2+/-2.5 per min; 0.40 degrees +/-0.20 degrees, 0.4+/-1.0 per min and 0.3 degrees +/-0.4 degrees, 5.0+/-8.7 per min respectively. No differences in MSWI characteristics were found between binocular and monocular viewing. Possible explanations for SI occurrence include experimental viewing conditions, subject fatigue and covert shifts in attention.
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is a controversial treatment modality that is only rarely performed on children and adolescents. There is a marked paucity of published data relating to the indications, use, clinical outcome and complications of ECT in this age group. The ethical and moral issues surrounding the use and in particular the research of ECT in this group of patients makes controlled data very difficult to come by. The following case report and review of the literature will address some of these issues.
There is considerable clinical and experimental research to explore the anatamico-functional correlations of the limbic lobe to establish its relevance in modern neuroscience. The insula being a pivotal structure in the concept of the greater limbic lobe, we have attempted to highlight in this review the topographical anatomy and development, the remarkable heterogeneity of the insular cortical architecture, the widespread multifaceted spectrum of functional connectivity patterns and how this is translated to its behavioural specialisation in humans. The insula serves as an intergration cortex for multimodal convergence of distributed neural networks such as the somesthetic-limbic, insulo-limbic, insulo-orbito-temporal and the prefrontal-striato-pallidal-basal forebrain. This provides the conceptual framework to facilitate functional and clinical considerations relevant to the various behavioural and neuropsychiatric disorders outlined in this review. The functional role of the insula in these disorders with particular reference to the current functional neuroimaging data has been also reviewed in this article.
Even though Africa contributes a disproportionately small quantity to the world scientific information pool, much of what it produces may be unavailable to the scientific community. A number of scientific journals published on the continent but not listed in international indexes often report studies in mental health and related fields. An analysis of some of these publications revealed that, over the period 1999-2003, research issues addressed include substance abuse, neuroscience and neuropsychiatry, health services, and child mental health. Most of the studies are descriptive and based on convenient or clinical samples. Community-based epidemiological studies and those examining the cost-effectiveness of different forms of intervention are rare. Even though the strength of the studies reported varied considerably, they nevertheless suggest that a considerable amount of research activities is taking place on the continent. The number and types of studies reported highlight the poor investment in research in Africa.
This study was undertaken as part of an exploration of the potential risk for future eating disorders in the black female population of South Africa. Previous research has documented eating attitudes suggesting that such a risk exists in urban populations. A translated version of the Eating Attitudes Test (EAT-26) was applied in a Zulu speaking, rural population (n=361). A prevalence of 3% for abnormal eating attitudes was established. In keeping with the hypothesis, the findings suggest that the risk for developing an eating disorder in a rural population is somewhat lower. In this regard, there does appear to be an urban-rural divide, which may have implications for the prevention of the emergence of eating disorders in black, South African adolescents. However, the validity of the EAT-26 in this population is a consideration in interpreting the data.
This article illustrates the practical impact of recent developments in the philosophy of psychiatry in five key areas: patient-centred practice, new models of service delivery, neuroscience research, psychiatric education, and the organisation of psychiatry as an international science-led discipline focused on patient care. We conclude with a note on the role of philosophy in countering the stigmatisation of mental disorder.
We have investigated the effects of protein kinase inhibitors on the sustained slow postsynaptic excitation (SSPE) that is evoked by prolonged stimulation of synaptic inputs to intrinsic primary afferent neurons (IPANs) in the small intestines of guinea pigs. Stimulation of synaptic inputs to the IPANs caused depolarisation, increased input resistance, and increased excitation that continued after the cessation of stimulation. The excitation was substantially reduced by the broad-spectrum kinase inhibitor staurosporine (1 microM), PKC inhibitors Ro 31-8220 (3.3 microM) and calphostin C (1 microM), but not by the PKA inhibitor H89 (1 microM). At a higher concentration, 10 microM Ro 31-8220 reduced the excitability of axons to electrical stimulation. Phorbol dibutyrate (1 microM) caused excitability increases, membrane depolarisation, and increased input resistance that mimicked the SSPE. We conclude that the generation of the SSPE requires a phosphorylation step that is mediated by protein kinase C.
Functions supported by the frontal lobes are particularly sensitive to the detrimental effects of aging. Recent studies on postmenopausal women find that estrogen replacement therapy benefits performance on tasks dependent on the frontal lobes. To determine whether estrogen has a similar influence in a rhesus monkey model of menopause, we tested five aged, long-term ovariectomized rhesus monkeys in a modified version of the Wisconsin Card Sort test which had been adapted to the nonhuman primate. In this test, monkeys had to select 3-D objects based either on color (blue, red, yellow) or shape (block, tube, cup) and had to be able to switch their response as a function of reinforcement contingencies. The monkeys were treated with placebo and ethinyl estradiol (EE2, 450 ng/kg/day) in alternation with each successive test. Contrary to our hypothesis, estradiol treatment did not affect performance. Because previous studies in the same monkeys [Neurobiol. Aging 23 (2002) 589] had shown that EE2 improves performance on a spatial memory task dependent on the hippocampus, but not on another task dependent upon the frontal lobes (the delayed response), we conclude that executive processes may be less sensitive to the effects of estradiol than hippocampal-dependent tasks.
Bouts of pelage cleaning can be readily evoked in laboratory rodents under conditions of exposure to novelty. Such novelty-induced grooming is described as stereotyped and rostro-caudal in its progression. The patterned structure of novelty-induced grooming makes it particularly attractive for research on the organizational and motivational underpinnings of co-ordinated behaviour. Micro-characteristics of stereotyped novelty-induced grooming bouts were studied in 27 female Wistar rats that were exposed to a novel arena with shelters for a period of 15 min. The order of grooming acts within the initial bouts was rostro-caudal, but subsequent bouts became progressively disorganized in their sequencing. The observed pattern of progressive bout disorganization may be attributed to the gradual dearousal from stress. Differences between consecutive bouts in their micro-characteristics suggest that at least some grooming actions emitted within the context of those bouts operate as relatively independent units of behaviour. Those unitary component actions appear to be integrated into protracted pelage cleaning sequences by a separate mechanism. Similar endogenous mechanisms have been proposed for other co-ordinated motor actions, which suggests that the organizational principles identified in the context of novelty-induced grooming may represent general principles that govern co-ordinated behaviour.
We previously reported that female rats had significantly greater hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis responses to cholinergic stimulation by nicotine (NIC) than did male rats. Females in defined estrous cycle stages, however, were not studied because of sample size limitations. We further explored this finding by determining HPA axis responses to two doses of NIC in female rats (N = 101) during different estrous cycle stages, and in males (N = 69). NIC doses were: 0.3 mg/kg, which provided the greatest female-male difference in the earlier study, and 0.5 mg/kg, which stimulated the HPA axis similarly in the two sexes. Plasma AVP, ACTH, and corticosterone were measured. Proestrous and estrous females had higher ACTH responses to NIC (0.3 mg/kg) compared to metestrous and diestrous females, and compared to males. ACTH responses to NIC (0.5 mg/kg) were similar, regardless of estrous cycle stage or sex. Males had higher AVP responses to both NIC doses compared to females in all estrous cycle stages. Corticosterone responses followed the ACTH responses, except that females in all estrous stages started from a higher corticosterone baseline compared to males. These results are similar to our earlier findings across the estrous cycle with non-specific cholinergic stimulation by physostigmine and suggest that the nicotinic system contributes to the differential HPA axis responses to cholinergic challenge across the estrous cycle.
Summary: P2 segment aneurysms are located on the posterior cerebral artery (PCA) between the junction of the posterior communicating artery with the PCA and the quadrigeminal cisternal part of the PCA. We reviewed our experience with endovascular coiling in such aneurysms. Clinical and pre-procedural data from four patients, referred for endovascular treatment of P2 segment aneurysms, were retrospectively studied for factors influencing post-interventional neurological deficits caused by ischemia of the PCA distal territory. Balloon occlusion was done in three patients and patient tolerance was assessed using clinical and anatomic criteria. Embryologic and anatomic features of the PCA were reviewed. Balloon occlusion test and endovascular coiling of aneurysms was possible in three patients. Control angiogram after embolization showed elimination of aneurysms from the circulation and the distal PCA filled through leptomeningeal anastomoses. One patient deteriorated due to aneurysmal rupture soon after the balloon occlusion test and coiling could not be done. In the other three patients post-intervention CT and MRI images showed PCA territory infarcts in spite of demonstration of good collateral circulation distal to the occluded PCA. In conclusion, P2 aneurysms can be effectively treated by endovascular coiling without a balloon occlusion test. While the balloon occlusion test does not contribute to clinical decision-making it may be associated with potential morbidity and mortality.
Motor neuron pools innervate muscle fibers forming an ordered topographic map. In the gluteus maximus (GM) muscle, as well as additional muscles, we and others have demonstrated electrophysiologically that there exists a rostrocaudal distribution of axon terminals on the muscle surface. The role of muscle fiber type in determining this topography is unknown. A morphological approach was designed to investigate this question directly. We combined three different methods in the same muscle preparation: (1) the uptake of activity-dependent dyes into selected axon terminals to define the spinal segmental origin of a peripheral nerve terminal; (2) the fluorescent labeling of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors to determine motor endplate size; (3) the immunocytochemical staining of skeletal muscle to determine fiber subtype. We applied these methods to the mouse GM muscle to determine the relationship between muscle fiber type and the topographic map of the inferior gluteal nerve (IGN). Results from this unique combination of techniques in the same preparation showed that axon terminals from more rostral spinal nerve segments of origin are larger on rostral muscle fibers expressing myosin heavy chain (MyHC) IIB epitope than caudal type IIB fibers. Because type IIB fibers dominate the GM, this suggests that for these rostral axons terminal size is independent of fiber type. How this axon terminal size is related to the topographic map is the next question to be answered.
Electronic problems of electroencephalographic (EEG) system may occur in even the best-managed laboratories. Timing error may happen in the coupling of computers from various manufactures, resulting in the misalignment of event markers that signal the onset of stimuli. In one system, an impedance check desynchronized a computer and thus caused misalignment of events in EEG signals. Thus, the aim of this study was to develop a method to identify and correct such timing errors that contaminated 114 raw data of EEG/auditory event-related potentials (ERPs) recorded in one of our longitudinal studies. A two-step procedure was introduced in the correction of timing errors. First, the time delay was roughly estimated by identifying a P150 component in two ERP blocks. Second, a small phase-locked positive wave was identified for fine estimation. Reliability within and among evaluators was examined using ERP data with simulated timing errors. Concordant results were obtained in 104 (91.2%) of the 114 raw EEG/ERP data sets. Our results showed that the method presented here is reliable and can be used for correcting timing errors without introduction of experimenter bias.
An important conceptual advance in the past decade has been the understanding that the process of drug addiction shares striking commonalities with neural plasticity associated with natural reward learning and memory. Basic mechanisms involving dopamine, glutamate, and their intracellular and genomic targets have been the focus of attention in this research area. These two neurotransmitter systems, widely distributed in many regions of cortex, limbic system, and basal ganglia, appear to play a key integrative role in motivation, learning, and memory, thus modulating adaptive behavior. However, many drugs of abuse exert their primary effects precisely on these pathways and are able to induce enduring cellular alterations in motivational networks, thus leading to maladaptive behaviors. Current theories and research on this topic are reviewed from an integrative systems perspective, with special emphasis on cellular, molecular, and behavioral aspects of dopamine D-1 and glutamate NMDA signaling, instrumental learning, and drug cue conditioning.
Memory distortion occurs in the laboratory and in everyday life. This article focuses on false recognition, a common type of memory distortion in which individuals incorrectly claim to have encountered a novel object or event. By considering evidence from neuropsychology, neuroimaging, and electrophysiology, we address three questions. (1) Are there patterns of neural activity that can distinguish between true and false recognition? (2) Which brain regions contribute to false recognition? (3) Which brain regions play a role in monitoring or reducing false recognition? Neuroimaging and electrophysiological studies suggest that sensory activity is greater for true recognition compared to false recognition. Neuropsychological and neuroimaging results indicate that the hippocampus and several cortical regions contribute to false recognition. Evidence from neuropsychology, neuroimaging, and electrophysiology implicates the prefrontal cortex in retrieval monitoring that can limit the rate of false recognition.
Memory and synaptic plasticity exhibit distinct temporal phases, with long-lasting forms distinguished by their dependence on macromolecular synthesis. Prevailing models for the molecular mechanisms underlying long-lasting synaptic plasticity have largely focused on transcriptional regulation. However, a growing body of evidence now supports a crucial role for neuronal activity-dependent mRNA translation, which may occur in dendrites for a subset of neuronal mRNAs. Recent work has begun to define the signaling mechanisms coupling synaptic activation to the protein synthesis machinery. The ERK and mTOR signaling pathways have been shown to regulate the activity of the general translational machinery, while the translation of particular classes of mRNAs is additionally controlled by gene-specific mechanisms. Rapid enhancement of the synthesis of a diverse array of neuronal proteins through such mechanisms provides the components necessary for persistent forms of LTP and LTD. These findings have important implications for the synapse specificity and associativity of protein synthesis-dependent changes in synaptic strength.
Recent findings of spike timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) have stimulated much interest among experimentalists and theorists. Beyond the traditional correlation-based Hebbian plasticity, STDP opens up new avenues for understanding information coding and circuit plasticity that depend on the precise timing of neuronal spikes. Here we summarize experimental characterization of STDP at various synapses, the underlying cellular mechanisms, and the associated changes in neuronal excitability and dendritic integration. We also describe STDP in the context of complex spike patterns and its dependence on the dendritic location of the synapse. Finally, we discuss timing-dependent modification of neuronal receptive fields and human visual perception and the computational significance of STDP as a synaptic learning rule.
The lower limb ipsilateral silent periods (ISP) were determined with transcranial magnetic stimulation in 30 normal subjects using a round coil. The mean duration and transcallosal conduction time were comparable to values obtained from upper limb recordings. No age-related correlation was found for either parameter, corroborating previous imaging and pathological studies of interhemispheric pathways. Our results highlight the feasibilty of eliciting ISPs in the lower limbs, relevant for future studies of interhemispheric interaction in clinical and research settings.
Mu-opioid agonists and N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists have been shown to attenuate mechanical allodynia in neuropathic pain models. We have previously reported that 2Hz electroacupuncture (EA) produced analgesia via releasing endogenous opioid peptides (i.e. beta-endorphin and endomorphin) and the activated micro-opioid receptors. The present study aimed to examine whether ketamine, an NMDA receptor antagonist, can enhance the anti-allodynic effects induced by 2Hz EA in a rat model of neuropathic pain following spinal nerve ligation (SNL). The results are as follows: (1) EA itself or i.p. injection of ketamine reduced mechanical allodynia (i.e. increase in withdrawal threshold). (2) Although injection of ketamine at a low dose (1.0mg/kg) alone did not influence mechanical withdrawal threshold, combination of ketamine at this dose with EA produced more potent anti-allodynic effect than that induced by EA alone. (3) The anti-allodynic effect of EA combined with ketamine could be reversed by i.p. injection of naloxone (2.0 mg/kg). These results suggested that ketamine potentiate the anti-allodynic of EA in rats with spinal nerve ligation, and endogenous opioid system is likely to be involved in this process.
The objectives of the study were to describe monthly variations in issues in calls to a help-line for children and adolescents. All 80,983 calls to a Red Cross Help-Line for children in 1991-1997 were included. In 22,698 calls, information about age, sex or issue could be identified. A monthly variation in frequency of calls with peaks in April and November and a correlation with the absolute values of monthly changes in length of day were found. Conversations concerning psychiatric suffering were more frequent in January or February and less frequent than expected in May/June and December. Conversations about sexuality correlated with the frequencies of births in the adult population 9 months later. A spring and fall peak in total calling and a winter peak in calls for depression, anxiety, pain and neglect were described.

Spinal cord injury (SCI) induces a progressive pathophysiology affecting cell survival and neurological integrity via complex and evolving molecular cascades whose interrelationships are not fully understood. The present experiments were designed to: (1) determine potential functional interactions within transcriptional expression profiles obtained after a clinically relevant SCI and (2) test the consistency of transcript expression after SCI in two genetically and immunologically diverse rat strains characterized by differences in T cell competence and associated inflammatory responses. By interrogating Affymetrix U34A rat genome GeneChip microarrays, we defined the transcriptional expression patterns in midcervical contusion lesion sites between 1 and 90 d postinjury of athymic nude (AN) and Sprague Dawley (SD) strains. Stringent statistical analyses detected significant changes in 3638 probe sets, with 80 genes differing between the AN and SD groups. Subsequent detailed functional categorization of these transcripts unveiled an overall tissue remodeling response that was common to both strains. The functionally organized gene profiles were temporally distinct and correlated with repair indices observed microscopically and by magnetic resonance microimaging. Our molecular and anatomical observations have identified a novel, longitudinal perspective of the post-SCI response, namely, that of a highly orchestrated tissue repair and remodeling repertoire with a prominent cutaneous wound healing signature that is conserved between two widely differing rat strains. These results have significant bearing on the continuing development of cellular and pharmacological therapeutics directed at tissue rescue and neuronal regeneration in the injured spinal cord.
Neural activity in primary motor cortex (MI) is known to correlate with hand position and velocity. Previous descriptions of this tuning have (1) been linear in position or velocity, (2) depended only instantaneously on these signals, and/or (3) not incorporated the effects of interneuronal dependencies on firing rate. We show here that many MI cells encode a superlinear function of the full time-varying hand trajectory. Approximately 20% of MI cells carry information in the hand trajectory beyond just the position, velocity, and acceleration at a single time lag. Moreover, approximately one-third of MI cells encode the trajectory in a significantly superlinear manner; as one consequence, even small position changes can dramatically modulate the gain of the velocity tuning of MI cells, in agreement with recent psychophysical evidence. We introduce a compact nonlinear &quot;preferred trajectory&quot; model that predicts the complex structure of the spatiotemporal tuning functions described in previous work. Finally, observing the activity of neighboring cells in the MI network significantly increases the predictability of the firing rate of a single MI cell; however, we find interneuronal dependencies in MI to be much more locked to external kinematic parameters than those described recently in the hippocampus. Nevertheless, this neighbor activity is approximately as informative as the hand velocity, supporting the view that neural encoding in MI is best understood at a population level.
Microglia are the resident macrophage population of the CNS and are considered its major immunocompetent elements. They are activated by any type of brain pathology and can migrate to the lesion site. The chemokine CXCL10 is expressed in neurons in response to brain injury and is a signaling candidate for activating microglia and directing them to the lesion site. We recently identified CXCR3, the corresponding receptor for CXCL10, in microglia and demonstrated that this receptor system controls microglial migration. We have now tested the impact of CXCR3 signaling on cellular responses after entorhinal cortex lesion. In wild-type mice, microglia migrate within the first 3 d after lesion into the zone of axonal degeneration, where 8 d after lesion denervated dendrites of interneurons are subsequently lost. In contrast, the recruitment of microglia was impaired in CXCR3 knock-out mice, and, strikingly, denervated distal dendrites were maintained in zones of axonal degeneration. No differences between wild-type and knock-out mice were observed after facial nerve axotomy, as a lesion model for assessing microglial proliferation. This shows that CXCR3 signaling is crucial in microglia recruitment but not proliferation, and this recruitment is an essential element for neuronal reorganization.
Olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) prepared from the olfactory bulbs of adult transgenic Sprague Dawley (SD) rats expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP) were transplanted into a dorsal spinal cord transection lesion of SD rats. Five weeks after transplantation, the cells survived within the lesion zone and oriented longitudinally along axons that bridged the transection site. Although the highest density of GFP cells was within the lesion zone, some cells distributed longitudinally outside of the lesion area. Myelinated axons spanning the lesion were observed in discrete bundles encapsulated by a cellular element. Electron micrographs of spinal cords immunostained with an anti-GFP antibody indicated that a majority of the peripheral-like myelinated axons were derived from donor OECs. Open-field locomotor behavior was significantly improved in the OEC transplantation group. Thus, transplanted OECs derived from the adult olfactory bulb can survive and orient longitudinally across a spinal cord transection site and form myelin. This pattern of repair is associated with improved locomotion.
We studied the contribution of L-type Ca2+ channels to action potential-evoked Ca2+ influx in dendritic spines of CA1 pyramidal neurons and the modulation of these channels by the beta2 adrenergic receptor. Backpropagating action potentials (bAPs) (three at 50 Hz) were evoked by brief somatic current injections, and Ca2+ transients were recorded in proximal basal dendrites and associated spines. The R- and T-type Ca2+ channel blocker NiCl2 (100 microm) significantly reduced Ca2+ transients in both spines and their parent dendrites (approximately 50%), suggesting that these channels are the major source of bAP-evoked Ca2+ influx in these structures. The L-type Ca2+ channel blockers nimodipine and nifedipine (both 10 microm) reduced spine Ca2+ transients by approximately 10%, whereas the L-type Ca2+ channel activators FPL 64176 (2,5-dimethyl-4-[2-(phenylmethyl)benzoyl]-1H-pyrrole-3-carboxylic acid methylester) and Bay K 8644 ((+/-)-1,4-dihydro-2,6-dimethyl-5-nitro-4-[2-(trifluoromethyl)-phenyl]-3-pyridine carboxylic acid methyl ester) (both 10 microm) significantly enhanced the spine Ca2+ transients by 40-50%. Activation of beta2 adrenergic receptors with salbutamol (40 microm) or formoterol (5 microm) resulted in significant enhancements of the spine (40-50%) but not dendritic Ca2+ transients. This increase was prevented when L-type Ca2+ channels were blocked with nimodipine (10 microm) or when cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) was inhibited with KT5720 (3 microm), Rp-cAMPS (Rp-adenosine cyclic 3',5'-phosphorothioate) (100 microm), or PKI (100 microm). The above data suggest that L-type Ca2+ channels are functionally present in dendritic spines of CA1 pyramidal neurons, contribute to spine Ca2+ influx, and can be modulated by the beta2 adrenergic receptor through PKA in a highly compartmentalized manner.


Well-being: towards an integration of psychology, neurobiology and social science
One of the most salient features of emotion is the pronounced variability among individuals in their reactions to emotional incentives and in their dispositional mood. Collectively, these individual differences have been described as affective style. Recent research has begun to dissect the constituents of affective style. The search for these components is guided by the neural systems that instantiate emotion and emotion regulation. In this article, this body of research and theory is applied specifically to positive affect and well-being. The central substrates and peripheral biological correlates of well-being are described. A resilient affective style is associated with high levels of left prefrontal activation, effective modulation of activation in the amygdala and fast recovery in response to negative and stressful events. In peripheral biology, these central patterns are associated with lower levels of basal cortisol and with higher levels of antibody titres to influenza vaccine. The article concludes with a consideration of whether these patterns of central and peripheral biology can be modified by training and shifted toward a more salubrious direction.
Introduction: why do we need a science of well-being?
The high affinity, Na(+)-dependent, electrogenic glial L-glutamate transporters GLAST1 and GLT1, and two neuronal EAAC1 and EAAT4, regulate the neurotransmitter concentration in excitatory synapses of the central nervous system. We dissected the function of the individual transporters in the monogenic null allelic mouse lines, glast1(-/-) and eaac1(-/-), and the derived double mutant glast(-/-)eaac1(-/-). Unexpectedly, the biochemical analysis and the behavioral phenotypes of these null allelic mouse lines were inconspicuous. Inhibition studies of the Na(+)-dependent glutamate transport by plasma membrane vesicles and by isolated astrocytes of wt and glast1(-/-) mouse brains indicated the pivotal compensatory role of GLT1 in the absence particularly of GLAST1 and GLAST1 and EAAC1 mutant mice. In electrophysiological studies, the decay rate of excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) of Purkinje cells (PC) after selective activation of parallel and climbing fibers proved to be similar in wt and eaac1(-/-), but was significantly prolonged in glast1(-/-) PCs. Bath application of the glutamate uptake blocker SYM2081 prolonged EPSC decay profiles in both wt and double mutant glast1(-/-)eaac1(-/-) PCs by 286% and 229%, respectively, indicating a prominent role of compensatory glutamate transport in shaping glast1(-/-)eaac1(-/-) EPSCs.
The authors report a girl with autosomal recessive congenital muscular dystrophy linked to chromosome 6 (MDC1A) who carries a homozygous out-of-frame deletion in exon 56 of the LAMA2 gene but has a mild phenotype. She is still ambulant at age 13 years, shows white matter abnormalities on MRI, and traces of laminin alpha2 in her muscle biopsy with one of three antibodies used. This patient suggests that modulating factors can be associated with a less severe clinical phenotype in MDC1A.
Oral prednisone (1)might be a convenient, inexpensive alternative to IV methylprednisolone (IVMP) if the bioequivalent dose was known. We compared the total amount of steroid absorbed after 1250 mg oral prednisone vs 1 gram IVMP in 16 patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). At 24 hours, the mean area under the concentration-time curve (AUC), the main component of bioavailability, did not differ between groups (p = 0.122). This suggests that the amount of absorbed corticosteroid is similar after either steroid at these doses.


Advances in cognitive neuroscience and neuropharmacology are yielding exciting treatments for neurologic diseases. Many of these treatments are also likely to have uses for people without disease. Here, I review the ways in which medicine might make bodies and brains function better by modulating motor, cognitive, and affective systems. These potential &quot;quality of life&quot; interventions raise ethical concerns, some related to the individual and others related to society. Despite these concerns, I argue that major restraints on the development of cosmetic neurology are not likely. Neurologists and other clinicians are likely to encounter patient-consumers who view physicians as gatekeepers in their own pursuit of happiness.



Morphine is a plant (opium poppy)-derived alkaloid and one of the strongest known analgesic compounds. Studies from several laboratories have suggested that animal and human tissue or fluids contain trace amounts of morphine. Its origin in mammals has been believed to be of dietary origin. Here, we address the question of whether morphine is of endogenous origin or derived from exogenous sources. Benzylisoquinoline alkaloids present in human neuroblastoma cells (SH-SY5Y) and human pancreas carcinoma cells (DAN-G) were identified by GC/tandem MS (MS/MS) as norlaudanosoline (DAN-G), reticuline (DAN-G and SH-SY5Y), and morphine (10 nM, SH-SY5Y). The stereochemistry of reticuline was determined to be 1-(S). Growth of the SH-SY5Y cell line in the presence of (18)O(2) led to the [(18)O]-labeled morphine that had the molecular weight 4 mass units higher than if grown in (16)O(2), indicating the presence of two atoms of (18)O per molecule of morphine. Growth of DAN-G cells in an (18)O(2) atmosphere yielded norlaudanosoline and (S)-reticuline, both labeled at only two of the four oxygen atoms. This result clearly demonstrates that all three alkaloids are of biosynthetic origin and suggests that norlaudanosoline and (S)-reticuline are endogenous precursors of morphine. Feeding of [ring-(13)C(6)]-tyramine, [1-(13)C, N-(13)CH(3)]-(S)-reticuline and [N-CD(3)]-thebaine to the neuroblastoma cells led each to the position-specific labeling of morphine, as established by GC/MS/MS. Without doubt, human cells can produce the alkaloid morphine. The studies presented here serve as a platform for the exploration of the function of &quot;endogenous morphine&quot; in the neurosciences and immunosciences.

One of the most frequent lesions formed in cellular DNA are abasic (apurinic/apyrimidinic, AP) sites that are both cytotoxic and mutagenic, and must be removed efficiently to maintain genetic stability. It is generally believed that the repair of AP sites is initiated by the AP endonucleases; however, an alternative pathway seems to prevail in Schizosaccharomyces pombe. A mutant lacking the DNA glycosylase/AP lyase Nth1 is very sensitive to the alkylating agent methyl methanesulfonate (MMS), suggesting a role for Nth1 in base excision repair (BER) of alkylation damage. Here, we have further evaluated the role of Nth1 and the second putative S.pombe AP endonuclease Apn2, in abasic site repair. The deletion of the apn2 open reading frame dramatically increased the sensitivity of the yeast cells to MMS, also demonstrating that the Apn2 has an important function in the BER pathway. The deletion of nth1 in the apn2 mutant strain partially relieves the MMS sensitivity of the apn2 single mutant, indicating that the Apn2 and Nth1 act in the same pathway for the repair of abasic sites. Analysis of the AP site cleavage in whole cell extracts of wild-type and mutant strains showed that the AP lyase activity of Nth1 represents the major AP site incision activity in vitro. Assays with DNA substrates containing base lesions removed by monofunctional DNA glycosylases Udg and MutY showed that Nth1 will also cleave the abasic sites formed by these enzymes and thus act downstream of these enzymes in the BER pathway. We suggest that the main function of Apn2 in BER is to remove the resulting 3'-blocking termini following AP lyase cleavage by Nth1.
The metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) agonist (R,S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) is involved in several forms of hippocampal synaptic plasticity. DHPG application can induce slow-onset potentiation, a form of long-term potentiation (LTP), in the dentate gyrus and in the CA1 region in vivo. The induction of LTP correlates with increased expression levels of neuronal calcium sensor (NCS), considered as key elements for plasticity. In this study we investigated mGluR- and time-dependent changes in the expression of two different NCS proteins. Following DHPG application in vivo NCS-1 and VILIP-1 expression increased, with significant levels reached after 8 and 24h. The effect was attenuated by treatment with the group I mGluR specific antagonist S-4-carboxyphenylglycine. The immediate early gene (IEG) arg3.1/arc showed highest expression levels 2h after DHPG-treatment. Therefore, mGluRs at concentrations which induce synaptic plasticity regulate the expression of IEGs and NCS proteins in different time frames and thus contribute to late phases of synaptic plasticity.
We tested the hypothesis that the presence of an opposite-sex conspecific will result in time-related changes in measures of reproductive activation. We housed male-female pairs of pine voles together for 0, 2, 6, 12, or 24 h before collecting blood, reproductive organs and brains for immunocytochemical analysis of LHRH and c-fos. Control animals were never exposed to an opposite-sex conspecific. Following exposure to a male, there was a significant increase in uterine weight but not in LH levels. In males, there were no changes in peripheral indices of activation, i.e. LH levels, testes and seminal vesicle weights were not altered. Consistent with no change in circulating levels of LH, there was no change in LHRH immunoreactivity at any time. However, c-fos immunoreactivity was significantly greater in both males and females in the cingulate cortex and rostral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) at 2 h, and in the caudal BNST at 2, 6 and 12 h. Similarly, c-fos immunoreactivity was increased in the rostral MPOA in both males and females at 2 and 6 h. However, in the caudal MPOA, there was a significant interaction between sex and time due to increased c-fos immunoreactivity in females only at 6 h. These results indicate that, in both male and female pine voles, exposure to an opposite-sex conspecific is sufficient to produce rapid, neural activation in brain areas known to be involved in reproductive activation and sexual behavior. This early activation did not occur in LHRH neurons. It is not known if this activation, particularly at early times, is due to reproductive activation or to the formation of pair bonds.
Improgan is a compound developed from histamine antagonists which shows the pre-clinical profile of a highly effective, non-opioid analgesic when administered into the rodent CNS. Pharmacological studies suggest that improgan activates descending pain-relieving circuits, but the brain and spinal sites of action of this drug have not been previously studied. Presently, the effects of intracerebral and intrathecal microinjections of improgan were evaluated on thermal nociceptive responses in rats. Improgan produced large, dose- and time-related reductions in nociceptive responses following administration into the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray (PAG), the dorsal PAG, and the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM). The drug had no measurable effects after injections into the caudate nucleus, basolateral amygdala, hippocampus, ventromedial hypothalamus, superior colliculi, ventrolateral medulla, or the spinal subarachnoid space. Inactivation of the RVM by muscimol microinjections completely attenuated antincociceptive responses produced by intraventricular improgan. These findings, taken with earlier results, show that, like opioids and cannabinoids, improgan acts in the PAG and RVM to activate descending analgesic systems. Unlike these other analgesics, improgan does not act in the spinal cord or in CNS areas outside of the brain stem.
ALS2, the causative gene product for juvenile recessive amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS2), is a guanine-nucleotide exchange factor for the small GTPase Rab5. Here, we report a novel ALS2 homologous gene, ALS2 C-terminal like (ALS2CL), which encodes a 108-kD ALS2CL protein. ALS2CL exhibited a specific but a relatively weak Rab5-GEF activity with accompanying rather strong Rab5-binding properties. In HeLa cells, co-expression of ALS2CL and Rab5A resulted in a unique tubulation phenotype of endosome compartments with significant colocalization of ALS2CL and Rab5A. These results suggest that ALS2CL is a novel factor modulating the Rab5-mediated endosome dynamics in the cells.
Opiate abuse has been shown to cause adaptive changes in presynaptic release and protein phosphorylation-mediated synaptic plasticity, but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Neuronal SNARE proteins serve as important regulatory molecules underlying neural plasticity in view of their major role in the process of neurotransmitter release. In the present study, the expression of SNAP-25, a t-SNARE protein essential for vesicle release, was found to be dramatically regulated in hippocampus after chronic morphine treatment, which was visualized with two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. The spots of SNAP-25 in the gel were shifted along the dimension of isoelectric point, indicating a likely change of the post-transcriptional modification. Immunoblotting analysis with specific antibody to Ser187, a protein kinase C (PKC) phosphorylation site of SNAP-25, revealed that the specific phosphorylation was correspondingly decreased, which was correlated with morphine-induced inhibition of PKC activity. Moreover, the level of ternary complex of SNARE proteins in either synaptosomes or PC12 cells was significantly reduced after chronic morphine treatment. This suggests a causal relationship between the inhibition of PKC-dependent SNAP-25 phosphorylation and the down-regulation of SNARE complex formation after chronic morphine treatment. Further analysis of SNARE complex formed by transfection of the wild-type or Ser187 mutants of SNAP-25 showed that only wild-type-formed complex was inhibited by morphine treatment. Thus, these results indicate that chronic morphine treatment inhibits phosphorylation of SNAP-25 at Ser187 and leads to a down-regulation of SNARE complex formation, which presents a potential molecular mechanism for the alteration of exocytotic process and neural plasticity during opiate abuse.
Formation of long term memory begins with the activation of many disparate signaling pathways that ultimately impinge on the cellular mechanisms regulating gene expression. We investigated whether mechanisms regulating chromatin structure were activated during the early stages of long term memory formation in the hippocampus. Specifically, we investigated hippocampal histone acetylation during the initial stages of consolidation of long term association memories in a contextual fear conditioning paradigm. Acetylation of histone H3 in area CA1 of the hippocampus was regulated in contextual fear conditioning, an effect dependent on activation of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptors and ERK, and blocked using a behavioral latent inhibition paradigm. Activation of NMDA receptors in area CA1 in vitro increased acetylation of histone H3, and this effect was blocked by inhibition of ERK signaling. Moreover, activation of ERK in area CA1 in vitro through either the protein kinase C or protein kinase A pathways, biochemical events known to be involved in long term memory formation, also increased histone H3 acetylation. Furthermore, we observed that elevating levels of histone acetylation through the use of the histone deacetylase inhibitors trichostatin A or sodium butyrate enhanced induction of long term potentiation at Schaffer-collateral synapses in area CA1 of the hippocampus, a candidate mechanism contributing to long term memory formation in vivo. In concert with our findings in vitro, injection of animals with sodium butyrate prior to contextual fear conditioning enhanced formation of long term memory. These results indicate that histone-associated heterochromatin undergoes changes in structure during the formation of long term memory. Mimicking memory-associated changes in heterochromatin enhances a cellular process thought to underlie long term memory formation, hippocampal long term potentiation, and memory formation itself.
Insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) plays a role in mutually exclusive processes such as proliferation and differentiation in a variety of cell types. IGF-I is a potent mitogen and motogen for dedifferentiated vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) in vivo and in vitro. However, in differentiated VSMCs, IGF-I is only required for maintaining the differentiated phenotype. Here we investigated the VSMC phenotype-dependent signaling and biological processes triggered by IGF-I. In differentiated VSMCs, IGF-I activated a protein-tyrosine phosphatase, SHP-2, recruited by insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1). The activated SHP-2 then dephosphorylated IRS-1 Tyr(P)-895, resulting in blockade of the pathways from IRS-1/Grb2/Sos to the ERK and p38 MAPK. Conversely, such negative regulation was silent in dedifferentiated VSMCs, where IGF-I activated both MAPKs via IRS-1/Grb2/Sos interaction-linked Ras activation, leading to proliferation and migration. Thus, our present results demonstrate that the IRS-1/SHP-2 interaction acts as a switch controlling VSMC phenotype-dependent IGF-I-induced signaling pathways and biological processes, and this mechanism is likely to be applicable to other cells.
Proper function of visual arrestin is indispensable for rapid signal shut-off in rod photoreceptors. Dramatic light-dependent changes in its subcellular localization are believed to play an important role in light adaptation of photoreceptor cells. Here we show that visual arrestin binds microtubules. The truncated splice variant of visual arrestin, p44, demonstrates dramatically higher affinity for microtubules than the full-length protein (p48). Enhanced microtubule binding of p44 underlies its earlier reported preferential localization to detergent-resistant membranes, where it is anchored via membrane-associated microtubules in a rhodopsin-independent fashion. Experiments with purified proteins demonstrate that arrestin interaction with microtubules is direct and does not require any additional protein partners. Most importantly, arrestin interactions with microtubules and light-activated phosphorylated rhodopsin are mutually exclusive, suggesting that microtubule interaction may play a role in keeping p44 arrestin away from rhodopsin in dark-adapted photoreceptors.
ABCA1 is an ATP-binding cassette protein that transports cellular cholesterol and phospholipids onto high density lipoproteins (HDL) in plasma. Lack of ABCA1 in humans and mice causes abnormal lipidation and increased catabolism of HDL, resulting in very low plasma apoA-I, apoA-II, and HDL. Herein, we have used Abca1-/- mice to ask whether ABCA1 is involved in lipidation of HDL in the central nervous system (CNS). ApoE is the most abundant CNS apolipoprotein and is present in HDL-like lipoproteins in CSF. We found that Abca1-/- mice have greatly decreased apoE levels in both the cortex (80% reduction) and the CSF (98% reduction). CSF from Abca1-/- mice had significantly reduced cholesterol as well as small apoE-containing lipoproteins, suggesting abnormal lipidation of apoE. Astrocytes, the primary producer of CNS apoE, were cultured from Abca1+/+, +/-, and -/- mice, and nascent lipoprotein particles were collected. Abca1-/- astrocytes secreted lipoprotein particles that had markedly decreased cholesterol and apoE and had smaller apoE-containing particles than particles from Abca1+/+ astrocytes. These findings demonstrate that ABCA1 plays a critical role in CNS apoE metabolism. Since apoE isoforms and levels strongly influence Alzheimer's disease pathology and risk, these data suggest that ABCA1 may be a novel therapeutic target.
The intramembranous cleavage of Alzheimer beta-amyloid precursor protein and the signaling receptor Notch is mediated by the presenilin (PS, PS1/PS2)-gamma-secretase complex, the components of which also include nicastrin, APH-1, and PEN-2. In addition to its essential role in gamma-secretase activity, we and others have reported that PS1 plays a role in intracellular trafficking of select membrane proteins including nicastrin. Here we examined the fate of PEN-2 in the absence of PS expression or gamma-secretase activity. We found that PEN-2 is retained in the endoplasmic reticulum and has a much shorter half-life in PS-deficient cells than in wild type cells, suggesting that PSs are required for maintaining the stability and proper subcellular trafficking of PEN-2. However, the function of PS in PEN-2 trafficking is distinct from its contribution to gamma-secretase activity because inhibition of gamma-secretase activity by gamma-secretase inhibitors did not affect the PEN-2 level or its egress from the endoplasmic reticulum. Instead, membrane-permeable gamma-secretase inhibitors, but not a membrane-impermeable derivative, markedly increased the cell surface levels of PS1 and PEN-2 without affecting that of nicastrin. In support of its role in PEN-2 trafficking, PS1 was also required for the gamma-secretase inhibitor-induced plasma membrane accumulation of PEN-2. We further showed that gamma-secretase inhibitors specifically accelerated the Golgi to the cell surface transport of PS1 and PEN-2. Taken together, we demonstrate an essential role for PSs in intracellular trafficking of the gamma-secretase components, and that selective gamma-secretase inhibitors differentially affect the trafficking of the gamma-secretase components, which may contribute to an inactivation of gamma-secretase.
Muscarinic M1 and M3 receptor changes in the brain stem during pancreatic regeneration were investigated. Brain stem acetylcholine esterase activity decreased at the time of regeneration. Sympathetic activity also decreased as indicated by the norepinephrine (NE) and epinephrine (EPI) content of adrenals and also in the plasma. Muscarinic M1 and M3 receptors showed reciprocal changes in the brain stem during regeneration. Muscarinic M1 receptor number decreased at time of regeneration without any change in the affinity. High affinity M3 receptors showed an increase in the number. The affinity did not show any change. The number of low affinity receptors decreased with decreased Kd at 72 hours after partial pancreatectomy. The Kd reversed to control value with a reversal of the number of receptors to near control value. Gene expression studies also showed a similar change in the mRNA level of M1 and M3 receptors. These alterations in the muscarinic receptors regulate sympathetic activity and maintain glucose level during pancreatic regeneration. Central muscarinic M1 and M3 receptor subtypes functional balance is suggested to regulate sympathetic and parasympathetic activity, which in turn control the islet cell proliferation and glucose homeostasis.
The present studies determined whether blockade of M(1)-like muscarinic or nicotinic cholinergic receptors in the dorsomedial striatum affects acquisition or reversal learning of a response discrimination. Testing occurred in a modified cross-maze across two consecutive sessions. In the acquisition phase, a rat learned to turn to the left or to the right. In the reversal learning phase, a rat learned to turn in the opposite direction as required during acquisition. Experiment 1 investigated the effects of the M(1)-like muscarinic receptor antagonist, pirenzepine infused into the dorsomedial striatum on acquisition and reversal learning. Experiment 2 examined the effects of the nicotinic cholinergic antagonist, mecamylamine injected into the dorsomedial striatum on acquisition and reversal learning. Bilateral injections of pirenzepine at 10 microg, but not 1 microg, selectively impaired reversal learning. Analysis of the errors indicated that pirenzepine treatment did not impair the initial shift, but increased reversions back to the original response choice following the initial shift. Bilateral injections of mecamylamine, 6 or 18 microg, did not affect acquisition or reversal learning. The results suggest that activation of M(1) muscarinic cholinergic receptors, but not nicotinic cholinergic receptors, in the dorsomedial striatum is important for facilitating the flexible shifting of response patterns.
Early life adverse experiences have been shown to increase the likelihood of developing later depressive symptoms. In this frame, human adolescents have been suggested to approach psychoactive drugs in order to self-medicate emerging depressive states. In keeping with these considerations, outbred CD-1 mice of both sexes, which underwent a single 24-h episode of maternal deprivation early in development, were administered the cannabinoid agonist WIN 55,212-2 (0, 0.5 or 2 mg/kg i.p.) during adolescence. Maternal deprivation reduced the expected interest in socio-sexual interaction with peers during adolescence. When mice were then tested at adulthood in the forced-swim paradigm in drug-free state, the latency to reach a passive floating posture was markedly reduced by early maternal deprivation. Low doses of cannabinoid (0.5 mg/kg) administered during adolescence were either able to reduce the time spent floating and to increase episodes of active struggling only in control non-deprived animals. As a whole, the emergence of depressive symptoms during both adolescence and adulthood seems to be eased as a consequence of a single/prolonged episode of early maternal deprivation early in infancy.
In the literature, there is some evidence indicating that H3 histamine receptor antagonists, in particular thioperamide, can facilitate learning and memory retrieval in laboratory rodents. The present study aimed at verifying whether this also holds for memory consolidation, a phase of memory for which there is scarcity of convincing data on the effects of H3 receptor antagonists given systemically. To that end, memory consolidation was assessed in C57BL/6J mice using the one-trial step-through inhibitory avoidance task, the compounds being injected immediately after training (foot-shock) and performance measured 24 h later. More specifically, the following effects of thioperamide (1.25-20 mg/kg) were dose-dependently analysed: (1) its potential direct effects on memory consolidation; (2) its potential reversing effects on retrograde amnesia induced by the NMDA antagonist dizocilpine (MK-801, 0.5 mg/kg) and (3) its potential reversing effects on the well-known amnesia induced by the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine (0.25 mg/kg). We found that thioperamide exerted a dose-dependent facilitative effect on memory consolidation. Furthermore, the H3 receptor antagonist reversed scopolamine- and especially dizocilpine-induced amnesia. The results strongly support the view that the brain mechanisms of memory consolidation involve a functional interaction between the NMDA and the H3 sites.
Perinatal asphyxia may induce major neurological deficits shortly after birth as well as neurological/behavioural disorders later in development. We used a rat model of global perinatal asphyxia to model acute intrauterine asphyxia around the time of birth. Caesarean section was performed in rats and their pups, still in uterus horns, were placed into a water bath at 37 degrees C for periods of 0, 10 or 20 min. Pups were then given to surrogate mothers, and examined for long-term behavioural effects of the perinatal asphyctic insult. Behavioural assessment included analysis of novelty seeking behaviour at adolescence, while spatial discrimination abilities, response to both an acute and a chronic stress, and the effects of the full D1 receptor agonist SKF 82958 on open field behaviour were assessed at adulthood. Overall, no marked abnormalities were found in the novelty seeking test, in the ability to discriminate spatial changes in the test environment and in physiological response to stress. However, adult rats subjected to severe perinatal asphyxia (20 min) showed lower activity level and lower stereotyped behaviour after the administration of SKF 82958 in an open field test. These results support the observations from human and animal studies that perinatal insult can produce long-term dysfunction of dopaminergic neurotransmission, and points to the need of more thorough examination of the potential effects of perinatal asphyxia on hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Altogether, the present findings suggest that the present 20 min perinatal asphyxia model might serve for the study of neurodevelopmental disorders associated with perinatal insults.
The evolutionary origins and variations of the precision grip, in which an object is held between the thumb and other digits, are poorly understood. This is surprising because the neural basis of this grasp pattern, including the motor cortex and pyramidal tract have received extensive study. Most previous work has shown that features of an object to be grasped (external factors) determine grasp patterns. The objective of the present study was to investigate individual differences (central factors) in use of the pincer and other precision grips. The grasping patterns of male and female young adults, older adults and children were examined as they reached (with both left and right hand) for five small beads (3-16 mm diameter). Frame-by-frame analysis of grasping indicated a high degree of variability in digit contact strategies, purchase patterns and digit posture both within and between subjects. (1) The contact strategies consisted of five variations, depending on whether the thumb or the index finger dragged or stabilized the bead for grasping. (2) Purchase patterns consisted of seven different types of precision grips, involving the thumb and various combinations of other digits. (3) There were four variations stemming from the posture of the non-grasping digits. Grip patterns of the left and right hands were correlated in individual subjects, as were strategies used for different bead sizes. Females displayed slightly more variability in grasp patterns than did males, and digit width (obtained from photocopies of the subjects' hands) was weakly correlated with the grasp patterns used. Although it was expected that the pincer would be used for all objects, it was preferentially used for only the smallest object except for older adults who used the pincer grasp on most objects. The variability in digit contact strategies, purchase patterns, and posture of the non-grasping digits indicates that central factors (innate or learning-induced architecture of the left parietal cortex) make important contributions to the selection of a grasping pattern. These individual differences are discussed in relation to the neural control of grasping and its potential contribution to understanding the evolution, development, and pathology of the precision grip.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (cdk5) regulates crucial neurobiological events, and deregulation of cdk5 has been implicated in several neurodegenerative disorders. The deregulation is suggested to occur due to cleavage of the cdk5 activator protein p35 to a smaller p25 fragment by the calcium-activated protease calpain. Here we have elucidated the role of different calcium-permeable ionotropic glutamate receptors in the induction of p35 cleavage in cultured rat hippocampal neurons. The glutamate receptor agonists glutamic acid, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), kainic acid, and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid (AMPA) were all able to induce p35 cleavage, in a manner depending on extracellular calcium. The effect of glutamate was mediated by NMDA receptors, as it was prevented by the NMDA antagonist MK-801. Cyclothiazide (CTZ), an inhibitor of AMPA receptor desensitization, enhanced glutamate-induced p35 cleavage. In immature 6-day-old cultures the non-NMDA agonist kainic acid provoked p35 cleavage, whereas glutamate and NMDA were ineffective. The data suggest that both NMDA and non-NMDA receptors are able to induce p35 cleavage. Different factors, such as maturation state of neurons or desensitization properties of non-NMDA receptors, may determine which receptor predominantly mediates the effect of glutamate on p35 cleavage.
The septal organ in the mammalian nose is a distinct chemosensory organ sitting in the air path. To gain insights into its organization and function, we analyzed the chemoreceptors expressed in this area. By combining cDNA cloning, Affymetrix (Santa Clara, CA) genechips covering all the mouse olfactory receptor genes, and in situ hybridization, we achieved a relatively complete expression profile of the olfactory receptor genes in the septal organ. The majority of the septal neurons express only a few receptor genes in varying patterns, with the top one in approximately 50% of the cells and the top eight together in approximately 93% of the cells. We demonstrated that a single neuron expresses only one receptor by a thorough combination of all the major septal receptor genes in double-labeling studies. These septal receptor genes do not form a single subfamily. Instead, these genes are distributed on a few major branches of the phylogenetic tree covering all the mouse olfactory receptors. Most of these genes are also concentrated in certain areas within the most ventral zone of the main olfactory epithelium, although their expression patterns do not match those in the septal organ. In contrary to the previous view of random distribution, our results indicate that certain olfactory receptors form &quot;hot spots&quot; in the nose.
The trafficking of glutamate receptors in neurons is of the utmost importance for synapse formation and synaptic plasticity. Recently, we demonstrated that both NMDA and AMPA receptors reside in mobile transport packets that are recruited rapidly and independently to nascent synapses. Here, we show that a large proportion of the glutamate receptor clusters in young cortical neurons are present on the surface of dendrites before synapses are formed and these surface-exposed transport packets are mobile. Exocytosis of glutamate receptors to the dendritic surface occurs via a SNARE [soluble n-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein (SNAP) receptor]-dependent SNAP-23-mediated mechanism. Endocytosis occurs rapidly after surface exposure; &gt;50% of surface-labeled NMDA receptors (NMDARs) are endocytosed within 5 min. NMDARs are transported along microtubules on large tubulovesicular organelles, as indicated by immunoelectron microscopy, and are associated with EEA1 (early endosomal antigen 1) and SAP102 (synapse-associated protein 102), as indicated by immunocytochemistry. Most surprisingly, a large proportion of these transport packets cycle through the dendritic plasma membrane before synapse formation. These results suggest a novel model in which NMDARs cycle with the plasma membrane during pauses of movement along microtubules while trafficking.
Although the physiological basis of erythermalgia, an autosomal dominant painful neuropathy characterized by redness of the skin and intermittent burning sensation of extremities, is not known, two mutations of Na(v)1.7, a sodium channel that produces a tetrodotoxin-sensitive, fast-inactivating current that is preferentially expressed in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and sympathetic ganglia neurons, have recently been identified in patients with primary erythermalgia. Na(v)1.7 is preferentially expressed in small-diameter DRG neurons, most of which are nociceptors, and is characterized by slow recovery from inactivation and by slow closed-state inactivation that results in relatively large responses to small, subthreshold depolarizations. Here we show that these mutations in Na(v)1.7 produce a hyperpolarizing shift in activation and slow deactivation. We also show that these mutations cause an increase in amplitude of the current produced by Na(v)1.7 in response to slow, small depolarizations. These observations provide the first demonstration of altered sodium channel function associated with an inherited painful neuropathy and suggest that these physiological changes, which confer hyperexcitability on peripheral sensory and sympathetic neurons, contribute to symptom production in hereditary erythermalgia.
Recent studies of areas V1 and MT in the visual cortex show that exposure to a stimulus can change the contrast sensitivity of cells and shift their peak sensitivity to a new orientation or movement direction. In MT, these shifts can correctly predict illusory changes - visual aftereffects - in movement direction, but in V1, they are more difficult to interpret.
We describe a newly developed, accelerated Monte Carlo simulator of a small animal micro-CT scanner. Transmission measurements using aluminium slabs are employed to estimate the spectrum of the x-ray source. The simulator incorporating this spectrum is validated with micro-CT scans of physical water phantoms of various diameters, some containing stainless steel and Teflon rods. Good agreement is found between simulated and real data: normalized error of simulated projections, as compared to the real ones, is typically smaller than 0.05. Also the reconstructions obtained from simulated and real data are found to be similar. Thereafter, effects of scatter are studied using a voxelized software phantom representing a rat body. It is shown that the scatter fraction can reach tens of per cents in specific areas of the body and therefore scatter can significantly affect quantitative accuracy in small animal CT imaging.
Catecholaminergic neurons control diverse cognitive, motor, and endocrine functions and are associated with multiple psychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders. We present global gene-expression profiles that define the four major classes of dopaminergic (DA) and noradrenergic neurons in the brain. Hypothalamic DA neurons and noradrenergic neurons in the locus coeruleus display distinct group-specific signatures of transporters, channels, transcription, plasticity, axon-guidance, and survival factors. In contrast, the transcriptomes of midbrain DA neurons of the substantia nigra and the ventral tegmental area are closely related with &lt;1% of differentially expressed genes. Transcripts implicated in neural plasticity and survival are enriched in ventral tegmental area neurons, consistent with their role in schizophrenia and addiction and their decreased vulnerability in Parkinson's disease. The molecular profiles presented provide a basis for understanding the common and population-specific properties of catecholaminergic neurons and will facilitate the development of selective drugs.
In photodynamic therapy (PDT) a sensitizer, light and oxygen are used to induce death of tumor cells and in the treatment of certain noncancerous conditions. Cell death in PDT may occur by apoptosis or by necrosis, depending on the sensitizer, on the PDT dose and on the cell genotype. Some sensitizers that have been used in PDT are accumulated in the mitochondria, and this may explain their efficiency in inducing apoptotic cell death, both in vitro and in vivo. In this review we will focus on the events that characterize apoptotic death in PDT and on the intracellular signaling events that are set in motion in photosensitized cells. Activation of phospholipases, changes in ceramide metabolism, a rise in the cytosolic free Ca2+ concentration, stimulation of nitric oxide synthase (NOS), changes in protein phosphorylation and alterations in the activity of transcription factors and on gene expression have all been observed in PDT-treated cells. Although many of these metabolic reactions contribute to the demise process, some of them may antagonize cell death. Understanding the signaling mechanisms in PDT may provide means to modulate the PDT effects at the molecular level and potentiate its antitumor effectiveness.
Intercellular communication mediated by gap junctions is developmentally regulated in many tissues, including the nervous system. In rodent lumbar spinal cord, extensive gap junctional coupling among motor neurons innervating the same muscle is present at birth but is no longer present 1 week later. Little is known about how this motor-pool-specific coupling arises during embryonic development. To address this question, we developed a novel method of visualizing patterns of cell-cell coupling that can be applied to a wide range of tissues. Gap-junction-permeable dyes adsorbed to metal beads were delivered into individual cells in embryonic cerebral cortex or spinal cord using pressure. Dye diffused off of the bead surface into the cytoplasm, crossed gap junctions, and labeled clusters of coupled cells. For embryonic cerebral cortex, this method revealed patterns of cell-cell coupling similar to those reported with other techniques. In embryonic lumbar spinal cord, cell-cell coupling is widespread in the ventricular zone at E11, and the extent of coupling decreases until birth. In the ventral horn, motor neurons are coupled into clusters at E14, with little change in the extent of coupling at E16, and a similar extent of coupling is present at birth. The cell types within clusters, identified by using antibodies against homeodomain transcription factors, were surprisingly heterogeneous in both the ventricular zone and the motor columns. Taken together, these data suggest that the spatial and temporal patterns of cell-cell coupling are dynamic and that cell-type-specific gap junctional coupling arises gradually during spinal cord development.
Blood flow changes in response to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation were assessed using a laser Doppler flowmeter. Treatment of the joint with NMDA (1 mM; 0.1 ml) resulted in a significant increase in blood flow while the control phosphate buffer (PB) injection (0.1 M; pH 7.4) had no effect. Blocking NMDA receptors with the antagonist MK 801 (0.1 mM) prevented the increase in blood flow observed following NMDA injection, suggesting specificity of action. The NMDA-evoked vasodilation has been shown to be mediated through activation of several intracellular signaling transduction molecules, namely nitric oxide, release of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and CAM kinase II. Blocking actions of these molecules with L-NAME (10 mg/ml), CGRP(8-37) (0.01 mM) and KN-93 (1 microM), respectively, prevented the increase in blood flow induced by NMDA in the present study. These results provide new evidence implicating NMDA receptors in knee joint inflammatory responses.
Protein kinase CK2 (CK2) is highly expressed in rat forebrain where its function is not well understood. Subcellular distribution studies showed that the catalytic subunit of CK2 (CK2alpha) was enriched in postsynaptic densities (PSDs) by 68%. We studied the putative role of CK2 activity on N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) function using isolated, patch-clamped PSDs in the presence of 2 mM extracellular Mg(2+). The usual activation by phosphorylation of the NMDARs in the presence of ATP was inhibited by the selective CK2 inhibitor 5,6-dichloro-1-beta-ribofuranosyl benzimidazole (DRB). This inhibition was voltage-dependent, i.e., 100% at positive membrane potentials, while at negative potentials, inhibition was incomplete. Endogenous CK2 substrates were characterized by their ability to use GTP as a phosphoryl donor and susceptibility to inhibition by DRB. Immunoprecipitation assays and 2D gels indicated that PSD-95/SAP90, the NMDAR scaffolding protein, was a CK2 substrate, while the NR2A/B and NR1 NMDAR subunits were not. These results suggest that postsynaptic NMDAR regulation by CK2 is mediated by indirect mechanisms possibly involving PSD-95/SAP90.
Recent work from our laboratory demonstrated that the expression neuregulin-1 in neurons was induced in the ischemic penumbra by focal stroke in the rat. Here, we show that a single intravascular injection of neuregulin-1beta (approximately 2.5 ng/kg) reduced cortical infarct volume by &gt;98% when given immediately before middle cereral artery occlusion. Subcortical infarct volume was reduced by approximately 40%. Analysis of DNA fragmentation in brain tissues indicated that neuregulin-1 blocked apoptosis in cortical neurons in the penumbra. Neuregulin-1 prevented macrophage/microglial infiltration and astrocytic activation following focal ischemia. The neuroprotective effect of neuregulin-1 was also associated with a suppression of interleukin-1beta mRNA levels. These data suggest that neuregulin-1 protects neurons from delayed, ischemia-induced apoptotic cell death in the cortex by inhibiting pro-inflammatory responses. Neuregulins represent a novel, potent neuroprotective strategy that has potential therapeutic value in treating individuals after acute ischemic stroke.
The incidence of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is higher among men than women but rises in women after the menopause. Estrogens may play a protective role. Treatment with estrogens has been shown to be neuroprotective in models of several neurodegenerative diseases. We therefore determined the effect of ovariectomy on female G93A mSOD1 transgenic mice, and the effect of subsequent treatment with 17beta-estradiol (E2). Ovariectomy led to a significant acceleration of disease progression of the mice, and high-dose E2 treatment significantly delayed disease progression of ovariectomized G93A mSOD1 transgenic mice. We conclude that treatment with E2 may also delay disease progression of post-menopausal women with ALS.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor in the forebrain is thought to modulate some forms of memory formation, with the NR2B subunit being particularly relevant to this process. Relative to wild-type mice, transgenic animals in which the NR2B subunit was over-expressed demonstrate superior memory in a number of behavioral tasks, including object recognition [Nature 401 (1999) 63]. The purpose of the present study was to explore the generality of such phenomena, interpreted as the effect of increasing NR2B expression on the retention of other types of sensory-related information. To accomplish this, we focused our evaluation on the highly salient sensory modality of olfaction. In the first experiment, mice performed both a novel-object-recognition task identical to that performed by Tang et al. [Nature 401 (1999) 63] and a novel-odor-recognition task analogously constructed. Although the results of the object recognition task were consistent with the previous literature, there was no evidence of an effect of NR2B over-expression on the retention of odor recognition memory in the specific task performed. As it was possible that, unlike object recognition memory, novel odor recognition is not NMDA-receptor-dependent, a second task was designed using the social transmission of food preference paradigm. In contrast to the foregoing olfactory task, there is evidence that the latter procedure is, indeed, NMDA-dependent. The results of the second study demonstrated that transgenic mice with NR2B over-expression had a clear memory advantage in this alternative odor memory paradigm. Taken together, these results suggest the NR2B subunit is an important component in some but not all forms of olfactory memory organization. Moreover, for those functions that are NMDA-receptor-dependent, these data support the growing literature demonstrating the importance of the NR2B subunit.
The characteristics of functional changes of GABAergic synapses between cultured rat cortical neurons were observed by monitoring intracellular calcium level ([Ca2+]in) during development in vitro. After 5 days in vitro (DIV), cultured cortical neurons spontaneously exhibited synchronous oscillatory changes in [Ca2+]in, which were derived from synaptic activity. Exposure to bicuculline, antagonist of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)(A) receptors, caused a marked decrease in the frequency of [Ca2+]in oscillations at 7-20 DIV. Although the frequency of spontaneous oscillations increased during this culture period, the ratio of the decrease in the frequency following bicuculline treatment did not significantly change. Thereafter, to investigate the detailed morphological changes of GABAergic synapses during development in vitro, the cultured neurons were immunostained with antibodies to glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), synaptophysin and GABA(A) receptor and were observed under a confocal laser microscope. Most of the GAD-positive puncta colocalized with synaptophysin-positive puncta and were opposed to GABA(A) receptor-positive structures. The images of GAD-positive puncta were reconstructed from the confocal three-dimensional data to analyze their number, volume, and surface area. The number of these puncta increased with culture time at 7-20 DIV. Although the volume of individual GAD-positive puncta did not significantly change, the surface area decreased in a time-dependent manner over the culture period. This system that we developed enabled us to investigate in detail the morphological and functional changes of GABAergic synapses during neuronal development.
Previous research with adult animal models links the presence of cortical neuromigrational anomalies (i.e., microgyria similar to that found in brains of dyslexics) with rapid auditory processing (RAP) impairments. RAP impairments are in turn found in children with specific language impairment (SLI) and also in individuals with dyslexia. Gap detection, a simple measure of auditory temporal acuity, appears to be impaired in children with SLI but not in dyslexic adults, even though both groups exhibit impaired processing on more complex, rapid auditory tasks. In the current study, juvenile rats with bilateral microgyria, but not their adult counterparts, exhibited impaired detection of short duration silent gaps in white noise when compared to age-matched sham littermates. Results lend further support to: (1) an association between neuromigrational anomalies and RAP impairments; and (2) the validity of an animal model of RAP impairments associated with language disturbances in humans. Current results also support the view that auditory processing disturbances associated with cortical malformations may be evident early in development at a relatively &quot;low&quot; level (e.g., simple gap detection), but may require &quot;higher-order&quot; auditory discrimination tasks (e.g., tone sequences, phonemic discriminations) to be elicited later in life.
The ability to accurately process brief, successive acoustic signals rapidly presented to the central nervous system is believed to underlie successful language development. The limits of temporal resolution of the auditory system, often assessed using gap detection tasks, has been widely studied in relation to developing and decoding speech. In the present study, a reflex modification paradigm was used to investigate potential shifts in gap detection thresholds in rats across development, with test sessions beginning on postnatal day (P) 15, P35 and P64. We found that thresholds decreased over the course of development. These thresholds were determined to lie between 10 and 20 ms for the P15 and P35 groups, and between 5 and 10 ms for the P64 group. Moreover, we observed improvements in gap detection thresholds in all age groups over 5 days of testing, including the youngest age group (P15). These later results suggest that experience-dependent plasticity mechanisms at the level of sensory processing are operational and observable both very early in development, and also in adult animals. The present findings also demonstrate maturational improvements in silent gap detection using a pre-pulse inhibition paradigm.
In this issue of Cell, Inoue et al. (2004) reports that LIN-18, an atypical receptor tyrosine kinase related to mammalian Ryk and Drosophila Derailed, mediates Wnt signaling in parallel to LIN-17/Frizzled (Fz) during worm vulval development. LIN-18/Ryk and LIN-17/Fz appear to exhibit distinct Wnt specificity, and surprisingly, the LIN-18 intracellular domain may be dispensable.
The blood flukes Schistosoma mansoni and Schistosoma japonicum inflict immense suffering as agents of human schistosomiasis. Previous investigations have found the nervous systems of these worms contain abundant immunoreactivity to antisera targeting invertebrate neuropeptide Fs (NPFs) as well as structurally similar neuropeptides of the mammalian neuropeptide Y (NPY) family. Here, cDNAs encoding NPF in these worms were identified, and the mature neuropeptides from the two species differed by only a single amino acid. Both neuropeptides feature the characteristics common among NPFs; they are 36 amino acids long with a carboxyl-terminal Gly-Arg-X-Arg-Phe-amide and Tyr residues at positions 10 and 17 from the carboxyl terminus. Synthetic S. mansoni NPF potently inhibits the forskolin-stimulated accumulation of cAMP in worm homogenates, with significant effects at 10(-11) m. This is the first demonstration of an endogenous inhibition of cAMP by an NPF, and because this is the predominant pathway associated with vertebrate NPY family peptides, it demonstrates a conservation of downstream signaling pathways used by NPFs and NPY peptides.


Repetitive activation of glutamatergic fibers that normally induces long-term potentiation (LTP) at excitatory synapses in the hippocampus also triggers long-term depression at inhibitory synapses (I-LTD) via retrograde endocannabinoid signaling. Little is known, however, about the physiological significance of I-LTD. Here, we show that synaptic-driven release of endocannabinoids is a highly localized and efficient process that strongly depresses cannabinoid-sensitive inhibitory inputs within the dendritic compartment of CA1 pyramidal cells. By removing synaptic inhibition in a restricted area of the dendritic tree, endocannabinoids selectively &quot;primed&quot; nearby excitatory synapses, thereby facilitating subsequent induction of LTP. This induction of local metaplasticity is a novel mechanism by which endocannabinoids can contribute to the storage of information in the brain.
Axon pathfinding depends on attractive and repulsive turning of growth cones to extracellular cues. Localized cytosolic Ca2+ signals are known to mediate the bidirectional responses, but downstream mechanisms remain elusive. Here, we report that calcium-calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) and calcineurin (CaN) phosphatase provide a switch-like mechanism to control the direction of Ca(2+)-dependent growth cone turning. A relatively large local Ca2+ elevation preferentially activates CaMKII to induce attraction, while a modest local Ca2+ signal predominantly acts through CaN and phosphatase-1 (PP1) to produce repulsion. The resting level of intracellular Ca2+ concentrations also affects CaMKII/CaN operation: a normal baseline allows distinct turning responses to different local Ca2+ signals, while a low baseline favors CaN-PP1 activation for repulsion. Moreover, the cAMP pathway negatively regulates CaN-PP1 signaling to inhibit repulsion. Finally, CaMKII/CaN-PP1 also mediates netrin-1 guidance. Together, these findings establish a complex Ca2+ mechanism that targets the balance of CaMKII/CaN-PP1 activation to control distinct growth cone responses.
Progenitor cells in the mammalian retina generate at least 55 distinct kinds of neurons. Two reports in this issue of Neuron reveal two transcription factors (Foxn4 and Bhlhb4) that contribute to the development of this remarkable cellular diversity.
Aspirin and paracetamol have been shown to suppress non-inflammatory pain conditions like thermal, visceral and mechanical pain in mice and rats. The non-inflammatory antinociception appears to be mediated by central receptor mechanisms, such as the cholinergic system. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that the non-inflammatory antinociception of aspirin and paracetamol could be mediated by an increase of intraspinal acetylcholine release. Microdialysis probes were placed intraspinally in anesthetized rats for acetylcholine sampling. Subcutaneously administered aspirin 100 and 300 mg/kg increased, while paracetamol 300 mg/kg decreased intraspinal acetylcholine release. Intraspinal drug administration did not affect acetylcholine release. Our results suggest that an increased intraspinal acetylcholine release could be involved in part of the non-inflammatory pain suppression by aspirin, but not by paracetamol.





Oxidative stress has been demonstrated in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain and may affect glutamate transport (GT), thereby leading to excitotoxic neuronal death. Since oxidative stress markers have been shown also in peripheral tissues, we investigated possible GT alterations in fibroblast cultures obtained from 18 patients with AD and 15 control patients and analyzed the effects of the lipoperoxidation product 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) and antioxidants. Basal GT was decreased by 60% in fibroblasts from patients with AD versus control patients. Exposure to HNE did not affect GT in control patients, but it reduced GT by 50% in patients with AD, without any concomitant change in cell viability; conversely, HNE exposure induced a larger increase in ROS intracellular levels in AD than in control fibroblasts. Glutathione and N-acetylcysteine completely blocked 4-HNE effects and also increased basal uptake in AD cells. Moreover, inhibition of glutathione synthesis in control fibroblasts by pretreatment with buthionine sulfoximine resulted in GT reduction (40%) and an increase in ROS levels after exposure to 4-HNE. Nevertheless, since there are no differences between GSH basal level in controls and patients with AD, the alteration of other antioxidant systems cannot be excluded. Our study supports the hypothesis of a systemic impairment of GT in AD, possibly linked to oxidative stress and to reduced antioxidant defenses, which may be partially reversed by antioxidant treatment. Therefore, we suggest fibroblast cultures as a tool for exploring pathogenetic mechanisms and possible therapeutic strategies in patients with AD.
In many species chemosensory stimuli function as important signals that influence reproductive status. Neurons synthesizing the peptide gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) are critical mediators of reproductive function via their regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal (HPG) axis, and they are thought to be responsive to chemosensory information. In the present study, we sought to elucidate the effects of female chemosensory stimuli on the HPG axis in sexually naive adult male Syrian hamsters. In Experiment 1, serial blood samples were collected from catheterized male hamsters following exposure to female pheromones in order to characterize the luteinizing hormone (LH) response to this chemosensory stimulus. In Experiment 2, brains and terminal blood samples were collected from animals 0, 60, and 120 min following pheromone exposure. GnRH mRNA was measured in brain tissue sections using in situ hybridization, and plasma concentrations of LH and testosterone were measured using radioimmunoassay. Data from Experiment 1 indicated that female pheromones elicited a rapid rise in plasma LH that peaked at 15 min and returned to baseline 45 min after exposure. In Experiment 2, testosterone was elevated in terminal blood samples obtained 60 min, but not 120 min, after exposure to pheromones. LH levels were unaffected at both of these time points. The chemosensory-induced increases in LH and testosterone release were not accompanied by subsequent changes in GnRH mRNA over the time course studied. These data suggest that while activation of the male HPG axis by female pheromones involves release of GnRH, it does not involve increases in GnRH mRNA 1-2 h after pheromonal stimulation as a mechanism for replenishment of released peptide.
Hormone secretion by pituitary cells is decreased by roscovitine, an inhibitor of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5). Roscovitine treatment reorganizes cortical actin and ultrastructural analysis demonstrates that roscovitine limits the ability of secretory granules to approach the plasma membrane or one another. Trio, a multifunctional RhoGEF expressed in pituitary cells, interacts with peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase, a secretory granule membrane protein known to affect the actin cytoskeleton. Roscovitine inhibits the ability of Trio to activate Rac, and peptides corresponding to the Cdk5 consensus sites in Trio are phosphorylated by Cdk5. Together, these data suggest that control of the cortical actin cytoskeleton, long known to modulate hormone exocytosis and subsequent endocytosis, involves Cdk5-mediated activation of Trio.
Neurotrophins are broadly expressed in the mammalian forebrain: notably in cerebral cortex and the basal forebrain (e.g., the septal and basal nuclei). These factors promote neuronal survival and plasticity, and have been implicated as key players in learning and memory. Chronic exposure to ethanol causes learning and memory deficits. We tested the hypothesis that ethanol affects neurotrophin expression and predicted that these changes would be consistent with alterations in retrograde or autocrine/paracrine systems. Mature rats were fed a liquid diet containing ethanol daily for 8 or 24 weeks. Weight-matched controls were pair-fed an isocaloric, isonutritive diet. Proteins from five structures (parietal and entorhinal cortices, hippocampus, and the basal and septal nuclei) were studied. ELISAs were used to determine the concentration of nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3). All three neurotrophins were detected in each structure examined. Ethanol treatment significantly (p &lt; 0.05) affected neurotrophin expression in time- and space-dependent manners. NGF content was generally depressed by ethanol exposure, whereas NT-3 content increased. BDNF concentration was differentially affected by ethanol: it increased in the parietal cortex and the basal forebrain and decreased in the hippocampus. With the exception of NGF in the septohippocampal system, the ethanol-induced changes in connected structures were inconsistent with changes that would be predicted from a retrograde model. Thus, the present data (a) support the concept that neurotrophins act through a nonretrograde system (i.e., a local autocrine/paracrine system), and (b) that chronic exposure to ethanol disrupts these regulatory mechanisms.
Environmental stimuli during the perinatal period can result in persistent individual differences in neural viability and cognitive functions. Earlier studies have shown that brief daily maternal separation and/or handling of rat pups during the first weeks of life reduces stress reactivity during adulthood and attenuates neuronal loss and cognitive decline during aging. In the present study we examined whether neonatal handling also affects the sensitivity of the adult brain to an acute neurotoxic insult. Postnatally handled and nonhandled control rats were left undisturbed from weaning onwards until the age of 11 months. At this age, the animals were subjected to a neurotoxic challenge by unilateral infusion of 60 mM of the glutamate analogue N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) into the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM). The brains were collected to measure cholinergic cell and fiber loss. In the nonlesioned side of the brain, cholinergic cell number in the NBM and fiber density in the cortex were not different between postnatally handled and control rats. However, in the lesioned hemisphere handled animals exhibited a significantly higher loss of choline-acetyltransferase-immunoreactive and acetylcholinesterase-positive fibers in the somatosensory cortex. The present results provide evidence for an enhanced vulnerability of postnatally handled rats to acute neurodegeneration in contrast to the previously reported attenuation of spontaneous aging-related neurodegenerative processes.
We report the clinical, neuropsychological, and neuroimaging findings of two patients of diffuse encephalopathy associated with the use of metronidazole. Both patients showed characteristic abnormalities on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) and recovered incompletely after the discontinuation of metronidazole. We also suggest that MRI with DWI may be useful in the diagnosis of metronidazole-induced encephalopathy, and that they have a role in the prediction of prognosis.
Oxidative stress leads to lipid peroxidation and may contribute to the pathogenesis of lesions in multiple sclerosis (MS), an autoimmune disease characterised by inflammatory as well as degenerative phenomena. We previously found that cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of isoprostane 8-epi-PGF2alpha, a marker of free radical damage and lipid peroxidation in vivo, were elevated in MS patients. Such levels were correlated with the degree of disability and reduced in subjects under steroid therapy. Here we investigated weather the CSF isoprostane levels correlated with disease inflammatory activity. To this aim, we enrolled 41 relapsing-remitting (RR) MS patients who underwent at the same time full neurological examination, NMR-imaging brain scan and diagnostic CSF test. No evidence of correlation was found between 8-epi-PGF2alpha levels and the presence of gadolinium (Gd)-enhancing NMR lesions or the time elapsed since the last relapse. We suggest that isoprostanes are not useful as surrogate inflammatory markers in MS. However, they may represent a sensitive index of degenerative phenomena, which can persist also in the absence of inflammatory activity.
A plane lying in depth is vividly perceived by viewing a random-dot stereogram (RDS) with a slight binocular disparity. Perception of a plane-in-depth is lost by reversing the contrast of dots seen by one of the eyes to generate an anticorrelated RDS. From a computational perspective, the visual system cannot find a globally consistent solution for matching the left and right eye images of an anticorrelated RDS. The neural representation of a global match should therefore be insensitive to binocular disparity in an anticorrelated RDS. Most neurons in the striate cortex (V1) respond to binocular disparity in anticorrelated RDSs, suggesting that further cortical processing in extrastriate areas is necessary to fully account for the matching computation. We examined neural responses to dynamic RDSs, both normal (correlated) and anticorrelated, in area V4 of the monkey visual cortex. More than half of the V4 cells were sensitive to the horizontal disparity embedded in a correlated RDS. Most of them greatly attenuated their selectivity for disparity when the RDS was anticorrelated. This attenuation was apparent from the response onset, and the degree of attenuation did not correlate with neuronal response latencies. Unlike the disparity tuning of V1 neurons to anticorrelated RDSs, that of V4 neurons was not an inversion of tuning to normal RDSs. Our results suggest that responses to false matches between contrast-reversed dots in the left and right eye images elicited in V1 are substantially reduced by the stage of V4.
Although many genetic disorders are characterized by cognitive failure during development, there is little insight into the neurobiological basis for the abnormalities. Down syndrome (DS), a disorder caused by the presence of three copies of chromosome 21 (trisomy 21), is characterized by impairments in learning and memory attributable to dysfunction of the hippocampus. We explored the cellular basis for these abnormalities in Ts65Dn mice, a genetic model for DS. Although basal synaptic transmission in the dentate gyrus was normal, there was severe impairment of long-term potentiation (LTP) as a result of reduced activation of NMDA receptors. After suppressing inhibition with picrotoxin, a GABA(A) receptor antagonist, NMDA receptor-mediated currents were normalized and induction of LTP was restored. Several lines of evidence suggest that inhibition in the Ts65Dn dentate gyrus was enhanced, at least in part, because of presynaptic abnormalities. These findings raise the possibility that similar changes contribute to abnormalities in learning and memory in people with DS and, perhaps, in other developmental disorders with cognitive failure.
Glutathione, a major endogenous antioxidant, is found in two intracellular pools in the cytoplasm and the mitochondria. To investigate the importance of the smaller mitochondrial pool, we developed conditions based on treatment with ethacrynic acid that produced near-complete and highly selective depletion of mitochondrial glutathione in cultured astrocytes. Recovery of mitochondrial glutathione was only partial over several hours, suggesting slow net uptake from the cytoplasm. Glutathione depletion alone did not significantly affect mitochondrial membrane potential, ATP content, or cell viability when assessed after 24 hr, although the activities of respiratory chain complexes were altered. However, these astrocytes showed a greatly enhanced sensitivity to 3-morpholinosydnonimine, a peroxynitrite generator. Treatment with 200 microm 3-morpholinosydnonimine produced decreases within 3 hr in mitochondrial membrane potential and ATP content and caused the release of lactate dehydrogenase, contrasting with preservation of these properties in control cells. These properties deteriorated further by 24 hr in the glutathione-depleted cells and were associated with morphological changes indicative of necrotic cell death. This treatment enhanced the alterations in activities of the respiratory chain complexes observed with glutathione depletion alone. Cell viability was markedly improved by cyclosporin A, suggesting a role for the mitochondrial permeability transition in the astrocytic death. These studies provide the most direct evidence available for any cell type on the roles of mitochondrial glutathione. They demonstrate the critical importance of this metabolite pool in protecting against peroxynitrite-induced damage in astrocytes and indicate a key contribution in determining the activities of respiratory chain components.
A photochemical lesion was induced in the right sensory motor cortex of rat brains. We examined at various time points the occurrence of different types of neuronal death with respect to a potential therapeutic window. The lesion appearance was documented by magnetic resonance imaging, and functional recovery was evaluated by behavioral tests showing recovery at 48 hr after lesioning. At 0.5, 1, 3, 6, 12, 24, 48, and 72 hr postlesion, cortical layers IV and V were examined by light and electron microscopy. Ultrastructural changes, which corresponded well to light microscopy findings, were found in both hemispheres. In the lesioned area, the neuropil appeared disorganized at 0.5 hr, and apoptotic and necrotic cell death was found at 0.5-3 hr. After 3 hr, the tissue was disintegrated. On the contralateral side, chromatin clumping appeared at 0.5-3 hr. At 3 hr, ruptured membranes were found, a sign of irreversible cell death. At 6-72 hr, the membranes were intact, and the chromatin was not clumped but heterogeneously distributed. The nuclei contained dispersed nucleoli at 48-72 hr. The morphology correlated well with magnetic resonance images and functional behavior. Our study demonstrates that a photochemical lesion is a useful model for studying morphological changes in injured cells. It results in a permanent infarction within 3 hr. In that the morphology on the contralateral side drastically changed between 3 and 6 hr, the cellular alterations at these time points might represent a break point at which cells either progress toward cell death or recover.
To examine molecular mechanisms associated with schizophrenia this study measured expression of approximately 12,000 genes in the middle temporal gyrus from 12 subjects with schizophrenia and 14 matched normal controls. Among the most consistent changes in genes with robust expression were significant decreases in the expression of myelination-related genes MAG, PLLP (TM4SF11), PLP1, ERBB3 in subjects with schizophrenia. There was also altered expression of genes regulating neurodevelopment (TRAF4, Neurod1, histone deacetylase 3), a circadian pacemaker (PER1), and several other genes involved in regulation of chromatin function and signaling mechanisms. These findings support the hypothesis that schizophrenia is associated with abnormalities in oligodendroglia and provide initial evidence suggesting a role for epigenetic mechanisms and altered circadian rhythms in this disorder.
Temporal changes in gene expression were measured using DNA microarrays after 30-min or 2-hr transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) in rats. Total RNA was extracted from the injured hemisphere at 30 min, 4 hr, 8 hr, 24 hr, 3 days, and 7 days after MCAo for GeneChip analysis using Affymetrix U34 Rat Neurobiology arrays (1,322 functional genes). In total, 267 genes were expressed differentially: 166 genes were upregulated, 94 genes were downregulated, and 7 genes were biphasically up- and downregulated. Among all differentially expressed genes, 88 were newly identified as associated with ischemic brain injury. Most affected genes were distributed among 12 functional categories. Immediate early genes, transcription factors, and heat shock proteins were upregulated as early as 30 min after MCAo, followed by the upregulation of inflammation, apoptosis, cytoskeletal, and metabolism genes, which peaked within 4-24 hr of injury. Neurotrophic growth factors exhibited a sustained upregulation beginning 24 hr after MCAo and persisting through 7 days post-injury. Three classes of genes were downregulated with distinct temporal patterns: ion channel genes and neurotransmitter receptor genes were downregulated between 8-24 hr after injury, whereas synaptic proteins genes were downregulated between 3-7 days after MCAo. Downregulation of synaptic protein gene expression after ischemic injury is of particular interest because of its conspicuously delayed pattern as a functional group, which has not been reported previously and may play a role in post-injury recovery.
To determine if acoustic overstimulation altered synaptic connections in the cochlear nucleus, anesthetized adult chinchillas, with one ear protected by a silicone plug, were exposed for 3 hr to a 108-dB octave-band noise, centered at 4 kHz, and allowed to survive for periods up to 32 weeks. This exposure led to cochlear damage in the unprotected ear, mainly in the basal regions of the organ of Corti. The anterior part of the ipsilateral posteroventral cochlear nucleus consistently contained a band of degenerating axons and terminals, in which electron microscopic analysis revealed substantial losses of axons and synaptic terminals with excitatory and inhibitory cytology. The losses were significant after 1 week's survival and progressed for 16-24 weeks after exposure. By 24-32 weeks, a new growth of these structures produced a resurgence in the number of axons and terminals. The net number of excitatory endings fully recovered, but the quantity with inhibitory cytology was only partially recouped. Neuronal somata lost both excitatory and inhibitory endings at first and later recovered a full complement of excitatory but not inhibitory terminals. Dendrites suffered a net loss of both excitatory and inhibitory endings. Excitatory and inhibitory terminals with unidentified postsynaptic targets in the neuropil declined, then increased in number, with excitatory terminals exhibiting a greater recovery. These findings are consistent with a loss and regrowth of synaptic endings and with a reorganization of synaptic connections that favors excitation.
The companion study showed that acoustic overstimulation of adult chinchillas, with a noise level sufficient to damage the cochlea, led to cytological changes and degeneration of synaptic endings in the cochlear nucleus within 1-16 weeks. In the present study, the same stimulus was used to study the long-term effects on the fine structure of synaptic endings in the cochlear nucleus. For periods of 6 and 8 months after a single exposure to a damaging noise level, there ensued a chronic, continuing process of neurodegeneration involving excitatory and inhibitory synaptic endings. Electron microscopic observations demonstrated freshly occurring degeneration even as late as 8 months. Degeneration was widespread in the neuropil and included the synapses on the globular bushy cell, which forms part of the main ascending auditory pathway. Neurodegeneration was accompanied by newly formed synaptic endings, which repopulated some of the sites vacated previously by axosomatic endings on globular bushy cells. Many of these synaptic endings must arise from central interneurons. The findings suggest that overstimulation can induce a self-sustaining condition of progressive neurodegeneration accompanied by a new growth of synaptic endings. Noise-induced hearing loss thus may progress as a neurodegenerative disease with the capacity for synaptic reorganization within the cochlear nucleus.
To study plastic changes in the cochlear nucleus after acoustic stimulation, adult chinchillas were exposed once to a 4-kHz octave-band noise at 108 dB SPL for 3 hr. After survival times of 1, 2, 4, 8, and 16 weeks, samples were taken for electron microscopy from a part of the cochlear nucleus, where cochlear nerve fibers degenerated after the noise exposure. Progressive changes in fine structure were characterized as early, intermediate, and late stages of degeneration. Freshly occurring synaptic degeneration appeared in each period from 1-16 weeks. Endings with large round vesicles, putative excitatory synapses of the cochlear nerve, displayed progressive increases in neurofilaments and enlarged synaptic vesicles. Compared to controls, synaptic vesicles seemed fewer, often in small clusters in the interior of endings, and smaller in the synaptic zone. These early changes progressed to mitochondrial disintegration and overt &quot;watery&quot; degeneration. Some surviving endings, however, were shrunken and displaced partially by enlarged spaces in the synaptic complex. Dense-cored vesicles gathered in these endings. In terminals with pleomorphic and flattened vesicles, presumed inhibitory endings, cytological changes appeared within 1 week and persisted for months. The synaptic endings darkened, some vesicles disintegrated, and many smaller flatter vesicles collapsed into heaps. Especially at the presynaptic membrane, vesicles were shriveled, but a few mitochondria were preserved. Without overt signs of synaptic degeneration, some of these cytological changes presumably reflect reduced synaptic activity in the inhibitory endings. These changes may contribute to a continuing process associated with abnormal auditory functions, including hyperacusis and tinnitus.
Neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are widely distributed within the brain where they contribute to the regulation of higher cognitive functions. The loss of the cholinergic function in Alzheimer's disease patients, along with the well-known memory enhancing effect of nicotine, emphasizes the role of cholinergic signalling in memory functions. The hippocampus, a key structure in learning and memory, is endowed with nAChRs localized at pre- and postsynaptic levels. In previous work on the immature hippocampus we have shown that, at low probability (P) synapses, activation of alpha7 nAChRs by nicotine or by endogenously released acetylcholine persistently enhanced glutamate release and converted 'presynaptically silent' synapses into functional ones. Here we show that in the same preparation, at high P synapses, nicotine induces long-term depression of AMPA- and NMDA-mediated synaptic currents. This effect was mediated by presynaptic alpha7- and beta2-containing receptors and was associated with an increase in the paired pulse ratio and in the coefficient of variation. High P synapses could be converted into low P and vice versa by changing the extracellular Ca2+/Mg2+ ratio. In these conditions nicotine was able to persistently potentiate or depress synaptic responses depending on the initial P-values. A bi-directional control of synaptic plasticity by nicotine would considerably enhance the computational properties of the network during a critical period of postnatal development thus contributing to sculpt the neuronal circuit.
Although prostate synthesizes and releases large amounts of citrate, the mechanism of the release is not well understood. Most known citrate transporters mediate uptake of citrate from extracellular space and, consequently, are driven by the transmembrane Na+ gradient, which would not be appropriate for prostatic function. In the present study, we investigated citrate transport in a normal human prostate cell line, PNT2-C2, using mainly electrophysiological methods. Intracellular application of citrate through the patch pipette in the whole-cell recording mode induced an outward current whilst in response to extracellular citrate an inward current was recorded. Membrane currents induced by citrate were bigger than those elicited by other (equimolar) Krebs cycle intermediates. Both inward and outward citrate-induced currents had the same ionic dependence, inhibitor profile and reversal potential. In particular, the currents were strongly dependent on the transmembrane K+ gradient. Uptake and release of citrate and their K+ dependence were confirmed by spectrophotometric enzyme analyses. Citrate-induced membrane currents were also sensitive to pH, consistent with the transporter preferring the trivalent form. Application of intracellular Zn2+ generated an outward current which had the same quantitative K+ dependence as the citrate-induced currents. Extracellular application of a membrane-permeant Zn2+ chelator generated an inward current. These experiments suggested that m-aconitase was tonically active in PNT2-C2 cells. Determination of 'forward' and 'reverse' K+ stoichiometry both suggested a citrate: K+ ratio of 1: 4. We conclude that normal prostatic epithelial cells possess an electrogenic citrate transporter which mediates the cotransfer of 1 trivalent citrate anion alongside 4 K+ out of cells and thus generates a net outward current.
The effects of Rimonabant (SR141716), an antagonist at cannabinoid CB1 receptors, were evaluated in animal models for subjective and rewarding effects of nicotine. Acute administration of 1 or 3 mg/kg SR141716 blocked expression of nicotine-induced conditioned place preferences. SR141716 (0.3-3 mg/kg) was also studied in rats trained to discriminate nicotine from saline under a fixed-ratio schedule of food delivery. In contrast to nicotine replacement therapy and bupropion, SR141716 did not have nicotine-like discriminative effects and did not alter the dose-response curve for nicotine discrimination. These findings support the proposed use of SR141716 for smoking cessation and indicate that it would selectively reduce the influence of environmental stimuli that contribute to persistent smoking behavior, without affecting subjective responses to nicotine.
The integral membrane glycoprotein presenilin-1 (PS1), in concert with beta-secretase and beta amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP), orchestrate cleavage of betaAPP into amyloidogenic Abeta peptides. To gain further insight into PS1 function, we undertook a gene expression profiling study that interrogated the expression of 12,000 genes in the forebrain of PS1-hypomorphic mice that exhibit highly attenuated PS1 activity. Using stringent RNA screening, DNA array and Northern assay, we report significant down-regulation in the expression of betaAPP and hypoxia inducible factor-1 alpha (HIF-1alpha), and a marked up-regulation in the expression of glial-specific markers that include S100beta protein, glycerol phosphate dehydrogenase, and glial fibrillary acidic protein. These data suggest potential roles for PS1 in the cellular response to hypoxia and glial-specific gene expression.
We investigated the role of nitric oxide (NO) on mitochondrial complexes activity, following short-term non-desensitizing activation of AMPA receptors with kainate (KA) plus cyclothiazide (CTZ), in cultured rat hippocampal neurons. In these conditions, we observed a decrease in the activity of mitochondrial complexes I, II/III, and IV. A selective neuronal nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, 7-Nitroindazole, prevented the decrease in the activity of mitochondrial complex I, but not for the other complexes. Exposure to KA plus CTZ also increased cyclic GMP levels significantly, and led to increased levels of 3-nitrotyrosine, a biomarker for peroxynitrite production. Taken together, our results suggest that non-desensitizing activation of AMPA receptors causes inhibition of mitochondrial complex I via peroxynitrite.
The present study sought to determine the effects of kindled seizures generated from the left and right amygdala upon weight gain in rat. Seventy-five female Sprague-Dawley rats were implanted with electrodes in basal amygdala of the left and right hemispheres. A kindling paradigm was employed in which electrical stimulation was applied once per day for 30 days after Stage 5 seizures. An electrode was implanted into the basal amygdala of the control rats but no stimulation was applied. All rats were weighed daily during the course of the experiment and changes in weight during this period were recorded for all rats. The results demonstrated that kindling from either the left or right amygdala induced significant increases in weight gain relative to the control rats. However, kindling from the left basal amygdala induced increases in body weight that were four times greater than control rats and two times greater than the rats kindled from the right side of the basal amygdala. Likewise, serum leptin levels, which were highly correlated with weight gain, also showed significantly greater increases in left amygdaloid kindled rats relative to rats kindled from the right amygdala and control rats. These findings demonstrate that basal amygdaloid kindling induces significant increases in weight gain and that the magnitude of these effects is linked to the dominance of the left hemisphere.
Previous work using the retrogradely transported immunotoxin, saporin (SAP) conjugated to a monoclonal antibody against dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH; DSAP), to selectively lesion norepinephrine (NE) and epinephrine (E) neurons projecting to the medial hypothalamus, demonstrated the essential role of these neurons for appetitive ingestive responses to glucoprivation. Here, we again utilized this lesion to assess the importance of these same neurons for the consummatory phase of glucoprivic feeding. To test consummatory responses, milk was infused intraorally through a chronic cheek fistula until rejected. Appetitive responses were tested in the same rats using pelleted food. Feeding responses to insulin-induced hypoglycemia, 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2DG)-induced blockade of glucose utilization, mercaptoacetate (MA)-induced blockade of fatty acid oxidation, 0.9% saline, and 18-h food deprivation were assessed. Unlike unconjugated SAP controls, the DSAP rats did not increase their food intake in response to glucoprivic challenges in either the pelleted food or the intraoral feeding tests. However, the DSAP rats did not differ from SAPs in their ingestive responses to food deprivation and blockade of fatty acid oxidation. The selective impairment of glucoprivic feeding responses indicates that DSAP did not impair the underlying circuitry required for either appetitive or consummatory ingestive responding but eliminated the mechanism for control of this circuitry specifically by glucoprivation. Results suggest that both appetitive and consummatory responses to glucoprivation are controlled and coordinated by multilevel terminations of the same catecholamine neurons.
Positron emission tomography (PET) studies with radiolabeled dopamine D2-like receptor ligands reveal d-amphetamine-evoked increases in the competition from endogenous dopamine. However, the corresponding effects of methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA, &quot;Ecstasy&quot;), which releases catecholamines and also serotonin, are unknown. Using PET, we measured the binding potentials (pBs) of the benzamide [11C]raclopride and the butyrophenone N-[11C]methylspiperone ([11C]NMSP) in brain of living pigs first in a baseline condition and at 45 and 165 min after infusion of (+/-)-MDMA-HCl (1 mg/kg, i.v.). Concomitant studies of cerebral blood flow did not reveal significant perfusion changes in the cerebellum reference region or in striatum, supporting the present use of reference tissue methods for the mapping of MDMA-evoked pB changes. Relative to the baseline pB of [11C]raclopride for dopamine D(2/3) receptors in striatum (pB = 1.5-2.2), MDMA-treatment reduced pB by 35% in the first posttreatment scan and by 22% in the second posttreatment scan, comparable to changes typically evoked by d-amphetamine at a similar dose. In most previous studies, the in vivo binding of butyrophenones has been nearly insensitive to d-amphetamine-evoked dopamine release. However, we found the baseline pB of [11C]NMSP for dopamine D2-like receptors in striatum (pB = 4-5) was decreased by 30% in the first post-MDMA scan and by 50% in the second post-MDMA scan, irrespective of assumptions about the extent of equilibrium binding attained during the 90-min-long PET recordings. Distinct properties of MDMA such as simultaneous release of dopamine and serotonin in brain may account for the present finding of progressive decline in the availability of [11C]NMSP binding sites in striatum.
3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) acutely releases intraneuronal dopamine and serotonin and evokes hyperthermia which is linked to toxicity for serotonin fibers. The acute effects of MDMA on cerebral blood flow (CBF) in living brain have not been described in an animal model of MDMA intoxication. We predicted that MDMA-induced hyperthermia should correlate with increased CBF in the hypothalamus, a serotonin-rich brain region subserving thermoregulation. To test this prediction, we used positron emission tomography with statistical parametric mapping for exploratory analysis of the focal changes in the magnitude of CBF in the anesthetized female Landrace pig (n = 9) at 30 and 150 min after acute challenge with MDMA-HCl (1 mg/kg, i.v.). The MDMA treatment was followed by increased CBF in the occipital cortex and in the medial mesencephalon overlapping the dorsal raph nucleus, and reduced CBF in the cerebellar vermis and in a cluster in the medulla encompassing the left locus coeruleus. The individual increase of body temperature correlated positively with increased CBF in the vicinity of the raph nucleus, in the hypothalamus (regions linked to thermoregulation), and also in the medial frontal cortex, which together comprise the regions receiving the most dense serotonin innervations in pig brain. Thus, individual differences in the susceptibility to MDMA-induced hyperthermia in this population correlated with the magnitude of focal increases in CBF within specific brain regions endowed with a dense serotonin innervation, including regions linked to thermoregulation.
Opioid abuse is associated with repeated administration and escalation of dose that can result in profound adaptations in homeostatic processes. Potential cellular mechanisms and neural sites mediating opiate-dependent adaptations may involve NMDA-dependent synaptic plasticity within brain areas participating in behaviors related to consumption of natural reinforcers, as well as affective-autonomic integration, notably the medial nucleus tractus solitarius (mNTS). NMDA-dependent synaptic plasticity may be mediated by changes in the intracellular and surface targeting of NMDA receptors, particularly in postsynaptic sites including spines or small distal dendrites. High-resolution immunogold electron microscopic immunocytochemistry combined with morphometry were used to measure changes in targeting of the NMDA-NR1 (NR1) receptor subunit between intracellular and plasmalemmal sites in dendrites of neurons of the intermediate mNTS of rats self-administering escalating doses of morphine (EMSA). In control and EMSA rats, the density of plasmalemmal and cytosolic gold particles was inversely related to profile size. Collapsed across all NR1-labeled dendrites, rats self-administering morphine had a lower number of plasmalemmal gold particles per unit surface area (7.1 +/- 0.8 vs. 14.4 +/- 1 per 100 microm), but had a higher number of intracellular gold particles per unit cross-sectional area (169 +/- 6.1 vs. 148 +/- 5.1 per 100 microm2) compared to saline self-administering rats. Morphometric analysis showed that the decrease in plasma membrane labeling of NR1 was most robust in small dendritic profiles (&lt;1 microm), where there was a reciprocal increase in the density of intracellular particles. These results indicate that the plasmalemmal distribution of the essential NR1 subunits in distal sites may prominently contribute to NMDA receptor-dependent modulation of neural circuitry regulating homeostatic processes, and targeting of these proteins can be prominently affected by morphine self-administration.
JC virus causes the fatal demyelinating disease, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) under immunosuppressive states such as AIDS. During the pathogenesis of AIDS, HIV-infected microglia secrete cytokines including interleukin-1 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), which affect neuronal cells resulting in dysfunction of the CNS. We hypothesized that extracellular stimuli released from HIV-infected microglia may reactivate JC virus by affecting neighboring oligodendrocytes. In the present study, we found that phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) and interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) dramatically increased JC virus transcription in glial cells. Site-directed mutagenesis and gel shift analyses revealed that PMA and IL-1beta strongly induced nuclear factor-1 (NF-1) binding to the JC virus enhancer region, increasing transcriptional activity of the viral early promoter. Additionally, we demonstrated that protein kinase C (PKC) pathways were involved in the PMA/IL-1beta-mediated up-regulation of the JC virus early promoter. These findings may represent one of the possible mechanisms for higher incidence of PML among AIDS patients.



Using H2(15)O PET, the authors imaged 13 patients with Alzheimer disease (AD) while performing a serial nonverbal recognition memory task. Patterns of brain activation differed as a function of APOE genotype: epsilon4 carriers exhibited lower activation in the left lingual gyrus and higher activation in left cuneus, precuneus, parahippocampal, and right precentral gyrus. The APOE genotype seems to play a role in cerebral physiologic activity even after onset of clinical manifestations of AD.
To investigate the mechanism of action of deep brain stimulation (DBS), the authors studied the effects of thalamic DBS on the cerebellothalamocortical (CTC) pathway. With DBS turned off, excitability of the CTC pathway was reduced. Turning DBS on resulted in facilitation of the CTC pathway. Therefore, thalamic DBS appears to activate rather than inhibit the target area.
The authors report a Taiwanese family with autosomal recessive hyperekplexia. Two novel mutations, W96C (from the paternal allele) and R344X (from the maternal allele), which are located in exon 4 and exon 7 of the GLRA1 gene, were identified in this family. A series of electrophysiologic investigations were conducted in one of the probands, and the results suggest that the &quot;startle center&quot; is located subcortically.


Extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs) are traditionally viewed as a survival factor in the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) family. On the other hand, some recent reports have suggested that ERK can also be responsible for neuronal cell death in various neurodegeneration models. In-depth studies on the action of ERK in apoptosis, however, have not been done. A recent study has revealed that ERK is a key apoptotic factor in potassium deprivation-induced neuronal cell death by showing that ERK inhibitors protect neurons from low potassium conditions, whereas constitutively activated ERK activates cell death. Most important, this study shows how ERK can promote neuronal cell death by causing plasma membrane and DNA damage that is independent of caspase-3 activity. Further studies on the mechanism of ERK in neuronal cell death will shed light on the possibility of using ERK as a therapeutic target in treating neurodegeneration.
Mechanisms of postjunctional synergism between adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) and noradrenaline were studied in isolated guinea pig vas deferens. Whereas prior exposure to ATP had no significant effect on noradrenaline-mediated contractions, noradrenaline concentration-dependently enhanced ATP-induced contractions. Similarly to noradrenaline, histamine, which also acts via phospholipase-coupled receptors, induced contractions of the vas deferens and enhanced subsequent responses to ATP. Although phorbol-12, 13-dibutyrate (PDBu), a stimulant of protein kinase C (PKC), failed to induce contractions, it significantly potentiated ATP-induced contractions. The PKC inhibitor, Calphostin C, prevented this effect and the noradrenaline-mediated enhancement of ATP-induced contractions. The phosphatase inhibitor cantharidin induced a time- and concentration-dependent tonic contraction and markedly increased subsequent contractions to ATP. It is suggested that noradrenaline potentiates the contractile response of the vas deferens to ATP via a PKC-mediated mechanism. This may involve the inhibition of myosin light chain phosphatase (MLCP) and subsequent calcium sensitisation.
We compared the antithrombotic efficacy of FK419 [(S)-2-acetylamino-3-[(R)-[1-[3-(piperidin-4-yl)propionyl]piperidin-3-ylcarbonyl]amino] propionic acid trihydrate], a novel nonpeptide glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonist, with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) and other antithrombotic agents (aspirin, ozagrel, argatroban and heparin). FK419 not only inhibited ADP- and collagen-induced guinea pig platelet aggregation, but also induced disaggregation for ADP-induced aggregated platelets in vitro. In the photochemically induced middle cerebral artery thrombosis model in guinea pigs, FK419 dose-dependently shortened the time to first reperfusion and the total middle cerebral artery occlusion time and reduced ischemic brain damage and ameliorated neurological deficits measured 24 h after middle cerebral artery occlusion. Rt-PA similarly improved the middle cerebral artery patency, brain damage and neurological deficits. Neither aspirin, ozagrel, argatroban nor heparin restored the middle cerebral artery blood flow and improved the brain damage or neurological deficits. These results demonstrated that novel glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonist FK419 could disperse thrombus and ameliorated ischemic brain damage, suggesting that FK419 would be an attractive intervention for stroke patients.
Higher levels of cognition, such as executive functions, are known to be disrupted in psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia. As a potential model of executive function, rats were trained in a three-lever operant conditioning chamber to respond on two of the three levers in one of six possible correct sequences. When the rat completed a two-response sequence correctly for 10 consecutive trials, the correct sequence was randomly changed to another two-response sequence without signaling the rat. Rats readily acquired the behavioral baseline and completed all six response-sequences within a 60-min session. Phencyclidine, MK-801 ((5S,10R)-(+)-5-Methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine), apomorphine, scopolamine and triazolam all produced dose-related decreases in the total number of sequences completed. Phencyclidine and MK-801 markedly increased all errors while scopolamine produced modest increases; triazolam increased only total and intrarule errors, while apomorphine had no significant effect on errors. The present results suggest that within-session repeated acquisition of response sequences has the potential to be a useful model for studying executive function in rats.
Administration of the cannabinoid CB(1) receptor antagonist, SR 141716 [N-piperidino-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-3-pyrazole-carboxamide], has been reported to reduce alcohol intake and alcohol self-administration in different models of excessive alcohol consumption, including the selectively bred Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) rats. The present study investigated whether SR 141716 was also capable of decreasing, in this rat line, alcohol's motivational properties. Extinction responding for alcohol, defined as the maximal number of lever responses reached in the absence of alcohol in rats trained to lever-press for alcohol, was used as index of alcohol's motivational properties. Rats were initially trained to lever-press for oral alcohol (15%, v/v) under a fixed ratio (FR) schedule of FR4. Once self-administration behavior was established, extinction sessions were conducted. SR 141716 (0, 0.3, 1 and 3 mg/kg; i.p.) was acutely administered before extinction sessions. In order to assess the specificity of SR 141716 action on extinction responding for alcohol, a separate group of sP rats was trained to lever-press for a 3% (w/v) sucrose solution under an FR4 schedule. SR 141716 administration produced a dose-dependent, virtually complete suppression of extinction responding for alcohol. In contrast, extinction responding for sucrose was not significantly altered by treatment with SR 141716. Further to the consummatory aspects, these results also extend the suppressing effect of SR 141716 to the appetitive aspects of alcohol drinking behavior in sP rats. The results also implicate the cannabinoid CB1 receptor in the neural substrate mediating alcohol's motivational properties in this rat line.
Here we show a novel function for Retinoblastoma family member, p107 in controlling stem cell expansion in the mammalian brain. Adult p107-null mice had elevated numbers of proliferating progenitor cells in their lateral ventricles. In vitro neurosphere assays revealed striking increases in the number of neurosphere forming cells from p107(-/-) brains that exhibited enhanced capacity for self-renewal. An expanded stem cell population in p107-deficient mice was shown in vivo by (a) increased numbers of slowly cycling cells in the lateral ventricles; and (b) accelerated rates of neural precursor repopulation after progenitor ablation. Notch1 was up-regulated in p107(-/-) neurospheres in vitro and brains in vivo. Chromatin immunoprecipitation and p107 overexpression suggest that p107 may modulate the Notch1 pathway. These results demonstrate a novel function for p107 that is distinct from Rb, which is to negatively regulate the number of neural stem cells in the developing and adult brain.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by loss of motoneurons in the spinal cord and brain stem. We have characterized motoneuron death in transgenic mice carrying the mutant human copper/zinc superoxide dismutase, as a model for familial ALS. Previous studies have shown the involvement of mitochondria in nerve cell demise in these animals. We report here an early cleavage of caspase-12, residing in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), in the spinal cord during the course of the disease. Apart from caspase-12, caspase-9, and caspase-3 were activated in the transgenic ALS mice. Staining with an antibody for nitrotyrosine, as a marker for oxidative stress, showed a large increase in the ALS mice. The results indicate that oxidative and ER induced stress causing caspase-12 activation are involved in neuronal death and disease progression in ALS. Caspase-12 and the ER pathway for cell death may constitute potential novel targets for the treatment of ALS.
We have previously reported that protein kinase A (PKA) is involved in the phosphorylation of NR1 subunits of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in dorsal horn neurons after intradermal injection of capsaicin (CAP). To see if protein kinase C (PKC) also participates in the phosphorylation of NR1, we used electron microscopic techniques to determine further where the phosphorylated NR1 subunits (pNR1) are expressed in the spinothalamic tract (STT) cells and immunohistochemistry to examine whether a PKC inhibitor, chelerythrine chloride, blocks the enhanced phosphorylation of NR1 on serine 896. The pNR1 subunits were in the soma and dendrites of STT cells and in presynaptic endings. Western blots showed that pretreatment with the PKC inhibitor caused a decrease in CAP-induced phosphorylation of NR1 protein. In immunofluorescence staining, the number of pNR1-like immunoreactive neurons was significantly decreased on the side ipsilateral to the injection when chelerythrine chloride was administered intrathecally before CAP injection. In addition, when STT cells were labeled by microinjection of the retrograde tracer, fluorogold (FG), into the thalamus, we found that the proportion of p-NR1-LI STT cells was markedly reduced after PKC inhibition. Combined with our previous findings, these results strongly suggest that NR1 subunits in spinal dorsal horn neurons are phosphorylated following CAP injection, and this phosphorylation is catalyzed by PKC, as well as by PKA.
The ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) is extremely sensitive to a variety of stressful situations and threatening events, and has been suggested to be an associative cortical brain system processing the integration of anxiety-related cognitive, affective and motivated behavior in rodents, primates and humans. In addition, recent evidence suggests that (a) anxiety-related affective processing appears to be lateralized to the right hemisphere vmPFC; and (b) there appears to be functional heterogeneity within the rodent vmPFC. The present study evaluated the possibility that distinct sub-areas of the right hemisphere ventral PFC might differentially influence anxiety-like defensive responding in two different predator stress situations following transient inactivation of the ventromedial orbital (vMO) or infralimbic (IL) vmPFC in CD-1 mice. In week 1, IL vmPFC lidocaine infusions reduced anxiety-like defensive responding in mice (enhanced approach and contact) confronted with a hand-held anesthetized rat stimulus in the mouse defense test battery (vMO inactivation exerted minimal effects). In week 2, vMO lidocaine infusions enhanced anxiety-like defensive responding (enhanced avoidance and protected risk assessment) toward a barricaded live rat in the rat exposure test (IL inactivation exerted minimal effects). Although it is unclear whether week 1 mouse defense test battery testing influenced week 2 rat exposure test results, these preliminary data suggest functional differences within the mouse right hemisphere ventral PFC related to cautious evaluation of predator threat. Given the dense unilateral reciprocal connectivity between the IL and vMO subregions of the PFC, both associative ventromedial cortical areas may exert complimentary yet dissociable roles in the processing of threat stimuli. This suggests that while the IL vmPFC may mediate cautious evaluation of threat situations (risk assessment), the vMO PFC may inhibit prepotent avoidance responses to facilitate such IL-mediated adaptive behavioral responses.
A growing body of evidence suggests that CRF(1) receptor antagonism offers considerable therapeutic potential in the treatment of diseases resulting from elevated levels of CRF, such as anxiety and depression. A series of novel 1,2,3,7-tetrahydro-6H-purin-6-one and 3,7-dihydro-1H-purine-2,6-dione derivatives was synthesized and evaluated as corticotropin releasing factor-1 (CRF(1)) receptor antagonists. Compounds within this series, represented by compound 12d (IC(50) = 5.4 nM), were found to be highly potent CRF(1) receptor antagonists. In addition, compounds 12d and 12j were determined to be selective CRF(1) antagonists. The synthesis, structure-activity relationships and pharmacokinetic properties of compounds within this series is presented.
Nerve impulses are propagated at nodes of Ranvier in the myelinated nerves of vertebrates. Internodal distances have been proposed to affect the velocity of nerve impulse conduction; however, direct evidence is lacking, and the cellular mechanisms that might regulate the length of the myelinated segments are unknown. Ramn y Cajal described longitudinal and transverse bands of cytoplasm or trabeculae in internodal Schwann cells and suggested that they had a nutritive function. Here we show that internodal growth in wild-type nerves is precisely matched to nerve extension, but disruption of the cytoplasmic bands in Periaxin-null mice impairs Schwann cell elongation during nerve growth. By contrast, myelination proceeds normally. The capacity of wild-type and mutant Schwann cells to elongate is cell-autonomous, indicating that passive stretching can account for the lengthening of the internode during limb growth. As predicted on theoretical grounds, decreased internodal distances strikingly decrease conduction velocities and so affect motor function. We propose that microtubule-based transport in the longitudinal bands of Cajal permits internodal Schwann cells to lengthen in response to axonal growth, thus ensuring rapid nerve impulse transmission.
The dynamics of actin filament protein is crucial for various physiological processes of the cells. Among the proteins correlating with actin dynamics, a novel 67-kDa WD40 repeat protein 1 (WDR1) was the vertebrate homologue of actin-interacting protein 1 (Aip1). Even though previous studies have provided the clues on the function of WDR1 in specific organs under pathological conditions, the exact subcellular localization of WDR1 is not known. Therefore, in the present study, we undertook to determine the distribution of WDR1 within PC12 pheochromocytoma cells (PC12 cells) using light and electron microscopic techniques. Double immunocytochemistry clearly showed that WDR1 immunoreactivities (IRs) were co-localized with anti-actin antibody, suggesting the involvement of WDR1 in actin dynamics. WDR1 immunoreactivities (IRs) in PC12 cells showed different distribution patterns as nerve growth factor (NGF) concentrations varied. During active proliferation, the distribution of WDR1 IRs seemed to be similar to those found in cortical actin patches, whereas WDR1 IR was observed in cytoplasmic actin cables after PC12 cells were induced to differentiate by treating with NGF. Though further studies are necessary to determine the function of WDR1, the current data represents a first step towards the in vitro study of WDR1 protein.
Tolerance to normally neurotoxic insults can be induced by prior a preconditioning exposure to a sublethal insult. Kainate toxicity can be attenuated by prior exposure to very low concentrations of kainate both in vivo and in vitro. Using organotypic hippocampal slice cultures from rats we have shown that 5 microM kainate induces a selective lesion in the CA3 region and this can be significantly attenuated by 1 microM kainate administered 1-5 days earlier. The time window for this effect was affected by the length of time in culture, and preconditioning was blocked by NBQX but not the selective AMPA receptor antagonist GYKI53655. These data demonstrate a role for kainate receptors in preconditioning for the first time and show that organotypic cultures can be used as a model to investigate long-term preconditioning mechanisms.
Wilson's disease is an autosomal recessive disorder of hepatic copper metabolism caused by mutations in a gene encoding a copper-transporting P-type ATPase. We report the clinical and molecular characterization of six members from three unrelated Colombian kindred. Completed sequence DNA analysis linked to the gene ATP-7B from patient wd-1 revealed a novel A to C transversion in exon 17 at position 3856 (A3856C) of the ATP-7B mRNA resulting in a threonine for proline substitution at position 1232 of the ATP-7B protein (T1232P). Additionally, two novel polymorphisms were detected (2785G:Gly875 in exon 11; and intron at +38 a &gt; c:tgcgcccga in exon 19). All affected individuals were homozygous for the T1232P mutation and displayed neurologic and neuropsychiatric dominant onset. This work expands the knowledge about the number, type, and implication of mutations in WD.
Neurotoxic amphetamines cause damage to monoamine nerve terminals of the striatum by unknown mechanisms. Microglial activation contributes to the neuronal damage that accompanies injury, disease, and inflammation, but a role for these cells in amphetamine-induced neurotoxicity has received little attention. We show presently that D-methamphetamine, 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA), D-amphetamine, and p-chloroamphetamine, each of which has been linked to dopamine (DA) or serotonin nerve terminal damage, result in microglial activation in the striatum. The non-neurotoxic amphetamines l-methamphetamine, fenfluramine, and DOI do not have this effect. All drugs that cause microglial activation also increase expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). At a minimum, microglial activation serves as a pharmacologically specific marker for striatal nerve terminal damage resulting only from those amphetamines that exert neurotoxicity. Because microglia are known to produce many of the reactive species (e.g., nitric oxide, superoxide, cytokines) that mediate the neurotoxicity of the amphetamine-class of drugs, their activation could represent an early and essential event in the neurotoxic cascade associated with high-dose amphetamine intoxication.
The distribution of the 5-HT7 receptor was analyzed using the selective 5-HT7 receptor antagonist radioligand [3H]SB-269970 and human brain whole hemisphere autoradiography. The results indicated that 5-HT7 receptors are most abundantly localized in the anterior thalamus and in the dentate gyrus. Other regions containing intermediate levels of 5-HT7 receptors included the hypothalamus, anterior cingulate gyrus, hippocampus, amygdala and certain brainstem nuclei. The distribution pattern obtained in this study supports the involvement of this receptor subtype in affective behavior and cognition.
We examined how spatially directed attention affected the integration of motion in neurons of the middle temporal (MT) area of visual cortex. We recorded from single MT neurons while monkeys performed a motion detection task under two attentional states. Using 0% coherent random dot motion, we estimated the optimal linear transfer function (or kernel) between the global motion and the neuronal response. This linear kernel filtered the random dot motion across direction, speed, and time. Slightly less than one-half of the neurons produced reasonably well defined kernels that also tended to account for both the directional selectivity and responses to coherent motion of different strengths. This subpopulation of cells had faster, more transient, and more robust responses to visual stimuli than neurons with kernels that did not contain well defined regions of integration. For those neurons that had large attentional modulation and produced well defined kernels, we found attention scaled the temporal profile of the transfer function with no appreciable shift in time or change in shape. Thus, for MT neurons described by a linear transfer function, attention produced a multiplicative scaling of the temporal integration window.
In this study, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) heterozygous knock-outs were tested on fear conditioning, and their wild-type littermates were used as controls. Results showed that BDNF(+/-) mice are impaired in contextual learning, whereas tone learning remains intact. Because BDNF is involved in synaptic transmission and contextual learning is hippocampal dependent, we hypothesized that this deficit is attributable to abnormal BDNF-modulated synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus. A &quot;gain-of-function&quot; experiment was performed next by infusing recombinant BDNF protein into the hippocampal formation to investigate whether this deficit can be rescued. Infusion of BDNF protein into the hippocampus appeared to partially restore contextual fear learning of BDNF(+/-) mice. In conclusion, the present study suggests that BDNF plays a critical role in fear conditioning. Loss of one copy of the BDNF gene leads to impairment of contextual fear learning in BDNF(+/-). This deficit can be partially rescued by infusing BDNF protein into the hippocampus. Other brain regions interacting with the hippocampus in the context conditioned stimulus pathway, for example, the amygdala, may also require normal BDNF expression levels to fully rescue this impairment.
Mutations in the Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) gene cause familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS) by gain of an aberrant function that is not yet well understood. The role of Cu(2+) in mediating the toxicity of mutant SOD1 has been earnestly contested. We tested the in vivo effects of genetically induced copper deprivation on the ALS phenotype of transgenic mice expressing G86R mutant mouse SOD1, a protein that fails to incorporate Cu(2+) in its active site. Genetically copper-deficient SOD1(G86R) transgenic mice were produced by mating SOD1(G86R) males to female carriers of the X-linked mottled/brindled (Mobr) mutation. We found that the Mobr allele causes a severe ( approximately 60%) depletion of spinal cord copper levels; however, despite the burden of double genetic lesions, it lengthens the lives of SOD1(G86R) transgenic mice by 9%. These findings provide evidence supporting a role for copper in the pathogenesis of FALS linked to SOD1 mutations.
Nerve injury leads to the induction of a large number of genes to repair the damage and to restore synaptic transmission. We have attempted to identify molecules whose mRNA expression is altered in response to facial nerve axotomy. Here we report that facial nerve axotomy upregulates Sonic hedgehog (Shh) and its receptor Smoothened (Smo) in facial motor neurons of adult rats, whereas facial nerve axotomy does not upregulate mRNA of Shh or Smo in neonatal rats. We tested whether overexpression of Shh in facial motor neurons of axotomized neonatal rats may promote neuronal survival. Adenovirus-mediated overexpression of Shh, but not that of beta-galactosidase, transiently rescues axotomy-induced neuronal cell death for 3-5 d after axotomy. Finally, the pharmacological inhibitor of Shh signaling, cyclopamine, induces motor neuron death in adult rats after axotomy. These results suggest that Shh plays a regulatory role in nerve injury.
Voltage-gated potassium (Kv) channels from the Kv4, or Shal-related, gene family underlie a major component of the A-type potassium current in mammalian central neurons. We recently identified a family of calcium-binding proteins, termed KChIPs (Kv channel interacting proteins), that bind to the cytoplasmic N termini of Kv4 family alpha subunits and modulate their surface density, inactivation kinetics, and rate of recovery from inactivation (An et al., 2000). Here, we used single and double-label immunohistochemistry, together with circumscribed lesions and coimmunoprecipitation analyses, to examine the regional and subcellular distribution of KChIPs1-4 and Kv4 family alpha subunits in adult rat brain. Immunohistochemical staining using KChIP-specific monoclonal antibodies revealed that the KChIP polypeptides are concentrated in neuronal somata and dendrites where their cellular and subcellular distribution overlaps, in an isoform-specific manner, with that of Kv4.2 and Kv4.3. For example, immunoreactivity for KChIP1 and Kv4.3 is concentrated in the somata and dendrites of hippocampal, striatal, and neocortical interneurons. Immunoreactivity for KChIP2, KChIP4, and Kv4.2 is concentrated in the apical and basal dendrites of hippocampal and neocortical pyramidal cells. Double-label immunofluorescence labeling revealed that throughout the forebrain, KChIP2 and KChIP4 are frequently colocalized with Kv4.2, whereas in cortical, hippocampal, and striatal interneurons, KChIP1 is frequently colocalized with Kv4.3. Coimmunoprecipitation analyses confirmed that all KChIPs coassociate with Kv4 alpha subunits in brain membranes, indicating that KChIPs 1-4 are integral components of native A-type Kv channel complexes and are likely to play a major role as modulators of somatodendritic excitability.
The c-Jun N-terminal protein kinase (JNK) signaling pathway is implicated in neuronal apoptosis. The mechanism by which activated JNK induces neuronal apoptosis is strongly linked to mitochondrial apoptogenic proteins, although the molecular machinery downstream of JNK has not been precisely elucidated. Our study examined the relevance of proapoptotic Bcl-2 family members in JNK-mediated apoptosis after transient focal cerebral ischemia (tFCI), which, when induced by 60 min of middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion, elevated levels of JNK activity and phospho-JNK in the MCA territory. Phospho-JNK was primarily expressed in neurons and colocalized with terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated biotinylated UTP nick end labeling (TUNEL)-positive cells. Inhibition of JNK activity by anthra[1,9-cd]pyrazol-6(2H)-one (SP600125), a selective JNK inhibitor, protected neurons from ischemia-induced apoptosis detected by TUNEL staining and an apoptotic-related DNA fragmentation assay. SP600125 blocked translocation of the cell death effector Bax from the cytosol to the mitochondria after tFCI. BimL (Bim long) was induced and phosphorylated parallel to JNK activity. Coimmunoprecipitation studies consistently revealed increased interaction of JNK with BimL, as well as BimL with Bax, after tFCI. SP600125 blocked these interactions at a dose that significantly inhibited JNK-induced neuronal apoptosis. These results suggest that the JNK signaling pathway is involved in ischemia-induced neuronal apoptosis by stimulation, at least in part, of Bax translocation to the mitochondria, in which BimL is likely regulated by JNK as a downstream substrate for transmission of apoptotic signals to Bax.
The development of ethanol tolerance and dependence reflects neuroadaptive changes in response to continuous depression in synaptic activity. The present study used confocal imaging and electrophysiology procedures to assess the effects of prolonged ethanol exposure on NMDA receptor trafficking in cultures of hippocampal neurons. Neurons exposed to 50 mm ethanol for 4 d showed an increase in the colocalization of NMDA receptor type 1 (NR1) clusters with the presynaptic marker protein synapsin. This was accompanied by significant increases in the size and density of these synapsin-associated clusters with no change observed in nonsynapsin-associated NR1 clusters. Similar effects were observed with NR2B clustering after chronic ethanol exposure. The increase in synaptic NMDA receptor clustering was prevented by addition of a protein kinase A inhibitor or by coexposure to a low concentration of NMDA and was reversed when ethanol was removed from the cultures. No changes were observed in the synaptic content, cluster size, or density of AMPA receptors after ethanol exposure. Electrophysiological measurements on ethanol-treated neurons revealed a similar enhancement in synaptic NMDA currents with no change in AMPA-mediated events. After isolation of extrasynaptic NMDA receptors by MK801 (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo [a,d] cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate (/) trapping, whole-cell responses to NMDA were not different between control and ethanol-treated neurons These observations demonstrate that neuroadaptive changes in NMDA receptors in response to prolonged ethanol exposure occur through activity-dependent processes that regulate their synaptic targeting and localization.
Mitochondria-produced reactive oxygen species (ROS) are thought to contribute to cell death caused by a multitude of pathological conditions. The molecular sites of mitochondrial ROS production are not well established but are generally thought to be located in complex I and complex III of the electron transport chain. We measured H(2)O(2) production, respiration, and NADPH reduction level in rat brain mitochondria oxidizing a variety of respiratory substrates. Under conditions of maximum respiration induced with either ADP or carbonyl cyanide p-trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone,alpha-ketoglutarate supported the highest rate of H(2)O(2) production. In the absence of ADP or in the presence of rotenone, H(2)O(2) production rates correlated with the reduction level of mitochondrial NADPH with various substrates, with the exception of alpha-ketoglutarate. Isolated mitochondrial alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase (KGDHC) and pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDHC) complexes produced superoxide and H(2)O(2). NAD(+) inhibited ROS production by the isolated enzymes and by permeabilized mitochondria. We also measured H(2)O(2) production by brain mitochondria isolated from heterozygous knock-out mice deficient in dihydrolipoyl dehydrogenase (Dld). Although this enzyme is a part of both KGDHC and PDHC, there was greater impairment of KGDHC activity in Dld-deficient mitochondria. These mitochondria also produced significantly less H(2)O(2) than mitochondria isolated from their littermate wild-type mice. The data strongly indicate that KGDHC is a primary site of ROS production in normally functioning mitochondria.
This study sought primarily to locate the acetylcholine (ACh) binding site in the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT). The design of the study also allowed us to locate residues linked to (a) the binding site for the allosteric inhibitor vesamicol and (b) the rates of the two transmembrane reorientation steps of a transport cycle. In more characterized proteins, ACh is known to be bound in part through cation-pi solvation by tryptophan, tyrosine, and phenylalanine residues. Each of 11 highly conserved W, Y, and F residues in putative transmembrane domains (TMDs) of rat VAChT was mutated to A and a different aromatic residue to test for loss of cation-pi solvation. Mutated VAChTs were expressed in PC12(A123.7) cells and characterized with the goal of determining whether mutations widely perturbed structure. The thermodynamic affinity for ACh was determined by displacement of trace [(3)H]-(-)-trans-2-(4-phenylpiperidino)cyclohexanol (vesamicol) with ACh, and Michaelis-Menten parameters were determined for [(3)H]ACh transport. Expression levels were determined with [(3)H]vesamicol saturation curves and Western blots, and they were used to normalize V(max) values. &quot;Microscopic&quot; parameters for individual binding and rate steps in the transport cycle were calculated on the basis of a published kinetics model. All mutants were expressed adequately, were properly glycosylated, and bound ACh and vesamicol. Subcellular mistargeting was shown not to be responsible for poor transport by some mutants. Mutation of residue W331, which lies in the beginning of TMD VIII proximal to the vesicular lumen, produced 5- and 9-fold decreased ACh affinities and no change in other parameters. This residue is a good candidate for cation-pi solvation of bound ACh. Mutation of four other residues decreased the ACh affinity up to 6-fold and also affected microscopic rate constants. The roles of these residues in ACh binding and transport thus are complex. Nine mutations allowed us to resolve the ACh and vesamicol binding sites from each other. Other mutations affected only the rates of the transmembrane reorientation steps, and four mutations increased the rate of one or the other. Two mutations increased the value of K(M) up to 5-fold as a result of rate effects with no ACh affinity effect. The results demonstrate that analysis of microscopic kinetics is required for the correct interpretation of mutational effects in VAChT. Results also are discussed in terms of recently determined three-dimensional structures for other transporters in the major facilitator superfamily.

The mechanical complexity of the hand is indisputable, but there is increasing evidence that its control is simplified in many tasks around synergic groups of muscles that effectively decrease the number of controlled degrees of freedom.
When experiencing spatially disparate visual and auditory stimuli, a common percept is that the sound originates from the location of the visual stimulus, an illusion known as the ventriloquism effect. This illusion can persist for tens of minutes, a phenomenon termed the ventriloquism aftereffect. The underlying neuronal mechanisms of this rapidly induced plasticity remain unclear; indeed, it remains untested whether similar multimodal interactions occur in other species. We therefore tested whether macaque monkeys experience the ventriloquism aftereffect similar to the way humans do. The ability of two monkeys to determine which side of the midline a sound was presented from was tested before and after a period of 20-60 min in which the monkeys experienced either spatially identical or spatially disparate auditory and visual stimuli. In agreement with human studies, the monkeys did experience a shift in their auditory spatial perception in the direction of the spatially disparate visual stimulus, and the aftereffect did not transfer across sounds that differed in frequency by two octaves. These results show that macaque monkeys experience the ventriloquism aftereffect similar to the way humans do in all tested respects, indicating that these multimodal interactions are a basic phenomenon of the central nervous system.

A fundamental issue in neuroscience is the relation between structure and function. However, gross landmarks do not correspond well to microstructural borders and cytoarchitecture cannot be visualized in a living brain used for functional studies. Here, we used diffusion-weighted and functional MRI to test structure-function relations directly. Distinct neocortical regions were defined as volumes having similar connectivity profiles and borders identified where connectivity changed. Without using prior information, we found an abrupt profile change where the border between supplementary motor area (SMA) and pre-SMA is expected. Consistent with this anatomical assignment, putative SMA and pre-SMA connected to motor and prefrontal regions, respectively. Excellent spatial correlations were found between volumes defined by using connectivity alone and volumes activated during tasks designed to involve SMA or pre-SMA selectively. This finding demonstrates a strong relationship between structure and function in medial frontal cortex and offers a strategy for testing such correspondences elsewhere in the brain.
In the intact brain, neurons are constantly subjected to both excitatory and inhibitory inputs to their dendritic trees. Although it is accepted that the overall response of a neuron--its train of output spikes--depends on the balance of excitation and inhibition, we continue to lack specific knowledge of the rules that govern how excitatory and inhibitory inputs interact in space and time within the confines of individual neurons. In a recent paper, Liu starts by providing evidence that the relative locations and numbers of excitatory and inhibitory synapses are tightly regulated in cultured neurons from the hippocampus. This is consistent with findings in other labs that suggest neurons work hard, and in a variety of different ways, to maintain their inputs in proper balance and their outputs within appropriate ranges. On this backdrop, Liu's most important finding of a functional nature is that inhibition appears to act quite locally; that is, an inhibitory synapse effectively opposes an excitatory synapse only when it is very close by within the same dendritic branch (Fig. 1). This finding provides further support for the view--anticipated by neural theorists more than 20 years ago--that the brain's principal neurons contain a potentially large number of separate computational subunits.
Bioisosteric replacement studies led to the identification of N-(1-benzo[1,3]dioxol-5-yl-ethyl)-3-(2-chloro-phenyl)-acrylamide ((S)-3) as a highly potent KCNQ2 opener, and 3-(2,6-difluoro-phenyl)-N-[1-(2,3-dihydro-benzofuran-5-yl)-ethyl]-acrylamide ((S)-4), and N-[1-(2,3-dihydro-1H-indol-5-yl)-ethyl]-3-(2-fluoro-phenyl)-acrylamide ((S)-5) as highly efficacious KCNQ2 openers. In contrast, their respective R enantiomers showed significantly less or no appreciable KCNQ2 opener activity even at the highest concentration tested (10 microM). Because of its high potency and moderate efficacy as well as its convenient synthesis, (+/-)-3 was selected as a reference compound for analyzing efficacies of KCNQ openers in electrophysiology studies. Compounds (S)-4 and (S)-5 demonstrated significant activity in reducing neuronal hyperexcitability in rat hippocampal slices. The synthesis and the KCNQ2 opener activity of these acrylamides are described.

Expression patterns of genes implicated in development of the thalamus were examined in mice and monkeys, using in situ hybridization with RNA probes complementary to Cad6, Dlx1, Dlx2, Dlx5, Gbx2, Id2, and Lef1 cDNAs. Expression patterns were related to the evolving cytoarchitecture in mice at birth (P0) and in adulthood, and in fetal monkeys early and late in the period of gestation when thalamic nuclei are becoming histologically differentiated out of a series of pronuclear masses. At the earlier developmental stage, each gene was expressed in a pattern that appeared to be pronucleus-specific and maintained a nucleus-specific pattern into adulthood, with the possible exception of Gbx2. Each gene displayed a unique expression pattern in the dorsal thalamus, ventral thalamus, and epithalamus, and no gene was expressed throughout all three divisions or in every nucleus of a division. With the exception of Dlx2, whose expression disappeared at the later time point, all continued to be expressed into adulthood at higher levels and with identical patterns. Despite late appearance of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic cells in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus of mice, no Dlx genes, which promote formation of a GABAergic phenotype elsewhere, were detected in dorsal thalamus. Each thalamic nucleus was distinguished by expression of a combination of genes, and homologous nuclei in mouse and monkey exhibited the same combination. The presence of a centre mdian nucleus and four pulvinar nuclei in monkeys was marked by patterns of expression not found in mice. The centre mdian nucleus was marked by high expression of Id2, which was expressed only weakly in very few nuclei of mice.
The cell types of the inner ear originate from the otic placode, a thickened layer of ectoderm adjacent to the developing hindbrain. The placode invaginates and forms the otic pit, which pinches off as a small vesicle called the otocyst. Presumptive cochleovestibular neurons delaminate from the anterior ventral part of the otocyst and form the cochleovestibular ganglion of the inner ear. Here we show that the LIM/homeodomain protein islet-1 is expressed in cells of the ventral part of the otic placode and that this ventral expression is maintained at the otic pit and the otocyst stages. Auditory and vestibular neurons originate from this islet-1-positive zone of the otocyst, and these neurons maintain islet-1 expression until adulthood. We also demonstrate that islet-1 becomes up-regulated in the presumptive sensory epithelia of the inner ear in regions that are defined by the expression domains of BMP4. The up-regulation of islet-1 in developing inner ear hair and supporting cells is accompanied by down-regulation of Pax-2 in these cell types. Islet-1 expression in hair and supporting cells persists until early postnatal stages, when the transcriptional regulator is down-regulated in hair cells. Our data is consistent with a role for islet-1 in differentiating inner ear neurons and sensory epithelia cells, perhaps in the specification of cellular subtypes in conjunction with other LIM/homeodomain proteins.
The design of chemically well-defined, machinable surfaces containing neuroactive molecules offers potential for fundamental neuroscience and clinical neural engineering applications. Here we report the assembly and characterization of silicon platforms containing a tethered form of muscimol. Muscimol, an analog of the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), is a potent agonist at postsynaptic GABA(A) and GABA(C) receptors. Surfaces were assembled using covalent avidin conjugation to silanized silicon followed by high-affinity avidin-biotin binding of a biotinylated derivative of muscimol (muscimol-biotin). Contact angle measurements, ellipsometry, and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) were conducted to characterize the wettability, thickness, and chemical composition of progressively deposited surface layers. The data demonstrate successful incorporation of a neurotransmitter analog as part of a layered, silicon-based structure possessing robust and specific biomolecular composition. These findings represent a step toward the design of platforms for applications involving control and modulation of neural signaling.

Recent studies have shown that bone marrow (BM) cells, including the BM side population (BM-SP) cells that enrich hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), are incorporated into skeletal muscle during regeneration, but it is not clear how and what kinds of BM cells contribute to muscle fiber regeneration. We found that a large number of SP cells migrated from BM to muscles following injury in BM-transplanted mice. These BM-derived SP cells in regenerating muscles expressed different surface markers from those of HSCs and could not reconstitute the mouse blood system. BM-derived SP/Mac-1(low) cells increased in number in regenerating muscles following injury. Importantly, our co-culture studies with activated satellite cells revealed that this fraction carried significant potential for myogenic differentiation. By contrast, mature inflammatory (Mac-1(high)) cells showed negligible myogenic activities. Further, these BM-derived SP/Mac-1(low) cells gave rise to mononucleate myocytes, indicating that their myogenesis was not caused by stochastic fusion with host myogenic cells, although they required cell-to-cell contact with myogenic cells for muscle differentiation. Taken together, our data suggest that neither HSCs nor mature inflammatory cells, but Mac-1(low) early myeloid cells in the BM-derived SP fraction, play an important role in regenerating skeletal muscles.
In this review, we highlight recent findings about the role of some mitochondrial proteins in neurological diseases. Studies in mice gene-deleted for Omi/HtrA2 and AIF showed the involvement of these mitochondrial proteins in selective cell degeneration in the spinal cord and brain. In humans, mutations in the mitochondrial protein, Paraplegin, cause an autosomal form of hereditary spastic paraplegia with an enhanced sensitivity to oxidative stress. Reactive oxygen species and decreased respiratory chain activity in mitochondria also contribute to common neurological diseases. The mitochondrial uncoupling protein, Ucp-2, was found to be neuroprotective in experimental stroke and brain trauma. Recent proteomic and profiling studies have revealed the existence of additional mitochondrial proteins with unknown functions. The elucidation of the physiological functions of mitochondrial proteins may lead to new insights into the role of these organelles in cell degeneration and to identification of novel drug targets for the prevention and treatment of different diseases.
In our previous study, we have shown that the recovery cycle of most neurons in the inferior colliculus (IC) of the big brown bat, Eptesicus fuscus, is typically longer at ipsilateral azimuth than at contralateral azimuth under free-field stimulation conditions. The present study is to test the hypothesis that this azimuth-dependent recovery cycle may contribute to the variation of directional selectivity of IC neurons with sequential presented sound pulses within a pulse train. A 300-ms pulse train containing nine sound pulses of 4-ms with an inter-pulse interval of 33.3 ms was delivered at several selected azimuthal angles between +/-80 degrees lateral in the frontal auditory space of a bat. A family of nine directional selectivity curves was plotted with a neuron's number of impulses in response to each individual pulse against the azimuthal angles. The type and sharpness of these directional selectivity curves were then compared in relation to pulse position within the pulse train. All 675 directional selectivity curves obtained from 75 IC neurons could be described as directionally selective (423, 63%), hemifield (220, 32%), or non-directional (32, 5%). The directional selectivity curves of 45 (60%) neurons did not vary with pulse position. However, those of the remaining neurons (30, 40%) changed from one type to another such that the number of neurons with directionally selective curves progressively increased and the number of neurons with hemifield and non-directional selectivity curves decreased with increasing pulse position within the pulse train. Among 68 IC neurons whose directional selectivity curves were compared quantitatively, directional selectivity determined with sequentially presented sound pulses significantly increased in 38 (56%) neurons; decreased in 18 (26%) neurons but did not change in 12 (18%) neurons. This change of directional selectivity was due to the variation in recovery cycle of these IC neurons with azimuthal angle as we hypothesized.
The thalamic contribution to cholinergic-induced antinociception was examined by microinjecting the acetylcholine (ACh) agonist carbachol into the intralaminar nucleus parafascicularis (nPf) of rats. Pain behaviors organized at spinal (spinal motor reflexes), medullary (vocalizations during shock), and forebrain (vocalization afterdischarges, VADs) levels of the neuraxis were elicited by noxious tailshock. Carbachol (0.5, 1, and 2 microg/side) administered into nPf produced dose-dependent elevations of vocalization thresholds, but failed to elevate spinal motor reflex threshold. Injections of carbachol into adjacent sites dorsal or ventral to nPf failed to alter vocalization thresholds. Elevations in vocalization thresholds produced by intra-nPf carbachol were reversed in a dose-dependent manner by local administration of the muscarinic receptor antagonist atropine (30 and 60 microg/side). These results provide the first direct evidence supporting the involvement of the intralaminar thalamus in muscarinic-induced antinociception. Results are discussed in terms of the contribution of nPf to the processing of the affective dimension of pain.
In order to better understand the behavioral adaptations induced by physical activity, this set of experiments assessed the effects of two modes of running exercise on a battery of behavioral tests. The effects of 8 weeks of forced treadmill running and voluntary wheel running on behavior measures in the elevated plus maze, open field, social interaction and conditioned freezing paradigms were investigated. Eight weeks of treadmill running did not alter behavior in any test paradigm. Rats given unrestricted access to running wheels (WR) had a lower percent open arm time (6.0+/-2.3%) compared to locked wheel controls (LC) (20.7+/-5.7%) in the elevated plus maze. WR also showed decreased entries into center (0.2+/-0.2) and crossed fewer lines (61.0+/-14.9) in the open field compared to control groups. Both WR and LC groups showed increased social interaction; however, these differences are attributed to housing conditions. The effects of 4 weeks of wheel running on elevated plus maze and open field behavior were also investigated to address the possibility of a temporal effect of exercise on behavior. Four weeks of wheel running produced behavioral changes in the open field similar to those found at 8 weeks, but not in the elevated plus maze suggesting a temporal effect of wheel running on plus maze behavior. The behavioral adaptations found after 4 and 8 weeks of wheel running were not due solely to enriched environment and appear to be indicative of enhanced defensive behavior.
Within the rat hippocampal formation, cholinergic afferents and mu-opioid receptors (MORs) are involved in many crucial learning processes, including those associated with drug reward. Pharmacological data, and the overlapping distributions of cholinergic and mu-opioid systems, particularly in the dentate gyrus, suggest that MOR activation is a potential mechanism for endogenous opioid modulation of cholinergic activity. To date, anatomical evidence supporting this has not been reported. To delineate the relationship between cholinergic afferents and MOR-containing processes in the dentate gyrus, hippocampal sections were dually immunolabeled for vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) and MOR-1 and examined by electron microscopy. VAChT immunoreactivity was in unmyelinated axons and axon terminals, and was most often associated with small synaptic vesicles. MOR immunoreactivity was found in axons, axon terminals and, to a lesser extent, perikarya, which resembled GABAergic basket cells. Semi-quantitative ultrastructural analysis revealed that from 5% to 13% (depending on laminar location) of VAChT-immunoreactive (ir) presynaptic profiles contained MOR immunoreactivity. Additionally, 7% of VAChT-ir presynaptic profiles directly apposed MOR-ir axons and terminals, and there were almost no appositions to MOR-ir dendrites. These data suggest that opioids may directly and indirectly modulate acetylcholine release and/or reuptake. In the hilus and molecular layer, 4% of VAChT-ir terminals contacted dendritic shafts that were also contacted by MOR-ir terminals. This suggests that cholinergic afferents and MOR-containing afferents can converge on granule cell dendrites (which are restricted to the molecular layer) and on interneuron dendrites in the hilus. The results of this study provide ultrastructural evidence for direct and indirect modulation of cholinergic systems by mu-opioids in the hippocampal formation.
The synuclein family includes three isoforms, termed alpha, beta and gamma. alpha-Synuclein accumulates in various pathological lesions resulting from neurodegenerative disorders including Parkinson's disease (PD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and multiple system atrophy. However, neither beta- nor gamma-synuclein has been detected in Lewy bodies, and thus it is unclear whether these isoforms contribute to neurological pathology. In the present study, we used immunohistochemistry to demonstrate accelerated accumulation of beta- and gamma-synucleins in axonal spheroids in gracile axonal dystrophy (gad) mice, which do not express ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCH-L1). gamma-Synuclein immunoreactivity in the spheroids appeared in the gracile nucleus at 3 weeks of age and was maintained until 32 weeks. beta-Synuclein immunoreactivity appeared in spheroids around 12 weeks of age. In contrast, alpha-synuclein immunoreactivity was barely detectable in spheroids. Immunoreactivity for synaptophysin and ubiquitin were either faint or undetectable in spheroids. Given that UCH-L1 deficiency results in axonal degeneration and spheroid formation, our findings suggest that beta- and gamma-synuclein participate in the pathogenesis of axonal swelling in gad mice.
Transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1), or vanilloid receptor 1, is the founding member of the vanilloid type of TRP superfamily of nonselective cation channels. TRPV1 is activated by noxious heat, acid, and alkaloid irritants as well as several endogenous ligands and is sensitized by inflammatory factors, thereby serving important functions in detecting noxious stimuli in the sensory system and pathological states in different parts of the body. Whereas numerous studies have been carried out using the rat and human TRPV1 cDNA, the mouse TRPV1 cDNA has not been characterized. Here, we report molecular cloning of two TRPV1 cDNA variants from dorsal root ganglia of C57BL/6 mice. The deduced proteins are designated TRPV1alpha and TRPV1beta and contain 839 and 829 amino acids, respectively. TRPV1beta arises from an alternative intron recognition signal within exon 7 of the trpv1 gene. We found a predominant expression of TRPV1alpha in many tissues and significant expression of TRPV1beta in dorsal root ganglia, skin, stomach, and tongue. When expressed in HEK 293 cells or Xenopus oocytes, TRPV1alpha formed a Ca(2+)-permeable channel activated by ligands known to stimulate TRPV1. TRPV1beta was not functional by itself but its co-expression inhibited the function of TRPV1alpha. Furthermore, although both isoforms were synthesized at a similar rate, less TRPV1beta than TRPV1alpha protein was found in cells and on the cell surface, indicating that the beta isoform is highly unstable. Our data suggest that TRPV1beta is a naturally occurring dominant-negative regulator of the responses of sensory neurons to noxious stimuli.
The mitochondrial permeability transition pore and Bax have both been proposed to be involved in the release of pro-apoptotic factors from mitochondria in the &quot;intrinsic&quot; pathway of apoptosis. The permeability transition pore is widely thought to be a supramolecular complex including or interacting with Bax. Given the relevance of the permeability transition in vivo, we have verified whether Bax influences the formation and/or the properties of the Ca(2+)/P(i)-induced permeability transition by using mitochondriaisolated from isogenic human colon cancer bax(+/-) and bax(-/-) HCT116 cell lines. We used mitochondria isolated from both types of cells and from Bax(+) cells exposed to apoptotic stimuli, as well as Bax-less mitochondria into which exogenous Bax had been incorporated. All exhibited the same behavior and pharmacological profile in swelling and Ca(2+)-retention experiments. Mitochondria from a bax(-)/bak(-) cell line also underwent an analogous Ca(2+)/P(i)-inducible swelling. This similarity indicates that Bax hasno major role in regulating the Ca(2+)-induced mitochondrial permeability transition.
In vitro reconstitution of functions of membrane proteins is often hampered by aggregation, misfolding, or lack of post-translational modifications of the proteins attributable to overexpression. To overcome this technical obstacle, we have developed a method to express multimeric integral membrane proteins in extracellular (budded) baculovirus particles that are released from Sf9 cells co-infected with multiple transmembrane proteins. We applied this method to the reconstitution of gamma-secretase, a membrane protease complex that catalyzes the intramembrane cleavage of beta-amyloid precursor protein to release Abeta peptides, the major component of amyloid deposits in Alzheimer brains as well as of Notch. When we co-infected Sf9 cells with human presenilin 1 (PS1), nicastrin, APH-1a, and PEN-2, a high-molecular-weight membrane protein complex that contained PS1 exclusively in its fragment form associated with three other cofactor proteins was reconstituted and recovered in a highly gamma-secretase-active state in budded virus particles, whereas nonfunctional PS1 holoproteins massively contaminated the parental Sf9 cell membranes. The relative gamma-secretase activity (per molar PS1 fragments) was concentrated by approximately 2.5 fold in budded virus particles compared with that in Sf9 membranes. The budded baculovirus system will facilitate structural and functional analyses of gamma-secretase, as well as screening of its binding molecules or inhibitors, and will also provide a versatile methodology for the characterization of a variety of membrane protein complexes.

Developmental dyslexia is characterized by a severe reading problem in people who have normal intelligence and schooling. Impaired reading of alphabetic scripts is associated with dysfunction of left temporoparietal brain regions. These regions perform phonemic analysis and conversion of written symbols to phonological units of speech (grapheme-to-phoneme conversion); two central cognitive processes that mediate reading acquisition. Furthermore, it has been assumed that, in contrast to cultural diversities, dyslexia in different languages has a universal biological origin. Here we show using functional magnetic resonance imaging with reading-impaired Chinese children and associated controls, that functional disruption of the left middle frontal gyrus is associated with impaired reading of the Chinese language (a logographic rather than alphabetic writing system). Reading impairment in Chinese is manifested by two deficits: one relating to the conversion of graphic form (orthography) to syllable, and the other concerning orthography-to-semantics mapping. Both of these processes are critically mediated by the left middle frontal gyrus, which functions as a centre for fluent Chinese reading that coordinates and integrates various information about written characters in verbal and spatial working memory. This finding provides an insight into the fundamental pathophysiology of dyslexia by suggesting that rather than having a universal origin, the biological abnormality of impaired reading is dependent on culture.
Rhythmic spontaneous electrical activity occurs in many parts of the developing nervous system, where it plays essential roles in the refinement of neural connections. By blocking or slowing this bursting activity, via in ovo drug applications at precise developmental periods, we show that such activity is also required at much earlier stages for spinal motoneurons to accurately execute their first major dorsal-ventral pathfinding decision. Blockade or slowing of rhythmic bursting activity also prevents the normal expression patterns of EphA4 and polysialic acid on NCAM, which may contribute to the pathfinding errors observed. More prolonged (E2-5) blockade resulted in a downregulation of LIM homeodomain transcription factors, but since this occurred only after the pathfinding errors and alterations in guidance molecules, it cannot have contributed to them.

Radial glial proliferation is a critical step in the construction of cerebral cortex. In this issue of Neuron, Weissman and colleagues use time-lapse calcium imaging techniques to demonstrate that spontaneous calcium waves sweeping through cohorts of radial glia in the ventricular zone can modulate their proliferation during cerebral cortical development.
The paper by Meyer-Lindenberg and colleagues in this issue of Neuron provides strong evidence that the absence of one or more genes in Williams syndrome leads to highly circumscribed pathology in the dorsal visual stream. This program of research demonstrates that neurocognitive architecture follows the same principles in typical and atypical development.
Histamine is thought to be involved in the recovery of vestibular function after damage to the vestibular receptors of the inner ear. This study evaluated the effects of post-operative treatment using Chlorpheniramine (H1 histamine antagonist) and L-histidine, (a histaminergic precursor), after hemilabyrinthectomy in goldfish. In this lesion model, the unilateral removal of the labyrinth induces a transient postural imbalance in response to light. After the lesion, the animals were injected intraperitoneally, during 12 consecutive days, with Chlorpheniramine, L-histidine and saline. All the substances were administered in a volume of 1 ml/kg body weight. Another group, which served as a non-lesion control, did not receive hemilabyrinthectomy or systemic injections. Chlorpheniramine accelerated the functional recovery when compared with that of the saline group. These data suggest that the inhibition of the histaminergic system facilitates the functional recovery in goldfish.



Excitotoxic stimulation of NMDA receptors results in the activation of a variety of cellular responses. The inducible transcription factor NF-kappaB is known to be involved in excitotoxic responses by neurons. Here, we show that NF-kappaB activation occurs in a biphasic manner in hippocampal slices following a 20-min N-methyl- d-aspartate (NMDA) exposure. The biphasic activation profile consists of an early, rapid phase at 0.5-1 h post-insult, and a delayed phase evident 10-24 h post-insult. Endogenous inhibitors of NF-kappaB, IkappaBs, were examined for their involvement in the biphasic activation. IkappaBbeta exhibited marked degradation in response to the excitotoxity, while changes in the levels of IkappaBalpha and p105 isoforms were not detected. The initial decline in IkappaBbeta occurred in as little as 30 min post-NMDA exposure, coinciding with early NF-kappaB activity. A second, more gradual phase of IkappaBbeta degradation was also evident, possibly giving rise to the delayed activation of the transcription factor. While both phases of NF-kappaB activation were disrupted by the NMDA receptor antagonist AP5, they were distinct with regard to the composition of activated complexes and their responsiveness to altered culture conditions. The two phases of NF-kappaB activity also were associated with distinct gene regulation events. Up-regulation of bcl-2 message occurred early after the excitotoxic insult and remained up-regulated for an extended period. In contrast, bax message initially remained unchanged after the insult, but then exhibited an increase 24 h later, corresponding with the second phase of the NF-kappaB response. These results indicate that distinct phases of NF-kappaB activation are generated in the excitotoxic hippocampus, and that the phases may be involved in opposing cellular responses.
Depressed participants display longer reaction times (RTs) than control participants. The present study was aimed at deciphering which stages of processing are affected by depression in old adults. Sixteen old depressed patients and 16 old healthy volunteers performed a two-choice visual RT task. Signal intensity, stimulus-response mapping and foreperiod duration were manipulated so as to affect the stages of stimulus preprocessing, response selection and motor adjustment, respectively. Reaction time data suggest that depression spares the stage of stimulus preprocessing but affects the stage of motor adjustment. An analysis of the error rate leaves open the possibility that depression alters the stage of response selection.
The World Health Organization (WHO) report on the Neuroscience of Psychoactive Substance Use and Dependence represents a summary of the latest scientific knowledge on the role of the brain in substance dependence. The findings of the report have important applications to both interventions and public health policy. Specifically, the report notes that psychoactive substances have physical and symbolic effects that are rewarding to the user. It notes that adverse consequences of psychoactive substance use are related to the level, pattern, mode, and context of use. Dependence is seen as a complex disorder involving brain mechanisms rather than a failure of will. The report notes that psychoactive substance use often coexists with other mental health problems, and that stigma associated with substance misuse inhibits treatment seeking. There is growing evidence for the efficacy and effectiveness of interventions, including advances in pharmacotherapy. However, these advances raise ethical issues that need to be addressed.
The increasing evidence that many addictive phenomena have a genetic and neurobiological basis promises improvements in societal responses to addiction that raise important ethical and social policy issues. One of the major potential benefits of such research is improved treatment of drug addiction, but in order to do the research required to realize this promise, it will be necessary to address ethical doubts raised about the capacity of addicted persons to give free and informed consent to participate in studies that involve the administration of drugs of dependence. Neuroscience research on addiction promises to transform the long running debate between moral and medical models of addiction by providing a detailed causal explanation of addiction in terms of brain processes. We must avoid causal models of addiction being misinterpreted as supporting simple-minded social policies, e.g., that we identify the minority of the community that is genetically and biologically vulnerable to addiction and hence can neglect social policy options for reducing addiction, including drug control policies. Causal accounts of addiction supplied by neuroscience and genetic research may also be seen to warrant the use of pharmacotherapies and drug vaccines under legal coercion. Neuroscientists also need to anticipate the ethical issues that may arise if the knowledge that they produce delivers interventions that enhance human cognitive and other capacities. Advances in neuroimaging that enable us to identify &quot;addicts&quot; or predict future risk of addiction will raise concerns about invasion of privacy, third-party use of neuroimaging data, the powers of courts to coerce defendants to undergo such tests, and consumer protection against the overinterpretation of test results. Given the strong public and media interest in the results of their research, neuroscientists and geneticists have a moral obligation, and a professional interest, to minimize popular misunderstandings of their work in the media that may rebound to its detriment.
Alcohol and nicotine dependence are commonly occurring disorders that together represent the most important preventable causes of morbidity and mortality in the United States. While there have been differences of opinion as to which disorder to treat first when they occur, there is growing evidence that a management strategy addressing both conditions contemporaneously would be optimal. Advances in the neurosciences have demonstrated not only that the reinforcing effects of both alcohol and nicotine are mediated by similar mechanisms resulting in enhanced activity of the cortico-mesolimbic dopamine system, but that their neurochemical interactions can lead to an aggregation of these effects. Despite this striking neurobiological overlap between alcohol and nicotine consumption, few studies have sought to take advantage of this commonality by devising a pharmacological approach that serves to treat both disorders. The results of our proof-of-concept study showed that topiramate is a promising medication for the treatment of both alcohol and nicotine dependence, presumably by its ability to modulate cortico-mesolimbic dopamine function profoundly; however, other mechanisms might also contribute to this effect. Further studies are ongoing to establish and extend topiramate's efficacy in the treatment of each and both disorders.
One of the primary personality dimensions or traits that has consistently been linked to substance abuse is impulsivity. However, impulsivity is not a homogenous construct and although many of the measures of impulsivity are correlated, the most recent review of published factor analytic studies has proposed two independent dimensions of impulsivity: reward sensitivity, reflecting one of the primary dimension of J. A. Gray's personality theory, and rash impulsiveness. These two facets of impulsivity derived from the field of personality research parallel recent developments in the neurosciences where changes in the incentive value of rewarding substances has been linked to alterations in neural substrates involved in reward seeking and with a diminished capacity to inhibit behavior due to chronic drug exposure. In this paper, we propose a model that integrates the findings from research into individual differences with recent models of neural substrates implicated in the development of substance misuse.

We introduce a method for combining fiber tracking from diffusion-tensor (DT) imaging with cortical gray matter parcellation from structural high-spatial-resolution 3D spoiled gradient-recalled acquisition in the steady state images. We applied this method to a tumor case to determine the impact of the tumor on white matter architecture. We conclude that this new method for combining structural and DT imaging data is useful for understanding cortical connectivity and the localization of fiber tracts and their relationship with cortical anatomy and brain abnormalities.



A 3-year-old girl with phenotypic and cytogenetic manifestations of the ICF syndrome and DNA hypomethylation but without DNMT3B gene mutation is described. At age 3 months, she had an apneic spell that left her with spastic paraplegia and severe mental retardation. At age 8 months, she suffered meningococcal meningitis and sepsis. When seen by us at age 3 years with virilization, she had a cleft plate, macroglossia, and an atrial septal defect. An adenoma was surgically removed from the right adrenal cortex. Her serum immunoglobulin levels were normal except IgA at the low normal border. Her lymphocytes showed paracentromeric stretching of chromosomes 1 and 16 in 7% of metaphases, and multiradial figures involving these chromosomes in 1% of cells. Hypomethylation of classical satellite 2 DNA was observed with BstBI digestion, but in a lesser degree than those in the individuals with proven DNMT3B mutations. No mutation was found in the coding and promoter regions of the gene. Several alternative interpretations were considered to explain the low frequencies of chromosomal instabilities and the lower degree of DNA hypomethylation, and undetected DNA3B mutations. A mutation may be present in the gene but undetected, present in other DNA methyltransferases (DNMT) genes or in a DNMT-associated protein gene.
Type I lissencephaly is a central nervous system (CNS) malformation characterized by mental retardation and epilepsy. These clinical features suggest a deficit in inhibitory neurons may, in part, underlie the pathogenesis of this disorder. Mutations in, or deletions of, LIS1 are the most commonly recognized genetic anomaly associated with type I lissencephaly. The pathogenesis of type I lissencephaly is believed to be a defect in radial neuronal migration, a process requiring LIS1. In contrast the inhibitory neurons migrate non-radially from the basal forebrain to the neocortex and hippocampus. Given that Lis1 is expressed in all neurons, we hypothesized that Lis1 also functions in non-radial migrating inhibitory neurons. To test this hypothesis we used a combination of in vivo and in vitro studies with Lis1 mutant mice and found non-radial cell migration is also affected. Our data indicate Lis1 is required for normal non-radial neural migration and that the Lis1 requirement is primarily cell autonomous, although a small cell non-autonomous effect could not be excluded. These data indicate inhibitory neuron migration is slowed but not absent, similar to that found for radial cell migration. We propose that the defect in non-radial cell migration is likely to contribute to the clinical phenotype observed in individuals with a LIS1 mutation.
Hair follicle morphogenesis and cycling were examined in transgenic mice that overexpress the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) inhibitor Noggin under the control of the neuron-specific enolase promoter. The Noggin transgene was misexpressed in the proximal portion of the hair follicle, primarily the matrix cells, apart from the usual expression in neurons. Transgene expression appeared only after induction of both the primary (tylotrich) and secondary (nontylotrich) pelage hair follicles had already occurred, thus allowing examination of the role of BMP signaling in follicles that had been induced normally in the presence of BMPs. The overexpression of Noggin in these animals resulted in a dramatic loss of hair postnatally. There was an apparently normal, but shortened period of postnatal hair follicle morphogenesis, followed by premature initiation of hair follicle cycling via entry into the first catagen transformation. This resulted in a complete loss of hair shafts from the nontylotrich hair follicles in these mice while the tylotrich hair follicles were normal. The onset of anagen of the first postnatal hair follicle cycle was also accelerated in the transgenic mice. Our results show that BMP signaling is specifically required for proper proliferation and differentiation during late morphogenesis of nontylotrich hair follicles and that inhibition of this signaling pathway may be one of the triggers for the onset of catagen when the follicles are in anagen and the onset of anagen when the follicles are in telogen. Ectopic sebocyte differentiation was another hallmark of the phenotype of these transgenic mice suggesting that BMP signaling may be an important determinant of lineage selection by common progenitor cells in the skin. BMPs likely promote a hair follicle-type differentiation pathway of keratinocytes while suppressing the sebaceous differentiation pathway of skin epithelium.
ATP contributes to mechanosensory transduction in the rat colorectum. P2X3 receptors are present on dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons that supply this area of the gut. Previous studies have shown an increased role for ATP in inflamed tissues. We aimed to investigate whether an increased purinergic component exists during mechanosensory transduction in a rat model of colitis. An in vitro rat colorectal preparation was used to investigate whether distension increased ATP release and to evaluate the role of purinergic antagonists in distension-evoked sensory discharges in the pelvic nerve in normal and colitis preparations. DRG neuron purinoceptors were also studied. Distension-evoked responses in the colitis model were attenuated to a significantly greater extent by 2',3'-O-trinitrophenyl-ATP and pyridoxyl 5-phosphate 6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid. Inflammation caused augmented distension-evoked sensory nerve excitation after application of ATP and alpha,beta-methylene ATP. Single-fiber analysis confirmed that mean firing per unit was increased. Distension-evoked increases in ATP release from epithelial cells were substantially higher. The number of DRG neurons responding to ATP and the number of those staining for the P2X3 receptor, particularly those containing calcitonin gene-related peptide, were increased. Adenosine, after ectoenzymatic breakdown of ATP, is involved to a lesser degree in the longer-lasting distension-evoked sensory discharge, suggesting reduced ATPase activity. It was therefore concluded that ATP has an enhanced role in mechanosensory transduction in the inflamed rat colorectum. The underlying mechanisms appear to involve increased distension-evoked release of ATP as well as an increase in the number of DRG neurons supplying the colorectum expressing P2X3 receptors, especially those containing calcitonin gene-related peptide.
Dietary restriction and physical exercise can enhance stress resistance and reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease. We investigated the effects of dietary supplementation with 2-deoxy-d-glucose (2-DG), a glucose analog that limits glucose availability at the cellular level, on cardiovascular and neuroendocrine responses to stress in rats. Young adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were implanted with telemetry probes to monitor blood pressure (BP), heart rate, body temperature, and body movements. These variables were measured at designated times during a 6-mo period in rats fed control and 2-DG-supplemented (0.4% 2-DG, fed ad libitum on a schedule of 2 days on the diet and 1 day off the diet) diets during unperturbed conditions and during and after immobilization stress or cold-water swim stress. Rats fed the 2-DG diet exhibited significant reductions in resting BP, attenuated BP responses during stress, and accelerated recovery to baseline after stress. Plasma concentrations of ACTH and corticosterone were elevated under nonstress conditions in rats fed the 2-DG diet and exhibited differential responses to single (enhanced response) and multiple (reduced response) stress sessions compared with rats fed control rat chow ad libitum. The 2-DG diet improved glucose metabolism, as indicated by decreased concentrations of blood glucose and insulin under nonstress conditions, but glucose and insulin responses to stress were maintained. We conclude that improvements in some cardiovascular risk factors and stress adaptation in rats maintained on a 2-DG-supplemented diet are associated with reduced neuroendocrine responses to the stressors.
The master circadian clock, located in the mammalian suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN), generates and coordinates circadian rhythmicity, i.e., internal organization of physiological and behavioral rhythms that cycle with a near 24-h period. Light is the most powerful synchronizer of the SCN. Although other nonphotic cues also have the potential to influence the circadian clock, their effects can be masked by photic cues. The purpose of this study was to investigate the ability of scheduled feeding to entrain the SCN in the absence of photic cues in four lines of house mouse (Mus domesticus). Mice were initially housed in 12:12-h light/dark cycle with ad libitum access to food for 6 h during the light period followed by 4-6 mo of constant dark under the same feeding schedule. Wheel running behavior suggested and circadian PER2 protein expression profiles in the SCN confirmed entrainment of the master circadian clock to the onset of food availability in 100% (49/49) of the line 2 mice in contrast to only 4% (1/24) in line 3 mice. Mice from line 1 and line 4 showed intermediate levels of entrainment, 57% (8/14) and 39% (7/18), respectively. The predictability of entrainment vs. nonentrainment in line 2 and line 3 and the novel entrainment process provide a powerful tool with which to further elucidate mechanisms involved in entrainment of the SCN by scheduled feeding.

A 34-years-old floor-layer developed optic neuropathy and motor neuron disease after being accidentally exposed to a solvent mixture containing methanol and other substances. Optic neuropathy is a complication of methanol poisoning, but the onset of a motor neuron disorder resembling amyotrophic lateral sclerosis after the exposure to these substances has not been previously described. The temporal onset of the clinical symptoms, biological plausibility, young age of the patient and absence of neurological disorders in the family history raises suspicion of a possible causative relationship.
The Neurophysiological Index (NI) consists of a mathematical derivation of three standardised neurophysiological measurements. Since these measurements are part of routine practice in any clinical neurophysiology laboratory, calculation of the NI is within the capability of any laboratory. The NI is derived from the CMAP, the DML and the F-wave frequency (CMAP amplitude/DML) x F frequency %), representing aspects of the effects of denervation and reinnervation, of degeneration of the terminal part of the motor axons, and of the excitability of anterior horn cells. We have shown that this simple index is reproducible in consecutive studies of normal subjects and of patients with ALS (intra-rater reliability), and is sensitive to change. In ALS, the NI differentiates rapidly and slowly progressive disease at least as sensitively as other measures in common use, including the ALS-FRS. We propose that the NI could be used as a sensitive measure of change during the course of ALS and its treatment. In combination with relevant measures of clinical benefit, such as ALS-FRS and a QoL measure, this could simplify trial design and allow more rapid determination of the efficacy of putative new therapies in clinical trials.



Mutations in the PINK1 gene (PARK6), a putative serine-threonine kinase, cause autosomal recessive Parkinson's disease. PINK1 functions as a protein kinase and confers protective effects in the mitochondria, where it is primarily located. We assessed in a population of European ancestry whether common genetic variation in this novel gene influences nonmendelian forms of Parkinson's disease. We defined the linkage disequilibrium structure of PINK1 and used this to identify a set of tagging single nucleotide polymorphisms that we estimate will efficiently represent all of the common DNA variation in the entire gene. Genotyping these tags in a set of 576 Parkinson's disease patients and 514 controls did not demonstrate a case-control partition for allele or for haplotype and thus provides evidence against the existence of a common functional variants in PINK1 that has a strong influence on PD risk.

Cell surface death receptor-mediated neuronal apoptosis, which is a critical component of neurodegeneration, is modulated by matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and their tissue inhibitors (TIMPs). Doxorubicin (Dox) induces neuronal death by the activation of death receptor pathways. Recently, we demonstrated that Dox-induced neuronal apoptosis is regulated by the balance of MMP-3 and TIMP-3 in rat cortical cultures. Inbred mouse strains exhibit differential susceptibility to cell death stimuli in vivo. Prior to employing transgenic approaches to further investigate the roles of TIMP-3 and MMP-3 in neuronal death, we examined whether inbred mice display strain-dependent vulnerability to Dox. We induced neuronal apoptosis with Dox in primary neuronal cultures established from cerebral cortices of embryonic day 15 C57BL/10 or C57BL/6 mice. Using fluorescence activated cell sorting for neurons, we found that C57BL/6 cortical cultures exhibit a 28% greater neuronal death following Dox treatment than C57BL/10. Real-time PCR of unstimulated cultures revealed that C57BL/10 cortical cultures have reduced basal mRNA levels encoding the pro-apoptotic proteins: Fas, FasL, and TIMP-3, but increased levels of the anti-apoptotic molecule MMP-3 as compared to C57BL/6. Furthermore, C57BL/10 cultures treated with Dox displayed an enhanced induction of mRNA transcripts that encode anti-apoptotic MMPs. These results show that C57BL/10 cortical cultures are more resistant to death receptor-mediated apoptotic cell death as compared to C57BL/6, and suggest that this difference is related to Fas, FasL, and MMP expression. Strain-dependent differences in response to apoptotic stimuli may be an important consideration for developing transgenic models of neurodegeneration.

Developmental care is the use of a range of medical and nursing interventions to decrease the stress of preterm neonates in neonatal intensive care units. This article reviews the theory underlying such interventions and research based data in different scientific fields, including neuroscience, developmental and family psychology, medicine, and nursing. The conclusion is that more research is needed.
Transglutaminase (TGase)2 is an enzyme that is widely used in many biological systems for generic tissue stabilization or immediate defense for wounds. Many reports showed that TGase 2 is aberrantly activated in tissues and cells and contributes to a variety of diseases, including neurodegenerative diseases and autoimmune diseases. In most cases, TGase 2 appears to be a factor in the formation of inappropriate proteinaceous aggregates that may be cytotoxic. However, in other cases, such as celiac disease, arthritis, lupus, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, TGase 2 is involved in the generation of autoantibodies. This suggests the possibility that inappropriate expression and/or presentation of TGase 2 to T cells might contribute to these diseases in genetically predisposed individuals. We and others have found that TGase 2 expression is also increased in the inflammation process. Furthermore, we also demonstrated a reversal of inflammation by Tgase inhibition. This review will examine a possibility of TGase inhibitors as therapeutic agents in a variety of inflammatory diseases.

Wogonin (5,7-dihydroxy-8-methoxyflavone), an active component originated from the root of Scutellaria baicalensis Georgi, has been reported to possess antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties. In this study, we investigated the neuroprotective effect of wogonin in a focal cerebral ischemia rat model. Wogonin markedly reduced the infarct volume after 2 h middle cerebral artery occlusion followed by 22 h reperfusion. Wogonin decreased the production of nitric oxide and inflammatory cytokines such as TNF-alpha and IL-6 in lipopolisaccharide-stimulated microglial cells. While wogonin reduced the activity of NF-kappaB, it did not change the activity of mitogen-activated protein kinases family members, p38, ERK and JNK. The lipopolisaccharide-stimulated production of NO and cytokines was significantly blocked by various kinds of NF-kappaB inhibitors such as N-acetyl cysteine, pyrrolidinedithiocarbamate and MG-132. The data may indicate that wogonin has neuroprotective effect by preventing the overactivation of microglial cells, possibly by inactivating NF-kappaB signaling pathway.
A current idea about the persistence of tinnitus is that fixation of this phantom auditory perception in the central auditory system may be influenced by attention to it. The present study investigated the mechanisms of involuntary attention and analysed performance in categorising sounds in tinnitus, simulated-tinnitus and control subjects. The sounds were presented in one ear and were preceded by presentation of frequent and deviant stimuli in the other ear. The results showed classical attention capture by deviant stimuli. In addition, the unilateral tinnitus subjects responded more accurately in the tinnitus ear than in the non-tinnitus ear. In contrast, the 'simulated-tinnitus' group showed no difference in the results between the ear where the tinnitus simulation was presented and the opposite ear. These findings suggest a difficulty in attention directing when the attention location coincides with the tinnitus ear and provides evidence for an attention focus on the tinnitus ear.

A biography and record of the times and achievements of Jessie Ferne Young, founder of the Canadian Association of Neuroscience Nurses.
Decision making, the process of choosing between options, is a fundamental human behavior that has been studied intensively by disciplines ranging from cognitive psychology to economics. Despite the importance of this behavior, the neural substrates of decision making are only beginning to be understood. Impaired decision making is recognized in neuropsychiatric conditions such as dementia and drug addiction, and the inconsistencies and biases of healthy decision makers have been intensively studied. However, the tools of cognitive neuroscience have only recently been applied to understanding the brain basis of this complex behavior. This article reviews the literature on the cognitive neuroscience of human decision making, focusing on the roles of the frontal lobes, and provides a conceptual framework for organizing this disparate body of work.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) are two neurotrophins involved in the differentiation, growth and maintenance of selected peripheral and central populations of neuronal cells, during development and at adulthood. Furthermore, neuronal activity enhances expression and action of these neurotrophins, modifying synaptic transmission and connectivity. Neurotrophin production has been shown to be experience-dependent. In particular, during early developmental phases, experiences such as maternal deprivation or exposure to an enriched environment markedly affect NGF and BDNF levels. At adulthood, psychosocial stress has been shown to markedly alter NGF and BDNF levels, both in plasma and selected brain areas, including the hypothalamus and hippocampus. These results have been extended to humans, showing that NGF levels are enhanced by emotional stress induced by parachute jumping. Overall, these findings suggest a role of neurotrophins as factors mediating both short- and long-term effects of experience on brain structure and function.
Adolescence comes in association with puberty, when maturation and rearrangement of major neurotransmitter pathways and functions are still taking place. The neurobiological processes occurring in the brain during this developmental period have been so far poorly investigated. Yet, it is during adolescence that some major neuropsychiatric disorders may become evident, including ADHD, schizophrenia, and drug abuse. Moreover, the age-related neurobehavioural plasticity renders adolescents particularly vulnerable to the consequences of psychoactive drug exposure. In this view, there is an increased likelihood that addiction will develop when psychoactive drug use starts early during adolescence. From all these observations adolescence emerges as a critical phase in development. In the present review, we focus on recent neurobiological characterization of adolescent rats and mice. As for vulnerability to addictive behaviour, nicotine exposure during adolescence dose-dependently down-regulated levels of AMPA GluR2/3 subunits in the striatum, suggesting a reduced neurobehavioural plasticity in adult subjects. Comparable exposure during adulthood had opposite effects. It was found consistently that exposure to nicotine during adolescence, but not similar exposure in the post-adolescent period, increased the expression of specific subunits of the acetylcholine receptor in adult rats, thus enhancing the reinforcing efficacy of nicotine in a self-administration paradigm. The present data identified a specific age-window, characterized by long-term effects on behavioural and neurochemical indexes, of vulnerability. With respect to potential therapeutic approaches in ADHD, we studied the adolescent spontaneously-hypertensive-rat (SHR) in an intolerance-to-delay operant-behaviour paradigm. The model was further validated by the finding that impulsivity was reduced by chronic methylphenidate administration. Impulsive SHR animals were characterized by reduced cannabinoid CB1 receptor density in the prefrontal cortex. Interestingly, an acute cannabinoid agonist increased levels of self-control behaviour in these animals. The present data suggest that pharmacological modulation of the cannabinoid system might improve some behavioural anomalies seen in ADHD. In conclusion, modelling the adolescent phase in rats and mice appears to be useful for the investigation of determinants of vulnerability to addiction and to other early-onset neuropsychiatric disorders.
Histamine H3 receptors regulate the release of a variety of central neurotransmitters involved in cognitive processes. A-349821 ((4'-(3-((R,R)2,5-dimethyl-pyrrolidin-1-yl)-propoxy)-biphenyl-4-yl)-morpholin-4-yl-methanone) is a novel, non-imidazole H3 receptor ligand, displaying high affinity for recombinant rat and human H3 receptors, with pKi values of 9.4 and 8.8, respectively, and high selectivity for the H3 receptor versus H1, H2, and H4 histamine receptors. A-349821 is a potent H3 receptor antagonist in a variety of models using recombinant human and rat receptors, reversing agonist induced changes in cyclic AMP formation (pKb= 8.2 and pKb= 8.1, respectively), [35S]-GTPgammaS binding (pKb= 9.3 and pKb= 8.6, respectively) and calcium levels (human pKb= 8.3). In native systems, A-349821 competitively reversed agonist induced inhibition of electric field stimulated guinea-pig ileum (pA2= 9.5) and histamine-mediated inhibition of [3H]-histamine release from rat brain cortical synaptosomes (pKb= 9.2). Additionally, A-349821 inhibited constitutive GTPgammaS binding at both rat and human H3 receptors with respective pEC50 values of 9.1 and 8.6, demonstrating potent inverse agonist properties. In behavioral studies, A-349821 (0.4 mg/kg-4 mg/kg) potently blocked (R)-alpha-methylhistamine-induced dipsogenia in mice. The compound also enhanced cognitive activity in a five-trial inhibitory avoidance model in spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) pups at doses of 1-10mg/kg, with the 1mg/kg dose showing comparable efficacy to a fully efficacious dose of ciproxifan (3mg/kg). These doses of A-349821 were without effect on spontaneous locomotor activity. Thus, A-349821 is a novel, selective non-imidazole H3 antagonist/inverse agonist with balanced high potency across species and favorable cognition enhancing effects in rats.
Neurosteroids have been shown to mediate some of their physiological effects via a modulatory site on type A inhibitory gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABAA) receptors. In particular, recent evidence has implicated selective potentiation of the delta subunit of GABAA receptors as an important mediator of in vitro and in vivo neurosteroid activity. However, this has been demonstrated for only a very small number of steroids, so both the generality of this finding, and the structural features of steroids which mediate functional delta-selectivity, are unclear. We have used a potentiometric assay based on fluorescence resonance energy transfer to measure GABA-activated responses in L(tk-) cells stably transfected with human GABAA receptor alpha4beta3delta and alpha4beta3gamma2 receptor subtypes. A set of 28 steroids were evaluated on these subtypes to characterise their functional potency and efficacy in modulating GABA responses. For most compounds there was a clear separation of their efficacy profiles between the receptor subtypes, with a substantially larger maximal response at the alpha4beta3delta receptor. 5beta-Pregnan-3beta-ol-20-one, 5beta-pregnane-3alpha,20beta-diol and 5beta-pregnane-3alpha,17alpha-diol-11,20-dione showed particularly high efficacy for alpha4beta3delta. No compounds were identified that simply inhibited responses at delta-containing receptors. However, 5beta-pregnane-3alpha,17alpha,20beta-triol, prednisolone 21-acetate, 4-pregnene-17alpha,20alpha-diol-3-one-20-acetate, 4-pregnen-20alpha-ol-3-one, and 5beta-pregnane-3alpha,17alpha,21-triol-20-one inhibited, though did not abolish, GABA responses at the alpha4beta3gamma2 subtype, while evoking modest-amplitude potentiation of alpha4beta3delta responses. Molecular modelling on this compound series using principal components analysis indicates that several structural features of steroids underlie their relative functional selectivity for potentiation of delta-containing GABAA receptors.
T cell immunotherapy is a potential strategy for the treatment of brain tumors because it offers a high degree of specificity, the ability to extravasate into solid tumors, and the potential for eliciting a long-term protective immune response. Various approaches have been developed to overcome T cell immune tolerance to cancer, including the use of cytokines and bispecific antibodies. T cell stimulation with the proinflammatory cytokine IL-12 can elicit antitumor immunity. T cell activation can be increased using bispecific antibodies against activating molecules on the surface of T cells and a tumor antigen. We studied the effects of systemic IL-12 administration in combination with a conjugate of an anti-CD28 antibody and a ligand for the folate receptor. The high affinity folate receptor is expressed on endogenously arising choroid plexus tumors of SV11 mice, which are transgenic for large T antigen under the control of the SV40 promoter. SV11 mice are immunocompetent, yet immunologically tolerant to large T antigen expressed by choroid plexus tumors. MRI analysis showed that the administration of IL-12 and anti-CD28 Fab/folate significantly slowed tumor growth. Proliferating CD8(+) T cells were found in choroid plexus tumors of treated animals. Treatment of animals with IL-12 + anti-CD28 Fab/folate prolonged survival compared to IL-12 alone. Cytokine treatment combined with tumor-targeted costimulation may be a useful adjunct treatment.
We studied the effects of an electromagnetic field (EMF) as emitted by a 902 MHz mobile phone on human short term memory. This study was a replication with methodological improvements to our previous study. The improvements included multi-centre testing and a double blind design. A total of 64 subjects (32 men) in two independent laboratories performed a short term memory task (n-back) which poses a varying memory load (0-3 items) on the subjects' memory. They performed the task twice, once each under EMF and sham exposure. Reaction times (RTs) and accuracy of the responses were recorded. The order of exposure and memory load conditions were counterbalanced across subjects and gender. There were no statistically significant differences in performance between the two laboratories. We could not replicate our previous results: the EMF had no effect on RTs or on the accuracy of the subjects' answers. The inability to replicate previous findings could have been caused by lack of actual EMF effects or the magnitude of effects being at the sensitivity threshold of the test used.


Variation in reproductive capacity is common across the lives of all animals. In vertebrates, hypothalamic neurons that secrete GnRH are a primary mediator of such reproductive plasticity. Since social interactions suppress gonadal maturity in the African cichlid fish, Astatotilapia (Haplochromis) burtoni, we investigated whether the electrical properties of GnRH neurons were also socially regulated. Adult A. burtoni males are either territorial (T) and reproductively active or nonterritorial (NT) and reproductively regressed, depending upon their social environment. We compared the basic electrical properties of hypothalamic GnRH neurons from T and NT males using whole-cell electrophysiology in vitro. GnRH neurons were spontaneously active and exhibited several different activity patterns. A small fraction of neurons exhibited episodic activity patterns, which have been described in GnRH neurons from mammals. The type of activity pattern and spontaneous firing rate did not vary with reproductive capacity; however, several basic electrical properties were different. Neurons from T males were larger than those from NT males and had higher membrane capacitance and lower input resistance. In neurons from NT males, action potential duration was significantly longer and after-hyperpolarization characteristics were diminished, which led to a tendency for neurons from NT males to fire less rapidly in response to current injection. We predict this could serve to decrease GnRH release in NT males. These data are the first electrophysiological characterization of hypothalamic GnRH neurons in a nonmammalian species and provide evidence for several changes in electrical properties with reproductive state.


In this study, we have investigated responses to the phospholipase C (PLC) activator m-3M3FBS in SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells. As measured using fura-2, m-3M3FBS caused a slowly developing - full response was obtained within 4-6 min - Ca(2+) elevation both in the presence and absence of extracellular Ca(2+), indicating Ca(2+) release from intracellular stores, putatively from endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria. PLC activity was also measured using two methods, the classical ion-exchange separation and the more novel fluorescent real-time method. In the time frame in which m-3M3FBS caused Ca(2+) elevation (up to 7 min), no PLC activation was detected. Instead, more than 20 min were required to see any inositol phosphate generation in response to m-3M3FBS. m-3M3FBS also interfered with store-operated Ca(2+) influx and Ca(2+) extrusion. In conclusion, m-3M3FBS cannot be considered either potent or specific PLC activator.
1. Openers of ATP-sensitive K(+) channels are of interest in several therapeutic indications including overactive bladder and other lower urinary tract disorders. This study reports on the in vitro and in vivo characterization of a structurally novel naphthylamide N-[2-(2,2,2-trifluoro-1-hydroxy-1-trifluoromethyl-ethyl)-naphthalen-1-yl]-acetamide (A-151892), as an opener of the ATP-sensitive potassium channels. 2. A-151892 was found to be a potent and efficacious potassium channel opener (KCO) as assessed by glibenclamide-sensitive whole-cell current and fluorescence-based membrane potential responses (-log EC(50)=7.63) in guinea-pig bladder smooth muscle cells. 3. Evidence for direct interaction with KCO binding sites was derived from displacement of binding of the 1,4-dihydropyridine opener [(125)I]A-312110. A-151892 displaced [(125)I]A-312110 binding to bladder membranes with a -log Ki value of 7.45, but lacked affinity against over 70 neurotransmitter receptor and ion channel binding sites. 4. In pig bladder strips, A-151892 suppressed phasic, carbachol-evoked and electrical field stimulus-evoked contractility in a glibenclamide-reversible manner with -log IC(50) values of 8.07, 7.33 and 7.02 respectively, comparable to that of the potencies of the prototypical cyanoguanidine KCO, P1075. The potencies to suppress contractions in thoracic aorta (-log IC(50)=7.81) and portal vein (-log IC(50)=7.98) were not substantially different from those observed for suppression of phasic contractility of the bladder smooth muscle. 5. In vivo, A-151892 was found to potently suppress unstable bladder contractions in obstructed models of unstable contractions in both pigs and rats with pED(35%) values of 8.05 and 7.43, respectively. 6. These results demonstrate that naphthylamide analogs exemplified by A-151892 are novel K(ATP) channel openers and may serve as chemotypes to exploit additional analogs with potential for the treatment of overactive bladder and lower urinary tract symptoms.
Anti-disialoside antibodies (Abs) that bind NeuAc(alpha2-8) NeuAc epitopes on GQ1b and related gangliosides are found in human autoimmune neuropathy sera and are considered to be pathogenic. In a model system in mice, one mechanism by which anti-disialoside Abs have been demonstrated to induce paralysis is through a complement dependent blocking effect on transmitter release at the neuromuscular junction, similar to the effects of alpha-latrotoxin. Although direct targeting of presynaptic neuronal membranes occurs in this model, concomitant injury to perisynaptic Schwann cells (pSC) could indirectly contribute to this paralytic effect by influencing nerve terminal function and survival. To examine this possibility and the specific complement components that might mediate these effects, we exposed neuromuscular junctions in vivo and in vitro to an anti-disialoside Ab in conjunction with intact and selectively deficient complement sources. Using immuno-electron microscopy, we observed Ab deposits equally distributed on both neuronal and pSC membranes, and ultrastructural evidence of injury at both sites. Presynaptic neuronal injury was demonstrated functionally with microelectrode recordings and histologically as neurofilament loss. As hypothesized, concomitant pSC injury occurred, as indicated by abnormal uptake of ethidium dimer into pSC nuclei. The pSC and nerve terminal damage indicators correlated well with deposition of the pore-forming terminal complement component, membrane attack complex (MAC) in pSC and nerve terminal membranes. Furthermore, both neuronal and pSC injury were exacerbated in tissues from mice lacking the inhibitory complement regulator, CD59, where MAC formation is increased. These data demonstrate that both presynaptic neuronal membranes and pSCs are targets for anti-disialoside Abs, and that the injury to both sites is mediated by MAC and further regulated by CD59. This is the first demonstration that complement mediated pSC injury occurs in a model of autoimmune neuropathy and provides a rationale for investigating the possibility of pSC injury in equivalent conditions in man.
Comparative neuropsychology has identified a role for the ventral striatum (VS) in certain forms of aggression. To address whether the homologous region in humans also contributes to the emotion anger, we studied a case series of four human subjects with focal lesions affecting the VS. All four demonstrated a disproportionate impairment in recognizing human signals of aggression. By contrast, a control group of individuals with damage to more dorsal basal ganglia (BG) regions showed no evidence of an anger impairment. Our findings demonstrate that the VS makes a significant contribution to coding signals of aggression in humans, and emphasize the importance of an approach to human affective neuroscience based on cross-species homologies. The results are discussed in relation to the ventral striatal dopamine system's role in the pursuit of biological resources in general. We propose that the role of the VS in the recognition of human signals of anger may reflect a more general role in the coordination of behaviour relevant to the acquisition and protection of valued resources, including detection of signals of conspecific challenge (anger).
The clinical phenotype in cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leucoencephalopathy (CADASIL), an autosomal dominant cerebral arteriopathy, is variable, but the reasons for this remain uncertain. Possible factors include the mutation site and the influence of additional modulating factors, which could include both epistatic interactions and interactions with cardiovascular risk factors known to cause sporadic small vessel disease. In a large prospectively recruited cohort of CADASIL subjects we determined relationships between phenotype and mutation site, the apoE genotype and cardiovascular risk factors. In addition to clinical features, disease severity was assessed by MRI lesion volume, measured both semiquantitatively (Scheltens scale) and quantitatively. One hundred and twenty-seven CADASIL cases from 65 families with 17 different mutations were studied. Site of mutation was not associated with the presence or age of onset of stroke, migraine, dementia, dependency or MRI lesion load. There was no evidence of intrafamilial clustering of particular phenotypes. Amongst subjects with stroke/transient ischaemic attack, smoking at the time of the event was independently associated with earlier age of onset (P = 0.01). There were no associations between age of onset or presence of stroke and other cardiovascular risk factors, including homocysteine. Homocysteine levels were higher in migraineurs [mean (SD) 12.8 (5.6) versus 9.8 (3.4) micromol/l, P = 0.02)] and elevated homocysteine was independently associated with an earlier age of onset of migraine (P = 0.01). No relationship was found between MRI lesion volume and risk factors, or between apoE genotype and phenotype. Our results show no notch 3 genotype-phenotype correlations. This implies that modulating factors influence phenotype. Smoking appears to increase the risk of stroke, while high homocysteine levels are associated with an increased risk of migraine.
Multiple sclerosis is a chronic demyelinating disease of presumed autoimmune pathogenesis. The patients with multiple sclerosis typically shows alternating relapse and remission in the early stage of illness. We previously found that in the majority of multiple sclerosis patients in a state of remission, natural killer (NK) cells contain unusually high frequencies of the cells expressing CD95 (Fas) on their surface (&gt;36.0%). Here we report that in such 'CD95+ NK-high' patients, NK cells may actively suppress potentially pathogenic autoimmune T cells that can mediate the inflammatory responses in the CNS. Using peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) derived from 'CD95+ NK-high' or 'CD95+ NK-low' multiple sclerosis in a state of remission, we studied the effect of NK cell depletion on the memory T cell response to myelin basic protein (MBP), a major target antigen of multiple sclerosis. When we stimulated PBMCs of the 'CD95+ NK-high' multiple sclerosis after depleting CD56+ NK cells, a significant proportion of CD4+ T cells (1/2000 to 1/200) responded rapidly to MBP by secreting interferon (IFN)-gamma, whereas such a rapid T cell response to MBP could not be detected in the presence of NK cells. Nor did we detect the memory response to MBP in the 'CD95+ NK-low' multiple sclerosis patients in remission or healthy subjects, regardless of whether NK cells were depleted or not. Depletion of cells expressing CD16, another NK cell marker, also caused IFN-gamma secretion from MBP-reactive CD4+ T cells in the PBMCs from 'CD95+ NK-high' multiple sclerosis. Moreover, we showed that NK cells from 'CD95+ NK-high' multiple sclerosis could inhibit the antigen-driven secretion of IFN-gamma by autologous MBP-specific T cell clones in vitro. These results indicate that NK cells may regulate activation of autoimmune memory T cells in an antigen non-specific fashion to maintain the clinical remission in 'CD95(+) NK-high' multiple sclerosis patients.
Although the phenomenon that psychological stress influences disease onset and progression is well established, the mechanisms underlying stress-evoked compromise of immune function remain unspecified. To test the hypothesis that energetic shortages compromise immunity, we evaluated the effectiveness of pyruvate, a metabolic supplement, to prevent stress-evoked suppression of mitogen-stimulated splenocyte proliferation. Male C57BL/6 mice were subjected to 2h of restraint once daily for 14 days. Consistent with previous studies, mitogen-stimulated splenocyte proliferation was reduced after restraint; in contrast, mice that received pyruvate injections immediately following each episode of restraint did not reduce splenocyte proliferation. In addition, restraint-evoked corticosterone elevation did not habituate in animals treated with pyruvate, suggesting that glucocorticoids are not exclusively immunosuppressive. The ratio of pyruvate to lactate, an index of aerobic metabolism, was elevated in mice exposed to restraint suggesting that mice exposed to restraint were preferentially using aerobic metabolism and producing more ATP per unit of pyruvate than non-restrained mice. Furthermore, two of the effective doses of pyruvate (0.5 and 500.0mg/kg) altered glucose levels suggesting a metabolic function of the supplement. Although several different mechanisms could possibly mediate the changes in splenocyte proliferation, these results support the hypothesis that stress-evoked immunosuppression may be a function of metabolic energy shortages and can be prevented via pyruvate supplementation.
Recent genetic insight into the mechanisms of human brain malformation have allowed one to consider a classification of these disorders by the genetic disruption. In this article an attempt is made to classify human cortical dysplasias by the known genetic disruptions or insults that lead to them. The discussion of malformation is within the context of the embryologic processes that have thought to have gone awry. Human disorders of segmentation, cell proliferation, telencephalic cleavage, differentiation, and neuronal migration are discussed. As this is a rapidly changing area, the reader is encouraged to check online databases for updates on the genetic insights that have been gained since the publication of this article.
The goal of the present study was to delineate phonology's role in silent reading using event-related brain potential (ERP) techniques. Terminal endings of high cloze sentences were manipulated in four conditions in which the terminal word was: (1) the high cloze ending and thus orthographically, phonologically and semantically congruent (e.g., The gambler had a streak of bad luck.); (2) a pseudohomophone that was orthographically incongruent, but was phonologically congruent to the anticipated ending (e.g., The ship disappeared into the thick phog [fog].); (3) a word that was orthographically, phonologically and semantically incongruent to expectations (e.g., The dog chased the cat up the Queen [tree].); or (4) a nonword and consequently orthographically, phonologically and semantically incongruent to expectations (e.g., The gas station is about two miles down the bole [road].). A N270 was elicited by orthographically incongruent words and nonwords (conditions 2, 3 and 4), likely reflecting violations of orthographic form expectations, while the presence of the N400 to semantically incongruent words and nonwords (conditions 3 and 4) reflected violations of semantic expectations. The relative absence of the N400 response to pseudohomophones (condition 3) indicates that integrating word meaning with sentential context is influenced by the phonological representation of the presented letter string. The implication of these results for theories of word recognition is discussed.
It is yet unclear whether the processing of number magnitude and order rely on common or different functional processes and neural substrates. On the one hand, recent neuroimaging studies show that quantity and order coding activate the same areas in the parietal and prefrontal cortices. On the other hand, evidence from developmental and neuropsychological studies suggest dissociated mechanisms for processing quantity and order information. To clarify this issue, the present study investigated the spatio-temporal course of quantity and order coding operations using event-related potentials (ERPs). Twenty-four subjects performed a quantity task (classifying numbers as smaller or larger than 15) and an order task on the same material (classifying numbers as coming before or after 15), as well as a control order task on letters (classifying letters as coming before or after M). Behavioral results showed a classical distance effect (decreasing reaction times [RTs] with increasing distance from the standard) for all tasks. In agreement with previous electrophysiological evidence, this effect was significant on a P2 parietal component for numerical material. However, the difference between processing numbers close or far from the target appeared earlier and was larger on the left hemisphere for quantity processing, while it was delayed and bilateral for order processing. There was also a significant distance effect in all tasks on parietal sites for the following P3 component elicited by numbers, but this effect was larger on prefrontal areas for the order judgment. In conclusion, both quantity and order show similar behavioral effects, but they are associated with different spatio-temporal courses in parietal and prefrontal cortices.

From rodents to primates, transient global brain ischemia is a well known cause of delayed neuronal death of the vulnerable neurons including cornu Ammonis 1 (CA1) pyramidal cells of the hippocampus. Previous reports using the rodent experimental paradigm indicated that apoptosis is a main contributor to such ischemic neuronal death. In primates, however, the detailed molecular mechanism of ischemic neuronal death still remains obscure. Recent data suggest that necrosis rather than apoptosis appear to be the crucial component of the damage to the nervous system during human ischemic injuries and neurodegenerative diseases. Currently, necrotic neuronal death mediated by Ca2+-dependent cysteine proteases, is becoming accepted to underlie the pathology of neurodegenerative conditions from the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans to primates. This paper reviews the role of cysteine proteases such as caspase, calpain and cathepsin in order to clarify the mechanism of ischemic neuronal death being triggered by the unspecific digestion of lysosomal proteases.
Because of the extensive second messenger role played by calcium, free intracellular calcium levels are strictly regulated. Under normal physiological conditions, this is achieved through a combination of restricted calcium entry, efficient efflux and restricted intracellular mobility. Overall, the process of regulating free calcium is dependent on ATP derived from oxidative metabolism. Under conditions of cerebral ischaemia, ATP levels fall rapidly and calcium homeostasis becomes significantly disturbed resulting in the initiation of calcium-dependent neurodegenerative processes. In this review, the mechanisms underlying physiological calcium homeostasis and the links between calcium disregulation and neurodegeneration will be discussed.
The claustrum (Cl) is a subcortical structure located in the basolateral telencephalon of the mammalian brain. It has been a subject of inquiry since the mid-nineteenth century. The Cl can be identified in a number of species, and appears as a phylogenetically related nucleus in Insectivores, Prosimians and Marsupials. Ontogenetic investigations have been the subject of much debate over the years. There are three hypotheses for claustral development. To date, the &quot;hybrid theory&quot; has garnered the most support. Pathological conditions specifically associated with the Cl, while few in number, are of interest from a functional perspective. Several cases of claustral agenesis have been reported. The implications of these clinical reports are discussed. Claustral neuroanatomy at the light-microscopic and electron-microscopic level is reviewed. The morphology of the claustral neuron consists of several types, which roughly corresponds to the neuron's location within distinct claustral subdivisions. The interconnectivity of the Cl with the cerebral cortex is rather complex and reflective of complex functional interrelationships. Several researchers have investigated the angioarchitecture of the Cl. It appears that vessels permeating the insula also vascularize the Cl. Literature investigating the neurotransmitters and overall chemical neuroanatomy of the Cl is extensive. These studies clearly demonstrate that the Cl is richly innervated with a wide and diverse array of neurotransmitters and neuromodulators. Lesion, stimulation and recording experiments demonstrate that the functional and physiologic capacity of the Cl is quite robust. A recurring theme of claustral function appears to be its involvement in sensorimotor integration. This may be expected of the Cl, given the degree ofheterotopic, heterosensory convergence and its interconnectivity with the key subcortical nuclei and sensory cortical areas. The Cl remains a poorly understood and under investigated nucleus. Therefore, a review of the world literature through 1986 prior to the advent of the &quot;molecular revolution&quot; is presented. This diverse and extensive body of knowledge is reviewed in the areas ofphylogeny, ontogeny, pathology, angioarchitecture, cytochemistry, anatomy and physiology. Theories of possible claustral function are also noted. It is hoped that this work will stimulate research scientists to further investigate the functional interrelationships of the Cl as well as to aim with far greater precision and accuracy towards a deeper understanding of its raison d'etre. The recent efforts in neurosciences by Sir Francis Crick and Christof Koch implicating the Cl in visual consciousness, is an important step in understanding just what its functions could encompass. Efforts in molecular neurosciences will be indispensable for a mechanistic understanding of these functions. Currently research efforts are underway from many perspectives. In considering the past scientific literature on the Cl, it is interesting to regard that this once obscure brain structure, may serve as a model system for the study of one of the most interesting and complex brain functions-consciousness.
The purpose of this study is to provide a point of reference regarding the neurotoxic effects resulting from exposure to environmental contaminants. Benzo(a)pyrene is a member of the polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) family and it is a by-product of combustion processes. Thus, persons living near factories or hazardous waste sites face the danger of exposure through contact with contaminated air, water and soil. In an effort to understand the impact of environmental contaminants, we have investigated the effects of gestational B(a)P aerosol exposure on long-term potentiation (LTP), a cellular correlate of learning and memory in the F1 generation. Briefly, timed-pregnant rats were exposed to B(a)P via nose-only inhalation on gestation days 11-21 for 4 hr per day. Dams were maintained to term and pups were weaned on postnatal day 30. Subsequent electrophysiological studies during postnatal days 60-70 revealed a diminution in LTP across the perforant path-granular cells synapses in the hippocampus of F1 generation animals that were transplacentally exposed to B(a)P aerosol relative to unexposed controls. Additionally, NMDA receptor subunit 1 (NR1) protein was found to be downregulated in the hippocampus of B(a)P exposed F1 generation animals. Taken together, our results suggest that gestational exposure to B(a)P aerosol attenuates the capacity for LTP in the F1 generation.

NAcht Leucine-rich-repeat Protein 1 (NALP1) contains a putative nucleotide binding site, a region of leucine-rich repeats, and death domain folds at both termini providing protein/protein association functions such as caspase recruitment. We report here that NALP1 gene expression was induced in primary cerebellar granule neurons (CGN) upon injury. Up-regulation of NALP1 was also observed in a model of transient focal ischemia induced by middle cerebral artery occlusion. We investigated the biological consequence of over-expression of NALP1 in both HeLa cells and in CGN. Expression of recombinant NALP1 stimulated cell death in both HeLa cells and CGN by an apoptotic mechanism, demonstrated by the induction of apoptotic nuclear morphology and activation of the apoptotic enzyme caspase-3. Also described here are studies on the mechanism of action studies including deletion analyses and investigations of nucleotide binding, which begin to elucidate a regulatory function for NALP1 in neuronal apoptosis.
Aim of this study was to determine whether menstrual attacks differ from nonmenstrual attacks (NMA) as regards clinical features or response to abortive treatment in women affected by menstrually related migraine (MRM) referred to tertiary care centres. Sixty-four women with MRM were enrolled in a 2-month diary study. Perimenstrual attacks were split into three groups--premenstrual (PMA), menstrual (MA) and late menstrual (LMA)--and compared to nonmenstrual ones. Perimenstrual attacks were significantly longer than NMA. No other migraine attack features were found to differ between the various phases of the cycle. Migraine work-related disability was significantly greater in PMA and MA than in NMA. Acute attack treatment was less effective in perimenstrual attacks. Pain-free at 2 h after dosage was achieved in 13.5% of MA (OR 0.41; 95% CI 0.22, 0.76) vs. 32.9% of NMA. We concluded that, in MRM, perimenstrual attacks are longer and less responsive to acute attack treatment than NMA.
The mammalian neocortex develops layer organizations with regional differences represented by expression of multiple genes at embryonic stages. These genes could play important roles in the formation of areal cyto-architecture, yet, the number of genes identified so far is not sufficient to explain such intricate processes. Here we collected five regions--the medial, dorsal, lateral, rostral and occipital--from the dissected E16.5 mouse cerebral cortex and performed extensive gene expression analysis using the Affymetrix U74Av2 array with probes for 12,500 genes. After relative quantitative analysis, 34, 33 and 15 genes were selected as highly expressed genes in the medial, dorsal and lateral regions, respectively. The combination of GeneChip system, real-time quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and in situ hybridization analyses allowed the successful identification of seven genes from the dorsal region (Neuropeptide Y, Wnt7b, TGF-beta RI, Nrf3, Bcl-6, MT4-MMP and Rptp kappa), three genes from the medial region (Hop-pending, HtrA and Crystallin), and three genes from the lateral region (Somatostatin, Ngef and Fxyd7). Particularly, all seven genes identified in the dorsal region demarcated the future somatosensory and auditory areas in the cortical plate with high rostrolateral-low caudomedial gradation. Their expression patterns were not uniform, but delineated either the superficial or the deep layer in the cortical plate. Furthermore, the regional expression pattern of Neuropeptide Y was shifted rostrally and the layer specificity was disorganized in the Pax6-deficient mice. Our results provide new information about a subclass of regionally expressed genes in the cortical plate at the late embryonic stage, which may help understand the molecular mechanisms of neocortical arealization.
Three previous studies using the GO/NOGO task were examined to characterize the pattern of functional activation seen during error-related processing. The large sample size (n = 44) also allowed investigation of the influence of individual differences in age, sex, self-reported absentmindedness and reaction speed on the level of activation. Errors were seen to activate a network of regions including the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), pre-supplementary motor area (pre-SMA), bilateral insula, thalamus and right inferior parietal lobule. Split-half comparisons performed for each of the individual difference variables indicated greater ACC and pre-SMA activation for older subjects while slower responders showed greater activation in the parietal, lateral PFC, insula and ACC regions. Whereas males and females demonstrated equivalent levels of activation in both the ACC and insula, self-reported absentmindedness related to reduced activation in these regions. Our review of the current imaging literature on error-related activation indicates that, despite the use of a variety of other cognitive paradigms, the network of regions identified here is consistent with these previous studies, suggesting that these regions are critical to a 'general' error-related response. Furthermore, this response is, in part, influenced by individual differences in both demographic characteristics and behavioural performance.
Previous studies have demonstrated that oral stimulation with quinine elicits Fos-like immunoreactivity in the first-order gustatory nucleus, the NST, with a different topographic distribution than sucrose or citric acid. However, it is unknown whether the quinine pattern is unique to this alkaloid or common across bitter stimuli with different chemical structures. Indeed, recent physiological experiments suggest that taste receptor cells and primary afferent neurons may exhibit selectivity for various bitter tastants. The present investigation compared the distribution of FLI in NST following stimulation with three bitter chemicals: QHCl, denatonium and propylthiouracil, stimuli that evoked Ca(2+) currents in almost entirely different sets of receptor cells. The results demonstrate that the quinine pattern is not idiosyncratic but instead generalizes to the other two tastants. Although it remains possible that intermingled but different NST neurons are activated by these stimuli, these data suggest that a specialized region in the NST is preferentially involved in processing a common aspect of bitter tastants. In contrast to citric acid, quinine, denatonium and propylthiouracil all elicited vigorous oromotor rejection responses, consistent with our earlier hypothesis that the medial third of the NST may be an afferent trigger zone for oromotor rejection.
The aim of this study was to assess the synovial fluid (SF) neurotransmitter excitatory amino acid (EAA) levels, including glutamate (Glu) and aspartate (Asp), in the context of SF levels of other amino acids, TNF-alpha and chemokines from patients with active arthropathies. The SF was collected from patients with active rheumatoid arthritis (RA), gout, or osteoarthritis (OA). The SF samples were analysed for levels of neurotransmitters glutamate and aspartate, tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), Regulated upon Activation Normally T-cell Expressed and Secreted (RANTES), macrophage inhibitory factor-1 alpha (MIP-1alpha) and interleukin 8 (IL-8). SF WBC counts were also determined. Correlations between SF EAA, TNF-alpha and chemokines were determined by the Pearson product-moment correlation. Primary cultures derived from SF from active RA and gout patients were incubated with added l-glutamate, to assess if exposure to Glu could increase TNF-alpha levels. There were significant elevations in SF EAA, SF TNF-alpha and SF RANTES in RA patients compared to gout or OA patients. Significant correlations between SF EAA and SF RANTES, MIP-1alpha and IL-8 levels were seen, and SF EAA and SF TNF-alpha or SF WBC levels approached significance. Addition of exogenous neurotransmitter glutamate significantly increased TNF-alpha levels in primary cell cultures derived from RA and gout patients. The SF neurotransmitter EAA levels significantly correlated to selected SF chemokine levels, in clinically active RA, gout and OA patients, independent of disease. Added Glu resulted in significantly increased TNF-alpha levels in primary synovial cell cultures. These data expand the relationship of SF neurotransmitter EAA levels to SF cytokines and chemokines in patients with clinically active arthritis, and suggest that neurotransmitters Glu and Asp contribute to peripheral inflammatory processes.
1. The principal mediators of vascular tone are neural, endothelial and physical stimuli that result in the initiation of dilator and constrictor responses to facilitate the control of blood pressure. Two primary vasodilatory stimuli produced by the endothelium are nitric oxide (NO) and prostaglandins. An additional endothelium-dependent vasodilatory mechanism is characterized as the hyperpolarization-mediated relaxation that remains after the inhibition of the synthesis of NO and prostaglandins. This mechanism is due to the action of a so-called endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF) and is dependent on either the release of diffusible factor(s) and/or to a direct contact-mediated mechanism. 2. Most evidence supports the concept that 'EDHF' activity is dependent on contact-mediated mechanisms. This involves the transfer of an endothelium-derived electrical current, as an endothelium-derived hyperpolarization (EDH), through direct heterocellular coupling of endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells via myoendothelial gap junctions (MEGJ). However, there is a lack of consensus with regard to the nature and mechanism of action of EDHF/EDH (EDH(F)), which has been shown to vary within and between vascular beds, as well as among species, strains, sex and during development, ageing and disease. 3. In addition to actual heterogeneity in EDH(F), further heterogeneity has resulted from the less-than-optimal design, analysis and interpretation of data in some key papers in the EDHF literature; with such views being perpetuated in the subsequent literature. 4. The focus of the present brief review is to examine what factors are proposed as EDH(F) and highlight the correlative structural and functional studies from our laboratory that demonstrate an integral role for MEGJ in the conduction of EDH, which account for the heterogeneity in EDH(F), while incorporating the reported diffusible mechanisms in the regulation of this activity. Furthermore, in addition to the reported heterogeneity in the nature and mechanism of action of EDH(F), the contribution of experimental design and technique to this heterogeneity will be examined.

Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors (MPNSTs) are rare neoplasms, usually arising from somatic soft tissues or peripheral nerves. Primary MPNST of the scalp is extremely rare, with only a single case reported so far. Here, we describe an unusual case of scalp MPNST in a 50-year-old male. The tumor was associated with bony projection, intracranial extension and underlying bone destruction. The tumor was treated with complete surgical excision followed by adjuvant radiotherapy. Histologically, the tumor showed malignant spindle cells with focal S-100 positivity on immunohistochemistry and a diagnosis of MPNST was made. This case is being reported for its rarity and presence of associated bony projection, which to the best of our knowledge, has not been described before in soft tissue sarcomas.
We report a patient with glioblastoma multiforme who was subsequently diagnosed to have Wilson's disease. Immunohistochemical studies of the tumor revealed high (&gt; 60%) labeling index for p53 and Rb retinoblastoma protein. Whether this association is like the co-occurrence of retinoblastoma and Wilson's disease due to possible somatic mutation in chromosome 13 needs to be explored.
Orally administered levodopa, in combination with a decarboxylase inhibitor, is the gold standard therapy for Parkinson disease (PD). The problems in management of motor fluctuations in the advanced stages of the disorder are due to the close relationship between plasma levodopa levels and availability of dopamine at striatal receptor sites. The fluctuating levodopa concentrations are mainly explained by the fact that levodopa absorption only occurs in the proximal small intestine. The patient's motor function thus depends on gastric emptying, which is erratic and may even be delayed in PD. Oral therapy with sustained-release formulations and COMT inhibitors have not solved the problems satisfactorily. Therefore, infusions of levodopa by intravenous and enteral (duodenal/jejunal) routes of administration have been studied. In this review of the literature on clinically relevant levodopa infusion studies, it is shown that improvements regarding fluctuations in both plasma levodopa levels and motor performance have been repeatedly reported. The results acquired so far suggest that levodopa infusion is a safe and efficacious therapy. Recent drug delivery development and long-term studies have shown that infusion is a clinically feasible alternative to treat advanced PD.
Catatonia as a clozapine withdrawal syndrome has not been well documented. There is only 1 case of excited catatonia described with the diagnosis made according to strict criteria. The authors report a patient who developed a catatonic stuporous state following abrupt discontinuation of clozapine, associated with features of cholinergic and serotonergic hyperactivity. The catatonic state resolved within 1 week with reinstatement of clozapine. It is suggested that serotonergic hyperactivity was involved, contributed by cholinergic rebound, in the pathogenesis of this patient's clozapine withdrawal catatonic syndrome.


