


This brief report attempts to resolve the claim that infants preferentially attend to continuous variables over number [e.g. Psychol. Sci. 10 (1999) 408; Cognit. Psychol.44 (2002) 33] with the finding that when continuous variables are controlled, infants as young as 6-months of age discriminate large numerical values [e.g. Psychol. Sci. 14 (2003) 396; Cognition 89 (2003) B15; Cognition 74 (2000) B1]. In two parallel experiments, we compare 6-month-old infants' ability to discriminate number and ignore continuous variables with their ability to form a representation of a cumulative surface area and ignore number. We find that infants discriminate a 2-fold change in number but fail to discriminate a 2-fold change in cumulative surface area. The results point to a more complicated relationship between discrete and continuous dimensions than implied by previous literature.
Thirty-one 8- and 9-year-old children selected for dyscalculia, reading difficulties or both, were compared to controls on a range of basic number processing tasks. Children with dyscalculia only had impaired performance on the tasks despite high-average performance on tests of IQ, vocabulary and working memory tasks. Children with reading disability were mildly impaired only on tasks that involved articulation, while children with both disorders showed a pattern of numerical disability similar to that of the dyscalculic group, with no special features consequent on their reading or language deficits. We conclude that dyscalculia is the result of specific disabilities in basic numerical processing, rather than the consequence of deficits in other cognitive abilities.
The relationship between obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and obsessive-compulsive personality disorder (OCPD) has not yet been fully clarified. The aim of the present study was to analyze DSM-IV OCPD prevalence rates in OCD and panic disorder (PD) patients to test for the specificity of the OCPD-OCD link, and to compare them to OCPD prevalence in a control group of subjects without any psychiatric disorder. A total of 109 patients with a principal diagnosis of DSM-IV (SCID-I) OCD and 82 with PD were interviewed using the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Axis II Disorders (SCID-II) in order to assess the prevalence of OCPD. All patients with a coexisting axis I diagnosis were excluded from the study to eliminate confounding factors when evaluating the association between prevalence rates of OCPD and anxiety disorder diagnoses. An exclusion criteria was also a Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D) score &gt;/=16. A sample of comparison subjects (age 18 to 65 years) without any psychiatric disorder was recruited from people registered with two general practitioners (GPs), whether or not they consulted the doctor, in order to evaluate OCPD prevalence rate in the community. A significant difference was found between the prevalence of OCPD in OCD (22.9%) and in PD (17.1%) on one hand, and that in the comparison sample (3.0%) on the other. No differences were found between the two psychiatric groups, even when splitting the samples according to gender. Our study failed to support the hypothesis of a specific relationship between OCPD and OCD; we confirmed the higher prevalence rate of this personality disorder in OCD subjects with regard to the general population, but we also confirmed the higher rate of OCPD in another anxiety disorder which is phenomenologically well characterized and different from OCD, such as PD.
The conscious feeling of exercising 'free-will' is fundamental to our sense of self. However, in some psychopathological conditions actions may be experienced as involuntary or unwilled. We have used suggestion in hypnosis to create the experience of involuntariness (anomalous control) in normal participants. We compared a voluntary finger movement, a passive movement and a voluntary movement suggested by hypnosis to be 'involuntary.' Hypnosis itself had no effect on the subjective experience of voluntariness associated with willed movements and passive movements or on time estimations of their occurrence. However, subjective time estimates of a hypnotically-suggested, 'involuntary' finger movement were more similar to those for passive movements than for voluntary movements. The experience of anomalous control is qualitatively and quantitatively different from the normal conscious experience of a similar act produced intentionally. The experience of anomalous control may be produced either by pathology, or, in our case, by suggestion.
Following neural network simulations of the two experiments of, argued that the opposition logic advocated by was incapable of distinguishing between single and multiple influences on performance of artificial grammar learning and more generally. We show that their simulations do not support their conclusions. We also provide different neural network simulations that do simulate the essential results of Higham et al. (2000).
Recent accounts on the global workspace theory suggest that consciousness involves transient formations of functional connections in thalamo-cortico-cortical networks. The level of connectivity in these networks is argued to determine the state of consciousness. Emotions are suggested to play a role in shaping consciousness, but their involvement in the global workspace theory remains elusive. In the present study, the role of emotion in the neural workspace theory of consciousness was scrutinized by investigating, whether unconscious (masked) and conscious (unmasked) display of emotional compared to neutral facial expressions would differentially modulate EEG coherence. EEG coherence was measured by means of computing an average EEG coherence value between the frontal, parietal, and midline scalp sites. Objective awareness checks evidenced that conscious identification of the masked facial expressions was precluded. Analyses revealed reductions in EEG coherence in the lower frequency range for the masked as compared to unmasked neutral facial expressions. Crucially, a decline in EEG coherence was not observed for the emotional facial expressions. In other words, the level of EEG coherence did apparently vary as a function of awareness, but not when emotion was involved. The current finding suggests that EEG coherence is modulated by unconscious emotional processes, which extends common views on the global workspace architecture of consciousness.
The in-eye performance of soft contact lenses may be affected by the material from which they are fabricated and may alter during wear. This study describes clinical and laboratory experiments that were conducted in order to examine the in-eye performance of eight soft contact lenses manufactured from different materials; these materials (and nominal water contents) were: HEMA/VP 40%, HEMA/VP 55%, HEMA/VP 70%, VP/MMA 55%, VP/MMA 70%, HEMA 40%, HEMA/MAA 55% and HEMA/MAA 70% (HEMA: 2-hydroxy-ethyl methacrylate, VP: vinyl pyrrolidone, MMA: methyl methacrylate, MAA: methacrylic acid). Two lenses from each of the eight soft contact lens groups were used in experiments concerning their parameter stability. Six subjects were fitted with lenses for 1 day. Verification of back optic zone radius, total diameter, back vertex power, centre thickness and water content was undertaken at 20 degrees C. In vitro measurements of total diameter were taken at 35 degrees C before lens fitting and after 6 h of lens wear. In vivo measurements of lens centration, up-gaze lag, post-blink movement, total diameter and subjective assessment of comfort were taken (a) immediately after lens insertion (1 min), (b) 20 min later and (c) 6 h later (same day). The majority of differences of the in vivo parameters between lens types (with respect to lens centration, lag, movement on blink, lens total diameter and comfort) were not found to be statistically significant throughout the 6 h wearing period. It was also found that lenses increase in diameter when first placed on the eye and decrease in diameter when they were removed from the eye. The information generated in study concerning the in-eye performance of soft contact lens materials may assist the contact lens industry and contact lens practitioners in developing and prescribing soft lenses with optimal performance characteristics.
The parameters of soft contact lenses may alter during wear. A series of clinical and laboratory experiments were conducted in order to examine the parameter stability of eight soft contact lenses manufactured from different materials. The following materials (and nominal water contents) were used: HEMA/VP 40%, HEMA/VP 55%, HEMA/VP 70%, VP/MMA 55%, VP/MMA 70%, HEMA 40%, HEMA/MAA 55% and HEMA/MAA 70% (HEMA: 2-hydroxy-ethyl methacrylate, VP: vinyl pyrrolidone, MMA: methyl methacrylate, MAA: methacrylic acid). Two lenses from each of the eight soft contact lens groups were used in experiments concerning the parameter stability. Six subjects were fitted with lenses for 1 day. Verification of back optic zone radius, total diameter, back vertex power, centre thickness and water content was undertaken at 20 degrees C. In vitro measurements of water content, oxygen transmissibility, total diameter and back optic zone radius were taken at 35 degrees C before lens fitting and after 6h of lens wear. Distortion, discolouration and lens quality were assessed before and after lens wear. When the temperature was raised from 20 to 35 degrees C, a significant reduction in lens water content for all the lens types was observed, as well as a significant reduction in total lens diameter for the majority of the lens types. Water content, oxygen transmissibility, total diameter and back optic zone radius of all the lens types reduced, following a 6h open eye wearing period. For the majority of the lens types, these changes were found to be statistically significant. Distortion, discolouration and quality of the lenses remained unchanged throughout the study with the exception of the HEMA/MAA 70% lens. Correlating a number of parameters generated in this study, gave the following conclusions. High water content materials exhibit a low relative change in oxygen transmissibility following a 6h wear period. Soft contact lens dehydration leads to a decrease in oxygen transmissibility and total diameter, following a 6h wear period. These results will assist practitioners in predicting the alterations that occur in soft contact lens parameters and oxygen performance as a result of lens wear.
Visuomotor adaptation to a prism-induced lateral displacement of the visual field induces mild perceptual biases in healthy individuals and improves symptoms of unilateral neglect. The present study employed a speeded visual search task to test the hypothesis that prism adaptation induces an adaptive redistribution of selective spatial attention. In Experiment 1, 32 neurologically healthy, right-handed participants were adapted to a 150 prism-induced lateral (left or right) displacement of the visual field. Spatial attention was measured by search time and error-rate in unique-feature (&quot;preattentive&quot;) and feature-absent (&quot;serial&quot;) visual search tasks, before and after prism adaptation. The single target appeared at different locations within arrays of 12, 24 or 48 items. Contrary to the attentional hypothesis, the pattern of search performance across the display remained unchanged following prism adaptation. In Experiment 2, we tested four patients with unilateral right hemisphere damage on the visual search tasks, before and after adaptation to 15 degrees rightward-displacing prisms. All four patients showed a pathological gradient of spatial attention toward the ipsilesional side prior to adaptation. Consistent with the results from Experiment 1, the gradient in search performance shown by the patients did not change following prism adaptation. Taken together, these findings suggest that the perceptual aftereffects in normals and amelioration of unilateral neglect following prism adaptation are not mediated by an adaptive redistribution of spatial attention.
Both impaired spatial working memory (SWM) and unilateral neglect may follow damage to the right parietal lobe. We propose that impaired SWM can exacerbate visual neglect, due to failures in remembering locations that have already been searched. When combined with an attentional bias to the ipsilesional right side, such a SWM impairment should induce recursive search of ipsilesional locations. Here we studied a left neglect patient with a right temporoparietal haemorrhage. On a nonlateralised, purely vertical SWM task, he was impaired in retaining spatial locations. In a visual search task, his eye position was monitored while his spatial memory was probed. He recursively searched through right stimuli, re-fixating previously inspected items, and critically treated them as if they were new discoveries, consistent with the SWM deficit. When his recovery was tracked over several months, his SWM deficit and left neglect showed concurrent improvements. We argue that impaired SWM may be one important component of the visual neglect syndrome.
Many studies have been published on weaning patients from mechanical ventilation, but few have addressed the unique needs of patients with neurologic impairment. Typically, neuroscience patients remain intubated because of concerns over airway protection or neuromuscular weakness. This article discusses special weaning considerations for this patient population. Neurologic-specific weaning trends from a comprehensive ventilator weaning program are also presented.
How axons in the developing nervous system successfully navigate to their correct targets is a fundamental problem in neurobiology. Understanding the mechanisms that mediate axon guidance will give important insight into how the nervous system is correctly wired during development and may have implications for therapeutic approaches to developmental brain disorders and nerve regeneration. Achieving this understanding will require unraveling the molecular logic that ensures the proper expression and localization of axon guidance cues and receptors, and elucidating the signaling events that regulate the growth cone cytoskeleton in response to guidance receptor activation. Studies of axon guidance at the midline of many experimental systems, from the ventral midline of Drosophila to the vertebrate spinal cord, have led to important mechanistic insights into the complex problem of wiring the nervous system. Here we review recent advances in understanding the regulation of midline axon guidance, with a particular emphasis on the contributions made from molecular genetic studies of invertebrate model systems.
gamma-Secretase is a critical enzyme involved in the production of amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide, one of the main pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease. gamma-Secretase cleaves the beta-amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP) at a position predicted to be within the membrane. In addition to betaAPP, gamma-secretase cleaves a range of other substrates. Thus, a key question in the development of gamma-secretase inhibitors for preventing Abeta production is whether undesired mechanism-based side effects may result from inhibition of cleavage of other substrates, and if so whether a suitable window exists to reduce brain Abeta. In this review, progress in the development of small-molecule inhibitors will be described, and potential toxicity issues associated with the development of gamma-secretase inhibitors discussed.
Traumatic brain injury is a leading cause of death and disability, particularly among young adults. During closed head trauma, the injury process is initiated by the impact of the brain against the inner table of the calvarium. Subsequently, there is prompt initiation of a complex biochemical, cellular, and physiological injury cascade that may take days to complete. From a functional standpoint, this culminates in neurologic dysfunction and, if severe, death. This unit describes an impact-induced brain trauma model in rats which replicates nonpenetrating head injury. It does not model either penetrating or ischemic brain injuries.
To address the question of how animals choose diets from an array of nutritionally different foods, researchers have designed experiments in which animals are provided with separate sources of the three macronutrients, protein, fat and carbohydrate. These experiments are useful for investigating the neuroanatomical and neurochemical mechanisms involved in food choice, as well as for assessing the effects of changes in physiological status (e.g., pregnancy; lactation and increased energy expenditure) or disease states (e.g., diabetes; and obesity) on nutrient intakes.
The social transmission of food preference (STFP) is an ethologically relevant test of olfactory memory that can be used in mice. In this test, &quot;observer&quot; mice interact with a &quot;demonstrator&quot; mouse that has recently eaten a novel food. When observer mice are presented with a choice between the food eaten by the demonstrator and some other novel food, observer mice prefer the food eaten by the demonstrator. This phenomenon depends on the observer mice detecting olfactory cues on the breath of the demonstrator mouse during their interaction. The subsequent food preference serves as a measure of memory for those olfactory cues. This unit describes a method for performing STFP in mutant mice. The method explains how to address potential confounding factors and avoid possible pitfalls.
Contextual and cued fear conditioning is a robust form of learning in which an association is made between stimuli and their aversive consequences. Fear conditioning has been used in laboratory rodents in part because it is a highly conserved form of behavior that is exhibited in both laboratory situations and in normal environments. Training requires only a single trial and this makes it adaptable to genetic, pharmacological, and biochemical studies. Clinically, it is has relevance to human behavior in that fear conditioning can be produced in humans, and damage to the amygdala prevents fear conditioning.
The Schneider-2 (S2) Drosophila cell line is well suited for the stable overexpression of recombinant proteins using plasmid-based protein expression vectors. Following drug selection, a polyclonal S2 cell line can be induced to express on the order of 2 to 100 pmol/mg membrane protein for G-coupled protein receptors, 4000 to 100,000 sites/cell for other membrane receptors and 3 to 35 mg/liter for soluble and secreted proteins.
Investigation of synaptic vesicle membrane proteins using multidisciplinary approaches, particularly to characterize synaptic vesicle proteins in synapses, can greatly advance our knowledge of the molecular mechanisms involved in synaptic vesicle exocytosis and neurotransmission. Three approaches are presented in this unit to identify and characterize synaptic vesicle proteins. The first is a subcellular fractionation method used to isolate synaptic vesicles from rat brain synaptosomal preparations, which can then be used in a variety of biochemical studies on synaptic vesicle proteins. The second is a detailed procedure for pre-embedding immunogold staining and electron microscopic observation, techniques that permit the morphological identification of synaptic vesicle proteins in individual vesicles at the intact synapse. Finally, a protocol for immunocytochemical staining of cultured hippocampal neurons for light microscopic examination is provided, which allows one to stain multisynaptic vesicle proteins and determine their localization in relation to other proteins or subcellular structures in synapses.
Stereological methods allow for the determination of cell numbers, terminal densities, and, subsequently, the estimation of terminal arbor size within a given brain nucleus. This unit provides an explanation for determining the terminal arbor size of dopaminergic neurons of the nigrostriatal pathway in rodents. In contrast to previously used single-axon reconstructions, these stereological methods allow for quick and easy determination of terminal arbor size.
The goal of neurogenetics is an understanding of the genetic basis of brain structure and function. Neurogenetics deals with multiple areas of investigation, including the genetic basis of neural induction, patterning, cell fate specification, neuron maturation, axonal and dendritic organization, synapse function, and learning and behavior. This appendix provides links to databases and other Web sites used by neurobiologists for recovery of information about genes involved in neural development and neuron function. Special care has been taken to curate sites involving model organisms, since neurogenetics relies heavily on comparative genomics to establish gene function.
Proper identification of animals is crucial in research, whether the animals are being used as experimental subjects, for breeding purposes, or as a source for tissues, cells, or fluids. This unit provides specific protocols for the ear punch (notch) and ear tag methods for mouse, rat and hamster; tattoos for mouse, rat and rabbit; and the correct use of a subcutaneous transponder system for all of the above species.
For the safety of the handler and the animal, proper methods for handling and restraining laboratory animals should be followed. Improper handling can result in increased stress and injury to the animal. In addition, the handler risks injury from bite wounds or scratches inflicted when the animal becomes fearful or anxious. By using sure, direct movements with a determined attitude, the animal can be easily handled and restrained. Animals can be restrained either manually or in a plastic restrainer. The protocols in this unit describe handling and manual restraint of mice, rats, hamsters, and rabbits. Alternate protocols describe restraint using the plastic restrainer.
The proper orientation of mechanosensory hair cells along the lateral-line organ of a fish or amphibian is essential for the animal's ability to sense directional water movements. Within the sensory epithelium, hair cells are polarized in a stereotyped manner, but the mechanisms that control their alignment relative to the body axes are unknown. We have found, however, that neuromasts can be oriented either parallel or perpendicular to the anteroposterior body axis. By characterizing the strauss mutant zebrafish line and by tracking labeled cells, we have demonstrated that neuromasts of these two orientations originate from, respectively, the first and second primordia. Furthermore, altering the migratory pathway of a primordium reorients a neuromast's axis of planar polarity. We propose that the global orientation of hair cells relative to the body axes is established through an interaction between directional movement by primordial cells and the timing of neuromast maturation.
Hox genes encode anterior-posterior identity during central nervous system development. Few studies have examined Hox gene function at lumbosacral (LS) levels of the spinal cord, where there is extensive information on normal development. Hoxd10 is expressed at high levels in the embryonic LS cord but not the thoracic cord. To test the hypothesis that restricted expression of Hoxd10 contributes to the attainment of an LS identity, and specifically an LS motoneuron identity, Hoxd10 was ectopically expressed in thoracic segments in chick embryos by means of in ovo electroporation. Regional motoneuron identity was assessed after the normal period of motoneuron differentiation. Subsets of motoneurons in transfected thoracic segments developed a molecular profile normally shown by LS motoneurons, including Lim 1 and RALDH2 expression. In addition, motoneurons in posterior thoracic segments showed novel axon projections to two muscles in the anterodorsal limb, the sartorius and anterior iliotibialis muscles. At thoracic levels, we also found a decrease in motoneuron numbers and a reduction in gonad size. These last findings suggest that early and high levels of Hox expression impeded motoneuron development and neural-mesodermal interactions. Despite these adverse effects, our data indicate that Hoxd10 expression is sufficient to induce LS motoneuron identity and axon trajectories characteristic of motoneurons in the LS region.
Cerebral arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) are fairly common and the majority of paediatric patients with this condition also present with intracranial haemorrhage. Two patients who had an incidental finding of an AVM associated with papilloedema are described here. The first was a 13-year-old male who presented after an accidental kick to the eyes. Examination revealed bilateral papilloedema. He gave a 2-year history of intermittent headache. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed an unruptured AVM in the temporal lobe. Lumbar puncture revealed elevated cerebrospinal fluid pressure. Visual acuity and visual fields were normal. He was treated with acetazolamide and improved within a few weeks. He subsequently underwent stereotactic radiosurgery to the AVM. He discontinued acetazolamide due to adverse side effects and there was no recurrence of headache and papilloedema. The second patient was a 14-year-old male who had polyarticular juvenile chronic arthritis and received low-dose steroids and methotrexate. Bilateral papilloedema was discovered during routine ophthalmology surveillance and he was otherwise asymptomatic neurologically. Brain MRI revealed an AVM in the posterior fossa. He had three embolization procedures, which have resulted in significant reduction in lesion size. The papilloedema resolved completely after the first two procedures, and visual acuity and fields remained normal. Here, possible underlying mechanism of raised intracranial pressure and importance of visual assessment in those with AVMs and their management are discussed.
Congenital suprabulbar palsy is clinically characterized by problems of feeding, swallowing, drooling, and dysarthria. Epilepsy, delayed motor, cognitive, and language development, as well as learning disabilities may co-exist. Aetiology of the syndrome is diverse, yet studies often attribute it to specific entities. We report on nine patients (seven males, two females; age range 2 to 20 years), highlighting the heterogeneous causes of suprabulbar palsy using neuroimaging and emphasizing the need for systematic investigation for early detection and management. We identified patients with symmetrical infarcts involving the perisylvian region, apart from already-recognized conditions, such as congenital bilateral perisylvian syndrome (CBPS; a neuronal migration disorder) and Worster-Drought syndrome. CBPS simulates Foix-Chavany-Marie syndrome in adults because of staged stroke but differs in many respects. Anoxia or ischemia to the developing brain could be a common plausible aetiology. Studies with large groups of patients are required to differentiate the various subgroups and identify essential criteria for diagnosis.
Rats selectively bred for susceptibility to amygdala kindling (FAST) have been shown to retain neural and behavioral features of the juvenile phase into adulthood. In contrast, rats selectively bred for resistance to amygdala kindling (SLOW) are neurobehaviorally more typically adult. The development of play fighting in male and female rats of both selected lines was studied. Given the apparent association of juvenility and play often noted in the literature for mammals in general, it was predicted that the FAST rats should be more playful and be more likely to retain the juvenile tactics of play that lead to more prolonged and complex patterns of social contact. As expected, FAST rats initiated more playful attacks and were more likely to defend against attacks than SLOW rats as both juveniles and adults. Unexpectedly, however, both selected lines exhibited patterns of defense that reduced the likelihood of complex and prolonged social contact. Importantly, the two selected lines did so by very different means. The FAST rats did so by avoiding contact whereas the SLOW rats did so by responding in an adult-typical manner that blocks contact. That is, the FAST rats exaggerated the changes typically occurring at puberty whereas the SLOW rats, at all ages, responded in a more adult manner. These data suggest that the different components of play fighting do not change uniformly with changes in the neurobehavioral underpinnings of juvenility.
The highly orchestrated processes that generate the vertebrate inner ear from the otic placode provide an excellent and circumscribed testing ground for fundamental cellular and molecular mechanisms of development. The recent pace of discovery in developmental auditory biology has been unusually rapid, with hundreds of papers published in the past 4 years. This review summarizes studies addressing several key issues that shape our current thinking about inner ear development, with particular emphasis on early patterning events, sensory hair cell specification and planar cell polarity.
Amphiphysin is a major dynamin-binding partner at the synapse; however, its function in fission is unclear. Incubation of large unilamellar liposomes with mice brain cytosol led to massive formation of small vesicles, whereas cytosol of amphiphysin 1 knockout mice was much less efficient in this reaction. Vesicle formation from large liposomes by purified dynamin was also strongly enhanced by amphiphysin. In the presence of liposomes, amphiphysin strongly affected dynamin GTPase activity and the recruitment of dynamin to the liposomes, but this activity was highly dependent on liposome size. Deletion from amphiphysin of its central proline-rich stretch dramatically potentiated its effect on dynamin, possibly by relieving an inhibitory intramolecular interaction. These results suggest a model in which maturation of endocytic pits correlates with the oligomerization of dynamin with either amphiphysin or other proteins with similar domain structure. Formation of these complexes is coupled to the activation of dynamin GTPase activity, thus explaining how deep invagination of the pit leads to fission.
Theoretical models concerning selective attention to emotional stimuli predict heightened vigilance to angry faces in people with heightened trait anxiety or greater activity of the Behavioral Inhibition System (BIS). Recent evidence from electroencephalographic lateralization and affect studies and from studies assessing attentional biases to angry faces suggest, however, that heightened anger and activity of the Behavioral Activation System (BAS) should predict vigilant responding to angry faces. Social anxiety should predict avoidance of angry faces. Results from a masked emotional Stroop task verified these hypotheses, but an unmasked emotional Stroop provided no reliable relations. This dissociation confirms earlier claims that masked emotional Stroop performance is impervious to conscious control over the cognitive-emotional processes, as measured by the Stroop task.
We tested the hypothesis that leptin acts centrally and peripherally by different mechanisms to control peripheral hormones that normally regulate weight homeostasis. The paradigm of selectively increasing leptin transgene expression with a single intracerebroventricular injection of adeno-associated viral vectors encoding leptin (rAAV-lep) or green fluorescent protein (control) in the hypothalamus of mutant leptin-deficient ob/ob and wild-type (wt) mice was employed in these experiments. rAAV-lep injection increased hypothalamic leptin expression in the complete absence of peripheral leptin in ob/ob mice; suppressed body weight and adiposity; voluntarily decreased dark-phase food intake; suppressed plasma levels of adiponectin, TNFalpha, free fatty acids and insulin, concomitant with normoglycemia; and elevated ghrelin levels for extended period. Body weight and plasma levels of leptin and metabolic variables were suppressed to a lesser extent in rAAV-lep wt mice without decreasing food intake. The sustained high leptin transgene expression decreased only the dark-phase phagia in both genotypes, but wt mice escaped from leptin restraint during the lights-on phase, resulting in normal overall food intake. Leptin administration rapidly decreased plasma gastric ghrelin and adipocyte adiponectin but not TNFalpha levels, thereby demonstrating a peripheral restraining action of leptin on the secretion of hormones of varied origins. Whereas ghrelin administration readily stimulated feeding in controls, it was completely ineffective in rAAV-lep-treated wt mice. Thus, leptin expressed locally in the hypothalamus counteracted the central orexigenic effects of peripheral ghrelin. Cumulatively, these results identify newer central and peripheral modulatory influences of leptin on hormonal signals of disparate origin implicated in weight homeostasis and metabolic disorders.
Abnormal hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) activity may provide clues to the neurochemistry of depression. Psychotic depression has one of the highest rates of elevated HPA activity and is most often responsive to the tricyclic class of antidepressants. Because successful treatment resolves HPA as well as psychiatric symptoms, we hypothesized, in light of evidence that tricyclic antidepressants can affect glucocorticoid receptor function, that these drugs would mimic glucocorticoid feedback inhibition of HPA activity. To test this hypothesis, we measured circadian nadir (morning) and peak (evening) as well as restraint stress-induced levels of plasma ACTH and corticosterone in adrenalectomized (ADX) and sham-ADX (Sham) male C57BL/6 mice after 8 wk of imipramine (20 mg/kg/d, ip) or saline treatment. Antidepressant efficacy was confirmed by decreased immobility in forced-swim testing. When glucocorticoids were low or absent, imipramine mimicked glucocorticoid action in inhibiting evening ACTH in ADX mice and tending to inhibit morning corticosterone in Shams. However, when glucocorticoid levels were high, imipramine appeared to interfere with feedback inhibition by increasing post-stress ACTH and tending to increase evening corticosterone in Sham mice. Imipramine also decreased thymus weight in ADX and increased thymus weight in Sham mice. Imipramine stimulated morning ACTH in ADX mice, possibly by mimicking facilitative effects of high glucocorticoids. Short-term imipramine treatment was capable of inducing nuclear translocation of hippocampal glucocorticoid receptors in ADX mice. We conclude that imipramine effects on glucocorticoid-sensitive endpoints in vivo resemble those of a glucocorticoid partial agonist.

The capacity of an early environmental intervention to normalize the behavioural and immunological dysfunctions produced by a stressed pregnancy was investigated. Pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats underwent three 45-min sessions per day of prenatal restraint stress (PS) on gestation days 11-21, and their offspring were assigned to either an enriched-environment or standard living cages throughout adolescence [postnatal days (pnd) 22-43]. Juvenile rats from stressed pregnancies had a prominent depression of affiliative/playful behaviour and of basal circulating CD4 T lymphocytes, CD8 T lymphocytes and T4/T8 ratio. They also showed increased emotionality and spleen and brain frontal cortex levels of pro-inflammatory interleoukin-1beta (IL-1beta) cytokine. A more marked response to cyclophosphamide (CPA: two 2 mg/kg IP injections) induced immunosuppression was also found in prenatal stressed rats. Enriched housing increased the amount of time adolescent PS rats spent in positive species-typical behaviours (i.e. play behaviour), reduced emotionality and reverted most of immunological alterations. In addition to its effects in PS rats, enriched housing increased anti-inflammatory IL-2 and reduced pro-inflammatory IL-1beta production by activated splenocytes, also producing a marked alleviation of CPA-induced immune depression. In the brain, enriched housing increased IL-1beta values in hypothalamus, while slightly normalizing these values in the frontal cortex from PS rats. This is a first indication that an environmental intervention, such as enriched housing, during adolescence can beneficially affect basal immune parameters and rats response to both early stress and drug-induced immunosuppression.
Repeated exposure to cocaine increases the density of dendritic spines on medium spiny neurons in the nucleus accumbens (Acb) and pyramidal cells in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). To determine if this is associated with the development of psychomotor sensitization, rats were given daily i.p. injections of 15 mg/kg of cocaine (or saline) for 8 days, either in their home cage (which failed to induce significant psychomotor sensitization) or in a distinct and relatively novel test cage (which induced robust psychomotor sensitization). Their brains were obtained 2 weeks after the last injection and processed for Golgi-Cox staining. In the Acb core (AcbC) cocaine treatment increased spine density only in the group that developed psychomotor sensitization (i.e. in the Novel but not Home group), and there was a significant positive correlation between the degree of psychomotor sensitization and spine density. In the Acb shell (AcbS) cocaine increased spine density to the same extent in both groups; i.e. independent of psychomotor sensitization. In the mPFC cocaine increased spine density in both groups, but to a significantly greater extent in the Novel group. Furthermore, when rats were treated at Home with a higher dose of cocaine (30 mg/kg), cocaine now induced psychomotor sensitization in this context, and also increased spine density in the AcbC. Thus, the context in which cocaine is experienced influences its ability to reorganize patterns of synaptic connectivity in the Acb and mPFC, and the induction of psychomotor sensitization is associated with structural plasticity in the AcbC and mPFC, but not the AcbS.
The Edinger-Westphal nucleus (EW) is a brain region that has recently been implicated as an important novel neural target for ethanol. Thus, the EW is the only brain region consistently showing elevated c-Fos expression following both voluntary and involuntary ethanol administration. Ethanol-induced c-Fos expression in the EW has been shown to occur in urocortin I-positive neurons. Moreover, previous reports using several genetic models have demonstrated that differences in the EW urocortin I system are correlated with ethanol-mediated behaviours such as ethanol-induced hypothermia and ethanol consumption. The aim of this study was to confirm these relationships using a more direct strategy. Thus, ethanol responses were measured following electrolytic lesions of the EW in male C57BL/6J mice. Both EW-lesioned and sham-operated animals were tested for several ethanol sensitivity measures and ethanol consumption in a two-bottle choice test. The results show that lesions of the EW significantly disrupted ethanol-induced hypothermia, while having no effect on pupillary dilation, locomotor activity or ethanol-induced sedation. In addition, EW-lesioned animals showed significantly lower ethanol preference and total ethanol dose consumed in the two-bottle choice test. EW-lesioned animals also consumed less sucrose than sham-operated animals, but did not have altered preferences for sucrose or quinine in a two-bottle choice test. These data support previously observed genetic correlations between EW urocortin I expression and both ethanol-induced hypothermia and ethanol consumption. Taken together, the findings suggest that the EW may function as a sensor for ethanol, which can influence ethanol consumption and preference.
The depression of excitatory synaptic transmission by hypoxia in area CA1 of the hippocampus is largely dependent upon the activation of adenosine A(1) receptors on presynaptic glutamatergic terminals. As well as adenosine, norepinephrine levels increase in the hypoxic/ischemic hippocampus. We sought to determine the influence of alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor (AR) activation on the hypoxic depression of synaptic transmission utilizing electrophysiological, pharmacological and adenosine sensor techniques. Norepinephrine depressed synaptic transmission and significantly accelerated the hypoxic depression of synaptic transmission. The alpha-AR agonist 6-fluoronorepinephrine mimicked both of these effects whilst the alpha(2)-AR antagonist yohimbine, but not the alpha(1)-AR antagonist urapidil, prevented the actions of 6-fluoronorepinephrine. In contrast, the beta-AR agonist isoproterenol enhanced synaptic transmission and only accelerated the hypoxic depression of transmission in hypoxia-conditioned slices in which the hypoxic release of adenosine is reduced. The effects of isoproterenol were blocked by the non-selective beta-AR antagonist propranolol and the selective beta(1)-AR antagonist betaxolol. Using an enzyme-based adenosine sensor we observed that the application of the beta-AR agonist resulted in increased extracellular adenosine during repeated hypoxia. Our results suggest that alpha(2)-AR activation facilitates the hypoxic depression of synaptic transmission probably via the known alpha(2)-AR-mediated inhibition of presynaptic calcium channels whereas beta(1)-AR activation does so via increased extracellular adenosine and greater activation of inhibitory adenosine A(1) receptors.
Conventional microdialysis methods for measuring acetylcholine (ACh) efflux do not provide sufficient temporal resolution to relate cholinergic transmission to individual stimuli or behavioral responses, or sufficient spatial resolution to investigate heterogeneities in such regulation within a brain region. In an effort to overcome these constraints, we investigated a ceramic-based microelectrode array designed to measure amperometrically rapid changes in extracellular choline as a marker for cholinergic transmission in the frontoparietal cortex of anesthetized rats. These microelectrodes exhibited detection limits of 300 nm for choline and selectivity (&gt; 100 : 1) of choline over interferents such as ascorbic acid. Intracortical pressure ejections of choline (20 mm, 66-400 nL) and ACh (10 and 100 mm, 200 nL) dose-dependently increased choline-related signals that were cleared to background levels within 10 s. ACh, but not choline-induced signals, were significantly attenuated by co-ejection of the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor neostigmine (Neo; 100 mm). Pressure ejections of drugs known to increase cortical ACh efflux, potassium (KCl; 70 mm, 66, 200 nL) and scopolamine (Scop; 10 mm, 200 nL), also markedly increased extracellular choline signals, which again were inhibited by Neo. Scop-induced choline signals were also found to be tetrodotoxin-sensitive. Collectively, these findings suggest that drug-induced increases in current measured with these microelectrode arrays reflect the oxidation of choline that is neuronally derived from the release and subsequent hydrolysis of ACh. Choline signals assessed using enzyme-selective microelectrode arrays may represent a rapid, sensitive and spatially discrete measure of cholinergic transmission.
Extracellular adenosine is dramatically increased during cerebral ischaemia and is considered to be neuroprotective due to its inhibitory effect on synaptic transmission mediated by the adenosine A1 receptor (A1R). We investigated the importance of the A1R in a mouse model of global ischaemia and in a murine hippocampal slice culture model of in vitro ischaemia, using mice with the A1R gene deleted. In brains from mice lacking the A1R, damage induced by global ischaemia was similar to that in wild-type animals. In contrast, treatment with a selective A1R antagonist [8-cyclo-pentyl theophylline (8-CPT)], administered before the ischaemic insult in naive wild-type mice, exacerbated the neuronal damage following global ischaemia. Although the inhibitory action of adenosine on excitatory neurotransmission in hippocampal slices was lost in A1R knockout mice, there was no difference in damage between slices from wild-type and knockout mice after in vitro ischaemia. The results suggest that some effects of the A1R are compensated for in knockout animals.
Cerebellar deficits in multiple sclerosis (MS) tend to persist and can produce significant disability. Although the pathophysiological basis for these deficits is not clear, it was recently reported that the expression of the sensory neuron-specific sodium channel Nav1.8 (which is not normally expressed within the cerebellum) is aberrantly upregulated within Purkinje cells in experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) and in human MS. The expression of Nav1.8 in cultured Purkinje cells has been shown to alter the activity pattern of these cells in vitro by decreasing the number of spikes per conglomerate action potential and by contributing to the production of sustained, pacemaker-like activity upon depolarization, suggesting the hypothesis that, in pathophysiological situations where Nav1.8 is upregulated within Purkinje cells, the pattern of activity in these cells will be altered. In the present study, we examined this hypothesis in vivo in mice with EAE. Our results demonstrate a reduction in the number of secondary spikes per complex spike and irregularity in the temporal organization of secondary spikes in Purkinje cells from mice with EAE in which Nav1.8 is upregulated. We also observed abnormal bursting activity in Purkinje cells from mice with EAE, which was not observed in control animals. These results demonstrate functional changes in Purkinje cells in vivo within their native cerebellar environment in EAE, a model of MS, and support the hypothesis that misexpression of Nav1.8 can contribute to cerebellar deficits in neuroinflammatory disorders by altering the pattern of electrical activity within the cerebellum.
We tested the hypothesis that transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), in addition to its inhibitory action on the corticospinal output, can also exert some inhibitory effect on the transcallosal system connecting the two motor cortices. In seven normal subjects, instructed to keep their right opponens pollicis (OP) muscle fully relaxed and their left OP muscle voluntarily contracted, we used a paired-pulse TMS protocol, to stimulate the left motor cortex. We evaluated the effect of low-intensity conditioning stimulation on the ipsilateral silent period (iSP) elicited by the subsequent test stimulus. Compelling evidence exists to support that this iSP is mediated by the activation of transcallosal motor fibres. Simultaneously, the inhibition of the motor evoked potential (MEP) in the right OP muscle was also investigated. At the interstimulus interval (ISI) of 3 ms, the iSP was significantly (P&lt;0.0001, repeated-measures ANOVA) suppressed by conditioning intensities ranging from 1.2 to 0.6 of MEP threshold. The assessment of the time-course showed that iSP inhibition was present in all the tested subjects only at ISIs of 2 and 3 ms (for each subject P&lt;0.05, repeated-measures ANOVA). Several findings suggest that the suppression of iSP is brought about by the activation of inhibitory mechanisms operating in the stimulated (left) motor cortex. We propose that the assessment of iSP suppression could be a method to study the excitability of intracortical inhibitory circuits in the affected hemisphere of patients with unilateral damage of the corticospinal tract.
Single-cell recording was conducted in the hippocampus of rats that performed a spontaneous alternation task in a modified T-maze. In the central arm of the maze, 4 out of 45 cells (8%) were found that fired selectively depending on which turn the animals would take. This result is in disagreement with a previous study in which two-thirds of cells (22 out of 33) showed a clear bias for direction of turns. The interpretation was that the cells coded information of episodic memory. Our results do not support this hypothesis. Interestingly, over the course of training, an increasing number of cells were found that fired in correlation with the rats' movements. It is proposed that these cells associate egocentric motor information with allocentric spatial information rather than encode episodic memory.
The influence of the brainstem motor system on cerebral motor areas may play an important role in motor control in health and disease. A new approach to investigate this interaction in man is combining acoustic stimulation activating the startle system with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) over the motor cortex. However, it is unclear whether the inhibition of TMS responses following acoustic stimulation occurs at the level of the motor cortex through reticulo-cortical projections or subcortically, perhaps through reticulo-spinal projections. We compared the influence of acoustic stimulation on motor effects elicited by TMS over motor cortical areas to those evoked with subcortical electrical stimulation (SES) through depth electrodes in five patients treated with deep brain stimulation for Parkinson's disease. SES bypasses the motor cortex, demonstrating any interaction with acoustic stimuli at the subcortical level. EMG was recorded from the contralateral biceps brachii muscle. Acoustic stimulation was delivered binaurally through headphones and used as a conditioning stimulus at an interstimulus interval of 50 ms. When TMS was used as the test stimulus, the area and amplitude of the conditioned motor response was significantly inhibited (area: 57.5+/-12.9%, amplitude: 47.9+/-7.4%, as percentage of unconditioned response) whereas facilitation occurred with SES (area: 110.1+/-4.3%, amplitude: 116.9+/-6.9%). We conclude that a startle-evoked activation of reticulo-cortical projections transiently inhibits the motor cortex.
Spatial memory deficits occur earlier in female than male rodents as the animals age, and the cessation of estrous cycle has been suggested to play a role in this phenomenon. We examined the effects of long-term ovariectomy (OVX) and estrogen replacement therapy (ERT) with subcutaneous 17beta-estradiol minipellets on maze learning in aged (24-month-old) female C57BL/6J mice using a win-stay task (1/8 arms baited) in the radial arm maze (RAM) and a position discrimination task in the T-maze. ERT was started 40 days before the behavioral tests both in gonadally intact (sham-operated) and OVX mice. The effect of early OVX on RAM performance was investigated using three different age groups (7, 11 and 24 months) with different OVX durations (4, 8 and 19 months, respectively). ERT reduced the number of reference memory errors in RAM in aged sham-operated and OVX mice, but unlike in young mice (Heikkinen et al., 2002) it had no effect on working memory errors. Furthermore, OVX impaired the performance of aged mice in the T-maze. Comparison across the three age groups and three OVX durations indicated that the memory impairment induced by an early age OVX attenuates as the mice get close to their estropausal age.
Through producing a variety of cytotoxic factors upon activation, microglia are believed to participate in the mediation of neurodegeneration. Intervention against microglial activation may therefore exert a neuroprotective effect. Our previous study has shown that the electro-acupuncture (EA) stimulation at 100 Hz can protect axotomized dopaminergic neurons from degeneration. To explore the underlying mechanism, the effects of 100 Hz EA stimulation on medial forebrain bundle (MFB) axotomy-induced microglial activation were investigated. Complement receptor 3 (CR3) immunohistochemical staining revealed that 24 sessions of 100 Hz EA stimulation (28 days after MFB transection) significantly inhibited the activation of microglia in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) induced by MFB transection. Moreover, 100 Hz EA stimulation obviously inhibited the upregulation of the levels of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and interleukin (IL)-1beta mRNA in the ventral midbrains in MFB-transected rats, as revealed by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). ED1 immunohistochemical staining showed that a large number of macrophages appeared in the substantia nigra (SN) 14 days after MFB transection. The number of macrophages decreased by 47% in the rats that received 12 sessions of EA simulation after MFB transection. These data indicate that the neuroprotective role of 100 Hz EA stimulation on dopaminergic neurons in MFB-transected rats is likely to be mediated by suppressing axotomy-induced inflammatory responses. Taken together with our previous results, this study suggests that the neuroprotective effect of EA on the dopaminergic neurons may stem from the collaboration of its anti-inflammatory and neurotrophic actions.
Chronic exposure to ethanol can cause deficits in learning and memory. It has been suggested that withdrawal is potentially more damaging than the ethanol exposure per se. Therefore, we explored the effect of repeated episodic exposure to ethanol on key regulators of cortical activity, the neurotrophins. Rats were exposed to ethanol via a liquid diet for 3 days per week for 6-24 weeks. Control rats were pair-fed an isocaloric liquid diet or ad libitum fed chow and water. The concentrations of nerve growth factor (NGF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) were determined using enzyme-linked immunosorbant assays (ELISAs). Five telencephalic structures were examined: parietal cortex, entorhinal cortex, hippocampus, the basal nucleus, and the septal nuclei. All five areas expressed each of the three neurotrophins; BDNF was most abundant and NGF the least. The parietal cortex was susceptible to ethanol exposure, NGF and BDNF content increased, and NT-3 content fell, whereas no changes were detectable in the entorhinal cortex. In the hippocampus, the amount all three neurotrophins increased following episodic ethanol exposure. Neurotrophin content in the two segments of the basal forebrain was affected; NGF and NT-3 content in the basal forebrain was reduced and NGF and BDNF content in the septal nuclei was increased by ethanol exposure. In many cases where ethanol had an effect, the change was transient so that by 24 weeks of episodic exposure, no significant changes were evident. Thus, the effects of ethanol are site- and time-dependent. This pattern differs from changes caused by chronic ethanol exposure, hence, neurotrophins must be vulnerable to the effects of withdrawal. Furthermore, the ethanol-induced changes do not appear to fit a model consistent with retrograde regulation, rather they suggest that neurotrophins act through autocrine/paracrine systems.
In the present study we examined the long-term effects of neonatal lesion of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons induced by intracerebroventricular injections of the immunotoxin 192 IgG saporin. Animals were then characterised behaviourally, electrophysiologically and molecularly. Cognitive effects were evaluated in the social transmission of food preferences, a non-spatial associative memory task. Electrophysiological effects were assessed by recording of cortical electroencephalographic (EEG) patterns. In addition, we measured the levels of proteins whose abnormal expression has been associated with neurodegeneration such as amyloid precursor protein (APP), presenilin 1 and 2 (PS-1, PS-2), and cyclooxygenases (COX-1 and COX-2). In animals lesioned on postnatal day 7 and tested 6 months thereafter, memory impairment in the social transmission of food preferences was evident, as well as a significant reduction of choline acetyltransferase activity in hippocampus and neocortex. Furthermore, similar to what observed in Alzheimer-like dementia, EEG cortical patterns in lesioned rats presented changes in alpha, beta and delta activities. Levels of APP protein and mRNA were not affected by the treatment. Levels of hippocampal COX-2 protein and mRNA were significantly decreased whereas COX-1 remained unaltered. PS-1 and PS-2 transcripts were reduced in hippocampus and neocortex. These findings indicate that neonatal and permanent basal forebrain cholinergic hypofunction is sufficient to induce behavioural and neuropathological abnormalities. This animal model could represent a valid tool to evaluate the role played by abnormal cholinergic maturation in later vulnerability to neuropathological processes associated with cognitive decline and, possibly, to Alzheimer-like dementia.
Immune-mediated therapies can reduce the relapse rate in multiple sclerosis. However, there is no clear-cut evidence that any of these therapies substantially alter the long-term outcome for patients with progressive multiple sclerosis. The neurological disability that all too frequently accompanies multiple sclerosis is ultimately due to injury to target cells, principally oligodendroglia, within the nervous system. Recent data suggest that activation of leukemia inhibitory factor-receptor signaling is an important component of a neurobiological response that serves to limit the extent of immune-mediated injury. Therefore, inactivation of this pathway could provide a novel approach to the treatment of demyelinating disease.
ATP is an important extracellular signaling molecule mediating its effects by activation of P2X and P2Y receptors. P2 receptors are expressed during muscle development, and recent findings demonstrate that ATP can regulate myoblast proliferation and differentiation in vitro. However, the role of purinergic signaling during regeneration of injured skeletal muscle has not been investigated. To examine this process in a clinically relevant system, we used the mouse model of muscular dystrophy (mdx), in which muscle degeneration is rapidly followed by regeneration. The latter process, in vivo muscle regeneration, was the focus of this study, and to study the cellular mechanisms involved in it, a parallel study on normal rat skeletal myoblast cultures was conducted. Using immunohistochemistry, RT-PCR, and electrophysiology, we investigated the expression of the P2X1-7 receptor subtypes and the P2Y1,2,4,6 receptors. Experiments in vitro and in vivo demonstrated the sequential expression of the P2X5, P2Y1, and P2X2 receptors during the process of muscle regeneration. The P2X5 and P2Y1 receptors were expressed first on activated satellite cells, and the P2Y1 receptor was also expressed on infiltrating immune cells. Subsequent P2X2 receptor expression on newly formed myotubes showed significant colocalization with AChRs, suggesting a role in regulation of muscle innervation. Thus, this study provides the first evidence for a role for purinergic signaling in muscle regeneration and raises the possibility of new therapeutic strategies in the treatment of muscle disease.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is affecting more people every year due to the increase in elderly population. This disease is characterized by senior plaques, containing aggregated amyloid beta peptide (A beta), and neurofibrillary tangles in the AD brains. The A beta depositions are thought to increase in cellular oxidative stress, which subsequently produces neuronal cell death in the patient s brain, causing loss of memory and, in the latter stages, dementia. Diverse models have been established to test this, &quot;Amyloid Toxicity Hypothesis of AD&quot;. Among these, the use of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans has some advantages. This invertebrate has its entire genome known, as well as numerous gene homologues to those seen in humans. In relationship with the cell model, the nematode gives the benefit of an organismal view of the disease. The nematode's short life span proves useful, when compared with that of mice, allowing mechanistic studies of the disease and pharmacological treatments. Alongside with other laboratories, we have used this in vivo model to correlate the Abeta expression with its toxicity through the observance of the organism's behavior to provide a better understanding of the cellular processes underlining AD.
The mu3 opiate receptor subtype has been characterized by various binding assays as opiate alkaloid selective (e.g. morphine) and opioid peptide (e.g. methionine enkephalin) insensitive. This opiate receptor subtype has been found on human, including cancer cell lines, and invertebrate tissues, demonstrating that it has been conserved during evolution. Furthermore, in numerous reports, this receptor is coupled to constitutive nitric oxide release. In this regard, for example, morphine immune down regulating activities parallels those actions formerly attributed to nitric oxide. We have now identified the mu3 receptor at the molecular level and sequence analysis of the isolated cDNA suggests that it is a novel, alternatively spliced variant of the mu opiate receptor gene (MOR). Furthermore, using Northern blot, reverse transcription coupled to polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and sequence analysis, we have demonstrated the expression of this new mu variant in human vascular tissue, mononuclear cells, polymorphonuclear cells, and human neuroblastoma cells. The presence of this mu splice variant, adds to the growing body of evidence supporting the hypothesis that morphine is an endogenous signaling molecule in neural, immune and vascular systems. In addition to their use in the treatment of pain, opioid peptides appear to be important in the growth regulation of normal and neoplastic tissue. This review will focus on the influence of opiate alkaloids, e.g., morphine, on tumor growth, with emphasis on immuno-regulatory and antiproliferative mechanisms.
Over the last 5 years, physical methods of plasmid delivery have revolutionized the efficiency of nonviral gene transfer, in some cases reaching the efficiencies of viral vectors. In vivo electroporation dramatically increases transfection efficiency for a variety of tissues. Other methods with clinical precedent, pressure-perfusion and ultrasound, also improve plasmid gene transfer. Alternatives such as focused laser, magnetic fields and ballistic (gene gun) approaches can also enhance delivery. As plasmid DNA appears to be a safe gene vector system, it seems likely that plasmid with physically enhanced delivery will be used increasingly in clinical trials.
Introducing exogenous genes into cells is one of the most important molecular techniques to study gene functions. Comparing to other type of cells, neurons are more difficult to transfect with cDNAs because they are very sensitive to microenvironmental changes. Among various gene transfer techniques, the Ca(2+)-phosphate transfection method is one of the most popular tools in neuroscience research because of its low cell toxicity and easiness to use. However, it is well known that the Ca(2+)-phosphate transfection efficiency in neurons is very low, typically in the range of 1-5%, which has limited its applications in gene functional analyses. Here we report a novel Ca(2+)-phosphate transfection protocol that dramatically increased the transfection efficiency by 10-fold, up to 60%, while maintaining low cell toxicity. The critical factors are the formation of homogenous snow-like precipitate with particle size about 1-3 microm and the subsequent removal of the precipitate. Using this new transfection protocol, we were able to routinely transfect single autaptic neurons in hippocampal microisland cultures and combine it with electrophysiology and fluorescent imaging methods to study gene functions. This high efficiency, low toxicity, and simple to use gene transfer method will have a broad application in gene research at the single cell level.
The hippocampus develops from the medial wall of the forming cerebral cortex during embryonic life. Morphogenic signals from the Wnt pathway regulate several events during hippocampal development (Galceran et al.: Development 127:469-482, 2000; Lee et al.: Development 127:457-467, 2000; Zhou et al.: J Neurosci 24:121-126, 2004) and we have previously shown that Wnt receptors from the Frizzled (Fzd) family are expressed in discreet cortical domains during development (Kim et al.: Mech Dev 103:167-172, 2001). We generated transgenic mice using the putative control elements of the Fzd9 gene, normally selectively expressed in the developing and adult hippocampus, driving expression of a marker gene. These mice express LacZ in the brain in the same developmental distribution as endogenous Fzd protein. Postnatally, expression remains strong in the dendritic fields of hippocampal principal cells as well as hippocampal efferent axons. These mice provide a genetic and anatomic tool for analyzing development and reorganization in the hippocampus.
The CD44 transmembrane glycoprotein family has been implicated in cell-cell adhesion and cell signaling in response to components of the extracellular matrix but its role in the nervous system is not understood. CD44 proteins are elevated in Schwann cells and oligodendrocytes following nervous system insults, in inflammatory demyelinating lesions, and in tumors. Here, we tested the hypothesis that elevated CD44 expression influences Schwann cell and oligodendrocyte functions by generating transgenic mice that express CD44 under the control of the 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide-3'-phosphodiesterase (CNPase) promoter. These mice failed to develop peripheral nerve or CNS tumors. However, they did develop severe tremors that were associated with CNS dysmyelination and progressive demyelination. Loss of CNS myelin was not due to alterations in early oligodendrocyte precursor differentiation, proliferation, or survival. Myelination in the PNS appeared normal. In no instance was there any evidence of an inflammatory response that could account for the loss of CNS myelin. These findings suggest that CNPase-CD44 mice are a novel model for noninflammatory progressive demyelinating disease and support a potential role for CD44 proteins expressed by glial cells in promoting demyelination.
Human neural precursors are considered to have widespread therapeutic possibilities on account of their ability to provide large numbers of cells whilst retaining multipotentiality. Application to human demyelinating diseases requires improved understanding of the signalling requirements underlying the generation of human oligodendrocytes from immature cell populations. In this study, we compare and contrast the capacity of neural precursors derived from the developing human and rodent spinal cord to generate oligodendrocytes. We show that the developing human spinal cord (6-12 weeks of gestation) displays a comparable ventrodorsal gradient of oligodendrocyte differentiation potential to the embryonic rodent spinal cord. In contrast, fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2) expanded human neural precursors derived from both isolated ventral or dorsal cultures show a reduced capacity to generate oligodendrocytes, whereas comparable rodent cultures demonstrate a marked increase in oligodendrocyte formation following FGF-2 treatment. In addition, we provide evidence that candidate growth factors suggested from rodent studies, including FGF-2 and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) do not stimulate proliferation of human oligodendrocyte lineage cells. Finally, we show that the in vivo environment of the acutely demyelinating adult rat spinal cord is insufficient to stimulate the differentiation of immature human spinal cord cells to oligodendrocytes. These results provide further evidence for inter-species difference in the capacity of neural precursors to generate oligodendrocytes.

Distributions of arg3.1 and c-fos immunoreactive neurons (IRN) in gerbil auditory cortex (AC) and amygdala showed characteristic differences when comparing systemic application of the tinnitus-eliciting drug salicylate with acoustic stimulation or saline injections. In AC, arg3.1 IRN induced by stimulation focused in regions corresponding to the frequency content of the stimulus. Injections of salicylate (350 mg/kg body weight) led to accumulation of arg3.1 IRN in the high frequency domain, while saline injections produced a diffuse distribution. After all treatments, c-fos IRN outnumbered arg3.1 IRN in AC and showed a broad distribution. In subcortical auditory structures arg3.1 IRN were absent in all but one brain. In ventral cochlear nucleus, c-fos IRN were always found after stimulation and often also after saline injections, whereas none were present when injecting salicylate. Similarly, in inferior colliculus, numbers of c-fos IRN were lowest after salicylate injections. In the amygdala, c-fos and arg3.1 IRN were increased substantially after salicylate injections compared to auditory stimulation or saline injections. In particular in its central nucleus, c-fos and arg3.1 IRN were found exclusively after the tinnitus-inducing treatment, suggesting that coactivation of the AC and the amygdala may by an essential feature of tinnitus-related activation.
In rodents, the nasal cavity contains two separate chemosensory epithelia, the main olfactory epithelium, located in the posterior dorsal aspect of the nasal cavity, and the vomeronasal/accessory olfactory epithelium, located in a capsule in the anterior aspect of the ventral floor of the nasal cavity. Both the main and accessory olfactory systems play a role in detection of biologically relevant odors. The accessory olfactory system has been implicated in response to pheromones, while the main olfactory system is thought to be a general molecular analyzer capable of detecting subtle differences in molecular structure of volatile odorants. However, the role of the two systems in detection of biologically relevant chemical signals appears to be partially overlapping. Thus, while it is clear that the accessory olfactory system is responsive to putative pheromones, the main olfactory system can also respond to some pheromones. Conversely, while the main olfactory system can mediate recognition of differences in genetic makeup by smell, the vomeronasal organ (VNO) also appears to participate in recognition of chemosensory differences between genetically distinct individuals. The most salient feature of our review of the literature is that there are no general rules that allow classification of the accessory olfactory system as a pheromone detector and the main olfactory system as a detector of general odorants. Instead, each behavior must be considered within a specific behavioral context to determine the role of these two chemosensory systems. In each case, one system or the other (or both) participates in a specific behavioral or hormonal response.
It is shown that new model-based electroencephalographic (EEG) methods can quantify neurophysiologic parameters that underlie EEG generation in ways that are complementary to and consistent with standard physiologic techniques. This is done by isolating parameter ranges that give good matches between model predictions and a variety of experimental EEG-related phenomena simultaneously. Resulting constraints range from the submicrometer synaptic level to length scales of tens of centimeters, and from timescales of around 1 ms to 1 s or more, and are found to be consistent with independent physiologic and anatomic measures. In the process, a new method of obtaining model parameters from the data is developed, including a Monte Carlo implementation for use when not all input data are available. Overall, the approaches used are complementary to other methods, constraining allowable parameter ranges in different ways and leading to much tighter constraints overall. EEG methods often provide the most restrictive individual constraints. This approach opens a new, noninvasive window on quantitative brain analysis, with the ability to monitor temporal changes, and the potential to map spatial variations. Unlike traditional phenomenologic quantitative EEG measures, the methods proposed here are based explicitly on physiology and anatomy.
In the past few decades, neural networks have been extensively adopted in various applications ranging from simple synaptic memory coding to sophisticated pattern recognition problems such as scene analysis. Moreover, current studies on neuroscience and physiology have reported that in a typical scene segmentation problem our major senses of perception (e.g., vision, olfaction, etc.) are highly involved in temporal (or what we call &quot;transient&quot;) nonlinear neural dynamics and oscillations. This paper is an extension of the author's previous work on the dynamic neural model (EGDLM) of memory processing and on composite neural oscillators for scene segmentation. Moreover, it is inspired by the work of Aihara et al. and Wang on chaotic neural oscillators in pattern association. In this paper, the author proposes a new transient chaotic neural oscillator, namely the &quot;Lee oscillator,&quot; to provide temporal neural coding and an information processing scheme. To illustrate its capability for memory association, a chaotic autoassociative network, namely the Transient-Chaotic Auto-associative Network (TCAN) was constructed based on the Lee oscillator. Different from classical autoassociators such as the celebrated Hopfield network, which provides a &quot;time-independent&quot; pattern association, the TCAN provides a remarkable progressive memory association scheme [what we call &quot;progressive memory recalling&quot; (PMR)] during the transient chaotic memory association. This is exactly consistent with the latest research in psychiatry and perception psychology on dynamic memory recalling schemes.
We discuss the biological plausibility and computational efficiency of some of the most useful models of spiking and bursting neurons. We compare their applicability to large-scale simulations of cortical neural networks.
Responses of vestibular primary afferent neurons to head rotation exhibit fractional-order dynamics. As a consequence, the head tends to be in a localized region of its state-space at spike times of a particular neuron during arbitrary head movements, and single spikes can be interpreted as state measurements. We are developing a model of neural computations underlying trajectory prediction and control tasks, based on this experimental observation. This is a step toward a formal neural calculus in which single spikes are modeled realistically as the operands of neural computation.
We present a solution for the steady-state output rate of an ideal coincidence detector receiving an arbitrary number of excitatory and inhibitory inputspike trains. All excitatory spike trains have identical binomial count distributions (which includes Poisson statistics as a special case) and arbitrary pairwise cross correlations between them. The same applies to the inhibitory inputs, and the rates and correlation functions of excitatory and inhibitory populations may be the same or different from each other. Thus, for each population independently, the correlation may range from complete independence to perfect correlation (identical processes). We find that inhibition, if made sufficiently strong, will result in an inverted U-shaped curve for the output rate of a coincidence detector as a function of input rates for the case of identical inhibitory and excitory input rates. This leads to the prediction that higher presynaptic (input) rates may lead to lower postsynaptic (output) rates where the output rate may fall faster than the inverse of the input rate, and shows some qualitative similarities to the case of purely excitatory inputs with synaptic depression. In general, we find that including inhibition invariably and significantly increases the behavioral repertoire of the coincidence detector over the case of pure excitatory input.
The identification of anxiety and depressive disorders in tinnitus patients is important from a therapeutic point of view. We have addressed this question by investigating the screening performance of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HAD) in a consecutive series of tinnitus patients (n = 82) without severe socially disabling hearing loss referred to an audiological clinic. The structured clinical interview for DSM-III criteria was used as the gold standard. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were used to compare the screening abilities of the HAD subscales for anxiety and depression and the total HAD Scale. The ROC analysis showed that the HAD Scale was better at detecting depression than anxiety disorders in tinnitus patients. The optimal cut-off score for the subscales was &gt; or = 5 when we were screening for any anxiety or depressive disorder as well as for major depression. The performance of the HAD depression subscale was superior, especially when we were screening for major depression only (sensitivity 1.00; specificity 0.75). The findings of the study suggest that the HAD Scale is more useful for screening for depression than for anxiety disorders in tinnitus patients
Sulfotransferase catalyzes the transfer of sulfate, donated by 3'-phosphoadenosine-5'-phosphosulfate, to an acceptor substrate that may be a hydroxy group or an amine group. Man is exposed daily to drugs and dietary chemicals that can inhibit sulfotransferase activity. The aim of this study was to review the literature concerning the inhibition of sulfotransferases by drugs and dietary chemicals in the human liver and duodenum. The IC50 value of mefenamic acid for human liver phenol sulfotransferase (SULT 1A1) was 0.02 microM and for human liver catechol sulfotransferase (SULT1A3) 76 microM with a SULT 1A3/SULT1A1 ratio for the IC50 of 3,800. Mefenamic acid is therefore a potent and selective inhibitor of human liver SULT1A1. The IC50 values of mefenamic acid for the sulfation rates of (-)-salbutamol and (-)-apomorphine were 4 orders of magnitude greater in the human duodenum than in the liver. Salicylic acid inhibited the sulfation of (-)-apomorphine in human liver with an IC50 of 54 gM but did not inhibit the sulfation of (-)-apomorphine in human duodenum. Quercetin, a flavonoid present in edible fruit, vegetable and wine, was a potent inhibitor of human liver SULT1A1 and estrogen sulfotransferase (EST) activities and the sulfation of resveratrol. Quercetin inhibited the sulfation of dopamine, (-)-salbutamol, minoxidil and paracetamol and the IC50 values were 1 - 2 orders of magnitude greater in human duodenum than in the liver. In conclusion, mefenamic acid, salicylic acid and quercetin inhibit SULT1A1 whereas SULT1A3 is relatively resistant to the inhibition by these compounds. Under particular circumstances, human duodenum sulfotransferase is more resistant than liver sulfotransferase to the inhibition by mefenamic acid, salicylic acid and quercetin.
Proliferation and cord formation by embryonic Sertoli cells are pivotal events involved in testis morphogenesis. A number of growth factors have been implicated in mediating these events. However, the exact level of involvement and importance of each as yet remains elusive. We have adopted an in vitro approach to assess developing mouse Sertoli cells, whereby they are cultured in the presence or absence of fibroblast growth factor (FGF9) and/or extracellular matrix (ECM) gel, since previous studies have shown that ECM gel aids Sertoli cell differentiation. The present findings corroborate this effect, but in addition demonstrate that in the presence of FGF9 (10 ng/ml), cells undergo greater proliferation than those cultured on gel alone. They also display a differentiated epithelial phenotype, with appositional contact of cell membranes in cord-like aggregations. In addition we have shown that cultured Sertoli cells generally express a smaller truncated, nuclear form of the FGFr3, although in the presence of FGF9 and absence of gel, the larger, cytoplasmic form of the receptor is also expressed. Immunolocalisation of FGFr3 in Sertoli cells of whole testes revealed a temporal expression pattern profile, with high levels being abundant in the embryonic testicular cords and at puberty, but an absence in adult Sertoli cells. Our findings suggest that FGF9 plays an important role in proliferation and organisation of embryonic Sertoli cells during testis morphogenesis.

Throughout the history of medicine we have seen the progression of medical therapies from the empirical to the counter-intuitive, with much pressure being placed upon the scientific community to distinguish the two. This exercise has proven the effectiveness of numerous modern therapeutic techniques that have been adapted into modern medicine with remarkable success. While it is certain that many of these techniques yield beneficial results, the mechanisms by which these results are achieved have not been fully realized. In the present report, we consider the case of osteopathic manipulative medicine (OMM), which represents a therapeutic technique developed over a century ago as a means of non-invasive treatment for numerous ailments. Our intention is to use current findings from our laboratory, as well as those of our colleagues in the area of nitric oxide (NO) research to explain the mechanism through which osteopathic manipulations aid the patient. These reports demonstrate that fluidic motions applied to vascular and nerve tissue in a manner comparable to manipulations can cause a remarkable increase in NO concentration within the blood and vasculature. These findings combined with the overwhelming amount of research into the beneficial effects of constitutive NO provide a dynamic theoretical framework to explain the therapeutic effects of OMM.
The phosphorylation of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase (CaMK) II, induced by an increase in the intracellular Ca2+ concentration, is involved in the alteration of brain functions such as memory formation. In the present study, we examined the influence of various immobilization stress paradigms on the phosphorylation of CaMKII (phospho-CaMKII) and CaMKII levels in the rat hippocampus. Immunoblot and immunohistochemical analyses were performed to examine the levels of CaMKII and phospho-CaMKII. Real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was performed to analyse the mRNA levels of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor subtypes. Acute (single) and repeated (4 d), but not chronic (14 d), stress exposure of 45 min or longer duration significantly increased phospho-CaMKII levels without affecting the levels of CaMKII. Pre-treatment with NBQX, a selective AMPA receptor antagonist, significantly prevented this stress-induced increase. In contrast, two NMDA receptor antagonists, LY235959 and MK-801, showed no inhibitory effect on phospho-CaMKII levels during acute stress. Neither acute nor chronic stress changed mRNA levels of NMDA and AMPA receptors. These results demonstrate that immobilization stress promotes the phosphorylation of CaMKII. The increase in the intracellular Ca2+ concentration by the activation of AMPA receptors may play a role in the stress-induced phospho-CaMKII in the rat hippocampus.
The objective of this study was to assess whether treatment with sustained-release bupropion (Wellbutrin-SR) produces alterations in electroencephalographic (EEG) sleep that are associated with clinical response to the drug. EEG sleep was measured in 20 patients with unipolar major depressive disorder before and after treatment with sustained-release bupropion. Each EEG sleep session consisted of two consecutive nights. Treatment with bupropion lasted for 8 wk. Compared to EEG sleep measures at baseline, treatment with bupropion significantly lengthened REM latency, increased REM activity and density during the first REM period, and increased total REM density. Differential response to treatment was associated with changes in REM activity and density, but not with REM latency. However, in contrast to many other antidepressants, REM sleep was not suppressed.
A total of 11 men and women were exposed for 5 min each to six different temporal configurations of pulsed magnetic fields that were delivered through serial activation of 8 solenoids in a counterclockwise direction around the head within the horizontal plane above the ears. Twenty-second samples of quantitative electroencephalographic activity within the delta, theta, lower alpha, upper alpha, beta, and gamma regions were collected after each configuration had been activated for 2.5 min. Only the circumcerebral presentation of the first pulse for 25 ms followed by an acceleration of +2 ms to each of the other 7 solenoids (the last duration = 11 ms) resulted in a significant increase in power within the gamma range (35 Hz to 45 Hz) over both frontal and occipital lobes but not over the parietal or temporal lobes. These results suggest topical application of specific spatial-temporal configurations of magnetic fields may affect the recursive creation of the rostral-caudal waves of cohesive fields that might produce consciousness.
Scaling methodology represents a problem in assessments of activities of daily living (ADL) and little is known about how the results of these assessments are affected by data treatment principles and statistical methods. The aims of this paper are to: (i) describe alternative ways of transforming a response pattern on ADL into a single number; and (ii) to present and compare different ways of analysing both changes in ADL capacity from one occasion to another and also differences in ADL between one group and another. Three datasets based on assessments with the ADL Staircase were used. Four different data treatment principles were described and the development of a novel principle to transform response patterns into ranks was put forward. Thereafter, different paired-data cases and two-sample cases were analysed, using different statistical standard methods to explore possible variations in results. The results demonstrated a few marked differences among P values, no matter which data treatment principle or statistical method was used. That is, different principles and methods yield similar results in terms of P values, although there are important differences as regards selection bias. Principles and methods respecting the ordinal character of ADL data encourage the use of non-parametric methods and the novel rank principle presented here is a useful alternative.




Western Atlantic sciaenids comprise a taxonomically diverse teleost family with significant variations in the relationship between the swim bladder and the otic capsule. In this study, the auditory brainstem response (ABR) was used to test the hypothesis that fishes with different peripheral auditory structures (black drum, Pogonias chromis and Atlantic croaker, Micropogonias undulatus) show differences in frequency selectivity. In a black drum the swim bladder is relatively distant from the otic capsule while the swim bladder in Atlantic croaker possesses anteriorly-directed diverticulas that terminate relatively near the otic capsule. Signals were pure tones in the frequency range, 100 Hz to 1.5 kHz, and thresholds were determined both with and without the presence of simultaneous white noise at two intensity levels (124 dB and 136 dB, re: 1 microPa). At the 124 dB level of white noise background, both the black drum and Atlantic croaker showed similar changes in auditory sensitivity. However, in the presence of the 136 dB white noise masker, black drum showed significantly greater shifts in auditory thresholds between 300 and 600 Hz. The results indicate that the two species differ in frequency selectivity since the Atlantic croaker was less susceptible to auditory threshold shifts, particularly at the higher level of masking. This difference may be linked to peripheral auditory mechanisms.
Compensatory behavior such as oculomotor, gaze, and postural responses that occur during movement largely depend upon a functioning vestibular system. In the present study, the initial loss and subsequent recovery of postural and head stability in pigeons undergoing vestibular regeneration were examined. Adult pigeons were trained to manipulate a straight run chamber to peck an illuminated key for fluid reward. Six behavioral measures assessing performance, posture, and head stability were quantified. These included run latency, steps (walking), path negotiation (lane changes), gaze saccades, head bobs, and head shakes. Once normative values were obtained for four birds, complete lesion of all receptor cells and denervation of the epithelia in the vestibular endorgans were produced using a single intralabyrinthine application of streptomycin sulfate. Each bird was then tested at specific times during regeneration and the same behavioral measures examined. At 7 days post-streptomycin treatment (PST), all birds exhibited severe postural and head instability, with tremors, head shakes, staggering, and circling predominating. No normal trial runs, walking, gaze saccades, or head bobs were present. Many of these dysfunctions persisted through 3-4 weeks PST. Gradually, tremor and head shakes diminished and were replaced with an increasing number of normal head bobs during steps and gaze saccades. Beginning at 4 weeks PST, but largely inaccurate, was the observed initiation of directed steps, less staggering, and some successful path negotiation. As regeneration progressed, spatial orientation and navigation ability increased and, by 49 days PST, most trials were successful. By 70 days PST, all birds had recovered to pretreatment levels. Thus, it was observed that ataxia must subside, coincident with normalized head and postural stability prior to the recovery of spatial orientation and path navigation recovery. Parallels in recovery were drawn to hair cell regeneration and afferent responsiveness, as inferred from present results and those in other investigations.
We present a method to optically measure and image the membrane potential of neurons, using the nonlinear optical phenomenon of second harmonic generation (SHG) with a photopigment retinal as the chromophore [second harmonic retinal imaging of membrane potential (SHRIMP)]. We show that all-trans retinal, when adsorbed to the plasma membrane of living cells, can report on the local electric field via its change in SHG. Using a scanning mode-locked Ti-sapphire laser, we collect simultaneous two-photon excited fluorescence (TPEF) and SHG images of retinal-stained kidney cells and cultured pyramidal neurons. Patch clamp experiments on neurons stained with retinal show an increase of 25% in SHG intensity per 100-mV depolarization. Our data are the first demonstration of optical measurements of membrane potential of mammalian neurons with SHG. SHRIMP could have wide applicability in neuroscience and, by modifying rhodopsin, could in principle be subject for developing genetically engineered voltage sensors.
Electroacupuncture (EAc) possesses a broad therapeutic effect, including improvement of sleep disturbances. The mechanism of sleep improvement with EAc, however, is still unclear. The present study investigated the effects of EAc stimulation of 'Anmian (extra)' acupoints on sleep organization and the implication of an active structure, the caudal nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS). Rats were implanted with electroencephalogram (EEG) recording electrodes, and 32-gauge acupuncture needles were bilaterally inserted into 'Anmian (extra)' acupoints in the rats, followed by electrical stimulation for 20 min. Twenty-three-hour continuous EEGs were then recorded. Results showed that rapid eye movement sleep (REMS) was enhanced during the dark period when a single EAc stimulation was given 25 min prior to the onset of the dark period. REMS and slow-wave sleep (SWS) increased during the dark period after administration of EAc stimuli on 2 consecutive days. Electrical stimulation of non-acupoints produced no change in the sleep pattern. Pharmacological blockade of muscarinic cholinergic receptors by systemic administration of scopolamine dose-dependently attenuated EAc-induced changes in REMS and SWS. Furthermore, electrical lesions in the bilateral caudal NTS produced significant blockade of EAc-induced sleep enhancement. However, in rats without EAc, scopolamine increased SWS during the dark period, but caudal NTS lesions did not alter sleep. In addition, neither EAc nor scopolamine with EAc manipulation produced any change in the slow-wave activity (SWA) during SWS; however, the SWA during SWS was significantly reduced after caudal NTS lesion with EAc. These results suggest that the caudal NTS may be involved in the regulation of EAc-induced sleep alterations.
The direction of the chemical reaction of ATP synthetase is reversible. The present study was designed to determine whether mitochondria produce or consume ATP during ischemia. For this purpose, changes in mitochondrial membrane potential were measured in vivo at the site of a direct current (DC) electrode using a potentiometric dye, 5,5',6,6'-tetrachloro-1,1',3,3'-tetraethylbenzimidazolylcarbocyanine iodide (JC-1), and a rat model of focal ischemia. Two microL of dye (control group) or dye with oligomycin, an ATP synthetase inhibitor (oligomycin group), was injected into the parietotemporal cortex through the DC electrode. With the initiation of ischemia, a decrease in mitochondrial potential was observed within 20 seconds in the oligomycin group (earlier than the onset of DC deflection, P = 0.02). In contrast, in the control group, mitochondrial potential was maintained at 91 +/- 5% of the preischemia level for 118 +/- 38 seconds before showing full depolarization simultaneously with DC deflection. During the period of ischemia, the mitochondrial potential was higher in the control group (66 +/- 9%) than in the oligomycin group (46 +/- 8%, P = 0.0002), whereas DC potential was lower in the control group (-18 +/- 3) than in the oligomycin group (-15 +/- 2 mV, P = 0.04). These observations suggest that mitochondria consume ATP during ischemia by reversing ATP synthetase activity, which compromises cellular membrane potential by consuming ATP.
Caspases are cysteine proteases involved in apoptotic pathways. Excess endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, induced by the accumulation of unfolded or malfolded proteins, activates various apoptotic pathways. Crosstalk between the mitochondria and ER plays an essential role in ER stress-mediated cell death. The cytochrome c-dependent apoptotic pathway is activated by ER stress. On the other hand, caspase-12, which is located at the ER, is also activated by excess ER stress and results in cell death in the absence of the cytochrome c-dependent pathway. The predominant apoptotic pathway may differ among cell type and differentiation stage.
Recent studies have suggested that neuronal death in Alzheimer's disease (AD) or ischemia could arise from dysfunction of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Inhibition of protein glycosylation, perturbation of calcium homeostasis, and reduction of disulfide bonds provoke accumulation of unfolded protein in the ER, and are called 'ER stress'. Normal cells respond to ER stress by increasing transcription of genes encoding ER-resident chaperones such as GRP78/BiP, to facilitate protein folding or by suppressing the mRNA translation to synthesize proteins. These systems are termed the unfolded protein response (UPR). Familial Alzheimer's disease-linked presenilin-1 (PS1) mutation downregulates the unfolded protein response and leads to vulnerability to ER stress. The mechanisms by which mutant PS1 affects the ER stress response are attributed to the inhibited activation of ER stress transducers such as IRE1, PERK and ATF6. On the other hand, in sporadic Alzheimer's disease (sAD), we found the aberrant splicing isoform (PS2V), generated by exon 5 skipping of the Presenilin-2 (PS2) gene transcript, responsible for induction of high mobility group A1a protein (HMGA1a). The PS2V also downregulates the signaling pathway of the UPR, in a similar fashion to that reported for mutants of PS1 linked to familial AD. It was clarified what molecules related to cell death are activated in the case of AD and we discovered that caspase-4 plays a key role in ER stress-induced apoptosis. Caspase-4 also seems to act upstream of the beta-amyloid-induced ER stress pathway, suggesting that activation of caspase-4 might mediate neuronal cell death in AD.
We employed in situ hybridization and quantitative densitometry techniques to examine hippocampal mRNA expression of GABA(A) receptor subunits alpha1 and alpha5 in human subjects with progressing cognitive impairment. Included in this study were 17 participants of the Religious Order Study (ROS), who were categorized into three groups based upon degree of cognitive impairment: no cognitive impairment (n = 6); moderate cognitive impairment (n = 5); and probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) (n = 6). While the levels of each specific subunit mRNA were relatively homogeneously distributed throughout the five hippocampal subregions analyzed (CA1-4, and the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus), mRNA expression of the alpha1 receptor subunit was found to be 20% reduced in the moderate cognitive impairment group as compared to the no cognitive impairment group. In addition, alpha1 mRNA expression was 25% reduced in the probable Alzheimer's disease group compared to the group with no cognitive impairment. Similarly, alpha5 subunit mRNA was reduced 32% between no cognitive impairment and moderate cognitive impairment groups, and 35% between no cognitive impairment and probable Alzheimer's disease groups. No significant reductions were found between moderate cognitive impairment and probable Alzheimer's disease groups for either subunit. Collectively, our data provide evidence for modest reductions in GABA(A) receptor subunit mRNAs, and suggest these changes occur very early in the progression of Alzheimer's disease cognitive impairment.
Subspecies of Trypanosoma brucei cause severe brain diseases after penetration of the blood-brain barrier. We investigated whether cytokines that modulate inflammatory cell infiltration into the brain also influence T. brucei neuroinvasion. Migration of a rodent pathogenic T. brucei strain from the cerebral blood vessels into the brain parenchyma was impeded in IFN-gamma(-/-), IFN-gamma receptor(-/-) (IFN-gammaR(-/-)), IL-12p40(-/-), and recombinant activating gene-1(-/-) (RAG-1(-/-)) mice as compared with their WT littermates despite higher levels of parasitemia in the mutant strains. Parasites accumulated in the perivascular compartment, confined between the endothelial and the parenchymal basement membranes, in certain areas of the brains of IFN-gamma(-/-), IFN-gammaR(-/-), and RAG-1(-/-) mice. This accumulation occurred around endothelial basement membranes containing the laminin alpha4 chain, while blood vessels showing robust laminin alpha5 chain immunostaining were not associated with parasite infiltration. The number of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells infiltrating the brain parenchyma was also reduced in the IFN-gamma(-/-) and IFN-gammaR(-/-) mice. Our findings suggest that lymphocyte-derived IFN-gamma facilitates trypanosome penetration across cerebral blood vessels and that the site of penetration is determined by the composition of the basement membranes of these vessels.
There is physiologic coupling of EEG morphology, frequencies, and amplitudes with cerebral blood flow. Intraoperative continuous electroencephalographic monitoring (CEEG) is an established modality that has been used for 30 years to detect cerebral ischemia during carotid surgery. These facts have generated interest in applying EEG/CEEG in the intensive care unit to monitor cerebral ischemia. However, its use in acute ischemic stroke (AIS) has been limited, and its value has been questioned in comparison with modern MRI imaging techniques and the clinical neurologic examination. This review presents evidence that EEG/CEEG adds value to early diagnosis, outcome prediction, patient selection for treatment, clinical management, and seizure detection in AIS. Research studies correlating EEG/CEEG and advanced imaging techniques in AIS are encouraged. Improvements in real-time ischemia detection systems are needed for EEG/CEEG to have wider application in AIS.
Epidural haematomas are usually associated with preceding head trauma. The entity of non-traumatic spontaneous acute epidural haematoma is rare and most commonly occurs in the presence of infectious disease. It can also occur in the presence of coagulopathy, vascular malformations of the dura mater and haemorrhagic tumours. Sickle cell disease, systemic lupus erythematosus, open heart surgery and haemodialysis have also been implicated as causative factors. The authors report two cases of spontaneous epidural haematomas (one of unknown aetiology and one from a coagulation disorder) and discuss the aetiological agents involved in this rarely described condition.
Supratentorial hematoma following infratentorial surgery is rare. We present two such patients with remote site supratentorial hematoma after posterior fossa surgery. In one patient, a supratentorial hematoma developed following surgery for an acoustic tumor. The supratentorial hematoma was located near where a supratentorial meningioma was excised five days before. No hematoma was seen on the immediate postoperative CT scan. In another patient there were two tumors, one in the pons and the other in the basal ganglia. This patient developed a basal ganglia hematoma following brain stem surgery. In both the patients, hematological profile revealed a coagulation abnormality following the posterior fossa surgery. Our first case stabilized conservative management, whereas the second required surgical evacuation of the hematoma. The differential diagnosis of declining level of consciousness after posterior fossa surgery must include supratentorial intracerebral hemorrhage and CT scan of the head is the diagnostic test of choice.

Since most centers in developing countries have limited facilities for investigation of patients with muscular dystrophies and similar disorders, this study was conducted with the aim of assessing the correlation between clinical, electromyographic (EMG) and histopathological findings in this group. We included 100 patients with muscular dystrophy and clinically similar disorders and subjected them to detailed clinical, electrophysiological and histopathological as well as immunohistochemical evaluation. Sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values and concordance rates for clinical and EMG diagnosis compared to diagnosis after histopathological examination were analyzed. With histopathology as standard, clinical diagnosis and a concordant EMG have very high sensitivity and negative predictive value (100%), but low specificity (33.3%). We conclude that detailed histopathological evaluation with immunohistochemical analysis is essential for the work-up of patients with suspected muscular dystrophies, since occasionally treatable muscle disorders like inflammatory myopathies can be detected when not suspected clinically. Muscle biopsies should only be conducted at major centers where full histochemical facilities are available.

The monoamines, dopamine, epinephrine, histamine, norepinephrine, octopamine, serotonin and tyramine serve many functions in animals. Many different venoms have evolved to manipulate monoaminergic systems via a variety of cellular mechanisms, for both offensive and defensive purposes. One common function of monoamines present in venoms is to produce pain. Some monoamines in venoms cause immobilizing hyperexcitation which precedes venom-induced paralysis or hypokinesia. A common function of venom components that affect monoaminergic systems is to facilitate distribution of other venom components by causing vasodilation at the site of injection or by increasing heart rate. Venoms of some scorpions, spiders, fish and jellyfish contain adrenergic agonists or cause massive release of catecholamines with serious effects on the cardiovascular system, including increased heart rate. Other venom components act as agonists, antagonists or modulators at monoaminergic receptors, or affect release, reuptake or synthesis of monoamines. Most arthropod venoms have insect targets, yet, little attention has been paid to possible effects of these venoms on monoaminergic systems in insects. Further research into this area may reveal novel effects of venom components on monoaminergic systems at the cellular, systems and behavioral levels.
The anatomical connectivity of the nervous system of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans has been almost completely described, but determination of the neurophysiological basis of behavior in this system is just beginning. Here we used an optimization algorithm to search for patterns of connectivity sufficient to compute the sensorimotor transformation underlying C. elegans chemotaxis, a simple form of spatial orientation behavior in which turning probability is modulated by the rate of change of chemical concentration. Optimization produced differentiator networks capable of simulating chemotaxis. A surprising feature of these networks was inhibitory feedback connections on all neurons. Further analysis showed that feedback regulates the latency between sensory input and behavior. Common patterns of connectivity between the model and biological networks suggest new functions for previously identified connections in the C. elegans nervous system.


Hemolymph glucose level is controlled by crustacean Hyperglycemic Hormone (cHH) released from the eyestalk neuroendocrine centers under conditions of both physiological and environmental stress. Biogenic amines and enkephalin have been found to mediate the release of several neurohormones from crustacean neuroendocrine tissue. We investigated the effect of serotonin, dopamine, and Leucine-enkephalin in vivo--injected into the stomatopod Squilla mantis and the decapod Astacus leptodactylus--whether increasing or depressing glycemia. Serotonin had a marked effect in elevating glucose level compared with initial values in both species. 5-HT1-like receptors are more involved in mediating serotonin action as co-injected cyproheptadine was a more effective antagonist than ketanserin (5-HT2-like receptor inhibitor). Dopamine injection in intact animals produced a decrease below initial levels of hemolymph glucose. This effect was significantly antagonized by domperidone. No significant effect of both amines occurred in eyestalkless animals. L-enkephalin shows a differential effect: in S. mantis it induced hypoglycemia while in A. leptodactylus it caused an increase of glucose level. Co-injected antagonist naloxone affected the direction of the response. Serotonin appears to provide a major control on glucose mobilization, whereas dopamine and L-enkephalin act as modulators whose plasticity in use or action varies among species.

This review deals with the range of neuropsychiatric problems that may arise from the use of medical and surgical therapies in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. As new approaches emerge, these problems are diversifying. Well-recognized drug-related complications include hallucinations and psychosis and the so-called dopamine-dysregulation syndrome. The etiology of these problems has not been fully established and is not clearly dose related, while the management can be difficult and needs to be tailored to the individual patient. Cholinergic and dopaminergic drugs may both influence cognitive function. The development of pharmacogenetics could improve the therapeutic ratio of medical approaches to PD in the future. The literature relating to the neuropsychiatric issues complicating the surgical treatment of Parkinson's disease is more recent and frequently suffers from methodological problems, lack of a systematic approach, and adequate patient follow-up. The emergence of neuropsychiatric problems in association with surgery has shed new light upon the pathophysiological mechanisms underpinning these symptoms. Depression, hypomania, euphoria, mirth, and hypersexuality have all been described following deep brain stimulation procedures, although most studies have concentrated upon the depressive features. Anxiety has been described only rarely to date. Fortunately, permanent cognitive complications appear to be rare. The optimal management approach for surgically related neuropsychiatric problems is unknown at present. Prospective multicenter studies would contribute significantly to resolving this therapeutic uncertainty.


Clinical examination of the reliability and coherence of the evidence concerning modern neurochemical theories of mental disorders has led some scholars to conclude that support for many of these theories is weak. Nevertheless, these theories continue to be widely promoted. One explanation that has been offered for continued adherence to questionable theory is that it stimulates and gives direction to research. The heuristic value of theory is examined in the present paper by tracing the discoveries that followed from an old theory of schizophrenia, which is--by current consensus--false. It is shown that the original serotonin hypothesis of schizophrenia did, in fact, lead to significant advances in neuropharmacology, neurology and psychiatry.
Severe experimental autoimmune myocarditis and subsequent dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) were successfully produced in Lewis rats by immunization with recombinant cardiac C protein. Seventy-five percent of immunized rats died between days 15 and 49 postimmunization, and all of the survived rats showed typical DCM characterized by the presence of ventricular dilatation and extensive fibrosis. Immunopathological and chemokine analysis during the acute phase revealed that there were marked macrophage infiltration with myocyte necrosis and up-regulation of MCP-1 and IFN-gamma-inducible protein-10 (IP-10). Based on these findings, we prepared plasmid DNAs encoding the binding site of CCR2 and CXCR3, which are receptors for MCP-1 and IP-10, respectively. The culture supernatant of cells transfected with these DNAs inhibited the migration of T cells and macrophages induced by MCP-1 and IP-10. Remarkably, administration of the DNAs to C protein-immunized rats prevented the disease progression and rescued animals from death. The present study has demonstrated for the first time that gene therapy targeting the chemokine receptor could be a powerful tool for the control of experimental autoimmune myocarditis and DCM.
Autopsy studies were undertaken in a 47-year-old college-educated male patient who, 7 months prior to an unexpected death, had sustained a mild traumatic brain injury (TBI) as manifested by brief loss of consciousness and an initial Glasgow Coma Scale score of 14. The patient died from cardiac arrest secondary to an undiagnosed and unknown arteriosclerotic cardiovascular disease as assessed by the coroners office at the time of autopsy. Gross inspection of the brain at autopsy was normal; however, microscopic analysis demonstrated what were considered trauma findings of hemosiderin-laden macrophages in the perivascular space and macrophages in the white matter, particularly the section taken from the frontal lobe. The patient had partially returned to work at the time of death, but had encountered problems with diminished cognitive performance in his work as an appraiser. Neuropsychological studies were generally within normal limits although several tests of either speed of processing or short-term memory showed lower than expected performance. This case demonstrates the presence of subtle neuropathological changes in the brain of a patient who sustained a mild TBI and was still symptomatic for the residual effects of the injury 7 months post injury when he unexpectedly died.
Little is known about possible differences in the memory deficits that occur in Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). We compared 24 autopsy-confirmed DLB and 24 age-, education-, and MMSE-matched autopsy-confirmed AD patients on the California Verbal Learning Test (CVLT) and the Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised Logical Memory subtest. The DLB and AD groups were similarly impaired on CVLT Total Learning (Trials 15) and Long Delayed Free Recall, but the DLB group demonstrated relative improvement in Savings scores and on recognition testing compared to the AD group. Likewise, the patient groups were equally impaired on Logical Memory immediate and delayed recall, but the DLB group's Saving scores were significantly better than those of the AD patients. These results indicate that while both DLB and AD patients exhibit significant memory impairment, the ability to consolidate information may be less severely impaired in DLB patients than in AD patients.
Under the assumption that nervous systems form a distinct category among the objects in Nature, applying metaphors of psychological and behavioral science disciplines is flawed and invites confusion. Moreover, such practices obscure and detract from the primary task of Neurophysiology: to investigate the intrinsic properties of nervous systems, uncontaminated with concepts borrowed from other disciplines.
A correct clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) early in the course of the disease is of importance to initiate symptomatic treatment with acetylcholine esterase inhibitors, and will be even more important when disease-arresting drugs, such as beta-sheet breakers or gamma-secretase inhibitors, will reach the clinic. However, there is no clinical method to determine if a patient with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) has incipient AD, i.e. will progress to AD with dementia, or have a benign form of MCI without progression. Thus, there is a great clinical need for diagnostic biomarkers to identify incipient AD in MCI cases. Three cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers; total-tau (T-tau), phospho-tau (P-tau) and the 42 amino acid form of beta-amyloid (Abeta42) have been evaluated in numerous scientific papers. These CSF markers have high sensitivity to differentiate early and incipient AD from normal ageing, depression, alcohol dementia and Parkinson's disease, but lower specificity against other dementias, such as frontotemporal and Lewy body dementia. However, if the CSF biomarkers are used in the right clinical context, i.e. together with the cumulative information from the clinical examination, standard laboratory tests and brain-imaging techniques [single photon emission tomography (SPECT) and magnetic resonance tomography (MRT) scans], they may have a role in the clinical evaluation of MCI cases.
A cross-platform development environment for nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) experiments is presented. It allows rapid prototyping of new pulse sequences and provides a common programming interface for different system types. With this object-oriented interface implemented in C++, the programmer is capable of writing applications to control an experiment that can be executed on different measurement devices, even from different manufacturers, without the need to modify the source code. Due to the clear design of the software, new pulse sequences can be created, tested, and executed within a short time. To post-process the acquired data, an interface to well-known numerical libraries is part of the framework. This allows a transparent integration of the data processing instructions into the measurement module. The software focuses mainly on NMR imaging, but can also be used with limitations for spectroscopic experiments. To demonstrate the capabilities of the framework, results of the same experiment, carried out on two NMR imaging systems from different manufacturers are shown and compared with the results of a simulation.
In several recent studies, saccadic eye movements were found to be influenced by concurrent reaching movements. The authors investigated whether that influence originates in limb kinematic or kinetic signals. To dissociate those 2 possibilities, the authors required participants (N = 6) to generate pointing movements with a mass that either resisted or assisted limb motion. With practice, participants were able to generate pointing responses with very similar kinematics but whose kinetics varied in a systematic manner. The results showed that saccadic output was altered by the amount of force required to move the arm, consistent with an influence from limb kinetic signals. Because the interaction occurred before the pointing response began, the authors conclude that a predictive signal related to limb kinetics modulates saccadic output during tasks requiring eye-hand coordination.
Neurosteroids are modulators of neuronal function that may play important roles in brain maturation. We determined whether chronic prenatal ethanol exposure altered neurosteroid levels in the developing brain. Rat dams were exposed to: (i) a 5% ethanol-containing liquid diet that produces peak maternal blood alcohol levels near the legal intoxication limit (approximately 0.08 g/dL); (ii) an isocaloric liquid diet containing maltose-dextrin instead of ethanol with pair-feeding; (iii) rat chow ad libitum. Neurosteroid levels were assessed in offspring brains using radioimmunoassay or gas chromatography-mass spectrometry techniques. A prenatal ethanol exposure-induced increase in pregnenolone sulfate levels, but not dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate levels, was evident at the earliest time point studied (embryonic day 14). This effect lasted until post-natal day 5. Levels of other neurosteroids were assessed at embryonic day 20; pregnenolone levels, but not allopregnanolone levels, were elevated. Pregnenolone sulfate levels were not altered in the maternal brain. Neither pregnenolone nor pregnenolone sulfate levels were significantly altered in the fetal liver, placenta and maternal blood, indicating that the effect of ethanol is not secondary to accumulation of peripherally-produced steroids. Fetal ethanol exposure has been shown to decrease both cellular and behavioral responsiveness to neurosteroids, and our findings provide a plausible explanation for this effect.
Calcium-activated potassium channels are critically important in modulating neuronal cell excitability. One member of the family, the intermediate-conductance potassium (IK) channel, is not thought to play a role in neurones because of its predominant expression in non-excitable cells such as erythrocytes and lymphocytes, in smooth muscle tissues, and its lack of apparent expression in brain. In the present study, we demonstrate that IK channels are localized on specific neurones in the mouse enteric nervous system where they mediate the slow afterhyperpolarization following an action potential. IK channels were localized by immunohistochemistry on intrinsic primary afferent neurones, identified by their characteristic Dogiel type II morphology. The slow afterhyperpolarization recorded from these cells was abolished by the IK channel blocker clotrimazole. RT-PCR and western analysis of extracts from the colon revealed an IK channel transcript and protein identical to the IK channel expressed in other cell types. These results indicate that IK channels are expressed in neurones where they play an important role in modulating firing properties.
Neurotrophin 3 (NT3) induces mouse cortical stem cells to an asymmetric division from a symmetric division, suggesting that NT3 may work as an early differentiative signal for neural stem cells (NSCs). Here, using cultured post-natal hippocampal stem cells as a model, we demonstrated that NT3-stimulation causes NSCs to differentiate into oligodendrocyte precursors (OLPs) through an extracellular signal-related kinase1/2 (Erk1/2)-dependent pathway. Following the treatment of NT3 for 24 h, NSCs differentiated into more OLPs and fewer neurons, whereas the proliferation and survival of OLPs were not affected. NT3 induced a series of intracellular responses including enhancement of phosphorylation of Erk1/2 or Akt and increase of expression of oligodendrocyte lineage gene (Olig)-1, a transcriptional factor known to participate in oligodendrocyte development. Application of U0126, a specific inhibitor of MEK1/2 which are upstream to Erk1/2, blocked the phosphorylation of Erk1/2, suppressed the expression of Olig-1 and prevented NSC differentiation into OLPs in response to NT3 stimulation. Blockade of TrkC also inhibited the differentiation of NSCs to OLPs induced by NT3. However, administration of LY294002, an inhibitor of phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase (PI3K), blocked the phosphorylation of Akt but did not affect the effect of NT3 on the expression of Olig-1 and on NSC differentiation into OLPs. Taken together, these results suggest that NT3 induce NSCs to differentiate into OLPs by enhancing the expression of Olig-1 through an Erk1/2-dependent pathway.
Gamma-secretase performs the final processing step in the generation of amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides, which are believed to be causative for Alzheimer's disease. Presenilins (PS) are required for gamma-secretase activity and the presence of two essential intramembranous aspartates (D257 and D385) has implicated this region as the putative catalytic centre of an aspartyl protease. The presence of several key hydrogen-bonding residues around the active site of classical aspartyl proteases led us to investigate the role of both the critical aspartates and two nearby conserved hydrogen bond donors in PS1. Generation of cell lines stably overexpressing the D257E, D385E, Y256F and Y389F engineered mutations has enabled us to determine their role in enzyme catalysis and binding of a transition state analogue gamma-secretase inhibitor. Here we report that replacement of either tyrosine residue alters gamma-secretase cleavage specificity, resulting in an increase in the production of the more pathogenic Abeta42 peptide in both cells and membranous enzyme preparations, without affecting inhibitor binding. In contrast, replacement of either of the aspartate residues precludes inhibitor binding in addition to inactivation of the enzyme. Together, these data further incriminate the region around the intramembranous aspartates as the active site of the enzyme, targeted by transition state analogue inhibitors, and highlight the roles of individual residues.
Zinc is concentrated in certain CNS excitatory tracts, especially in hippocampal mossy fibres where it has been suggested to modulate synaptic transmission and plasticity. Using rat mossy fibre synaptosomes depolarized by 4-aminopyridine, we show here that low zinc concentrations restore the membrane potential and reduce glutamate release. Both effects arose from activation of ATP-sensitive potassium channels (KATP), since they were mimicked by the KATP opener diazoxide and antagonized by the KATP blocker tolbutamide. Using recombinant channels expressed in COS-7 cells, we confirmed that micromolar zinc did activate KATP of the type found in hippocampus. We tested the hypothesis that this action of zinc could be beneficial during an ischaemic challenge by using organotypic hippocampal slice cultures. When zinc was applied at micromolar concentrations during a brief anoxic-hypoglycaemic episode, it significantly attenuated the ensuing neuronal death, whereas chelation of endogenous zinc markedly aggravated cell damage. Protective effect of zinc was mediated through KATP, as was shown by using the opener diazoxide and the blocker tolbutamide. Thus, by activating pre-synaptic KATP channels, zinc protects neurones from hyper-excitation, excessive transmitter release and exitotoxicity, and may thus act as an endogenous neuroprotector in conditions such as epilepsy or stroke.
Activation of the neurotrophin receptor Trk induces the release of neurotrophins. However, little is known about the ability of released neurotrophins to modulate their own synthesis in an autocrine manner. As a step towards understanding the role of Trk in regulating the synthesis of neurotrophins, we exposed NIH-3T3 cells expressing TrkA or TrkC receptors to their cognate ligands as well as to GM1, a ganglioside that activates TrkA and TrkC by inducing the release of neurotrophin-3. Nerve growth factor and neurotrophin-3 synthesis were then determined by measuring the relative levels of protein and mRNA. TrkA-expressing cells exposed to human recombinant nerve growth factor exhibited higher levels of nerve growth factor mRNA. Human recombinant neurotrophin-3 evoked an increase in nerve growth factor mRNA in both TrkA and TrkC-expressing cells. GM1 elicited a time-dependent increase in nerve growth factor protein and mRNA in NIH-3T3 cells expressing TrkA or TrkC receptor but not in wild-type cells. Surprisingly, GM1 failed to change neurotrophin-3 levels. The ability of GM1 to increase nerve growth factor mRNA levels was blocked by TrkC-IgG but not by TrkB-IgG receptor body. These data suggest that released neurotrophin-3 may activate a positive autocrine loop of nerve growth factor synthesis by Trk activation.
The floor plate of the neural tube is of major importance in determining axonal behaviour, such that, having crossed, decussating axons do not cross back again. The ventral commissure (VC) of the spinal cord forms immediately ventral to the floor plate shortly after neural tube closure. It is the principal location in which decussating axons cross the midline. It is probably also of major importance in neural tube development, but has received relatively little attention. This study analyses the growth and development of the rat VC and also axon-glial relationships within it throughout the crucial prenatal period of extensive transmedian axon growth, when key biochemical interactions between the two tissues are taking place. The morphometric, stereological and immunohistochemical methods used show that the axonal and glial populations remain in a finely balanced equilibrium throughout a period of almost a hundred-fold growth of both elements. At all stages axons are highly segregated into small bundles of constant size by glial processes, to which they are closely apposed. Thus, glial-axon contact is remarkably precocious, uniquely intimate and persists throughout VC development. This suggests that the relationship between the two tissues is highly controlled through interactions between them. The VC is likely to be the physical basis of a second set of glial-axonal interactions, namely, those which are well known to influence axon crossing behaviour. In mediating these, the extensive axon-glial contact is an ideal arrangement for molecular transfer between them, and is probably the substrate for altering axon responsiveness and ensuring reliable transmedian decussation. The VC is therefore a segregating matrix temporally and spatially specialised for a range of key developmental axon-glial interactions.
Growth/differentiation factor 5 (GDF5) is a member of the transforming growth factor-beta superfamily that is expressed in the developing CNS, including the ventral mesencephalon (VM). GDF5 has been shown to increase the survival of dopaminergic neurones in animal models of Parkinson's disease. This study was aimed at characterising the effects of GDF5 on dopaminergic neurones in vitro. Treatment with GDF5 induced a three-fold increase in the number of dopaminergic neurones in embryonic day 14 rat VM cultures after six days in vitro. A significant increase was also observed in the numbers of astrocytes in GDF5-treated cultures. GDF5 treatment also had significant effects on the morphology of dopaminergic neurones in these cultures; total neurite length, number of branch points and somal area were all significantly increased after six days in vitro. Analysis of neurite length and numbers of branch points at each level of the neuritic field revealed that the most pronounced effects of GDF5 were on the secondary and tertiary levels of the neuritic field. The specific type I receptor for GDF5, bone morphogenetic protein receptor (BMPR)-Ib, was found to be strongly expressed in freshly-dissected E14 VM tissue, but its expression was lost with increasing time in culture. Accordingly, treatment with GDF5 for 24 h from the time of plating induced increases in the numbers of dopaminergic neurones, while treatment with GDF5 for 24 h after six days in vitro did not. This study shows that GDF5 can promote both the survival and morphological differentiation of VM dopaminergic neurones in vitro, lending support to its potential as a candidate dopaminergic neurotrophin for use in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
In adult animals, the consequences of stress are often severe and long lasting. Repeated subjugation in adult male golden hamsters inhibits aggression and increases submissive and avoidant behaviours. By contrast, subjugation during puberty enhances offensive aggression. The goals of this study were to characterize behavioural and neuroendocrine responses of nave and repeatedly subjugated juveniles to social defeat and to assess potential recovery from social stress. From the onset of puberty on postnatal day 28 (P28) to mid puberty (P42), animals were either socially subjugated or placed in a clean and empty cage for 20 min daily. The subjugated and control groups were further divided into subgroups and sacrificed under basal conditions or after social defeat on P28, P35 (early puberty), P45 (mid puberty) and P70 (early adulthood). On P35 and P45, repeatedly subjugated juveniles showed a complete inhibition of olfactory investigation (i.e. risk assessment) towards aggressive adults. Repeatedly subjugated also animals had lower postdefeat cortisol levels than controls on P45. Interestingly, basal cortisol levels increased gradually during puberty but did not differ between treatment groups at any point. Repeated subjugation was also associated with increased tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity (ir-TH) within the extended medial amygdala. After a 4-week recovery period, none of these variables differed between subjugated and control groups. In an additional experiment, subjugated adults also had increased ir-TH in the medial extended amygdala, suggesting that these neurones are particularly responsive to social stress. In conclusion, puberty may be a developmental period characterized by behavioural and neuroendocrine plasticity in stress responsiveness. Furthermore, peri-pubertal changes in stress hormones may explain why juvenile hamsters are more resilient to social stress than adults.
Ageing alters fundamental aspects of circadian rhythmicity in mammals; the effects include reduced rhythm amplitude and alterations in period length and in entrainment to the light/dark cycle. Such changes may reflect disruptions in cellular function within the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN), the site of the predominant circadian pacemaker. In the SCN, vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP)-synthesizing neurones receive various inputs, including retinohypothalamic projections containing pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide (PACAP). SCN VIP cells establish connections with local neurones and send efferents beyond the nucleus. Considerable evidence implicates VIP and PACAP in circadian rhythm maintenance and/or entrainment to photic Zeitgebers. These actions involve members of a distinct family of receptors; mRNAs for two such receptors, VPAC2 and PAC1, are present in the SCN. This study used isotopic in situ hybridization to examine the effects of ageing on expression of mRNAs for VIP, VPAC2 and PAC1 in the SCN of male rats under a 12 : 12 h light/dark cycle. Analysis of film autoradiographs from young adult (2-3 months) or aged (19-20 months) rats, at eight time points across the light/dark cycle, showed loss of diurnal rhythmicity and reduced levels for VIP mRNA in the aged group. A diurnal rhythm of VPAC2 receptor mRNA was present in both groups, but its levels were reduced in the aged rats. There were no differences between the two groups for PAC1 receptor mRNA expression. The present results indicate that ageing reduces VIP and VPAC2 receptor mRNA and eliminates diurnal expression of VIP mRNA within the SCN of aged male rats.
The three currently available beta interferon products for the treatment of patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) are administered according to different regimens. Placebo-controlled clinical trials support the efficacy of both alternate-day interferon beta-1b (Betaferon) and once-a-week interferon beta-1a (Avonex), but benefits to patients are probably dependent on the regimen used. Once-weekly administration, perceived to have fewer adverse events and greater convenience, may improve compliance, whereas frequent administration might enhance efficacy. However, more frequent administration is also associated with an increase in neutralising antibody (NAb) production, relative to once weekly treatment. The issue of NAbs is complex, and their clinical relevance, if any, has yet to be fully assessed. Pharmacological evidence suggests that the effects of beta interferon on a number of biological markers is maximised when administered every 48 hours. This might arise as a result of sustained activity in the intracellular molecular signalling pathways regulating beta interferon-induced gene expression. Some evidence suggests that the increase in biological effect at higher more frequent doses is mirrored by improvements in clinical and MRI outcome measures. Two recent comparative studies demonstrated significantly better clinical and magnetic resonance imaging outcomes in patients with RRMS receiving alternate-day high-dose interferon beta-1b (250 micro g subcutaneously) or three-times-weekly high-dose interferon beta-1a compared to those receiving once weekly low-dose interferon beta-1a (30 micro g intramuscularly). Despite some methodological drawbacks, these studies indicate that the benefits of high-dose frequently administered beta interferon on relapse rate are seen soon after beginning treatment. Therefore, it seems appropriate to begin the treatment of RRMS with this dosing regimen.
Activated myelin-specific T cells are thought to mediate inflammatory tissue damage in multiple sclerosis (MS). Applying a large panel of myelin antigens, we demonstrate the direct ex vivo detection of viable IFN-gamma/TNF-alpha producing CD4+/CD69+ T cells 6 hours after antigenic challenge, by intracellular flow cytometry in 3/33 MS patients and 2/26 healthy controls with calculated frequencies of (mean +/- SEM): 0.031% +/- 0.002% versus 0.037% +/- 0.029%. By comparison, the recently developed IL-7 modified proliferation assay revealed i) a higher number of individuals showing myelin reactivity (17/37 MS patients and 12/24 healthy individuals) and ii) a significant difference in the response to myelin basic protein (MBP) between the two groups in a longitudinal analysis, indicating a higher activity of myelin-specific T cells in MS patients. Our data provide new perspectives in detecting pathogenetically relevant T cells, but clearly demonstrate the different conclusions which must be drawn from various approaches concerning the quantification of autoreactive T cells.
Silver syndrome (SS) is a complicated form of hereditary spastic paraplegia associated with distal wasting of the small muscles of the hands. We have previously described a large kindred with SS and mapped a genetic locus (SPG17) to chromosome 11q12-q14. In the current study we analyse the clinical phenotype and perform linkage analysis in three new SS families. In addition we analyse candidate genes mapping to the SS locus (SPG17). Clinical assessments were performed on 25 (15 affected) individuals from each family in which SS segregates with variable clinical expression. Neurophysiological studies, performed in the index case of two families, suggested anterior horn cell or nerve root involvement. Linkage analysis using microsatellite markers mapping to the SPG17 locus was performed and only one of the three families had a microsatellite segregation pattern compatible with linkage. Candidate genes mapping to the SS critical region were analysed in this and one other SPG17-linked family. Mutation analysis of genes encoding calpain 1 ( CAPN1), copper chaperone for superoxide dismutase ( CCS), ADP ribosylation factor-like 2 ( ARL2), LOC120664, a putative homologue of atlastin ( ATLSTL-1) and sorting nexin 15 ( SNX15) failed to identify any disease-specific mutations. SS therefore exhibits both clinical and genetic heterogeneity and the SPG17 locus may account for a significant proportion of SS mutations in the UK.


Visual neglect is a relatively common deficit after brain damage, particularly strokes. Cancellation tests provide standard clinical measures of neglect severity and deficits in daily life. A recent single-case study introduced a new variation on standard cancellation. Instead of making a visible mark on each target found, the patient made invisible marks (recorded with carbon paper underneath, for later scoring). Such invisible cancellation was found to reveal more neglect than cancellation with visible marks. Here we test the generality of this. Twenty three successive cases with suspected neglect each performed cancellation with visible or invisible marks. Neglect of contralesional targets was more pronounced with invisible marks. Indeed, about half of the patients only showed neglect in this version. For cases showing more neglect with invisible marks, stronger neglect of contralesional targets correlated with more revisits to ipsilesional targets for making additional invisible marks upon them. These results indicate that cancellation with invisible marks can reveal more neglect than standard cancellation with visible marks, while still providing a practical bedside test. Our observations may be consistent with recent proposals that demands on spatial working memory (required to keep track of previously found items only when marked invisibly) can exacerbate spatial neglect.
We describe the clinical, neuropsychological, and neuropathological features of a 21 year old woman with frontotemporal dementia (FTD). The early presentation was of florid behavioural change involving hyperactivity and disinhibition. Magnetic resonance imaging and single photon emission computed tomography of the brain revealed atrophy and severe functional abnormalities of the frontal and temporal lobes, respectively. Electroencephalogram was normal. At autopsy, there was gross frontotemporal brain atrophy and the underlying histology was of a microvacuolar-type degeneration; no tau or ubiquitin immunoreactive, intraneuronal inclusions were seen. There was no family history of dementia and no mutation in the tau gene. We believe this patient represents the youngest (so far) recorded case of FTD associated with this particular histological form of the disorder.
Cyclooxygenase (COX) catalyses the first committed step in the synthesis of prostanoids, a large family of arachidonic acid metabolites comprising prostaglandins, prostacyclin, and thromboxanes, and is a major target of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). COX exists as constitutive and inducible isoforms. COX-2 is the inducible isoform, rapidly expressed in several cell types in response to growth factors, cytokines, and pro-inflammatory molecules. Since its discovery in the early 1990s, COX-2 has emerged as a major player in inflammatory reactions in peripheral tissues. By extension, COX-2 expression in brain has been associated with pro-inflammatory activities, thought to be instrumental in neurodegenerative processes of several acute and chronic diseases. However, 2 major aspects should be borne in mind. First, in the central nervous system, COX-2 is expressed under normal conditions and contributes to fundamental brain functions, such as synaptic activity, memory consolidation, and functional hyperemia. Second, &quot;neuroinflammation&quot; is a much more controlled reaction than inflammation in peripheral tissues, and in many cases is triggered and sustained by activation of resident cells, particularly microglia. In spite of the intense research of the last decade, the evidence of a direct role of COX-2 in neurodegenerative events is still controversial. This article will review new data in this area, focusing on some major human neurological diseases, such as multiple sclerosis, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Parkinson disease, Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, and Alzheimer disease. Furthermore, the emerging role of COX-2 in behavioral and cognitive functions will be discussed.
We compared the predictive behavior of smooth pursuit (SP) and suppression of the vestibuloocular reflex (VOR) in humans by examining anticipatory smooth eye movements, a phenomenon that arises after repeated presentations of sudden target movement preceded by an auditory warning cue. We investigated whether anticipatory smooth eye movements also occur prior to cued head motion, particularly when subjects expect interaction between the VOR and either real or imagined head-fixed targets. Subjects were presented with horizontal motion stimuli consisting of a visual target alone (SP), head motion in darkness (VOR), or head motion in the presence of a real or imagined head-fixed target (HFT and IHFT, respectively). Stimulus sequences were delivered as single cycles of a velocity sinusoid (frequency: 0.5 or 1.0 Hz) that were either cued (a sound cue 400 ms earlier) or noncued. For SP, anticipatory smooth eye movements developed over repeated trials in the cued, but not the noncued, condition. In the VOR condition, no such anticipatory eye movements were observed even when cued. In contrast, anticipatory responses were observed under cued, but not noncued, HFT and IHFT conditions, as for SP. Anticipatory HFT responses increased in proportion to the velocity of preceding stimuli. In general, anticipatory gaze responses were similar in cued SP, HFT, and IHFT conditions and were appropriate for expected target motion in space. Anticipatory responses may represent the output of a central mechanism for smooth-eye-movement generation that operates during predictive SP as well as VOR modulations that are linked with SP even in the absence of real visual targets.
The nucleus accumbens (NAc) of the ventral striatum is involved in attention, motivation, movement, learning, reward, and addiction. GABAergic medium spiny projection neurons that make up approximately 90% of the neuronal population are commonly driven by convergent bursts of afferent excitation. We monitored spiny projection neurons in mouse striatal slices while applying stimulus trains to mimic bursts of excitation. A stimulus train evoked a simple, short-lived postsynaptic response from CA1 hippocampal pyramidal neurons, but the train evoked a complex series of excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) or currents (EPSCs) from the NAc spiny projection neurons. As is commonly seen with projection neurons, the EPSC amplitudes initially displayed facilitation followed by depression, and that pattern was sensitive to the extracellular calcium concentration. In addition, there were two other novel observations. The spiny projection neurons responded to the stimulus train with a prolonged depolarization that was accompanied by a posttrain increase of spontaneous glutamatergic synaptic activity. Blocking AMPA/kainate glutamate receptors strongly inhibited the evoked EPSP/EPSCs, the posttrain spontaneous synaptic activity, and the prolonged depolarization. A potassium channel inhibitor increased and extended the prolonged postsynaptic depolarization, causing a long-lasting depolarized plateau potential. Our results indicate that burst-like activity along ventral striatal afferents is extended in time by additional spontaneous glutamate release that is integrated by the postsynaptic spiny projection neurons into a prolonged depolarization. The results suggest that the posttrain quantal glutamate release helps to blend and maintain multiple afferent inputs. That convergent excitation is further integrated by the postsynaptic neuron into a prolonged depolarization that may contribute to the depolarized &quot;up state&quot; observed in vivo.
During object grasp, a coordinated activation of distal muscles is required to shape the hand in relation to the physical properties of the object. Despite the fundamental importance of the grasping action, little is known of the muscular activation patterns that allow objects of different sizes and shapes to be grasped. In a study of two adult macaque monkeys, we investigated whether we could distinguish between EMG activation patterns associated with grasp of 12 differently shaped objects, chosen to evoke a wide range of grasping postures. Each object was mounted on a horizontal shuttle held by a weak spring (load force 1-2 N). Objects were located in separate sectors of a &quot;carousel,&quot; and inter-trial rotation of the carousel allowed sequential presentation of the objects in pseudorandom order. EMG activity from 10 to 12 digit, hand, and arm muscles was recorded using chronically implanted electrodes. We show that the grasp of different objects was characterized by complex but distinctive patterns of EMG activation. Cluster analysis shows that these object-related EMG patterns were specific and consistent enough to identify the object unequivocally from the EMG recordings alone. EMG-based object identification required a minimum of six EMGs from simultaneously recorded muscles. EMG patterns were consistent across recording sessions in a given monkey but showed some differences between animals. These results identify the specific patterns of activity required to achieve distinct hand postures for grasping, and they open the way to our understanding of how these patterns are generated by the central motor network.
Anesthetics appear to produce neurodepression by altering synaptic transmission and/or intrinsic neuronal excitability. Propofol, a widely used anesthetic, has proposed effects on many targets, ranging from sodium channels to GABA(A) inhibition. We examined effects of propofol on the intrinsic excitability of hippocampal CA1 neurons (primarily interneurons) recorded from adult rat brain slices. Propofol strongly depressed action potential production induced by DC injection, synaptic stimulation, or high-potassium solutions. Propofol-induced depression of intrinsic excitability was completely reversed by bicuculline and picrotoxin but was strychnine-insensitive, implicating GABA(A) but not glycine receptors. Propofol strongly enhanced inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) and induced a tonic GABA(A)-mediated current. We pharmacologically differentiated tonic and phasic (synaptic) GABA(A)-mediated inhibition using the GABA(A) receptor antagonist SR95531 (gabazine). Gabazine (20 microM) completely blocked both evoked and spontaneous IPSCs but failed to block the propofol-induced depression of intrinsic excitability, implicating tonic, but not phasic, GABA(A) inhibition. Glutamatergic synaptic responses were not altered by propofol (&lt; or =30 microM). Similar results were found in both interneurons and pyramidal cells and with the chemically unrelated anesthetic thiopental. These results suggest that suppression of CA1 neuron intrinsic excitability, by these anesthetics, is largely due to activation of tonic GABA(A) conductances; although other sites of action may play important roles in affecting synaptic transmission, which also can produce strong neurodepression. We propose that for some anesthetics, suppression of intrinsic excitability, mediated by tonic GABA(A) conductances, operates in conjunction with effects on synaptic transmission, mediated by other mechanisms, to depress hippocampal function during anesthesia.
Computational modeling demonstrates that encoding and context-dependent retrieval of memories in region CA1 of the hippocampus will be most effective when the phase of strongest entorhinal input (to stratum lacunosum-moleculare) is offset from the phase of maximal induction of long-term potentiation at Schaffer collateral synapses (in s. radiatum). This would allow entorhinal input to play a role in both retrieval and encoding without engaging long-term potentiation (LTP) during retrieval. Experiments in brain slice preparations of the hippocampal formation tested the relationship between rhythmic input to s. lacunosum-moleculare and the time of maximal LTP induction at Schaffer collateral synapses in s. radiatum. Analysis of the data demonstrates a statistically significant difference in the induction of LTP for different time intervals between the end of each four-pulse train in s. lacunosum-moleculare and the single pulse s. radiatum stimulation. The time of maximal LTP induction was found to be approximately 30 ms after the end of lacunosum-moleculare stimulation, consistent with the requirements of the model.
Based on extracellular recordings from 69 lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) cells in the anesthetized cat, we found spatial summation within their receptive fields to be dependent on the contrast of the stimuli presented. By fitting the summation curves to a difference of Gaussians model, we attributed this contrast-dependent effect to an actual change in the size of the center mechanism. Analogous changes in spatial frequency tuning were also observed, specifically increased peaks and cut-off frequencies with contrast. These effects were seen across the populations of both X and Y cell types. In a few cases, LGN cells were recorded simultaneously with one of their retinal ganglion cell (RGC) inputs (S-potentials). In every case, the RGCs exhibited similar contrast-dependent effects in the space and spatial-frequency domains. We propose that this contrast dependency in the retinal ganglion cells results directly from a reduction in the size of the center mechanism due to an increase in contrast. We also propose that these properties first arise in the retina and are transmitted passively through the LGN to visual cortex.
The distributed model of face processing proposes an anatomical dissociation between brain regions that encode invariant aspects of faces, such as identity, and those that encode changeable aspects of faces, such as expression. We tested for a neuroanatomical dissociation for identity and expression in face perception using a functional MRI (fMRI) adaptation paradigm. Repeating identity across face pairs led to reduced fMRI signal in fusiform cortex and posterior superior temporal sulcus (STS), whereas repeating emotional expression across pairs led to reduced signal in a more anterior region of STS. These results provide neuroanatomical evidence for the distributed model of face processing and highlight a dissociation within right STS between a caudal segment coding identity and a more rostral region coding emotional expression.
How do stimuli in the environment interact with the goals of observers? We addressed this question by showing that the relevance of an abruptly appearing visual object (cue) changes how observers orient attention toward a subsequent object (target) and how this target is represented in the activity of neurons in the superior colliculus. Initially after the appearance of the cue, attention is driven to its locus. This capture of attention is followed by a second bias in orienting attention, where observers preferentially orient to new locations in the visual scene-an effect called inhibition of return. In the superior colliculus, these two automatic biases in orienting attention were associated with changes in neural activity linked to the appearance of the target-relatively stronger activity linked to the capture of attention and weaker activity linked to inhibition of return. This behavioral pattern changes when the cue predicts the upcoming location of the target-the benefit associated with the capture of attention is enhanced and inhibition of return is reduced. These goal-driven changes in behavior were associated with an increase in pretarget- and target-related activity. Taken together, the goals of observers modify stimulus-driven changes in neural activity with both signals represented in the salience maps of the superior colliculi.
Norepinephrine (NE) plays a complex role in the behavioral state-dependent regulation of sensory processing. However, the role of forebrain NE action in modulating high-order sensory activity has not been directly addressed. In this study, we take advantage of the discrete, feedforward organization of the avian song system to identify a site and mechanism of NE action underlying state-dependent modulation of sensory processing. We have developed an experimental paradigm in which brief arousal repeatedly suppresses song system auditory responsiveness. Using pharmacological manipulations in vivo, we show that infusion of alpha-adrenergic antagonists into the NIf (nucleus interfacialis of the nidopallium), an auditory forebrain area, blocks this state-dependent modulation. We also demonstrate dose-dependent enhancement and suppression of song system auditory response properties by NE and adrenergic agonists. Our results demonstrate that noradrenergic release in a single forebrain area is a mechanism underlying behavioral state-dependent regulation of auditory processing in a neural system specialized for vocal learning.
A slow posttrain afterhyperpolarization (sAHP) was studied in rat magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs) in vitro. The sAHP was isolated from other afterpotentials by blocking the depolarizing afterpotential (DAP) with Cs(+) and the medium afterhyperpolarization (mAHP) with apamin. The sAHP amplitude increased logarithmically with activity ( approximately 3 mV per e-fold increase in number of impulses) and, when firing stopped, decayed exponentially with a time constant of 2 sec. The sAHP was associated with increased membrane conductance, and its amplitude varied linearly with voltage, reversing at the K(+) equilibrium potential. The sAHP was blocked by Cd(2+) but not by charybdotoxin or iberiotoxin, blockers of intermediate- and big-conductance-type Ca(2+)-dependent K(+) (K(Ca)) channels. The sAHP was reversibly inhibited by muscarine, an effect antagonized by atropine, indicating involvement of muscarinic cholinergic receptors. Muscarine did not affect Ca(2+)-dependent features of action potentials, DAPs, or the mAHP in MNCs, indicating selective modulation of K(Ca) channels causing the sAHP. Muscarinic inhibition of the sAHP enhanced plateau potentials and increased the mean firing rate and duration of afterdischarges that followed spike trains evoked from voltages near threshold. Similarly, the frequency and duration of the spontaneous phasic bursts that characterize physiologically activated vasopressin-releasing MNCs were enhanced by muscarine. MNCs thus express apamin- and voltage-insensitive K(Ca) channels that mediate an sAHP. The activity dependence and kinetics of the sAHP cause it to mask DAPs in a manner that attenuates the amplitude of plateau potentials. Muscarinic inhibition of the sAHP provides an effective mechanism for promoting phasic firing in MNCs.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) may be caused by the abnormal processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) and the accumulation of beta-amyloid (Abeta). The amyloid precursor protein can be proteolytically cleaved into multiple fragments, many of which have distinct biological actions. Although a high level of Abeta can be toxic, the alpha-secretase cleaved APP (sAPPalpha) is neuroprotective. However, the mechanism of sAPPalpha protection is unknown. Here, we show that sAPPalpha increases the expression levels of several neuroprotective genes and protects organotypic hippocampal cultures from Abeta-induced tau phosphorylation and neuronal death. Antibody interference and small interfering RNA knock-down demonstrate that the sAPPalpha-driven expression of transthyretin and insulin-like growth factor 2 is necessary for protection against Abeta-induced neuronal death. Mice overexpressing mutant APP possess high levels of sAPPalpha and transthyretin and do not develop the tau phosphorylation or neuronal loss characteristic of human AD. Chronic infusion of an antibody against transthyretin into the hippocampus of mice overexpressing APP with the Swedish mutation (APP(Sw)) leads to increased Abeta, tau phosphorylation, and neuronal loss and apoptosis within the CA1 neuronal field. Therefore, the elevated expression of transthyretin is mediated by sAPPalpha and protects APP(Sw) mice from developing many of the neuropathologies observed in AD.
The hippocampus is essential for learning complex spatial relationships, but little is known about how hippocampal neural activity changes as animals learn about a novel environment. We studied the formation of new place representations in rats by examining the changes in place-specific firing of neurons in the CA1 region of the hippocampus and the relationship between these changes and behavioral change across multiple days of exposure to novel places. We found that many neurons showed very rapid changes on the first day of exposure to the novel place, including many cases in which a previously silent neuron developed a place field over the course of a single pass through the environment. Across the population, the largest changes in neural activity occurred on day 2 of exposure to a novel place, but only if the animal had little experience (&lt;4 min) in that location on day 1. Longer exposures on day 1 were associated with smaller changes on day 2, suggesting that hippocampal neurons required 5-6 min of experience to form a stable spatial representation. Even after the representation stabilized, the animals' behavior remained different in the novel places, suggesting that other brain regions continued to distinguish novel from familiar locations. These results show that the hippocampus can form new spatial representations quickly but that stable hippocampal representations are not sufficient for a place to be treated as familiar.
A central problem in the neurobiology of normal aging is why learning is preserved in some aged individuals yet impaired in others. To investigate this issue, we examined whether age-related deficits in spatial learning are associated with a reduction in postsynaptic density (PSD) area in hippocampal excitatory synapses (i.e., with a structural modification that is likely to have a deleterious effect on synaptic function). A hippocampus-dependent version of the Morris water maze task was used to separate Long-Evans male rats into young adult, aged learning-unimpaired, and equally aged learning-impaired groups. Axospinous synapses from the CA1 stratum radiatum were analyzed using systematic random sampling and serial section analyses. We report that aged learning-impaired rats exhibit a marked ( approximately 30%) and significant reduction in PSD area, whereas aged learning-unimpaired rats do not. The observed structural alteration involves a substantial proportion of perforated synapses but is not observed in nonperforated synapses. These findings support the notion that many hippocampal perforated synapses become less efficient in aged learning-impaired rats, which may contribute to cognitive decline during normal aging.
Mice with mutations in the Wnt coreceptor low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein-6 (LRP6) have a smaller and severely disorganized dorsal thalamus and lack thalamocortical projections. Using molecular markers, we showed that most dorsal thalamic and epithalamic neurons were missing, and most of the major dorsal thalamic nuclei were not identifiable. However, the ventral thalamus was essentially unaffected, although the dorsal thalamic defect leads to rostral displacement of portions of the ventral thalamus. Analysis of younger embryos showed that epithalamic and dorsal thalamic neurons were not produced at early stages of development, whereas ventral thalamic neurons were still produced. These defects were accompanied by improper formation of the boundary between dorsal and ventral thalamus, the zona limitans interthalamica (ZLI). Furthermore, the expression of an early marker of posterior forebrain development that marks the compartment from the midbrain-hindbrain junction to the ZLI (including the future dorsal thalamus, pretectum, and midbrain) was disrupted, supporting the idea that diencephalic development is abnormal from very early in embryogenesis. This study provides compelling in vivo evidence that thalamic development requires normal activity of the LRP6-mediated canonical Wnt signaling pathway.
Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades are membrane-to-nucleus signaling modules that recently have been implicated as mediators of cellular injury. In this study, we investigated the involvement of the MAP kinase p44/p42 (extracellular signal-regulated kinase [ERK1/2]) in traumatic brain injury (TBI) in rats. There was a strong increase in activated, phosphorylated ERK 1/2 (p-ERK 1/2) protein at 10 min up to 24 h after the injury. Expression of p-ERK occurred in cells identified as neurons, astrocytes, and microglia. Most of the cells expressing p-ERK were TUNEL positive at later time points. Treatment with the MEK inhibitor U0126 or the free radical scavenger S-PBN, both with neuroprotective properties in TBI, attenuated the early activation of ERK and resulted in less activation of caspase-3 and subsequent DNA fragmentation. Post-treatment with U0126 resulted in a significant decrease (-60%) in cortical cavity size and cortical atrophy at 2 weeks after trauma. Overall, the results suggest that ERK activation is initiated by increased oxygen radical activity and that overactivation of ERK sets off secondary cell death mechanisms in TBI. Clinical studies are warranted to evaluate the concept of MEK inhibition in head-injured patients.
Intubation, which requires sedation and myorelaxants, may lead to inaccurate neurological evaluation of severely head-injured patients. Aims of this study were to describe the early clinical evolution of traumatic brain injured (TBI) patients admitted to intensive care unit (ICU), to identify cases of over-estimated neurological severity, and to quantify the risk factors for this over-estimation. A total of 753 TBI patients consecutively admitted to ICU of three academic neurosurgical hospitals (NSH) were assessed. Cases whose severity was potentially over-estimated were identified by four criteria and indicated as &quot;mistakenly severe&quot; (MS): (1) no surgical intracranial masses; (2) could not follow commands at neurological assessment; (3) were dismissed from the ICU in &lt; or =3 days to a regular ward; and (4) had regained the ability to obey commands. A total of 675 patients were intubated and/or sedated-paralyzed at the post-stabilization evaluation. In all, 304 patients had surgically treated intracranial masses. Among the 449 non-surgical cases, 58 patients fulfilling the criteria for MS were identified. The main features distinguishing MS from truly severe cases were younger age, higher Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score at all time points, Marshall classification of Computerized Tomographic (CT) scan mostly Diffuse Injury I and II, fewer pupillary abnormalities, and a lower frequency of hypoxia, hypotension, and extra-cranial injuries. In a certain proportion of non-surgical TBI patients, mostly intubated and sedated, neurological examination is difficult and severity can be over-estimated. Risk factors for this inaccurate evaluation can be identified, and clinical decisions should be based on further examination.
The trauma involved with inserting implants into bone leads to an activation of the inflammatory response and an activation of osteoclasts. In addition, apoptosis of osteocytes in the surrounding area has been implicated in further activation of osteoclasts. If the balance between resorption and bone formation shortly after implantation favours resorption, an impairment of early fixation might ensue. Because bisphosphonates inhibit resorption, this study analyses whether they can improve early fixation. Stainless steel screws (M 1.7) were inserted into the tibiae of 76 male Sprague-Dawley rats. Daily subcutaneous injections of ibandronate (3 microg) or saline were given to 20 rats. The remaining rats received ibandronate or saline directly applied into the drill hole before the screw was inserted. Tibiae were harvested at 14 days. Mechanical tests were performed on 50 tibiae. Systemically treated tibiae were tested for pull-out strength alone. Locally treated tibiae were tested for either pull-out or torque resistance. The remaining 18 tibiae were prepared for histology. Systemic ibandronate increased the pull-out force at failure by 30% (p=0.04). Local treatment increased the force at failure by 15% (p=0.02) and stiffness by 28% (p=0.01). In the removal torque measurements, local ibandronate increased the torque-moment at failure by 60% (p=0.04), and the maximum friction moment by 51% (p=0.04). Energy for turning the screw 1/4 revolution was increased by 68% (p=0.02). These results demonstrate that early remodeling events plays an important role in screw fixation, and that systemic or local bisphosphonate treatment could be an effective pharmacological path to improve early implant fixation.

Neurological syndromes that follow vaccination or infection are often attributed to autoimmune mechanisms. We report six patients who developed neuropathy or cognitive impairment, within several days to 2 months, following vaccination with the OspA antigen of Borrelia burgdorferi. Two of the patients developed cognitive impairment, one chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP), one multifocal motor neuropathy, one both cognitive impairment and CIDP, and one cognitive impairment and sensory axonal neuropathy. The patients with cognitive impairment had T2 hyperintense white matter lesions on magnetic resonance imaging. The similarity between the neurological sequelae observed in the OspA-vaccinated patients and those with chronic Lyme disease suggests a possible role for immune mechanisms in some of the manifestations of chronic Lyme disease that are resistant to antibiotic treatment.
The role of GABAB receptors in various behavioral processes has been largely defined using the prototypical GABAB receptor agonist baclofen. However, baclofen induces sedation, hypothermia and muscle relaxation, which may interfere with its use in behavioral paradigms. Although there is much evidence for a role of the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA in the pathophysiology of anxiety, the role of GABAB receptors in these disorders is largely unclear. We recently identified GS39783 (N,N'-dicyclopentyl-2-methylsulfanyl-5-nitro-pyrimidine-4,6-diamine) as a selective allosteric positive modulator at GABAB receptors. The aim of the present study was to broadly characterize the effects of GS39783 in well-validated rodent models for motor activity, cognition, and anxiety. The following tests were included: locomotor activity in rats and mice, rotarod and traction tests (including determinations of core temperature) in mice, passive avoidance in mice and rats, elevated plus maze in rats, elevated zero maze in mice and rats, stress-induced hyperthermia in mice, and pentobarbital- and ethanol-induced sleep in mice. Unlike baclofen and/or the benzodiazepine chlordiazepoxide, GS39783 had no effect in any of the tests for locomotion, cognition, temperature, or narcosis. Most interestingly, GS39783 had anxiolytic-like effects in all the tests used. Overall, the data obtained here suggest that positive modulation of GABAB receptors may serve as a novel therapeutic strategy for the development of anxiolytics, with a superior side effect profile to both baclofen and benzodiazepines.
Methamphetamine (METH) administration in mice, results in a chronic dopamine (DA) depletion associated with nerve terminal damage, with DA oxidation and generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) primarily mediating this neurotoxicity. The oxidative stress induced by METH putatively activates nuclear enzyme poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP), with excessive PARP activation eventually leading to cell death. In this study, we show that prevention of PARP activation by treatment with FR261529 [2-(4-chlorophenyl)-5-quinoxalinecarboxamide], the compound that was recently identified as a novel PARP inhibitor (IC50 for PARP-1 = 33 nM, IC50 for PARP-2 = 7 nM), protects against both ROS-induced cells injury in vitro and METH-induced dopaminergic neuronal damage in an in vivo Parkinson's disease (PD) model. In PC12 cells, exposure of hydrogen peroxide or METH markedly induced PARP activation, and treatment with FR261529 (1 microM) significantly reduced PARP activation and attenuated cell death. In the mouse METH model, METH (15 mg/kg x 2 i.p., 2 h apart) intoxication accelerated DA metabolism and oxidation in the striatum, with subsequent cell damage in nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons after 4 days. Oral administration of FR261529 (10 or 32 mg/kg) attenuated the damage of dopaminergic neurons via marked reduction of PARP activity and not via changes in dopamine metabolism or body temperature. These findings indicate that the neuroprotective effects of a novel PARP inhibitor, FR261529, were accompanied by inhibition of METH-induced PARP activation, suggesting that METH induces nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurodegeneration involving PARP activation and also orally active and brain-penetrable PARP inhibitor FR261529 could be a novel attractive therapeutic candidate for neurodegenerative disorders such as PD.
Agonist-induced internalization of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) is a well characterized phenomenon believed to contribute to receptor desensitization. The 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)2C subtype of serotonin receptor is a GPCR that we have shown to internalize upon agonist incubation. In this study, we have examined the effects of 5-HT2C receptor agonists serotonin, Ro 60-0175 [(S)-2-(6-chloro-5-fluoroindol-1-yl)-1-methylethylamine], and WAY-161503 [(4aR)-8,9-dichloro-2,3,4,4a-tetrahydro-1H-pyrazino[1,2-a]quinoxalin-5(6H)-one]; partial agonists mCPP [1-(m-chlorophenyl)piperazine] and DOI [(+)-1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-amino-propane]; inverse agonists SB-206553 [N-3-pyridinyl-3,5-dihydro-5-methylbenzo(1,2-b:4,5-b')dipyrrole-1(2H)carboxamide] and mianserin; and neutral antagonists SB-242084 [6-chloro-5-methyl-1-[[2-[(2-methyl-3-pyridyl)oxy]-5-pyridyl]carbamoyl]-indoline] and 5-methoxygramine on the internalization of a C-terminal green fluorescent protein (GFP)-tagged 5-HT2C receptor (VSV isoform) expressed in transiently transfected human embryonic kidney cells. We detected internalization with an automated, cell-based fluorescence-imaging system (Arrayscan) and monitored function with intracellular Ca2+ measurements (flourometric imaging plate reader). The 5-HT2C-GFP construct exhibited appropriate pharmacology, and we observed that although all three agonists resulted in similar magnitudes of dose-dependent internalization, the partial agonists resulted in approximately 50% less internalization, and the inverse agonists and neutral antagonists failed to induce internalization. These results were confirmed by confocal microscopy. They demonstrate that the 5-HT2C receptor is internalized by incubation with agonists and partial agonists but not with inverse agonists or neutral antagonists.
Most regions of the gastrointestinal tract generate spontaneous electrical and mechanical activity in the absence of stimulation. When electrical recordings are made from slow muscle cells lying in the gastrointestinal tract, a regular discharge of long lasting waves of depolarization, slow waves, is detected. It has recently become apparent that slow waves are generated by a specialized population of smooth muscle cells, known as interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC). ICC can be subdivided into at least two separate groups. In most regions of the gastrointestinal tract, one group of ICC form a network that generates pacemaker potentials, so producing rhythmical membrane potential changes in the adjacent muscle layers. The second group of ICC are distributed amongst the smooth muscle cells and are tightly electrically coupled to them. In some regions of the gut, the second group of ICC augment the waves of pacemaker depolarization, so ensuring that voltage-dependent calcium channels in the smooth muscles are activated during each slow wave cycle. In addition, the second group of ICC are densely innervated by inhibitory and excitatory nerve terminals. Thus intrinsic nerve terminals, rather than communicating directly with smooth muscle cells, selectively innervate ICC and release transmitters directly onto them. The signals that are generated in the ICC, by the neurally released transmitters, then alter the activity of surrounding smooth muscle cells.
Oxytocin is released from supraoptic magnocellular neurones and is thought to act at presynaptic receptors to inhibit transmitter release. We now show that this effect is mediated by endocannabinoids, but that oxytocin nonetheless plays an important role in endocannabinoid signalling. WIN55,212-2, a cannabinoid receptor agonist, mimicked the action of oxytocin and occluded oxytocin-induced presynaptic inhibition. The cannabinoid action is at the presynaptic terminal as shown by alteration in paired pulse ratio, a reduction in miniature EPSC frequency and immunohistochemical localization of CB1 receptors on presynaptic terminals. AM251, a CB1 receptor antagonist, blocked both the WIN55,212-2 and the oxytocin-induced presynaptic inhibition of EPSCs. Depolarization of postsynaptic magnocellular neurones (which contain fatty acid amide hydrolase, a cannabinoid catabolic enzyme) caused a transient inhibition of EPSCs that could be blocked by both the AM251 and Manning compound, an oxytocin/vasopressin receptor antagonist. This indicates that somatodendritic peptide release and action on previously identified autoreceptors facilitates the release of endocannabinoids that act as mediators of presynaptic inhibition.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) has been shown to regulate plasticity in the visual cortex of monocularly deprived animals. However, to date, few attempts have been made to investigate the role of NGF in synaptic plasticity at the cellular level. In the study reported here we looked at the effects of exogenously applied NGF on synaptic plasticity of layer II-III regular spiking (RS) neurones in visual cortex of 16- to 18-day-old rats. We found that local application of NGF converted high frequency stimulation (HFS)-induced long-term potentiation (LTP) into long-term depression (LTD). We showed that this shift of synaptic plasticity was also obtained with bath application of NGF during HFS. Application of NGF subsequent to HFS left LTP unaffected, conferring temporal constraints on NGF efficacy. NGF effects on LTP were mediated by TrkA receptors. Indeed, blockade of TrkA by monoclonal antibody prevented NGF from inducing LTD following HFS. Low frequency stimulation (LFS) elicited LTD in RS cells. We found that NGF or blockade of NGF signalling by anti-TrkA antibody did not change the amplitude of the LTD induced by LFS. Thus, the NGF effect is selective for synaptic modifications induced by HFS in RS cells. The present results indicate that NGF may modulate the sign of long-term changes of synaptic efficacy in response to high frequency inputs.
In the CA1 region of the hippocampus, LTP is thought to be initiated by a transient activation of NMDA receptors and is expressed as a persistent increase in synaptic transmission through AMPA receptors. To investigate the postsynaptic modifications of AMPA receptors involved in this enhanced synaptic transmission, the channel density and single-channel properties of extrasynaptic AMPA receptors located in synaptically active dendritic regions were examined following the induction of LTP. Following tetanic stimulation an outside-out patch was excised from the apical dendrite near the point of stimulation and saturating concentrations of glutamate were rapidly applied to the patch. AMPA current amplitude and duration were increased significantly in patches pulled from dendrites that expressed LTP. Non-stationary fluctuation analysis of AMPA currents indicated that AMPA channel number was nearly twofold larger than in controls, while single channel conductance and maximum open-probability were unchanged. Furthermore, while subtle changes in AMPA channel kinetics could also be observed, we did not find any evidence that receptor affinity or rectification properties were altered by LTP induction. Very similar results were found when CaMK-II activity was increased through the intracellular application of Ca/CaM. Together, we interpret our data to indicate that the stimuli used here produce an increased delivery of AMPA receptors to synaptically active regions of the apical dendrite without inducing any significant changes in their basic biophysical properties and that such delivery is a key element in this form of synaptic plasticity.
We have found recently that melatonin protects SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells from calyculin A-induced neurofilament impairment and neurotoxicity. In the present study, we further investigated the in vivo effect of inhibiting melatonin biosynthesis on spatial memory retention and tau phosphorylation in rats and the potential underlying mechanisms by using haloperidol, a specific inhibitor of 5-hydroxyindole-O-methyltransferase, and a key enzyme in melatonin biosynthesis. We have found that injection of haloperidol into the lateral ventricle and into peritoneal cavity compromises spatial memory retention of rats and induces hyperphosphorylation of microtubule-associated protein tau at tau-1 (Ser199/Ser202) and PHF-1 (Ser396/Ser404) epitopes. At mean time, the activity of protein phosphatase-2A (PP-2A), a deficit phosphatase in the Alzheimer's disease brain and superoxide dismutase decreases with an elevated level of malondialdehyde. Supplementation with melatonin by prior injection for 1 wk and reinforcement during the haloperidol administration significantly improves memory retention deficits, arrests tau hyperphosphorylation and oxidative stress, and restores PP-2A activity. These results strongly support the involvement of decreased melatonin in Alzheimer-like spatial memory impairment and tau hyperphosphorylation, and PP-2A may play a role in mediating aberrant melatonin-induced lesions.
The pharmacological approach to bulimia nervosa is mainly based (BN) on selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, but many elements suggest the possible involvement of the noradrenergic system in this disorder. The aim of the study was to assess the efficacy of reboxetine--a selective norepinephrine uptake inhibitor--in a sample of bulimic outpatients, after 3 months of treatment. Twenty-eight of 77 consecutively admitted patients with a DSM-IV diagnosis of BN (without Axis I comorbidity) received reboxetine. All patients were assessed at baseline (T0), and after 1 month (T1) and 3 months (T3), respectively, of treatment with reboxetine 4 mg/day. The subjects were administered the following questionnaires: Hamilton Rating Scale for Anxiety (HAM-A) and for Depression (HAM-D), Global Assessment Functioning (GAF), Eating Disorder Inventory-2 (EDI-2) and Body Shape Questionnaire (BSQ). Sixty percent of the patients were responsive to treatment(evaluated as a 50% decrease of bulimic behaviours). After 3 months of treatment, a significant reduction emerged in the scores of various EDI-2 subscales (Bulimia, Drive for Thinness, Body Dissatisfaction, Social Insecurity, Interpersonal Distrust, etc.) and in the BSQ total score. Moreover, depressive symptoms (HAM-D) and Global Functioning (GAF) scores showed a significant improvement. These data support a fast and favourable effect of reboxetine in the treatment of BN, both on symptoms and psychopathological features. Moreover, the specific and strong action of reboxetine on improvement of social functioning is also supported in this disorder.
Tramadol is a centrally acting analgesic that demonstrates opioid and monoaminergic properties. Several studies have suggested that tramadol could play a role in mood improvement. Moreover, it has previously been shown that tramadol is effective in the forced swimming test in mice and the learned helplessness model in rats, two behavioural models predictive of antidepressant activity. The aim of the present study was to test tramadol and its enantiomers in the reserpine test in mice, a classical observational test widely used in the screening of antidepressant drugs. This test is a non-behavioural method where only objective parameters such as rectal temperature and palprebral ptosis are considered. Moreover, we compared the effects of tramadol and its enantiomers with those of antidepressants (desipramine, fluvoxamine and venlafaxine) and opiates [morphine (-)-methadone and levorphanol]. Racemic tramadol, (-)-tramadol, desipramine and venlafaxine reversed the reserpine syndrome (rectal temperature and ptosis), whereas(+)-tramadol and fluvoxamine only antagonized the reserpine-induced ptosis, without any effect on temperature. Opiates did not reverse reserpine-induced hypothermia. (-)-Methadone showed slight effects regarding reserpine-induced ptosis, morphine and levorphanol had no effect. These results show that tramadol has an effect comparable to clinically effective antidepressants in a test predictive of antidepressant activity, without behavioural implications. Together with other clinical and experimental data, this suggests that tramadol has an inherent antidepressant-like (mood improving) activity, and that this effect could have clinical repercussions on the affective component of pain.
We present a critical perspective of the impact of gender differences on a widely accepted model of ketamine psychosis in healthy volunteers. Male and female patients with schizophrenia present with different symptomatology, disease course and response to pharmacological intervention. Accordingly, it is expected that ketamine psychosis in healthy volunteers fulfils this face validity. Pre-clinical studies in rats indicate a gender difference in response to ketamine administration. However, a review of the literature to date indicates that studies carried out in healthy volunteers have used all male or mixed samples, indicating the need for further studies comparing the psychopathological effects of ketamine in males and females.


As both military and commercial operations increasingly become continuous, 24-h-per-day enterprises, the likelihood of operator errors or inefficiencies caused by sleep loss and/or circadian desynchrony also increases. Avoidance of such incidents requires the timely application of appropriate interventions--which, in turn, depend on the ability to measure and monitor the performance capacity of individuals in the operational environment. Several factors determine the potential suitability of candidate measures, including their relative sensitivity, reliability, content validity, intrusiveness and cumbersomeness/fieldability. In the present study, the relative sensitivity (defined as the ratio of effect size to 95% confidence interval) of several measures to the effects of sleep loss was compared in a sleep restriction experiment, in which groups were allowed 3, 5, 7, or 9 h time in bed (TIB) across seven consecutive nights. Of the measures compared, the Psychomotor Vigilance Test was among the most sensitive to sleep restriction, was among the most reliable with no evidence of learning over repeated administrations, and possesses characteristics that make it among the most practical for use in the operational environment.

The human polyomavirus JC (JCV) replicates in the nuclei of infected cells. Here we report that JCV virions are efficiently assembled at nuclear domain 10 (ND10), which is also known as promyelocytic leukemia (PML) nuclear bodies. The major capsid protein VP1, the minor capsid proteins VP2 and VP3, and a regulatory protein called agnoprotein were coexpressed from a polycistronic expression vector in COS-7 cells. We found that VP1 accumulated to distinct subnuclear domains in the presence of VP2/VP3 and agnoprotein, while VP1 expressed alone was distributed both in the cytoplasm and in the nucleus. Mutation analysis revealed that discrete intranuclear accumulation of VP1 requires the presence of either VP2 or VP3. However, VP2 or VP3 expressed in the absence of VP1 showed diffuse, not discrete, nuclear localization. The C-terminal sequence of VP2/VP3 contains two basic regions, GPNKKKRRK (cluster 1) and KRRSRSSRS (cluster 2). The deletion of cluster 2 abolished the accumulation of VP1 to distinct subnuclear domains. Deletion of the C-terminal 34 residues of VP2/VP3, including both cluster 1 and cluster 2, caused VP1 to localize both in the cytoplasm and in the nucleus. Using immunoelectron microscopy of cells that coexpressed VP1, VP2/VP3, and agnoprotein, we detected the assembly of virus-like particles in discrete locations along the inner nuclear periphery. Both in oligodendrocytes of the human brain and in transfected cells, discrete nuclear domains for VP1 accumulation were identified as ND10, which contains the PML protein. These results indicate that major and minor capsid proteins cooperatively accumulate in ND10, where they are efficiently assembled into virions.
Dendritic cells (DCs) play a crucial role in bridging innate and acquired immune responses to pathogens. In human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection, immature DCs (iDCs) are also main targets for HIV-1 at the mucosal level. In this study, we evaluated the effects of HIV-1-DC interactions on the maturation and functional activity of these cells. Exposure of human monocyte-derived iDCs to either aldrithiol-2-inactivated HIV-1 or gp120 led to an upmodulation of activation markers indicative of functional maturation. Despite their phenotype, these cells retained antigen uptake capacity and showed an impaired ability to secrete cytokines or chemokines and to induce T-cell proliferation. Although gp120 did not interfere with DC differentiation, the capacity of these cells to produce interleukin-12 (IL-12) upon maturation was markedly reduced. Likewise, iDCs stimulated by classical maturation factors in the presence of gp120 lacked allostimulatory capacity and did not produce IL-12, in spite of their phenotype typical of activated DCs. Exogenous addition of IL-12 restores the allostimulatory capacity of gp120-exposed DCs. The finding that gp120 induces abnormal maturation of DCs linked to profound suppression of their activities unravels a novel mechanism by which HIV can lead to immune dysfunction in AIDS patients.
African swine fever virus (ASFV), a large icosahedral deoxyvirus, is the causative agent of an economically relevant hemorrhagic disease that affects domestic pigs. The major purpose of the present study was to investigate the nuclear transport activities of the ASFV p37 and p14 proteins, which result from the proteolytic processing of a common precursor. Experiments were performed by using yeast-based nucleocytoplasmic transport assays and by analysis of the subcellular localization of different green fluorescent and Myc fusion proteins in mammalian cells. The results obtained both in yeast and mammalian cells clearly demonstrated that ASFV p14 protein is imported into the nucleus but not exported to the cytoplasm. The ability of p37 protein to be exported from the nucleus to the cytoplasm of both yeast and mammalian cells was also demonstrated, and the results clearly indicate that p37 nuclear export is dependent on the interaction of the protein with the CRM-1 receptor. In addition, p37 was shown to exhibit nuclear import activity in mammalian cells. The p37 protein nuclear import and export abilities described here constitute the first report of a nucleocytoplasmic shuttling protein encoded by the ASFV genome. Overall, the overlapping results obtained for green fluorescent protein fusions and Myc-tagged proteins undoubtedly demonstrate that ASFV p37 and p14 proteins exhibit nucleocytoplasmic transport activities. These findings are significant for understanding the role these proteins play in the replication cycle of ASFV.
A mature male Risso's dolphin (Grampus griseus) stranded along the coasts of Friuli Venezia Giulia, northeast Italy, in May 2001. Parasitic infection with Crassicauda grampicola is often found in the tympanic bullae and pterygoid sinuses in many of the Risso's dolphins examined from the same area. For this reason, it was decided to perform computed tomography of the head to assess this imaging technique for the diagnosis of crassicaudosis in dolphins. A full postmortem examination confirmed the pathologic findings of the computed tomography scan. This technique can be considered a useful adjunct in the diagnosis of cranial crassicaudosis in live dolphins.
Robert Bentley Todd (1809-60) was the UK's first eminent neurologist and neuroscientist. An anatomist, physiologist, and clinical scientist with an interest in the nervous system, he was the first to confirm the electrical basis of brain activity in the 1840s. He was influenced by his contemporary, Michael Faraday at the Royal Institution, and by two colleagues at King's College, John Daniell and Charles Wheatstone, who were also working at the cutting edge of electrical science. Todd conceived of nervous polarity (force) generated in nervous centres and compared this with the polar force of voltaic electricity developed in the galvanic battery. He brilliantly foresaw each nerve vesicle (cell) and its related fibres (ie, neuron) as a distinct apparatus for the development and transmission of nervous polarity. Epilepsy was the result of periodic unnatural development of nervous force leading to the &quot;disruptive discharge&quot; described by Faraday. Faraday, who studied animal electricity in the Gymnotus (electric eel), and Todd saw nervous polarity as a higher form of interchangeable energy.
Dysarthria in Parkinson's disease can be characterised by monotony of pitch and loudness, reduced stress, variable rate, imprecise consonants, and a breathy and harsh voice. Use of levodopa to replenish dopamine concentrations in the striatum seems to improve articulation, voice quality, and pitch variation, although some studies show no change in phonatory parameters. Traditional speech therapy can lead to improvement of dysarthria, and intensive programmes have had substantial beneficial effects on vocal loudness. Unilateral surgical lesions of subcortical structures are variably effective for the alleviation of dysarthria, whereas bilateral procedures typically lead to worsening of speech production. Among deep-brain stimulation procedures, only stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus improves some motor components of speech although intelligibility seems to decrease after surgery. Due to the variable treatment effects on parkinsonian speech, management of dysarthria is still challenging for the clinician and should be discussed with the patient.


We investigated whether postextinction administration of methylene blue (MB) could enhance retention of an extinguished conditioned response. MB is a redox compound that at low doses elevates cytochrome oxidase activity, thereby improving brain energy production. Saline or MB (4 mg/kg intraperitoneally) were administered to rats for 5 d following extinction training of tone-footshock conditioning. Postextinction freezing was lower in rats receiving MB compared with saline, suggesting that MB improved retention of the extinction memory. The MB effect was specific to tone-evoked freezing because there were no differences in pretone freezing. Control subjects similarly injected with MB showed no evidence of nonspecific effects on measures of motor activity and fearfulness. MB-treated rats exhibited both greater retention of extinction and greater overall brain metabolic activity. Rats with higher retention of extinction also showed a relative increase in cytochrome oxidase activity in prefrontal cortical regions, especially anterior infralimbic cortex, dorsal and medial frontal cortex, and lateral orbital cortex. These regional metabolic increases were also correlated to the behavioral freezing index used to assess retention of extinction. It was concluded that MB administered postextinction could enhance retention of extinction memory through an increase in brain cytochrome oxidase activity.
Studies of gene expression following fear conditioning have demonstrated that the inducible transcription factor, egr-1, is increased in the lateral nucleus of the amygdala shortly following fear conditioning. These studies suggest that egr-1 and its protein product Egr-1 in the amygdala are important for learning and memory of fear. To directly test this hypothesis, an egr-1 antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (antisense-ODN) was injected bilaterally into the amygdala prior to contextual fear conditioning. The antisense-ODN reduced Egr-1 protein in the amygdala and interfered with fear conditioning. A 250-pmole dose produced an 11% decrease in Egr-1 protein and reduced long-term memory of fear as measured by freezing in a retention test 24 h after conditioning, but left shock-induced freezing intact. A larger 500-pmole dose produced a 25% reduction in Egr-1 protein and significantly decreased both freezing immediately following conditioning and freezing in the retention test. A nonsense-ODN had no effect on postshock or retention test freezing. In addition, 500 pmole of antisense-ODN infused prior to the retention test in previously trained rats did not reduce freezing, indicating that antisense-ODN did not suppress conditioned fear behavior. Finally, rats infused with 500 pmole of antisense-ODN displayed unconditioned fear to a predator odor, demonstrating that unconditioned freezing was unaffected by the antisense-ODN. The data indicate that the egr-1 antisense-ODN interferes with learning and memory processes of fear without affecting freezing behavior and suggests that the inducible transcription factor Egr-1 within the amygdala plays important functions in long-term learning and memory of fear.
Although past research has highlighted the involvement of limbic structures such as the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) and hippocampus in learning, few have addressed the nature of their interaction. The current study of rabbit jaw movement conditioning used a combination of reversible lesions and electrophysiology to examine the involvement of the hippocampus and the ACC during acquisition, performance, and extinction. We found that microinfusions of procaine into the ACC did not significantly alter the rate of behavioral learning or the amplitude of hippocampal conditioned unit responses, but that they disrupted the rhythmic periodicity of conditioned jaw movements. During extinction, whereas controls showed a rapid decline in behavioral CRs and active inhibition of hippocampal unit responses, ACC lesioned rabbits showed a persistence of conditioning-related hippocampal activity and behavioral responding. The results show that the ACC can be important for adaptive suppression of conditioned behavior and suggest a crucial physiological modulation of hippocampus by ACC during extinction.
After extinction of fear to a Pavlovian conditional stimulus (CS), contextual stimuli come to regulate the expression of fear to that CS. There is growing evidence that the context dependence of memory retrieval after extinction involves the hippocampus. In the present experiment, we examine whether hippocampal involvement in memory retrieval after extinction is related to the history of CS presentations in the context used for retrieval testing. We used infusions of muscimol to inactivate the dorsal hippocampus (DH) during postextinction retrieval tests that were conducted in contexts that differed in their history of CS presentations in that context. We found that DH inactivation affected the context-dependent retrieval of extinction (i.e., renewal) when testing occurred in a context that had no history of CS exposure, but not in a context that reliably predicted the CS. These results are discussed in terms of theories regarding the role of the hippocampus in contextual memory retrieval.
It has been suggested that retrieval during a nonreinforced test induces reconsolidation instead of extinction of the mnemonic trace. Reconsolidation would preserve the original memory from the labilization induced by its nonreinforced recall through a hitherto uncharacterized mechanism requiring protein synthesis. Given the importance that such a process would have in terms of maintaining, as part of the animal behavioral repertoire, a learned response that has been devalued by experience, we analyzed its existence for the memory associated with a one-trial, step-down inhibitory avoidance task (IA), a memory whose consolidation and extinction require protein synthesis in the CA1 region of the dorsal hippocampus (CA1) and involve the participation of the basolateral amygdala (BLA) and entorhinal cortex (ENT). Rats were trained in IA, and 24 h later they were submitted either to a pure reactivation session (retrieval without stepping down), which was unable by itself to initiate extinction of the avoidance response, or to a second training session. Fifteen minutes before or 3 h after either the reactivation or the retraining sessions, animals were infused with the protein synthesis inhibitor anisomycin (ANI) into CA1, BLA, or ENT. Contrary to the prediction of the reconsolidation hypothesis, none of these treatments affected subsequent memory retention. Because reconsolidation is regarded to be a direct consequence of retrieval, one would expect that, when given before a retention test or a pure reactivation session, enhancers of memory expression should permanently improve retention and, therefore, facilitate retrieval both in that and in subsequent sessions. Using two well-known retrieval enhancers, noradrenaline and adrenocorticotropin(1-24), we could not find any evidence suggestive of reconsolidation. Hence, our results indicate that there is no retrieval-induced, protein synthesis-dependent process that would cause reconsolidation of IA memory.
It is well established that the cerebellum and its associated circuitry are essential for classical conditioning of the eyeblink response and other discrete motor responses (e.g., limb flexion, head turn, etc.) learned with an aversive unconditioned stimulus (US). However, brain mechanisms underlying extinction of these responses are still relatively unclear. Behavioral studies have demonstrated extinction as an active learning process distinct from acquisition. Experimental data in eyeblink conditioning suggest that plastic changes specific to extinction may play an important role in this process. Both cerebellar and hippocampal systems may be involved in extinction of these memories. The nature of this phenomenon and identification of the neural substrates necessary for extinction of originally learned responses is the topic of this review.
Fibrillins constitute the major structural components of 10-12nm microfibrils of the extracellular matrix of several elastic and non elastic tissues and of initial lymphatic vessel anchoring filaments. Microfibril-Associated Glycoprotein-1 (MAGP-1) binds fibrillin to tropoelastin during elastogenesis. We recently reported that cultured blood endothelial cells deposit fibrillin in a honeycomb pattern, whereas lymphatic endothelial cells form an irregular web. The aim of this immunohistochemical study was to verify whether the deposition pattern of fibrillin is related to the expression of MAGP-1 in confluent and postconfluent cultures of bovine aortic (AEC), pulmonary artery (PAEC) and lymphatic endothelial cells (LEC). In AEC and PAEC, MAGP-1 and fibrillin co-localized and their deposition increased with time in culture. In AEC, both proteins formed a honeycomb pattern. In LEC, MAGP-1 deposition was still negligible when fibrillin formed an irregular web covering the entire surface. PAEC, which in vivo are exposed to physiological conditions intermediate between AEC and LEC, had an intermediate pattern of deposition of fibrillin and MAGP-1. Assuming that early elastogenesis is an intrinsic functional need for the aorta, but not for the thoracic duct, we propose that delayed appearance of MAGP-1 in LEC may correlate with their irregular fibrillin deposition. Different fibrillin scaffolds could in turn account for the specificity of elastic fibers in compliance with the specific functional requirements of the tissue.

Our previous work suggests that cone photoreceptor inner segment (CIS) mitochondria demand and produce more ATP than rods. The CISs utilize two complimentary strategies to increase ATP production: increase the absolute number of mitochondria and their cristae surface membrane area. In this treatise, we ask: How are crista junctions formed and regulated? Once formed, are there physical mechanisms that constrain their diameter? How are the constrictions in cristae regulated and is this key for cytochrome c release during apoptosis? What are their differences in rod and cone susceptibility to apoptotic cell death during calcium overload and oxidative stress?
Mitochondria are central not only to the bioenergetics of the cell but also to the process of apoptotic cell death. Substantial data indicate mitochondrial dysfunction, particularly of complex I of the electron transport chain, in some patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), and it appears likely that mitochondria contribute to the pathogenic processes that occurs in this disorder. Treatments targeted at mitochondrial function hold promise to slow the progression of PD.
Mitochondrial disease is frequently a multisystem disorder which often involves the central nervous system. Imaging finding although diverse are characterized by focal lesions with T2 hyperintensity, which may be most evident on FLAIR imaging and often progress to atrophy. Deep brain structures including brainstem and basal ganglia structures are particularly vulnerable though white matter and cortex may also be involved. In this paper we describe in detail the imaging features of the spectrum of mitochondrial diseases and suggest a scoring technique for recording severity and extent of brain involvement. Although there is overlap between the imaging features of disease phenotypes, magnetic resonance imaging may be useful in supporting the clinical diagnosis. There is little correlation between molecular defect and imaging findings with some noticeable exceptions such as the MELAS syndrome.
Abstract Natural killer (NK) T cells emerge as unique lymphocytes subsets implicated in the regulation of autoimmunity. Abnormalities in the numbers and functions of NKT cells have been observed in patients with diverse autoimmune diseases as well as in a variety of mouse strains that are genetically predisposed for the development of autoimmune diseases. Unlike conventional T cells that recognize peptides in association with major histocompatibility complex (MHC), NKT cells recognize glycolipid antigens presented by the nonpolymorphic MHC class I-like protein, CD1d. Recently, vigorous activation of NKT cells by synthetic glycolipids such as -galactosylceramide (-GC) or its sphingosine truncated derivative OCH have been shown to suppress autoimmune diseases such as experimental auto-immune encephalomyelitis (EAE), diabetes in nonobese diabetic (NOD) mice, and collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) by inducing T helper (Th) 2 bias of autoimmune T cells. In this review, we examine the potential roles of NKT cells in the pathogenesis of autoimmune disease regulation, and the recent advances in glycolipid therapy for autoimmune disease models. In addition, we summarize studies suggesting a role for NKT cells in human autoimmune disease, and discuss the potential of targeting NKT cells for the treatment of autoimmunity.
We have investigated the movement of green fluorescent protein-tagged neurofilaments at the distal ends of growing axons by using time-lapse fluorescence imaging. The filaments moved in a rapid, infrequent, and asynchronous manner in either an anterograde or retrograde direction (60% anterograde, 40% retrograde). Most of the anterograde filaments entered the growth cone and most of the retrograde filaments originated in the growth cone. In a small number of cases we were able to observe neurofilaments reverse direction, and all of these reversals occurred in or close to the growth cone. We conclude that neurofilament polymers are delivered rapidly and infrequently to the tips of growing axons and that some of these polymers reverse direction in the growth cone and move back into the axon. We propose that 1) growth cones are a preferential site of neurofilament reversal in distal axons, 2) most retrograde neurofilaments in distal axons originate by reversal of anterograde filaments in the growth cone, 3) those anterograde filaments that do not reverse direction are recruited to form the neurofilament cytoskeleton of the newly forming axon, and 4) the net delivery of neurofilament polymers to growth cones may be controlled by regulating the reversal frequency.
Rett syndrome (RTT) is a severe neurodevelopmental disorder with features of autism that results from mutation of the gene encoding the transcriptional repressor methyl-CpG binding protein (MECP2). The consequences of loss of a transcription factor may be complex, affecting the expression of many proteins, thus limiting understanding of this class of diseases and impeding therapeutic strategies. This is true for RTT. Neither the cell biological mechanism(s) nor the developmental stage affected by MECP2 deficiency is known. In vivo analysis of the olfactory system demonstrates that Mecp2 deficiency leads to a transient delay in the terminal differentiation of olfactory neurons. This delay in maturation disrupts axonal targeting in the olfactory bulb, resulting in abnormal axonal projections, subglomerular disorganization, and a persistent reduction in glomerular size. These results indicate a critical cell biological function for Mecp2 in mediating the final stages of neuronal development.

Nordihydroguaiaretic acid (NDGA) was observed by Ono et al. (J Neurochem 87:172-181, 2002) to decrease the fluorescence of thioflavin T associated with freshly extended amyloid beta-protein (Abeta) fibrils. They concluded that NDGA could disaggregate Abeta fibrils into aggregates that were larger than monomers or oligomers and did not bind thioflavin T. Such an effect could be of therapeutic importance in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. In the current study, we confirmed that NDGA induces a decrease in the fluorescence of thioflavin T associated with Abeta(1-40) fibrils and extended this observation to Abeta(1-40) protofibrils. However, attempts to identify protofibril disaggregation products using dynamic light scattering, electron microscopy, and size exclusion chromatography failed to demonstrate any decrease in aggregate size or concentration or a parallel increase in Abeta monomers or small oligomers when protofibrils were incubated with excess NDGA. We propose instead that the decreases in thioflavin T fluorescence resulted from either displacement or conformational alteration of thioflavin T upon the binding of NDGA to these aggregates. In fact, the same equilibrium fluorescence values were observed regardless of the order in which NDGA, thioflavin T, and Abeta protofibrils were added to the incubation. Although NDGA failed to disaggregate Abeta protofibrils, it did inhibit direct protofibril-protofibril association but did not alter protofibril elongation by monomer addition. These results suggest that NDGA might bind along the lateral surface of Abeta protofibrils. In addition, the binding of NDGA to Abeta protofibrils increased their nonspecific adherence to Superdex 75 resin and diminished their effects on cellular reduction of 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide.
Alzheimer's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder associated with a decline in cognitive abilities. Patients also frequently have noncognitive symptoms, such as anxiety, depression, apathy, and psychosis, that impair daily living. The most commonly prescribed treatments for Alzheimer's disease are acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, such as donepezil and galantamine. Enhanced cholinergic functions caused by these compounds are believed to underlie improvements in learning, memory, and attention. The noncognitive aspects of dementia, however, are usually linked to serotonin and dopamine rather than acetylcholine because those neurotransmitter systems most directly influence mood, emotional balance, and psychosis. Fast-scan cyclic voltammetry applied to mouse striatal brain slices was used to measure the real-time release of dopamine arising from spontaneous activity or from single electrical stimulations. At concentrations that include their prescribed dosage ranges, donepezil (1-1000 nM) and galantamine (50-1000 nM) increase action potential-dependent dopamine release. Consistent with previous literature, the data support slightly different modes of action for donepezil and galantamine. The ability of these commonly prescribed drugs to alter catecholamine release may underlie their influence over noncognitive symptoms of dementia. Furthermore, these results suggest that acting via nicotinic receptors, these drugs may serve presently untapped therapeutic roles by altering dopamine release in other disorders involving dopaminergic systems.
The pretreatment of cultured cortical neurons with neurotrophic factors markedly potentiates the cytotoxicity induced by low concentrations of Zn(2+) or excitotoxins. In the current study, we investigated the mechanism underlying the insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I)-induced Zn(2+) toxicity potentiation. The pretreatment of primary cortical cultures for more than 12 h with 100 ng/ml of IGF-I increased the cytotoxicity induced by 80 microM Zn(2+) by more than 2-fold. The IGF-I-enhanced cell death was blocked by the COX-2-specific inhibitors N-[2-(cyclohexyloxyl)-4-nitrophenyl]-methane sulfonamide (NS-398; 10-100 microM) and 1-[(4-methylsulfonyl)phenyl]-3-trifluoro-methyl-5-[(4-fluoro)phenyl]pyrazole (SC58125; 10 microM) and by the antioxidant trolox (30 microM). In addition, it was observed that COX-2 expression was increased 12 to 24 h after IGF-I treatment. Preincubation of cortical cultures with IGF-I increased arachidonic acid (AA)-induced cytotoxicity, and AA increased Zn(2+) toxicity, which suggested the involvement of COX activity in these cellular responses. Moreover, enhanced COX-2 activity led to a decrease in the cell's reducing power, as indicated by a gradual depletion of intracellular GSH. Cortical neurons pretreated with IGF-I and then Zn(2+) showed consistently enhanced reactive oxygen species production, which was repressed by NS-398 and SC58125. Cortical neurons treated with Zn(2+) and then AA displayed the increased ROS production, which was also suppressed by NS-398 and SC58125. These results suggest that COX-2 is an endogenous factor responsible for the IGF-I-induced potentiation of Zn(2+) toxicity and that enhanced COX-2 activity leads to a decrease in the cell's reducing power and an increase in ROS accumulation in primary cortical cultures.
We report on a patient with persistent abnormal shoulder posture associated with isolated neurogenic hypertrophy of the trapezius muscle due to accessory nerve injury. The patient complained of marked difficulty in shoulder elevation and abduction. Over 6-month treatment with botulinum toxin, there was a complete resolution.
Recently, mutations in DJ-1 (PARK7) were described as a novel cause of early-onset parkinsonism. We analysed the DJ-1 gene in a cohort of patients originating from Taiwan with early-onset Parkinson's disease; 41 subjects were clinically and genetically examined. These patients were evaluated previously for the presence of parkin mutations (PARK2) and were found to be negative. The entire DJ-1 open-reading frame was amplified from cDNA, analysed for size alterations indicative of mutations affecting splice motifs, and sequenced to identify coding variants. In addition, we developed quantitative polymerase chain reaction assays to examine the genomic copy number of DJ-1 exons. No potential splice site mutations, coding sequence alterations, or exon deletion/duplications were detected. Our results and previous studies suggest that alterations to DJ-1 are not a common cause of early-onset Parkinson's disease and other causes, genetic and/or environmental, remain to be identified.
Decisions on treatment choice for patients are based on trials and outcome studies that are wholly dependent upon the scientific quality of the rating scales used. This study reviewed rating scales used in cervical dystonia outcome research to determine the extent that they satisfy recommended criteria for rigorous measurement.
The cytoplasmic protein gene product 9.5 (PGP 9.5) is considered a reliable marker for intraepidermal nerve fibers (IENFs). However, PGP 9.5 expression has never been compared with antibodies against the main components of the cytoskeleton. We compared the density of PGP 9.5-positive IENF at the leg with that obtained using a panel of antibodies specific for certain cytoskeletal components, namely, anti-unique beta-tubulin (TuJ1), anti-nonphosphorylated microtubule-associated protein-1B (MAP1B), anti-70 and 200 KDa neurofilament (NF), and antiphosphorylated neurofilament (SMI 312), in 15 healthy subjects and in 10 patients with painful neuropathy. We also performed colocalization studies and investigated the relationship between IENFs and Schwann cells. In both controls and neuropathies, the density of IENF labeled by PGP 9.5, TuJ1, and MAP1B did not differ, whereas that of NF and SMI 312 was significantly lower. Double-staining studies confirmed that antibodies against cytoskeletal markers can be used to reliably stain skin nerve fibers, suggesting that they might provide insight into specific axonal impairment in peripheral neuropathies.
Inhibiting the activity of the beta-amyloid converting enzyme 1 (BACE1) or reducing levels of BACE1 in vivo decreases the production of amyloid-beta. The reticulon family of proteins has four members, RTN1, RTN2, RTN3 and RTN4 (also known as Nogo), the last of which is well known for its role in inhibiting neuritic outgrowth after injury. Here we show that reticulon family members are binding partners of BACE1. In brain, BACE1 mainly colocalizes with RTN3 in neurons, whereas RTN4 is more enriched in oligodendrocytes. An increase in the expression of any reticulon protein substantially reduces the production of Abeta. Conversely, lowering the expression of RTN3 by RNA interference increases the secretion of Abeta, suggesting that reticulon proteins are negative modulators of BACE1 in cells. Our data support a mechanism by which reticulon proteins block access of BACE1 to amyloid precursor protein and reduce the cleavage of this protein. Thus, changes in the expression of reticulon proteins in the human brain are likely to affect cellular amyloid-beta and the formation of amyloid plaques.

Functional magnetic resonance imaging is an important tool for measuring brain function noninvasively, but the vascular and metabolic changes on which its measurements are based are not fully understood. Here, we examined the relationship between these changes and neural activity on a fine spatial scale through simultaneous measurements of tissue oxygen and extracellular neural activity in the cat lateral geniculate nucleus. Our findings indicate that activity-dependent increases in cerebral blood flow and oxidative metabolism occur on different spatial scales, and that the ratio between the two depends on the size of the activated neural population.
Processing of rapidly successive acoustic stimuli can be markedly improved by sensory training. To investigate the cortical mechanisms underlying such temporal plasticity, we trained rats in a 'sound maze' in which navigation using only auditory cues led to a target location paired with food reward. In this task, the repetition rate of noise pulses increased as the distance between the rat and target location decreased. After training in the sound maze, neurons in the primary auditory cortex (A1) showed greater responses to high-rate noise pulses and stronger phase-locking of responses to the stimuli; they also showed shorter post-stimulation suppression and stronger rebound activation. These improved temporal dynamics transferred to trains of pure-tone pips. Control animals that received identical sound stimulation but were given free access to food showed the same results as naive rats. We conclude that this auditory perceptual learning results in improvements in temporal processing, which may be mediated by enhanced cortical response dynamics.
Developmental deficits that affect speech perception increase the risk of language and literacy problems, which can lead to lowered academic and occupational accomplishment. Normal development and disorders of speech perception have both been linked to temporospectral auditory processing speed. Understanding the role of dynamic auditory processing in speech perception and language comprehension has led to the development of neuroplasticity-based intervention strategies aimed at ameliorating language and literacy problems and their sequelae.
Treating Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the biggest unmet medical need in neurology. Current drugs improve symptoms, but do not have profound disease-modifying effects. Three main classes of disease-modification approaches can be defined: one that is broadly neurotrophic or neuroprotective, one that targets specific aspects of AD pathology, and one that is based on epidemiological observation. This review discusses all three approaches, with particular emphasis on anti-amyloid strategies - currently the most active area of investigation. The approaches that are reviewed include secretase inhibition, amyloid-beta aggregation inhibition, immunotherapy and strategies that might indirectly affect the amyloid pathway.
We develop a new oscillatory model that combines consecutive selection of objects and discrimination between new and familiar objects. The model works with visual information and fulfils the following operations: (1) separation of different objects according to their spatial connectivity; (2) consecutive selection of objects located in the visual field into the attention focus; (3) extraction of features; (4) representation of objects in working memory; (5) novelty detection of objects. The functioning of the model is based on two main principles: the synchronization of oscillators through phase-locking and resonant increase of the amplitudes of oscillators if they work in-phase with other oscillators. The results of computer simulation of the model are described for visual stimuli representing printed words.
Studies have found that emotionally evocative stimuli are better remembered than neutral stimuli, an effect called &quot;emotional enhancement&quot;. Researchers have also found that the elderly experience an overall decline in memory relative to the young. We hypothesized that the elderly may experience diminished emotional enhancement, and that this may be one factor contributing to overall memory decline in the elderly. We tested elderly and young subjects on tasks of emotional memory for words and faces. In both the elderly and young, a shift in memory favoring positive stimuli (as opposed to negative and neutral stimuli) was evident, this effect being slightly more marked in the elderly. We suggest that the effects seen in both groups may be due to a shift from the amygdala-hippocampal system to the prefrontal cortex over time. We suggest that the more marked response in the elderly may be due to age-related changes in these brain systems, causing a further shift towards memory for positive material.
Adenylyl cyclase (AC) subtypes have been implicated in memory processes and synaptic plasticity. In the present study, the effects of aging and learning on Ca2+/calmodulin-stimulable AC1, Ca2+-insensitive AC2 and Ca2+/calcineurin-inhibited AC9 mRNA level were compared in the dorsal hippocampus of young-adult and aged C57BL/6 mice using in situ hybridization. Both AC1 and AC9 mRNA expression were downregulated in aged hippocampus, whereas AC2 mRNA remained unchanged, suggesting differential sensitivities to the aging process. We next examined AC mRNA expression in the hippocampus after spatial learning in the Morris water maze. Acquisition of the spatial task was associated with an increase of AC1 and AC9 mRNA levels in both young-adult and aged groups, suggesting that Ca2+-sensitive ACs are oppositely regulated by aging and learning. However, aged-trained mice had reduced AC1 and AC9, but greater AC2, mRNA levels relative to young-trained mice and age-related learning impairments were correlated with reduced AC1 expression in area CA1. We suggest that reduced levels of hippocampal AC1 mRNA may greatly contribute to age-related defects in spatial memory.
In this study, we compared the effects of chronic ultramild stress (CUMS) exposure on decision-making behavior in a validated test, and on the stress responsive serotoninergic and dopaminergic systems in four age groups of B6D2F1 female mice (5-6, 11-12, 17-18 and 23-24 months old). The levels of serotonin (5-HT) and its metabolite 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid (5-HIAA) were measured in the brain stem, the cortex, the striatum and the hippocampus; the levels of dopamine (DA) and its metabolite dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) were measured in the brain stem and the striatum. The influence of a long-term treatment with the extract of Ginkgo biloba leaves EGb 761 (Tanakan) on age- and stress-related changes was also investigated in the two oldest age groups. In the absence of drug treatment, middle-age mice were the least efficient in making a decision, and senescent mice exhibited reduced levels of both 5-HT and DA and their metabolites in all the brain areas examined. CUMS facilitated evaluation and choice behavior in all age groups, but induced age-dependent reduction of hesitation, acceleration of information processing and reduction in serotoninergic neurotransmission. In senescent mice, EGb 761 reduced the impact of stress on evaluation and hesitation, and restored some stress-related neurobehavioral changes that were only seen in young mice, i.e. acceleration of information processing and reduction in brain 5-HIAA levels. Restoration of some plasticity of the serotoninergic systems might contribute to the stress alleviating influence of EGb 761 in old age.
Prepulse inhibition (PPI) is used as a measure for sensorimotor gating. Studies in animals have indicated that hippocampus and entorhinal cortex, structures which are affected in mild Alzheimer's disease (AD), are involved in the regulation of PPI. The objectives of this study were to determine if patients with very mild AD had altered PPI, and to study possible correlations between PPI and cognitive performance or neuropsychiatric symptoms. A passive acoustic PPI paradigm was applied in 48 patients with either mild AD or Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) and in 49 healthy controls. No differences were found between patients and healthy controls regarding PPI. Further, PPI was not found to correlate with cognitive performance or neuropsychiatric symptoms. PPI is significantly altered in patients with neuropsychiatric disorders associated with dopaminergic, glutamatergic and/or serotonergic dysfunctions, such as schizophrenia. Since mild AD is primarily associated with loss of cholinergic markers in the limbic regions this study suggests that acetylcholine only plays a minor role in the regulation of PPI.
The hippocampus appears to be critical for the formation of certain types of memories. Hippocampal-lesioned animals fail to exhibit some spatial, contextual, and relational associations. After aspiration lesions of the hippocampus and/or cortex, male rats were allowed to recover for three weeks before being trained on a matching-to-position task. The matching-to-position task was altered to influence the type of cognitive strategies a subject would use to solve the task. The main behavioral manipulation was the reinforcement contingency assignment: Use of a differential outcomes procedure (DOP) or a nondifferential outcomes procedure (NOP). The DOP involves correlating each to-be-remembered event with a distinct reward condition via Pavlovian trace conditioning, whereas the NOP results in random reward contingency. We found that hippocampal lesions did retard learning the matching rule, regardless of the reinforcement contingency assignment. However, when delay intervals were added to the task memory performance of subjects with hippocampal lesions was dramatically impaired--if subjects were not trained with the DOP. When subjects were trained with the DOP, the hippocampal lesion had a marginal effect on delayed memory performance. These findings demonstrate two important points regarding lesions of the hippocampus: (1) hippocampal lesions have a minimal effect on the on the ability of rats to use reward information to solve a delayed discrimination task; (2) rats with hippocampal lesions have the ability to learn about reward information using Pavlovian trace conditioning procedures.
Zebra finches show a multifaceted response to playback of tape-recorded birdsong. A novel song induces an overt listening behavior, accompanied by a distinct electrophysiological signature and a wave of gene expression in the auditory telencephalon. With repetition of the same song these responses all habituate; habituation can persist for a day or more and is specific for the repeated song. This habituation is a form of selective memory. Here we describe four experiments to probe the nature of the information stored in that memory, using habituation of the genomic response as a physiological assay for stimulus recognition. Adult male zebra finches (awake and unrestrained) were exposed to repetitions of a test song to habituate the genomic response. The same song was then presented in one of four different contexts: (1) from a speaker on the opposite side of the cage; (2) at a reduced sound pressure level; (3) paired with constant illumination of colored lights next to the speaker; (4) paired with colored lights that were turned on and off in synchrony with each song bout. In all cases except the third, a &quot;familiar&quot; (habituated) song re-induced a new wave of gene expression in the auditory telencephalon when presented in the new context. These results reveal that memory for a specific song, as indicated by the initial gene habituation, incorporates more than just an acoustic description of the song. We suggest that habituation in the auditory telencephalon is controlled in part by an extrinsic system that allows detection of synchronous activity in different sensory or representational modalities.
This review surveys evidence for the flow of brain interstitial fluid (ISF) via preferential pathways through the brain, and its relation to cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Studies over &gt;100 years have raised several controversial points, not all of them resolved. Recent studies have usefully combined a histological and a mathematical approach. Taken together the evidence indicates an ISF bulk flow rate of 0.1-0.3 microl min(-1) g(-1) in rat brain along preferential pathways especially perivascular spaces and axon tracts. The main source of this fluid is likely to be the brain capillary endothelium, which has the necessary ion transporters, channels and water permeability to generate fluid at a low rate, c1/100th of the rate per square centimeter of CSF secretion across choroid plexus epithelium. There is also evidence that a proportion of CSF may recycle from the subarachnoid space into arterial perivascular spaces on the ventral surface of the brain, and join the circulating ISF, draining back via venous perivascular spaces and axon tracts into CSF compartments, and out both through arachnoid granulations and along cranial nerves to the lymphatics of the neck. The bulk flow of ISF has implications for non-synaptic cell:cell communication (volume transmission); for drug delivery, distribution, and clearance; for brain ionic homeostasis and its disturbance in brain edema; for the immune function of the brain; for the clearance of beta-amyloid deposits; and for the migration of cells (malignant cells, stem cells).
The fine tuning of both glutamatergic and GABAergic neurotransmission is to a large extent dependent upon optimal function of astrocytic transport processes. Thus, glutamate transport in astrocytes is mandatory to maintain extrasynaptic glutamate levels sufficiently low to prevent excitotoxic neuronal damage. In GABA synapses hyperactivity of astroglial GABA uptake may lead to diminished GABAergic inhibitory activity resulting in seizures. As a consequence of this the expression and functional activity of astrocytic glutamate and GABA transport is regulated in a number of ways at transcriptional, translational and post-translational levels. This opens for a number of therapeutic strategies by which the efficacy of excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission may be manipulated.
The extracellular space (ECS) of the brain is a major channel for intercellular communication, nutrient and metabolite trafficking, and drug delivery. The dominant transport mechanism is diffusion, which is governed by two structural parameters, tortuosity and volume fraction. Tortuosity (lambda) represents the hindrance imposed on the diffusing molecules by the tissue in comparison with an obstacle-free medium, while volume fraction (alpha) is the proportion of tissue volume occupied by the ECS. Diffusion of small ECS markers can be exploited to measure lambda and alpha. In healthy brain tissue, lambda is about 1.6 but increases to 1.9-2.0 in pathologies that involve cellular swelling. Previously it was thought that lambda could be explained by the circumnavigation of diffusing molecules around cells. Numerical models of assemblies of convex cells, however, give an upper limit of about 1.23 for lambda. Therefore, additional factors must be responsible for lambda in brain. In principle, two mechanisms could account for the measured value: a more complex ECS geometry or an extracellular macromolecular matrix. Here we review recent work in ischemic tissue suggesting concave geometrical formations, dead-space microdomains, as a major determinant of extracellular tortuosity. A theoretical model of lambda based on diffusion dwell times supports this hypothesis and predicts that, in ischemia, dead spaces occupy approximately 60% of ECS volume fraction leaving only approximately 40% for well-connected channels. It is further proposed that dead spaces are present in healthy brain tissue where they constitute about 40% of alpha. The presence of dead-space microdomains in the ECS implies microscopic heterogeneity of extracellular channels with fundamental implications for molecular transport in brain.
The cyclooxygenase (COX) superfamily of prostaglandin synthase genes encode a constitutively expressed COX-1, an inducible, highly regulated COX-2, and a COX-3 isoform whose RNA is derived through the retention of a highly structured, G + C-rich intron 1 of the COX-1 gene. As generators of oxygen radicals, lipid mediators, and the pharmacological targets of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), COX enzymes potentiate inflammatory neuropathology in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain. Because COX-2 is elevated in AD and COX-3 is enriched in the mammalian CNS, these studies were undertaken to examine the expression of COX-3 in AD and in [IL-1beta + Abeta42]-triggered human neural (HN) cells in primary culture. The results indicate that while COX-2 remains a major player in propagating inflammmation in AD and in stressed HN cells, COX-3 may play ancillary roles in membrane-based COX signaling or when basal levels of COX-1 or COX-2 expression persist.
The current study was designed to locate the neuronal activation in rat brain following intraperitoneal injection of Staphylococcus enterotoxin B (SEB) and observe the consequence of preliminary subdiaphragmatic vagotomy on SEB-induced brain Fos expression to clarify the role of the vagus nerve in sensation and transmission of abdominal SEB stimulation. The results showed that intraperitoneal SEB (1 mg/kg) induced a robust Fos expression in widespread brain areas. A significant increase of Fos immunoreactive cells were observed in the solitary tract nucleus, locus ceruleus, lateral parabrachial nucleus, ventrolateral part of central gray, medial amygdaloid nucleus, central amygdaloid nucleus, ventromedial part of thalamus, dorsomedial part of thalamus, hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, lateral habenula, and lateral septum nucleus following SEB challenge. In hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, in addition to the dense Fos expression in the parvocellular portion, some Fos-positive cells were also observed in the anterior magnocellular nucleus of the complex. Double immunofluorescence studies showed that these Fos-immunoreactive cells were mostly oxytocinergic. The results also showed that subdiaphragmatic vagotomy largely attenuated, but not totally abrogated, the brain Fos expression induced by abdominal administration of SEB. Our data suggest that peripheral SEB stimulation can induce activation of neurons in widespread brain areas and that the vagus plays a crucial role in transmitting the signal of abdominal immune stimulation to the brain.
The interindividual anatomo-functional variability of the central nervous system implies that brain surgery within eloquent regions may induce neurological sequelae. Consequently, several methods of functional mapping were developed, both preoperative non-invasive neurofunctional imaging and intraoperative cortico-subcortical electrical stimulations. While this technique was reported as safe, accurate, reliable and reproducible in the recent literature, a rigorous methodology is nevertheless mandatory in order to avoid any error in the detection of the so-called eloquent structures. Indeed, an erroneous mapping could lead to prematurely interrupting the resection (false positive), or to generate a postoperative permanent deficit due to the removal of critical areas interpreted as non-essential to function (false negative). The goal of the present review is to recall the electrophysiological principles of direct brain stimulations, and to consider the selection of stimulation parameters according to a theoretical approach, in order to adapt in practice the methods to each patient. The results reported in the literature are then analyzed, concerning the clinico-surgical contribution of intraoperative electrical mapping (in terms of extent of surgical indications, minimization of risk of permanent deficit, and quality of resection), their methodological interest (e.g. validation of neurofunctional imaging techniques), and their contribution to neurosciences (better understanding of the pathophysiology of brain structures, of the connectivity, and of the dynamic mechanisms underlying plasticity).

We describe a Cypriot family in which some family members presented with episodes of pressure palsies, while other family members had a slowly progressive chronic polyneuropathy typical of the Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 1 phenotype. All family members were evaluated clinically, with nerve conduction studies, and with genetic testing. In all affected individuals there was clinical and electrophysiological evidence of diffuse demyelinating sensorimotor polyneuropathy and a novel point mutation in the PMP22 gene (Ser22Phe) was identified.
Exposure to cycad (Cycas micronesica K.D. Hill) toxins via diet has been shown to induce neurodegeneration in vivo that mimics the progressive neurological disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis--parkinsonism dementia complex (ALS--PDC). In previous studies, specific cortical and subcortical cell loss was measured with conventional stained sections. In the present study, magnetic resonance (MR) microscopy was used to examine neurodegeneration in three dimensions (3D) in isolated intact brains and spinal cords. Mice were fed washed cycad for 2 months and showed progressive motor deficits resembling human ALS--PDC. CNS tissue was imaged at 17.6 T. T2* scans were acquired on both spinal cord and brain samples with an isotropic resolution of 41 microm. Through MR volumetrics, cycad-fed mice showed significantly decreased volumes in lumbar spinal cord gray matter, substantia nigra, striatum, basal nucleus/internal capsule, and olfactory bulb. Cortical measurements of conventionally stained sections revealed that cycad-fed mice also showed decreased cortical thickness. These results show that MR microscopy (MRM) is sensitive enough to measure degeneration in this early stage model of a progressive neurological disease with strong correlations to behavioral deficits and histological results and may be applicable in vivo to the same model. Similar analysis may be used in the future as a diagnostic aid in tracking the early progression of neurological disorders in preclinical human subjects.
Standard analyses of neurophysiologically evoked response data rely on signal averaging across many epochs associated with specific events. The amplitudes and latencies of these averaged events are subsequently interpreted in the context of the given perceptual, motor, or cognitive tasks. Can such critical timing properties of event-related responses be recovered from single-trial data? Here, we make use of the M100 latency paradigm used in previous magnetoencephalography (MEG) research to evaluate a novel single-trial analysis approach. Specifically, the latency of the auditory evoked M100 varies systematically with stimulus frequency over a well-defined time range (lower frequencies, e.g., 125 Hz, yield up to 25 ms longer latencies than higher frequencies, e.g., 1000 Hz). Here, we show that the complex filtering approach to single-trial analysis recovers this key characteristic of the M100 response, as well as some other important response properties relating to lateralization. The results illustrate (i) the utility of the complex filtering method and (ii) the potential of the M100 latency to be used for stimulus encoding, since the relevant variation can be observed in single trials.
The ability to locate pain plays a pivotal role in immediate defense and withdrawal behavior. However, how the brain localizes nociceptive information without additional information from somatotopically organized mechano-receptive pathways is not well understood. To investigate the somatotopic organization of the nociceptive system, we applied Thulium-YAG-laser evoked pain stimuli, which have no concomitant tactile component, to the dorsum of the left hand and foot in randomized order. We used single-trial functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to assess differential hemodynamic responses to hand and foot stimulation for the group and in a single subject approach. The primary somatosensory cortex (SI) shows a clear somatotopic organization ipsi- and contralaterally to painful stimulation. Furthermore, a differential representation of hand and foot stimulation appeared within the contralateral opercular--insular region of the secondary somatosensory cortex (SII). This result provides evidence that both SI and SII encode spatial information of nociceptive stimuli without additional information from the tactile system and highlights the concept of a redundant representation of basic discriminative stimulus features in human somatosensory cortices, which seems adequate in view of the evolutionary importance of pain perception.
Hemisphere asymmetry was explored in normal healthy subjects and in patients with schizophrenia using a novel voxel-based tensor analysis applied to fractional anisotropy (FA) of the diffusion tensor. Our voxel-based approach, which requires precise spatial normalization to remove the misalignment of fiber tracts, includes generating a symmetrical group average template of the diffusion tensor by applying nonlinear elastic warping of the demons algorithm. We then normalized all 32 diffusion tensor MRIs from healthy subjects and 23 from schizophrenic subjects to the symmetrical average template. For each brain, six channels of tensor component images and one T2-weighted image were used for registration to match tensor orientation and shape between images. A statistical evaluation of white matter asymmetry was then conducted on the normalized FA images and their flipped images. In controls, we found left-higher-than-right anisotropic asymmetry in the anterior part of the corpus callosum, cingulum bundle, the optic radiation, and the superior cerebellar peduncle, and right-higher-than-left anisotropic asymmetry in the anterior limb of the internal capsule and the anterior limb's prefrontal regions, in the uncinate fasciculus, and in the superior longitudinal fasciculus. In patients, the asymmetry was lower, although still present, in the cingulum bundle and the anterior corpus callosum, and not found in the anterior limb of the internal capsule, the uncinate fasciculus, and the superior cerebellar peduncle compared to healthy subjects. These findings of anisotropic asymmetry pattern differences between healthy controls and patients with schizophrenia are likely related to neurodevelopmental abnormalities in schizophrenia.
Recent studies have suggested that declining inhibitory control observed during simultaneous increases in working memory (WM) demands may be due to sharing common neural resources, although it is relatively unclear how these processes are successfully combined at a neural level. Event-related functional MRI was used to examine task performance that required inhibition of varying numbers of items held in WM. Common activation regions for WM and inhibition were observed and this functional overlap may constitute the cortical basis for task interference. However, maintaining successful inhibitory control under increasing WM demands tended not to increase activation in these overlapping regions as might be expected if these common areas reflect common resources essential for task performance. Instead, increased activation was observed predominantly in unique, inhibition-specific regions including dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. The finding that successfully maintaining weaker stimulus--response relationships in the face of competition from stronger, prepotent responses requires greater activity in these regions reveals the means by which the brain resolves task interference and supports theories of how top-down attentional control is implemented.
We present here ongoing patterns of distributed brain synchronous activity that correlate with the spontaneous flow of perceptual dominance during binocular rivalry. Specific modulation of the magnetoencephalographic (MEG) response evoked during conscious perception of a frequency-tagged stimulus was evidenced throughout rivalry. Estimation of the underlying cortical sources revealed, in addition to strong bilateral striate and extrastriate visual cortex activation, parietal, temporal pole and frontal contributions. Cortical activity was significantly modulated concomitantly to perceptual alternations in visual cortex, medial parietal and left frontal regions. Upon dominance, coactivation of occipital and frontal regions, including anterior cingulate and medial frontal areas, was established. This distributed cortical network, as measured by phase synchrony in the frequency tag band, was dynamically modulated in concert with the perceptual dominance of the tagged stimulus. While the anteroposterior pattern was recurrent through subjects, individual variations in the extension of the network were apparent.
Prefrontal cortex (PFC) activity associated with emotional evaluation and subsequent memory was investigated with event-related functional MRI (fMRI). Participants were scanned while rating the pleasantness of emotionally positive, negative, and neutral pictures, and memory for the pictures was tested after scanning. Emotional evaluation was measured by comparing activity during the picture rating task relative to baseline, and successful encoding was measured by comparing activity for subsequently remembered versus forgotten pictures (Dm effect). The effect of arousal on these measures was indicated by greater activity for both positive and negative pictures than for neutral ones, and the effect of valence was indicated by differences in activity between positive and negative pictures. The study yielded three main results. First, consistent with the valence hypothesis, specific regions in left dorsolateral PFC were more activated for positive than for negative picture evaluation, whereas regions in right ventrolateral PFC showed the converse pattern. Second, dorsomedial PFC activity was sensitive to emotional arousal, whereas ventromedial PFC activity was sensitive to positive valence, consistent with evidence linking these regions, respectively, to emotional processing and self-awareness or appetitive behavior. Finally, successful encoding (Dm) activity in left ventrolateral and dorsolateral PFC was greater for arousing than for neutral pictures. This finding suggests that the enhancing effect of emotion on memory formation is partly due to an augmentation of PFC-mediated strategic, semantic, and working memory operations. These results underscore the critical role of PFC in emotional evaluation and memory, and disentangle the effects of arousal and valence across PFC regions associated with different cognitive functions.
Although multivariate analytic techniques might identify diagnostic patterns that are not captured by univariate methods, they have rarely been used to study the neural correlates of Alzheimer's disease (AD) or cognitive impairment. Nonquantitative H2(15)O PET scans were acquired during rest in 17 probable AD subjects selected for mild severity [mean-modified Mini Mental Status Examination (mMMS) 46/57; SD 5.1], 16 control subjects (mMMS 54; SD 2.5) and 23 subjects with minimal to mild cognitive impairment but no dementia (mMMS 53; SD 2.8). Expert clinical reading had low success in discriminating AD and controls. There were no significant mean flow differences among groups in traditional univariate SPM Noxel-wise analyses or region of interest (ROI) analyses. A covariance pattern was identified whose mean expression was significantly higher in the AD as compared to controls (P = 0.03; sensitivity 76-94%; specificity 63-81%). Sites of increased concomitant flow included insula, cuneus, pulvinar, lingual, fusiform, superior occipital and parahippocampal gyri, whereas decreased concomitant flow was found in cingulate, inferior parietal lobule, middle and inferior frontal, supramarginal and precentral gyri. The covariance analysis-derived pattern was then prospectively applied to the cognitively impaired subjects: as compared to subjects with Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) = 0, subjects with CDR = 0.5 had significantly higher mean covariance pattern expression (P = 0.009). Expression of this pattern correlated inversely with Selective Reminding Test total recall (r = -0.401, P = 0.002), delayed recall (r = -0.351, P = 0.008) and mMMS scores (r = -0.401, P = 0.002) in all three groups combined. We conclude that patients with AD may differentially express resting cerebral blood flow covariance patterns even at very early disease stages. Significant alterations in expression of resting flow covariance patterns occur even for subjects with cognitive impairment. Expression of covariance patterns correlates with cognitive and functional performance measures, holding promise for meaningful associations with underlying biopathological processes.

Functional imaging techniques provide major insights into understanding the pathophysiology, progression, complications, and differential diagnosis of Parkinson's disease (PD). The dopaminergic system has been particularly studied allowing now early, presymptomatic diagnoses, which is of interest for future neuroprotective strategies. The existence of a compensatory hyperactivity of dopa-decarboxylase at disease onset has been recently demonstrated in the nigrostriatal and also extrastriatal dopaminergic pathways. Modification of dopamine receptors expression is observed during PD, but the respective contribution of dopaminergic drugs and the disease process towards these changes is still debated. Abnormalities of cerebral activation are seen and are clearly task-dependent, but the coexistence of hypoactivation in some areas and hyperactivation in others is also now well established. Such hyperactivation may be compensatory but could also reflect an inability to select appropriate motor circuits and inhibit inappropriate ones by PD patients. Interestingly, dopaminergic medications or surgical therapy reverse such abnormalities of brain activation.



Neuropathological diagnostic criteria for Alzheimer's disease (AD) are based on tau-related pathology: NFT or neuritic plaques (NP). The Consortium to Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's disease (CERAD) criterion evaluates the highest density of neocortical NP from 0 (none) to C (abundant). Clinical documentation of dementia and NP stage A in younger cases, B in young old cases and C in older cases fulfils the criterion of AD. The CERAD criterion is most frequently used in clinical outcome studies because of its inclusion of clinical information. Braak and Braak's criterion evaluates the density and distribution of NFT and classifies them into: I/II, entorhinal; III/IV, limbic; and V/VI, neocortical stage. These three stages correspond to normal cognition, cognitive impairment and dementia, respectively. As Braak's criterion is based on morphological evaluation of the brain alone, this criterion is usually adopted in the research setting. The National Institute for Aging and Ronald and Nancy Reagan Institute of the Alzheimer's Association criterion combines these two criteria and categorizes cases into NFT V/VI and NP C, NFT III/IV and NP B, and NFT I/II and NP A, corresponding to high, middle and low probability of AD, respectively. As most AD cases in the aged population are categorized into Braak tangle stage IV and CERAD stage C, the usefulness of this criterion has not yet been determined. The combination of Braak's NFT stage equal to or above IV and Braak's senile plaque Stage C provides, arguably, the highest sensitivity and specificity. In future, the criteria should include in vivo dynamic neuropathological data, including 3D MRI, PET scan and CSF biomarkers, as well as more sensitive and specific immunohistochemical and immunochemical grading of AD.
The ability of antipsychotic drugs to affect 5-HT(2A) receptor function has been widely suggested to contribute to their therapeutic properties. We have compared the ability of the antipsychotic drugs clozapine and haloperidol, alone and in combination with chronic phencyclidine (PCP), to modulate 5-HT(2A) receptor binding and mRNA. Acute (i.p. 45 min) and chronic (21-day) clozapine (osmotic minipump (OMP); 20 mg/kg/day) produced widespread decreases in 5-HT(2A) receptor binding (-60%-80%), measured using [(3)H]ketanserin autoradiography. Conversely, 5-HT(2A) mRNA levels, determined using in-situ hybridisation, were modestly increased by chronic clozapine treatment (+10%-30%). Chronic PCP treatment, at a dose (2.58 mg/kg i.p. intermittently for 28 days) that reproduces many of the neurochemical deficits of schizophrenia, decreased 5-HT(2A) receptor binding in the prefrontal cortex (PFC; -16%), consistent with the changes in post-mortem brain tissue from schizophrenic patients. Combined chronic PCP (i.p.) and clozapine (OMP) treatment down-regulated 5-HT(2A) receptor binding in many areas, similar to the effects of clozapine treatment alone and clozapine further enhanced the effects of PCP in the prefrontal cortex. In contrast 5-HT(2A) mRNA was not altered. Haloperidol treatment alone (1 mg/kg/day; OMP) and in combination with PCP (i.p.), generally produced no changes in 5-HT(2A) receptor protein or mRNA. Hence chronic PCP treatment, as employed here, mimics the decreased 5-HT(2A) receptor binding observed in the PFC of schizophrenic patients. Clozapine's enhancement of the natural response of PCP to down-regulate PFC 5-HT(2A) receptors may contribute to it's improved therapeutic profile against negative symptoms and cognitive deficits.
Synthetic glucocorticoids, like dexamethasone (DEX), have been frequently administered to premature infants to prevent chronic lung disease. Major concern has arisen about the long-term neurodevelopmental sequelae of this DEX treatment. In the present study, we found that neonatal DEX treatment in rats, using a treatment protocol resembling the one used in the clinical situation, increased social play behaviour in juvenile life. Furthermore, neonatal DEX treatment increased sexual motivation and intromission behaviour in the bi-level chamber, decreased submissive behaviour during an aggressive encounter, and impaired social memory in adulthood. These changes in social behaviour are not due to a general behavioural impairment since anxiety behaviour in the elevated plus maze and exploratory activity in the open-field were not affected in DEX rats. In addition, DEX rats showed no alteration in the total duration of social interest or social activity during a social interaction test. These effects of neonatal DEX treatment on behaviour later in life likely result from neurodevelopmental actions of the hormone since we found no differences in received maternal care between DEX and SAL treated pups. Together these results indicate that neonatal treatment with DEX selectively alters aspects of the behavioural response to social challenges. Thus, neonatal DEX treatment may lead to inappropriate interactions with conspecifics later in life. These data therefore warrant investigation of lasting and potentially adverse effects of treatment of human neonates with DEX on social functioning.
Rivastigmine, a cholinesterase inhibitor, is successfully used for the symptomatic therapy of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in the clinic. The drug has a very low potential for drug-drug interactions, as has been demonstrated within large clinical trials. Memantine, recently approved by the FDA for the treatment of moderate to severe AD, acts as a low affinity, non-competitive NMDA-antagonist, on a completely different neurotransmitter system, the glutamatergic system. Given the different sites of action, the possibility to combine a cholinergic with a glutamatergic intervention as potentially superior AD therapy has recently been proposed. In vitro studies have demonstrated that memantine, when added to reversible AChE inhibitors, such as tacrine, donepezil or galantamine, did not interfere with the inhibitory action of any of these drugs. The results from the present study provide evidence that rivastigmine as a pseudo-irreversible (or slow-reversible) AChE inhibitor shares this property described for reversible inhibitors, since memantine (1-100 microM), irrespective of whether given prior to or after rivastigmine did not influence rivastigmine's AChE inhibition in vitro. A similar observation was also made under in vivo conditions (ex vivo measurements): following a 21 day chronic, oral administration of 6 micromol/kg rivastigmine alone or of a combination of rivastigmine plus memantine (6 micromol/kg p.o. of either of the two compounds), an identical degree of AChE inhibition was observed. The concentrations of rivastigmine, its metabolite NAP 226-90 and memantine were measured in the brain of the same animals. Following an equimolar oral dose (6 micromol/kg) of both compounds, the brain level of memantine exceeded that of rivastigmine + metabolite, by a factor of around 30, when measured 2 h after the final dosing, irrespective of the duration of treatment (acute, for 3 or 21 days). This indicates that neither of the two drugs showed accumulation but also, and more importantly, that memantine does not modulate the prime therapeutic action of rivastigmine (AChE inhibition) in vitro or in vivo. Clinical trials using a combination of both drugs will provide a final proof of whether a combination therapy would lead to an increased efficacy in AD patients.
Binding of nicotine to nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) elicits a series of dose-dependent behaviors that go from altered exploration, sedation, and tremors, to seizures and death. nAChRs are pentameric ion channels usually composed of alpha and beta subunits. A gene cluster comprises the alpha3, alpha5 and beta4 subunits, which coassemble to form functional receptors. We examined the role of the beta4 subunits in nicotine-induced seizures and hypolocomotion in beta4 homozygous null (beta4 -/-) and alpha3 heterozygous (+/-) mice. beta4 -/- mice were less sensitive to the effects of nicotine both at low doses, measured as decreased exploration in an open field, and at high doses, measured as sensitivity to nicotine-induced seizures. Using in situ hybridization probes for the alpha3 and alpha5 subunits, we showed that alpha5 mRNA levels are unchanged, whereas alpha3 mRNA levels are selectively decreased in the mitral cell layer of the olfactory bulb, and the inferior and the superior colliculus of beta4 -/- brains. alpha3 +/- mice were partially resistant to nicotine-induced seizures when compared to wild-type littermates. mRNA levels for the alpha5 and the beta4 subunits were unchanged in alpha3 +/- brains. Together, these results suggest that the beta4 and the alpha3 subunits are mediators of nicotine-induced seizures and hypolocomotion.
The persistence of protein synthesis-dependent long-term potentiation (late-LTP) is thought to require heterosynaptic activation of both glutamate and neuromodulatory receptors in the hippocampus. The present series of experiments contrasts two alternative accounts of heterosynaptic activation. The original version of the synaptic-tag hypothesis of the variable persistence of LTP implied that neuromodulatory and glutamatergic activation could occur independently, albeit within a critical time-window; an alternative view is that there needs to be simultaneous co-activation of both receptors to trigger the up-regulation of relevant protein synthesis (Neuron 34 (2002) 235). Our findings include a replication, over 6 h post-LTP-induction, of earlier findings showing heterosynaptic influences on LTP persistence. Specifically, 'strong' tetanisation with multiple trains of stimulation of one input pathway in a conventional hippocampal slice preparation induces a D1/D5 receptor-dependent form of late-LTP that enables 'weak' tetanic stimulation to induce late-LTP on an independent pathway. However, we also observed that when the first pathway was tetanised in the presence of AP5, not only was no LTP observed on that pathway, but there was also no rescue of late-LTP on the second pathway. Thus, it appears that DA receptors must be co-activated with NMDA receptors in a common pool of neurons to enable LTP persistence, although late-LTP can still be induced by selective activation of glutamatergic synapses if this occurs at time periods shortly before or shortly after this essential coactivation.

Opiates and psychostimulants produce many shared behavioral and neurobiological adaptations, such as behavioral sensitization and the induction of immediate early genes in the caudate-putamen (CPu). Previous studies indicate that factors such as dose, the environmental context surrounding drug administration and drug history can influence both morphine- and psychostimulant-induced behavioral sensitization. In addition, these factors can modulate the ability of psychostimulants to engage striatofugal circuits in the CPu. The present study, therefore, sought to examine whether these factors have similar influences over the ability of morphine to engage cortico-striatofugal circuits. We report that, when given in the home cage, morphine produced a small, but significant increase in the number of c-fos+ striatonigral cells and c-fos+ cells in cingulate cortex, but had no effect on the number of c-fos+ striatopallidal cells. When given in a novel test environment, however, morphine dramatically increased the number of c-fos+ striatonigral cells in a dose-dependent fashion, and this effect was maintained following repeated treatment. Unexpectedly, morphine treatment in a novel environment produced a dose-dependent reduction in the number of c-fos+ striatopallidal cells and c-fos+ cells in cingulate cortex, relative to exposure to novelty alone-effects that were reversed by repeated morphine treatment. We suggest that alterations in c-fos expression patterns in striatofugal circuits following morphine administration may be involved in drug-experience-dependent plasticity.
A distinct role for serotonin transmission from the dorsal and median raph nuclei (DRN and MRN, respectively) was identified in regulating the behavioral and neurochemical effects of acute and repeated cocaine administration. Serotonin 1A (5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HT)1A) receptors were stimulated by intraraph microinjection of 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (DPAT; 5 or 10 microg) and behavior, as well as extracellular neurotransmitter content in the nucleus accumbens was measured. Pretreatment of the DRN with DPAT caused a sensitization-like potentiation of acute cocaine-induced motor activity and an elevation in extracellular dopamine and glutamate. In contrast, DPAT microinjection into the MRN did not alter acute cocaine-induced motor activity or extracellular levels of dopamine or glutamate. Acutely, DPAT microinjection into either raph nucleus reduced the basal and acute cocaine-stimulated levels of extracellular serotonin. Pretreatment with DPAT before systemic cocaine administration was continued for 5 days, and 3 weeks after the last injection, all rats were administered a cocaine challenge injection. The sensitized behavioral and neurochemical response produced by repeated cocaine in control subjects was unaffected by the intra-DRN administration of DPAT. However, in animals administered DPAT into the MRN, both the sensitized motor response and the increase in glutamate were augmented, while the sensitized serotonin response was blocked, without altering dopamine sensitization. These data show a differential role for 5-HT1A receptors in the DRN and MRN in the acute and sensitized effects of cocaine. While the DRN is involved in the acute effects of cocaine, neuroadaptations in the MRN may regulate the long-term consequences of repeated cocaine exposure.
Recent postmortem studies in humans suggest that defects in GABAergic neurotransmission might contribute to the neuropathology associated with schizophrenia. Disturbances in GABAergic systems may also contribute to the sensorimotor gating deficits classically observed in schizophrenic patients, including deficits in prepulse inhibition (PPI). To explore the relationship, the current study examined the integrity of PPI and startle habituation in knockout (KO) mice that lack the GABA synthesizing enzyme glutamic acid decarboxylase 65 (GAD 65). GAD65 KO mice displayed normal baseline and habituated startle responses, which did not differ from GAD65 wild-type (WT) or heterozygous (HET) mice. However, GAD65 KO mice showed robust deficits in PPI which were reversed by the atypical antipsychotic agent clozapine. These results lend support to the view that abnormalities in GABAergic systems might contribute to the basic pathophysiological mechanisms in schizophrenia.

With a history of several thousand years, traditional Chinese medicine has been well documented to be effective in the treatment of various disorders. We have investigated the activities of potential neuroactive compounds in traditional Chinese medicine such as Melia toosendan using an in vitro model system, rat pheochromocytoma PC12 cells. We report here that treatment of PC12 cells with a crude extract of the fruits of M. toosendan reduces cell growth in a dose-dependent manner without detectable cytotoxicity. Upon treatment with M. toosendan, PC12 cells exhibit robust neurite outgrowth, to a greater extent than that observed with nerve growth factor. Results obtained with specific kinase inhibitors and protein kinase A-deficient PC12 cells indicate that the actions of M. toosendan are mediated by the activation of protein kinase A and extracellular signal-regulated kinases.
It has been reported that antipsychotic dopamine-D2-receptor (D2R) antagonists affected other neurotransmitter systems. In the present study, the effects of a D2R agonist, bromocriptine, and a D2R antagonist, spiperone, on brain activity were investigated using wild-type mice (WT) with intact D2Rs, and D2R-knockout mice (D2R-KO) lacking D2Rs by functional magnetic resonance imaging. In the WT, flow-weighted signal intensity significantly increased after administration of bromocriptine in the hippocampal formation. In contrast, signal intensity significantly decreased after administration of spiperone in the somatosensory-motor cortices, thalamus, anterior cingulate cortex, caudate-putamen, nucleus accumbens, hippocampal formation, and amygdala. In the D2R-KO, however, no significant changes were observed after administration of either bromocriptine or spiperone. The present results indicated that the D2R-KO lacked sensitivity to D2R agonist and antagonist in agreement with its genetic defects, which confirmed that the changes in brain activity in the WT after administration of either drug were mediated through D2Rs. These results suggest that antipsychotic D2R antagonists affect activity of the same brain regions of human patients through D2Rs, as observed in the present study. These changes in brain activity might be related to therapeutic efficacy as well as side effects of antipsychotic drugs on schizophrenic patients.

The functional role of alpha-synuclein in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD) is not fully understood. Systemic exposure of alpha-synuclein-deficient mice to neurotoxins provides a direct approach to evaluate how alpha-synuclein may mediate cell death in a common murine model of PD. To this end, wild-type and homozygous alpha-synuclein knock-out mice were treated with sub-chronic and prolonged, chronic exposure to 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). In the sub-chronic model, wild-type and alpha-synuclein knock-out mice were treated for five consecutive days with MPTP (1-25 mg/kg, s.c.) or vehicle, and sacrificed 3 days following the last injection. The prolonged, chronic model consisted of two injections of MPTP (1-20 mg/kg, s.c.) per week for 5 weeks, with co-administration of probenecid (250 mg/kg, i.p.), and animals were sacrificed 3 weeks following the last injection. Sub-chronic administration of MPTP caused a dramatic, dose-dependent decrease in striatal dopamine (DA) concentrations, while an attenuated response was observed in alpha-synuclein knock-out mice. Similarly, prolonged, chronic administration of MPTP produced a dose-dependent decrease in striatal DA concentrations, and a corresponding loss of striatal vesicular monoamine transporter (VMAT-2) protein in wild-type mice. However, mice lacking alpha-synuclein had an attenuated loss of striatal DA concentrations, while no loss of striatal VMAT-2 protein was observed. Both sub-chronic and prolonged, chronic administration of MPTP caused an increase in the 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) to DA ratio in wild-type mice, but not in mice lacking alpha-synuclein. Despite attenuated toxicity, elevated lactate concentrations were observed in alpha-synuclein knock-out mice following prolonged, chronic MPTP administration. The results of this study provide evidence that alpha-synuclein null mice have an attenuated response to the toxic effects of MPTP exposure, even over prolonged periods of time and that the biochemical sequela of a protracted insult to nigrostriatal DA neurons are distinct between mice with and without alpha-synuclein expression.
We review the current status of surgical treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). The advantages of deep brain stimulation (DBS) over ablative surgery include reversibility and controllability of stimulation. In addition, DBS carries a smaller risk of side effects, especially when employed bilaterally. DBS of the thalamus is useful to control tremor which is unresponsive to medication. DBS of the globus pallidus internus (GPi) or the subthalamic nucleus (STN) is useful to control wearing off of motor symptoms which is difficult to manage with medication alone. DBS of STN and GPi improves motor function mainly during the off-period. DBS of STN attenuates levodopa-induced dyskinesia through reduction of dopa requirement, whereas DBS of GPi attenuates dopa-induced dyskinesia directly. DBS of STN is also useful to control symptoms of PD in patients who are intolerant to dopa. However, DBS of either STN or GPi cannot reverse advanced symptoms of PD, which are unresponsive to dopa.

Enhancement of the activity of cholinergic neurons has been regarded as one of the most promising methods for treating Alzheimer's disease (AD). Donepezil is a representative acetylcholinesterase inhibitor (AChEI) and is a great success among the AChEI drugs. AChEIs are being studied for other mechanisms of action, neuroprotective action, and nicotinic receptor enhancement. AD is a type of neurodegenerative disease and AChEIs have been found to be an effective anti-AD medication. AChEI can alleviate the symptoms and delay the progression of AD, but it cannot cure the disease. However, AChEIs are now the subject of a wide range of clinical studies for other diseases, for example, other types of dementia (such as Lewy body disease, cerebral vascular dementia, and Parkinson's disease dementia), and migraine. These drugs are also being studied as a combination therapy, for example, with an antioxidant, SERM, and NMDA antagonist.

Phakometric measurements of corneal and crystalline lens surface alignment are influenced by corneal asymmetry in which the corneal apex does not coincide with the limbal centre. The purpose of this study was to determine the horizontal separation (e) between these corneal landmarks. Measurements were made in 60 normal eyes (30 subjects) using the Orbscan IIz corneal analysis workstation. Our results show that both corneal landmarks typically coincide, so that e = 0, but that inter-subject variations of about +/-1 mm can be expected (so that the corneal apex may fall nasal or temporal to the visual axis). This suggests that no correction for corneal asymmetry is required when estimating average amounts of ocular alignment from samples of eyes but that the measurement of e is strongly recommended for measurements in individual eyes.
Group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) and their downstream signaling pathways, which involve the extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs), have been implicated as mediators of plasticity in several pain models. In this study, we report that inflammation leads to a long-lasting enhancement of behavioral responses induced by activation of spinal group I mGluRs. Thus, the nocifensive response to intrathecal injection of the group I mGluR agonist (RS)-3,5-Dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) is significantly potentiated seven days following Complete Freund's Adjuvant (CFA)-induced inflammation of the hind paw. This potentiation is not associated with increased mGlu1 or mGlu5 receptor expression but is associated with increased levels of phosphorylated ERK in dorsal horn neurons. We also tested whether the increased behavioral response to DHPG following inflammation may be explained by enhanced coupling of the group I mGluRs to ERK activation. DHPG-induced ERK phosphorylation in the dorsal horn is not potentiated following inflammation. However, inhibiting ERK activation using a MEK inhibitor, U0126, following inflammation attenuates the intrathecal DHPG-induced behavioral responses to a greater extent than in control animals. The results from this study indicate that persistent ERK activation is required for the enhanced behavioral responses to spinal group I mGluR activation following inflammation and suggest that tonic modulation of ERK activity may underlie a component of central sensitization in dorsal horn neurons.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are free radicals produced in biological systems that are involved in various degenerative brain diseases. The present study tests the hypothesis that ROS also play an important role in neuropathic pain. In the rat spinal nerve ligation (SNL) model of neuropathic pain, mechanical allodynia develops fully 3 days after nerve ligation and persists for many weeks. Systemic injection of a ROS scavenger, phenyl-N-tert-butylnitrone (PBN), relieves SNL-induced mechanical allodynia in a dose-dependent manner. Repeated injections cause no development of tolerance or no loss of potency. Preemptive treatment with PBN is also effective in preventing full development of neuropathic pain behavior. Systemic injection was mimicked by intrathecal injection with a little less efficacy, while intracerebroventricular administration produced a much smaller effect. These data suggest that PBN exerts its anti-allodynic action mainly by spinal mechanisms. Systemic treatment with other spin-trap reagents, 5,5-dimethylpyrroline-N-oxide and nitrosobenzene, showed similar analgesic effects, suggesting that ROS are critically involved in the development and maintenance of neuropathic pain. Thus this study suggests that systemic administration of non-toxic doses of free radical scavengers could be useful for treatment of neuropathic pain.
Pain perception and autonomic responses to pain are known to be altered in dementia, although the mechanisms are poorly understood. We studied patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) whose cognitive status was assessed through the Mini Mental State Examination test and whose brain electrical activity was measured by means of quantitative electroencephalography. After assessment of both cognitive impairment and brain electrical activity deterioration, these patients underwent sensory measurements in which the minimum stimulus intensity for both stimulus detection and pain sensation was determined. In addition, heart rate responses to pain threshold x 1.5 were recorded. We found that neither stimulus detection nor pain threshold was correlated to cognitive status and brain electrical activity decline. By contrast, we found a correlation between heart rate responses and deterioration of both cognitive functions and brain electrical activity. In particular, the heart rate increase after pain stimulation was correlated to the presence of slow brain electrical activity (delta and theta frequencies). This correlation was also found for the anticipatory heart rate increase just before pain stimulation. These results indicate that pain anticipation and reactivity depend on both the cognitive status and the frequency bands of the electroencephalogram, whereas both stimulus detection and pain threshold are not affected by the progression of AD. These findings indicate that, whereas the sensory-discriminative components of pain are preserved even in advanced stages of AD, the cognitive and affective functions, which are related to both anticipation and autonomic reactivity, are severely affected. This sensory-affective dissociation is well correlated with the neuropathological findings in AD.
The aim of this study is to review the existing literature (PubMed database) on the psychological treatments for eating disorders (EDs), subdivided in individual, group and family therapies. Moreover new approaches and directions in this field are addressed. An extensive literature review is performed to identify the psychological treatment trials in anorexia nervosa (AN) and bulimia nervosa (BN) published over the past 2 decades. Eighty-two studies focused on psychotherapeutic treatment of EDs are reviewed. Only a minor part of these studies are randomised and controlled. While there is evidence of the efficacy of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), this is still missing for other psychotherapeutic approaches. However, there is general agreement about the importance of psychotherapy in multimodal treatments. There is still a need for a shared concept of outcome in EDs, since the efficacy of psychological treatment is greatly influenced by the definition of outcome adopted (concerning symptoms, psychosocial functioning, personality).
This study aimed to demonstrate that afebrile seizures provoked by minor infections constitute a distinct epilepsy syndrome different from febrile seizures and unprovoked afebrile seizures. Of the children who were admitted to hospitals for their first seizure, 1170 had febrile seizures, 286 had provoked seizures, and 125 had unprovoked afebrile seizures. Children with provoked seizures were afebrile at the time of seizure but manifested definite symptoms or signs of minor infection, for example, cough, coryza, vomiting or diarrhea, normal metabolic and cerebrospinal fluid investigations, and no obvious cause for their seizures. The average follow-up was 6.1 years. The Kaplan-Meier estimate of risk at 5 years for subsequent unprovoked afebrile seizures after a first febrile seizure, provoked seizure, or unprovoked afebrile seizure was 1.6%, 5.7%, and 65.7% respectively. All differences were statistically significant (P &lt; 0.0014). In conclusion, afebrile seizures provoked by minor illnesses constitute a distinct type of situation-related seizures, which have not been previously described. Children with provoked seizures have a much lower risk of subsequent unprovoked afebrile seizures than patients with the first afebrile seizure. Careful inquiry for symptoms of minor infections when children present with their first afebrile seizure will help determine the risk for subsequent seizures and the need for antiepileptic drugs.
While pheromones may act as social memory signals, oxytocin and vasopressin acting in the brain appear to be critical for the neural processing of olfactory signatures used for social discrimination. Evidence from a variety of laboratories using a range of animal models, as well as an array of molecular and pharmacological techniques, have helped to determine the neuroanatomical and functional roles oxytocin and vasopressin play in social cognition. In this review we discuss the considerable evidence for the roles of oxytocin and vasopressin in social recognition in rats and mice, as well as in offspring recognition in sheep and mate preference in monogamous voles.
Earlier studies suggest that alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonists and dopamine receptor agonists may enhance sexual activity in human and nonhuman male primates. It is not known whether these compounds influence the sexual behavior of female primates. We determined whether the administration of a selective alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist (atipamezole), a dopamine receptor agonist (apomorphine), or their combination to female Macaca arctoides (stumptail macaque) monkeys produces changes in sexual behavior of the female with a male. Following the administration of drugs to the female, the behavior of the female with a male stumptail was observed for 30 min. Atipamezole dose dependently (0.03-0.3 mg/kg im) increased short-time mounting behavior of the male and the total number of copulations. Apomorphine alone (0.125-0.25 mg/kg) or in combination with atipamezole had no significant effects on sexual behavior. The result indicates that a selective alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist administered in the female stumptail increases sexual behavior of the male with the female. A plausible explanation for this finding is that a selective alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist increases sexual arousal in female stumptails and this, possibly due to a change in psychosocial behavior of the female, triggers increased sexual activity in males.
Sulfonated chloroaluminum phthalocyanines have been studied for their use in the photodynamic therapy (PDT) of tumors. Plasma low-density lipoproteins (LDL) are important carriers of phthalocyanines in the blood, but on exposure to visible light, phthalocyanine-loaded LDL undergo an oxidation process that propagates to erythrocytes. We attempted to identify the reactive species involved in LDL and erythrocyte oxidation by means of electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy in the presence of 2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-4-piperidone (TEMP) and the spin trap 5,5'-dimethyl-1-pyrroline-N-oxide (DMPO). Irradiation of phthalocyanine-loaded LDL in the presence of DMPO resulted in the formation of a four-line EPR spectrum with relative intensity of 1:2:2:1 (a(N) = a(H) = 14.8 G), characteristic of DMPO-hydroxyl radical spin adduct. This signal was sensitive to superoxide dismutase and slightly sensitive to catalase, but a mixture of the two enzymatic activities was the most efficient in promoting a decrease in the intensity of the EPR signal. In the presence of erythrocytes, an increase in the quartet intensity for a hematocrit of 1% and 4% was observed, decreasing for higher erythrocyte concentrations. The irradiation of phthalocyanine-loaded LDL in the presence of TEMP resulted in the formation of a nitroxide radical, 2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-4-piperidone-N-oxyl radical, intensity of which was sensitive to histidine, a singlet oxygen ((1)O(2)) quencher. Under both incubation conditions, with DMPO and TEMP, the formation of the respective EPR signals required the sensitizer (phthalocyanine), light and oxygen. Overall, the results are compatible with the simultaneous formation of superoxide anion and (1)O(2), implying that Type-I and Type-II mechanisms of photochemistry are simultaneously operative in phthalocyanine-loaded LDL. However, for a constant LDL/phthalocyanine ratio, the formation of oxygen free radicals shows a biphasic behavior with the concentration of LDL increasing and reaching a plateau, whereas the formation of (1)O(2) increases linearly with LDL concentration. Erythrocytes at high (physiological) concentrations induced a decrease in the intensity of both EPR signals. The physiological relevance of these findings in the framework of PDT is briefly discussed.
Many real networks are complex and have power-law vertex degree distribution, short diameter, and high clustering. We analyze the network model based on thresholding of the summed vertex weights, which belongs to the class of networks proposed by Phys. Rev. Lett. 89, 258702 (2002)]. Power-law degree distributions, particularly with the dynamically stable scaling exponent 2, realistic clustering, and short path lengths are produced for many types of weight distributions. Thresholding mechanisms can underlie a family of real complex networks that is characterized by cooperativeness and the baseline scaling exponent 2. It contrasts with the class of growth models with preferential attachment, which is marked by competitiveness and baseline scaling exponent 3.
Monocotyledons and dicotyledons are distinct, not only in their body plans and developmental patterns, but also in the structural features of their cell walls. The recent completion of the rice (Oryza sativa) genomic sequence and publication of the sequence data, together with the completed database of the Arabidopsis thaliana genome, provide the first opportunity to compare the full complement of cell-wall-related genes from the two distinct classes of flowering plants. We made this comparison by exploiting the fact that Arabidopsis and rice have type I and type II walls, respectively, and therefore represent the two extremes in terms of the structural features of plant cell walls. In this review article, we classify all cell-wall-related genes into 32 gene families, and generate their phylogenetic trees. Using these data, we can phylogenetically compare individual genes of particular interest between Arabidopsis and rice. This comparative genome approach shows that the differences in wall architecture in the two plant groups actually mirror the diversity of the individual gene families involved in the cell-wall dynamics of the respective plant species. This study also identifies putative rice orthologs of genes with well-defined functions in Arabidopsis and other plant species.

Pharyngeal endoderm is essential for and can reprogram development of the head skeleton. Here we investigate the roles of specific endodermal structures in regulating craniofacial development. We have isolated an integrinalpha5 mutant in zebrafish that has region-specific losses of facial cartilages derived from hyoid neural crest cells. In addition, the cranial muscles that normally attach to the affected cartilage region and their associated nerve are secondarily reduced in integrinalpha5- animals. Earlier in development, integrinalpha5 mutants also have specific defects in the formation of the first pouch, an outpocketing of the pharyngeal endoderm. By fate mapping, we show that the cartilage regions that are lost in integrinalpha5 mutants develop from neural crest cells directly adjacent to the first pouch in wild-type animals. Furthermore, we demonstrate that Integrinalpha5 functions in the endoderm to control pouch formation and cartilage development. Time-lapse recordings suggest that the first pouch promotes region-specific cartilage development by regulating the local compaction and survival of skeletogenic neural crest cells. Thus, our results reveal a hierarchy of tissue interactions, at the top of which is the first endodermal pouch, which locally coordinates the development of multiple tissues in a specific region of the vertebrate face. Lastly, we discuss the implications of a mosaic assembly of the facial skeleton for the evolution of ray-finned fish.
Circadian rhythms are internally generated circa 24 h rhythms. The phase of the circadian pacemaker in mammals can be adjusted by external stimuli such as the daily cycle of light, as well as by internal stimuli such as information related to the physiological and behavioral status of the organism, collectively called &quot;non-photic stimuli&quot;. We review a large number of studies regarding photic-non-photic interactions on the circadian system, with special focus on two widely described neurotransmitters associated with non-photic input pathways: neuropeptide Y (NPY) and serotonin 5-HT. Both neurotransmitters are capable of phase advancing the master pacemaker oscillation when applied during the subjective day, as do several behavioral manipulations. Also, both are capable of inhibiting light-induced phase shifts during the subjective night, suggesting a dynamic interaction between photic and non-photic stimuli in the fine-tuning of the pacemaker function. Suppression of the NPYergic and/or serotonergic non-photic input pathways can in turn potentiate the phase-shifting effects of light. These findings pose new questions about the possibility of a physiological role for the dynamic interaction between photic and non-photic inputs. This might be particularly important in the case of circadian system adjustments under certain conditions, such as depression, shift work or jet lag.
Fewer neurons have been reported in the anterior thalamic complex (AT) of individuals diagnosed with schizophrenia in comparison to control tissue. In addition, the density of presumptive thalamo-cortical relay neurons of the AT is reported to be significantly decreased in schizophrenia compared with controls whilst total AT neuron density appears unchanged. We have investigated whether schizophrenia alters either the density of presumptive interneurons or the ratio between the two fundamental neuron types within the AT by immunohistochemically visualizing GABAergic neurons in post-mortem brain tissue from individuals with a diagnosis of schizophrenia pair-matched to tissue from normal individuals. Qualitative observations indicated no obvious differences between the two cohorts in the morphology of neurons exhibiting a GABAergic phenotype. A cell counting analysis of AT neurons revealed: (1) a non-significant 1% increase in density of GABAergic neurons in schizophrenia compared with controls and (2), a non-significant 6% increase in the percentage of neurons with a GABAergic phenotype in the schizophrenia group compared with controls. These findings suggest that a reduction of AT neuron number in schizophrenia does not alter either the morphology of neurons with a GABAergic phenotype or the ratio of neuronal phenotypes within AT.
The pathogenic mechanisms of chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) are not clearly known. Fatigue, poor short-term memory and muscle pain are the most disabling symptoms in CFS. Research data on magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) of muscles and brain in CFS patients suggest a cellular metabolic abnormality in some cases. 31P MRS of skeletal muscles in a subset of patients indicate early intracellular acidosis in the exercising muscles. 1H MRS of the regional brain areas in CFS have shown increased peaks of choline derived from the cell membrane phospholipids. Cell membrane oxidative stress may offer a common explanation for the observed MRS changes in the muscles and brain of CFS patients and this may have important therapeutic implications. As a research tool, MRS may be used as an objective outcome measure in the intervention studies. In addition, regional brain 1H MRS has the potential for wider use to substantiate a clinical diagnosis of CFS from other disorders of unexplained chronic fatigue.
Several studies suggest increased activity of phospholipase A2 in schizophrenic patients. In the present study, variants of four genes coding for phospholipase A2 enzyme groups (sPLA2, cPLA2, iPLA2 and PAFAH) were analysed in a case-control sample using 240 schizophrenic patients and 312 healthy controls. No difference was observed on the allelic and genotypic distribution of cPLA2 and sPLA2 gene polymorphisms among the groups. The PAFAH variant was very rare in our population and therefore not informative. A significant allelic (chi2=5.86, P=0.0085, odds ratio=1.38, 95% confidence interval, 1.08-1.77) and genotypic (chi2=5.4, P=0.02) association with the iPLA2 gene polymorphism was found. In conclusion, our data suggested that iPLA2 may play a role as a susceptibility gene for schizophrenia in our sample; however, confirmatory studies in independent samples are needed.
Following brain damage, skilled readers may encounter more severe problems in reading nonwords than familiar words, a type of deficit referred to as phonological dyslexia. We report on 2 individuals with Alzheimer's disease who show phonological dyslexia. Although highly accurate in reading familiar words aloud (even those with irregular spelling, such as sew), they were quite impaired in nonword reading. Both patients performed well in phonological tasks involving the repetition, identification, and manipulation of phonemes of orally presented words and nonwords. These results challenge the idea, proposed in the context of connectionist and evolutionary theories, that phonological dyslexia originates from a phonological deficit. However, the results are consistent with reading models, such as the dual-route model, that attribute phonological dyslexia to a deficit that selectively affects the reading mechanisms responsible for deriving the sounds of nonwords. According to these models, such a deficit is not necessarily accompanied by a more general phonological impairment.
The results of several recent studies suggest that estrogen and testosterone play an important role in the modulation of mood and cognitive function in women, and preliminary evidence indicates that these hormones may also modulate the levels of beta-amyloid (Abeta), a 4 Kilo Dalton peptide that is likely to be involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. However, the physiological and clinical effects of reversible castration remain unclear and no systematic data is currently available for men. We designed the present study to investigate the effects of reversible chemical castration on the mood and cognitive performance of men treated for prostate cancer, as well as its impact on the levels of plasma Abeta. Forty men with prostate cancer were clinically treated with androgen blockade therapy (flutamide and leuprolide) for 36 weeks and subsequently followed up for another 18 weeks after treatment was discontinued. All subjects received a comprehensive clinical, neuropsychological and biochemical evaluation that included the use of the Beck Depression (BDI) and Anxiety Inventories (BAI), several subtests of the Wechsler Memory and Intelligence Scales (Word Lists-WL, Verbal Paired Associates-VPA, Visual Reproduction-VR and Block Design-BD), and biochemical monitoring of changes in estrogen, testosterone and Abeta levels. Chemical castration was associated with a rapid and marked decline in the levels of testosterone and estradiol, and significant increase in plasma Abeta levels. Treatment was associated with increased BDI (p = 0.004) and BAI scores (p &lt; 0.001), although such changes were of questionable clinical significance (i.e., few subjects had scores &gt; or = 13). CAMCOG (p = 0.046) and WL recall total scores (p &lt; 0.001) improved significantly after androgen blockade treatment was discontinued, but visuospatial abilities, as assessed by BD, was not influenced by the introduction or discontinuation of treatment. There was a significant negative correlation between changes in Abeta levels and subjects' WL total score change between weeks 36 and 54 (r = -0.452, p = 0.012). The results of this naturalistic study indicate that chemical castration is associated with a significant rise in the plasma levels of Abeta and, clinically, with increased depression and anxiety scores. The discontinuation of treatment is associated with better cognitive performance, most noticeably of verbal memory. The performance of subjects on the WL test was negatively correlated with plasma levels of Abeta, but the clinical significance of this finding remains to be determined.
Previous research has indicated that phobic anxiety is associated with coronary heart disease. In this study, the possible association between social anxiety and various anthropometric, metabolic, and endocrine measurements known to be associated with cardiovascular disease were studied in a population-based cohort of 216 women 41-42 years old. Each participant was assessed by means of a DSM-IV based self-report questionnaire regarding social anxiety and related psychiatric diagnoses. Waist-to-hip ratio (WHR), body mass index (BMI), and serum levels of lipids and hormones were assessed. The prevalence of social anxiety was 14% (n=31). The social anxiety group displayed higher serum levels of triglycerides (1.3+/-0.9 vs. 1.0+/-0.5, P=0.003) and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) (3.3+/-0.8 vs. 3.0+/-0.7, P=0.03), but lower high-density lipoprotein (HDL) (1.4+/-0.3 vs. 1.6+/-0.4, P=0.04) and HDL/LDL ratio (0.46+/-0.15 vs. 0.57+/-0.22, P=0.008) than the other women. Serum levels of total testosterone (1.6+/-0.8 vs. 2.2+/-1.1, P=0.013) and free thyroxin (14+/-2 vs. 16+/-4, P=0.04) were lower in subjects confirming social anxiety. While WHR was significantly higher in the social anxiety group (0.83+/-0.06 vs. 0.80+/-0.07, P=0.016), BMI did not differ between the groups. Our data suggest that self-reported social anxiety is associated with two established risk factors for cardiovascular disease: dyslipidemia and increased WHR.


The Diagnostic Criteria for Psychosomatic Research (DCPR) have been proposed by an international group of psychosomatic investigators as an operationalized tool for the assessment of psychological distress in medical patients. The aims of the present study were to evaluate interrater reliability, the distribution of DCPR syndromes, and their relationship with ICD-10 diagnostic categories. One hundred consecutive patients who were referred for psychiatric consultation in a university general hospital consented to assessment for DCPR syndromes as elicited in a joint interview conducted by two researchers. The results showed excellent interrater agreement, with kappa values for the 11 DCPR syndromes ranging from 0.69 to 0.97. More patients met criteria for one or more of the DCPR (87%) than for an ICD-10 diagnosis (75%). Four DCPR syndromes were particularly prevalent: demoralization, alexithymia, illness denial, and type A behavior. DCPR criteria appear to be a useful, reliable, and promising approach in the assessment and description of psychological distress in medical patients. They may serve as a focus of intervention studies in this population.
The ability of steroid hormones to produce an LH or prolactin (PRL) surge was determined in rats ovariectomized at 6, 9 or 13 weeks of age and subjected to one, three or six cycles of estrogen and progesterone replacement. Sensitivity to steroid replacement was dependent on the age of the animal at the time of ovariectomy. Repeated cyclic steroid hormone replacement significantly increased the magnitude of the PRL response, but not the LH response, in animals ovariectomized at 6 weeks. The LH response was significantly altered by cyclic steroid replacement only in animals ovariectomized at 13 weeks. These results indicate that the mechanisms involved in the regulation of PRL secretion are influenced by steroid hormone replacement and that cyclic steroid hormone exposure increases the magnitude of the PRL secretory response.
Eukaryotic cells primarily utilize exoribonucleases and decapping enzymes to degrade their mRNA. Two major decapping enzymes have been identified. The hDcp2 protein catalyzes hydrolysis of the 5' cap linked to an RNA moiety, whereas the scavenger decapping enzyme, DcpS, functions on a cap structure lacking the RNA moiety. DcpS is a member of the histidine triad (HIT) family of hydrolases and catalyzes the cleavage of m7GpppN. HIT proteins are homodimeric and contain two conserved 100-amino-acid HIT fold domains with independent active sites that are each sufficient to bind and hydrolyze cognate substrates. We carried out a functional characterization of the DcpS enzyme and demonstrate that unlike previously described HIT proteins, DcpS is a modular protein that requires both the core HIT fold at the carboxyl-terminus and sequences at the amino-terminus of the protein for cap binding and hydrolysis. Interestingly, DcpS can efficiently compete for and hydrolyze the cap structure even in the presence of excess eIF4E, implying that DcpS could function to alleviate the accumulation of complexes between eIF4E and cap structure that would otherwise accumulate following mRNA decay. Using immunofluorescence microscopy, we demonstrate that DcpS is predominantly a nuclear protein, with low levels of detected protein in the cytoplasm. Furthermore, analysis of the endogenous hDcp2 protein reveals that in addition to the cytoplasmic foci, it is also present in the nucleus. These data reveal that both decapping enzymes are contained in the nuclear compartment, indicating that they may fulfill a greater function in the nucleus than previously appreciated.
Progressive decline of some neuroendocrine signaling systems has long been assumed to cause age-related physiological impairments and limit life span. However, hypophysectomy--removal of the pituitary gland--can delay many aspects of the aging process, and recent genetic studies have confirmed that reducing the secretion of pituitary hormones can increase the life span of laboratory organisms. Most strikingly, reducing activity of the insulin/insulin-like growth factor-1 signaling system substantially increases life span. Conversely, activity of the reproductive system or activation of stress responses can curtail life span. Because caloric restriction also reduces the activity of several neuroendocrine systems while increasing life span, it now appears that the aging process is driven, at least in part, by neuroendocrine activity rather than by its decline with age.
The haptic sense of geometric properties such as the curvature of a contour is derived from somatosensory cues about the motions and forces experienced during exploratory actions. This study addressed the question of whether compliance, the relationship between force and displacement, influences haptic perception of curvature. Subjects traced a curved 30 cm long compliant contour by grasping the handle of a manipulandum and reported whether the contour curved towards or away from them. The contour at which there was equal probability of responding either way was taken to represent one that was sensed as being straight. The compliance of the contour was varied, being constant, greatest in the middle or greatest at the ends. Subjects exhibited a bias in what they sensed to be a straight edge. However, the actual handpath that was judged to be straight did not vary across the three compliance profiles. Our results rule out a hypothetical strategy in which an intended motion is planned and the actual trajectory is then inferred by sensing force feedback. Another strategy in which the force against the contour is controlled and the handpath is inferred from proprioceptive feedback is more consistent with the observations.
Frequency shifted feedback (FSF) induces fluency when presented to speakers who stutter. This study examined whether FSF was more effective at removing disfluencies on easy or on difficult stretches of speech (where difficulty was defined with respect to utterance and word length). There were more disfluencies on the difficult stretches than on the easy stretches. There were significantly fewer disfluencies under FSF than in normal listening conditions (indicating that FSF improved fluency). There was no interaction between difficulty of material and type of feedback when disfluency rate was used as the dependent variable, suggesting that targeting FSF on easy stretches of speech is as effective as targeting it on difficult stretches. The original audio data are provided in this report and can be used by readers to check for themselves the characteristics of voice control that alter when FSF is delivered.
Chronic drug use weakens excitatory neocortical input to the nucleus accumbens (NAc). We previously reported that extinction training, a form of inhibitory learning that progressively reduces cocaine-seeking behaviour when reward is withheld, reverses this deficit by up-regulating GluR1 and GluR2/3 subunits of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) glutamate receptors in the NAc. The level of GluR1 up-regulation is positively associated with a reduction in cocaine seeking, suggesting that extinction-induced up-regulation in AMPA receptors in the NAc opposes motivational influences that maintain cocaine seeking. This hypothesis is supported by the finding that over-expression of GluR1 and GluR2 in the NAc facilitates extinction of cocaine self-administration. Furthermore, a single extinction training session conducted during GluR1 and GluR2 over-expression strongly and selectively attenuates the ability of an environmental stressor to trigger relapse to cocaine seeking long after GluR1 and GluR2 over-expression declines. These results could suggest that excitatory input to the NAc promotes extinction learning, but only when memory is recalled under stressful situations. Recent studies indicate that both environmental stress and the frustrative stress of withholding reward during extinction of drug self-administration induce similar neurochemical events in the NAc. These neurochemical events could impose a &quot;state-dependency&quot; on extinction learning such that subsequent exposure to stress acts as a cue to enhance retrieval of extinction memory. Our results suggest that extinction-induced up-regulation in NAc AMPA receptors acts reciprocally to facilitate state-dependent extinction learning, as stressful situations evoke extinction memories that exert powerful inhibitory control over drug-seeking behaviour. These results may have important therapeutic implications for behaviour-based approaches aimed at treating drug addiction.



The etiology of primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) remains the subject of continuing investigation. Despite the many known risk factors and mechanism of damage, the principal treatment objectives in POAG still consist of reduction of intraocular pressure, which although straightforward in many cases, often leaves the clinician with the question of how far to pursue a sufficiently low pressure to prevent further damage. Other risk factors such as hemodynamic insufficiency due to vascular dysregulation and abnormal blood pressure are often overlooked in the day-to-day practice; their harmful effects for glaucoma are, it seems, more potent at night while the patient sleeps and when clinical investigation is most difficult. Although the status of autonomic nervous system is an important determinant of the systemic hemodynamic parameters, this issue is usually ignored by the clinician in the process of glaucoma diagnosis. Consequently, there is a lack of alternative therapies tailored to address associated systemic risk factors for POAG on a case and chronological basis; this approach could be more effective in preventing the progression and visual loss in selected glaucoma cases.
In biological cognition, specialized representations and associated control processes solve the temporal problems inherent in skilled action. Recent data and neural circuit models highlight three distinct levels of temporal structure: sequence preparation, velocity scaling, and state-sensitive timing. Short sequences of actions are prepared collectively in prefrontal cortex, then queued for performance by a cyclic competitive process that operates on a parallel analog representation. Successful acts like ball-catching depend on coordinated scaling of effector velocities, and velocity scaling, mediated by the basal ganglia, may be coupled to perceived time-to-contact. Making acts accurate at high speeds requires state-sensitive and precisely timed activations of muscle forces in patterns that accelerate and decelerate the effectors. The cerebellum may provide a maximally efficient representational basis for learning to generate such timed activation patterns.
In this article we provide a unifying neural hypothesis on how individuals understand the actions and emotions of others. Our main claim is that the fundamental mechanism at the basis of the experiential understanding of others' actions is the activation of the mirror neuron system. A similar mechanism, but involving the activation of viscero-motor centers, underlies the experiential understanding of the emotions of others.
Research on the neural substrates of emotion has found evidence for cortical asymmetries for aspects of emotion. A recent article by Nicholls et al. has used a new imaging method to interrogate facial movement in 3D to assess possible asymmetrical action during expressions of happiness and sadness. Greater left-sided movement, particularly during expressions of sadness was observed. These findings have implications for understanding hemispheric differences in emotion and lend support to the notion that aspects of emotion processing might be differentially localized in the two hemispheres.

Three closely related forms of glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3alpha, GSK-3beta and GSK-3beta2) have a major role in Wnt and Hedgehog signaling pathways and regulate the cell-division cycle, stem-cell renewal and differentiation, apoptosis, circadian rhythm, transcription and insulin action. A large body of evidence supports speculation that pharmacological inhibitors of GSK-3 could be used to treat several diseases, including Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative diseases, bipolar affective disorder, diabetes, and diseases caused by unicellular parasites that express GSK-3 homologues. The toxicity, associated side-effects and concerns regarding the absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion of these inhibitors affect their clinical potential. More than 30 inhibitors of GSK-3 have been identified. Seven of these have been co-crystallized with GSK-3beta and all localize within the ATP-binding pocket of the enzyme. GSK-3, as part of a multi-protein complex that contains proteins such as axin, presenilin and beta-catenin, contains many additional target sites for specific modulation of its activity.
The visual arrestins in rhabdomeral photoreceptors are multifunctional phosphoproteins. They are rapidly phosphorylated in response to light, but the functional relevance of this phosphorylation is not yet fully understood. The phosphorylation of Limulus visual arrestin is particularly complex in that it becomes phosphorylated on three sites, and one or more of these site are phosphorylated even in the dark. The purpose of this study was to examine in detail the light-stimulated phosphorylation of each of the three sites in Limulus visual arrestin in intact photoreceptors. We found that light increased the phosphorylation of all three sites (S377, S381, and S396), that S381 is a preferred phosphorylation site, and that S377 and S381 are highly phosphorylated in the dark. The major effect of light was to increase the phosphorylation of S396, the site located closest to the C-terminal and very close to the adaptin binding motif. We speculate that the phosphorylation of this site may be particularly important for regulating the light-driven endocytosis of rhabdomeral membrane.
The mammalian retina contains three classes of photoreceptor. In addition to the rods and cones, a subset of retinal ganglion cells that express the putative sensory photopigment melanopsin are intrinsically photosensitive. Functional and anatomical studies suggest that these inner retinal photoreceptors provide light information for a number of non-image-forming light responses including photoentrainment of the circadian clock and the pupil light reflex. Here, we employ a newly developed mouse model bearing lesions of both rod and cone phototransduction cascades (Rho(-/-) Cnga3(-/-)) to further examine the function of these non-rod non-cone photoreceptors. Calcium imaging confirms the presence of inner retinal photoreceptors in Rho(-/-) Cnga3(-/-) mice. Moreover, these animals retain a pupil light reflex, photoentrainment, and light induction of the immediate early gene c-fos in the suprachiasmatic nuclei, consistent with previous findings that pupillary and circadian responses can employ inner retinal photoreceptors. Rho(-/-) Cnga3(-/-) mice also show a light-dependent increase in the number of FOS-positive cells in both the ganglion cell and (particularly) inner nuclear layers of the retina. The average number of cells affected is several times greater than the number of melanopsin-positive cells in the mouse retina, suggesting functional intercellular connections from these inner retinal photoreceptors within the retina. Finally, however, while we show that wild types exhibit an increase in heart rate upon light exposure, this response is absent in Rho(-/-) Cnga3(-/-) mice. Thus, it seems that non-rod non-cone photoreceptors can drive many, but not all, non-image-forming light responses.

The prefrontal cortex is involved in various aspects of working memory like stimulus maintenance and response selection functions. Neurobehavioral studies and neurocomputational models assume a role for NMDA receptors in prefrontal cortex for maintenance processes, while our previous studies on NMDA receptors in the avian prefrontal cortex-analogue, the nidopallium caudolaterale (NCL), showed them to be involved in response selection functions. Various tasks used in PFC-related research address in fact both functions, so they cannot disambiguate their separate contributions to performance. In order to investigate the role of NMDA receptors in avian NCL for stimulus maintenance and response selection, we trained pigeons in a delayed matching-to sample (DMTS) task, requiring both functions, and a simultaneous matching to sample (SMTS) task, requiring only response selection. After reaching criterion, pigeons had to perform the tasks alternately under local NMDA receptor blockade in NCL (DL-AP5) and after infusion of vehicle (saline solution). Blockade of NCL-based NMDA receptors led to significant increases in error rates in both DMTS and SMTS--compared with the same subjects' performance during training and in the control condition. However, there was no additional increase in errors due to the additional maintenance component, so the impairment appears to be due to deficits in adequate selection of responses, the function necessary for both tasks. We conclude that NMDA receptors in the pigeon NCL participate in response selection rather than stimulus maintenance in tasks requiring the processing of context information.
The early postnatal brain development, when many potentially sensitive processes occur, has been shown to be vulnerable to different pharmacological and environmental compounds. In the present investigation, four groups of neonatal NMRI male mice were administered the glutamate NMDA receptor antagonist ketamine (50 mg/kg, s.c.), or the GABA(A) receptor agonist diazepam (5 mg/kg, s.c.), or co-administered ketamine (50 mg/kg, s.c.) and diazepam (5 mg/kg, s.c.), or vehicle (0.9% saline, s.c.) on day 10 after birth. On day 11, mice from each treatment group were sacrificed and brains were taken for analysis of neuronal cell degeneration, using Fluoro-Jade staining technique. Ketamine, but not diazepam, induced a severe degeneration of cells in the parietal cortex. The opposite was observed for diazepam in the laterodorsal thalamus. The most pronounced cell degeneration was seen in parietal cortex of mice exposed to both ketamine and diazepam. At 2 months of age each treatment group was tested for motor activity and learning performance. Ketamine and ketamine + diazepam treated mice displayed severe deficits of habituation to the test chamber in the spontaneous motor activity test, marked deficits of acquisition learning and retention memory in the radial arm maze-learning task and less shift learning in the circular swim maze-learning task. This study indicates that the observed functional deficits can be related to cell degeneration induced during a critical stage of neonatal brain development. The potentiated apoptosis induced by ketamine and diazepam may have implications for the selection of drugs used in neonatal paediatric anaesthesia.

The inaugural version of the InGaP database (Integrative Gene and Protein expression database; http://www.kazusa.or.jp/ingap/index.html) is a comprehensive database of gene/protein expression profiles of 127 mKIAA genes/proteins related to hypothetical ones obtained in our ongoing cDNA project. Information about each gene/protein consists of cDNA microarray analysis, subcellular localization of the ectopically expressed gene, and experimental data using anti-mKIAA antibody such as Western blotting and immunohistochemical analyses. KIAA cDNAs and their mouse counterparts, mKIAA cDNAs, were mainly isolated from cDNA libraries derived from brain tissues, thus we expect our database to contribute to the field of neuroscience. In fact, cDNA microarray analysis revealed that nearly half of our gene collection is predominantly expressed in brain tissues. Immunohistochemical analysis of the mouse brain provides functional insight into the specific area and/or cell type of the brain. This database will be a resource for the neuroscience community by seamlessly integrating the genomic and proteomic information about the mouse KIAA genes/proteins.
A stopped assay for fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH) has been developed, whereby the enzyme reaction product ([(3)H]ethanolamine) was separated from substrate (anandamide [ethanolamine-1-(3)H]), by differential adsorption to charcoal. The assay gave a better extraction efficiency when acidic rather than alkaline charcoal solutions were used to stop the reaction, and a very good ratio of sample/blank was also seen. The acidic charcoal assay gave the expected sensitivities to compounds known to inhibit FAAH (palmitoyltrifluoromethyl ketone, arvanil, AM404 and indomethacin). It is concluded that the acidic charcoal extraction method provides a robust and simple stopped assay for FAAH without the need to use potentially hazardous solvents like chloroform.
In a three-generation screen of chemically mutagenized zebrafish, we identified a group of mutations that affect the development and function of hair cells, the mechanically sensitive cells of the inner ear and lateral-line organ. One mutant line, ru920, was discovered in a behavioral screen for defects in the acoustically evoked escape response. Despite apparently normal numbers of hair cells, mutants lack an inner-ear microphonic potential and exhibit reduced labeling of hair cells by a fluorophore that traverses transduction channels. This hair-cell-specific phenotype suggested a defect in the mechanoelectrical transduction apparatus. Positional cloning revealed that the recessive mutation introduces a premature stop codon in the ORF of myosin6b (myo6b), one of the two zebrafish orthologs of the human gene myosin VI. The ru920 line therefore provides an animal model with which to study the role of class VI myosin proteins in mechanotransduction.
This paper evaluates the monthly, quarterly, and seasonal variation of antigenic bacterial infections among the working class in the inner city of Houston using the Wellcogen Rapid Test methods. One of the aims was to demonstrate how this method could be used effectively in screening patients at risk and preventing the spread of antigenic bacteria such as Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae b, Streptococcus (Strep b), and Neisseria meningitidis (mainly group c and b). A total of 2,837 patients were screened for bacterial infections; 908 (32%) were male and 1,929 (68%) were female. The age range was between 2 and 70 years. Of the total group, 356 (12.5%) patients were positive; 203 (57%) were female while 153 (43%) were male (male/female ratio of 1:1.3). Medically underserved and immune suppressed populations are the most affected by these bacterial infections. Blacks are the most affected (48%) compared to Native Americans (1%), but children under 10 years of age have the highest incidence. This research showed, in addition, that the Wellcogen Rapid Tests are effective (356 cases identified) for a rapid screening of infectious bacteria. Explanation for these results was probably due to poor living conditions, poor hygiene, and viral immune suppression in adults and immature immune systems in neonates and children under 10 years of age.
Radial neuropathy most commonly occurs as a result of external compression at the spiral groove region. The posterior antebrachial cutaneous nerve (PACN) conduction study was performed in 15 consecutive patients with radial palsy. Unilateral PACN abnormalities were present in 11 patients. A normal PACN study was correlated with clinical improvement at 3 months. Conversely, PACN abnormality was correlated with radial motor axon loss and a poorer prognosis. The PACN study is a simple adjunct which provides additional information relating to the diagnosis and prognosis of radial lesions.
Headache is reported by about one third of patients using dipyridamole (DP) after stroke or TIA. No study has systematically examined if initial dipyridamole titration may affect this headache. We therefore randomised patients to (1) standard aspirin and dipyridamole treatment b.i.d. for 2 weeks or (2) titration with aspirin only in the morning and aspirin and dipyridamole in the evening for 5 days, followed by 9 days of standard aspirin and dipyridamole treatment. Among 57 patients included for analysis, moderate to severe headache was reported by 28% in the standard treatment group and 25% in the titration group (n.s.). Headache for more than two consecutive days occurred in 24% and 11%, respectively. Rescue medication because of headache for more than 2 days was used by 14% and 0% in the respective groups. The cumulative number of days with headache was more than twice as high in the standard treatment group. The total numbers of other side effects were 25 and 11 in the two groups. The observed differences in this pilot study were not statistically significant, but nevertheless suggest that titration with an initially lower dose of dipyridamole may be considered to reduce headache and thereby increase compliance. A larger study is needed to clarify this with sufficient statistical power.
Numerous studies have used whole-cell patch recording to characterize the electrophysiology of neurons and, via intracellular dye filling, the detailed morphology of the same cells. However, it has been difficult to demonstrate the presence of small soluble molecules within such cells, because washout of the soluble contents of the cell into the patch pipette precludes their later detection by immunohistochemistry. This leaves a major gap in our understanding of circuits made up of neurochemically heterogeneous neurons. To bridge this gap we have developed a transmembrane labeling approach, employing membrane-permeant dye in conjunction with perforated patch electrophysiology. Using this method we have successfully recorded from juxtaglomerular cells in the olfactory bulb, reconstructed the morphology of the cells, and demonstrated expression of soluble neurochemical markers within the same cells. This new technique provides a reliable means to link the physiology, morphology, and neurochemistry of single identified neurons studied using patch-clamp recording.
The significance of local field potential (LFP) activity in the subthalamic nucleus (STN) of patients with Parkinson's disease is unclear. Here we show that it is possible to predict self-paced hand-movements from the oscillatory nature of the STN LFP on a trial-by-trial basis. To this end we used a neural networks' classification algorithm on features representing different measures of spectral activity. Our experiments were simulated to process online LFP signal recordings collected beforehand from macroelectrodes implanted in STN. With spectral features extracted via wavelet transformation, we were able to predict a voluntary hand-movement's onset with 95% sensitivity and 77% specificity. Most predictions were made over a second in advance of the movement. We conclude that oscillatory LFP activity in STN is directly or indirectly related to processes involved in motor preparation. The ability to predict movement in real-time may open up several experimental and therapeutic possibilities.
Suppression of the P50 component of the evoked potential is an electrophysiological index of sensory gating that is blunted in schizophrenia spectrum disorders. Although P50 suppression is thought to be related to symptomatology, this is yet to be shown. The failure to demonstrate this relation has led some to argue that P50 suppression and symptomatology are not related. However, a possible confound has recently been corroborated [i.e., chronic smoking is related to superior P50 suppression [Crawford et al., Neuroscience Letters 317 (2002) 151]], and a relation has been found in questionnaire-defined individuals with indications of schizotypy [i.e., psychometric schizotypy is related to poor P50 suppression [Croft et al., Biological Psychiatry 50 (2001) 441]]. The present study attempted to replicate and extend both studies by examining P50 suppression, smoking histories, psychometric schizotypy and NEO Five-Factor Inventory (NEO-V) scores in 37 healthy participants. Replicating Crawford et al., P50 suppression was better in the heavier smokers. Providing a partial replication of Croft et al., P50 suppression was inversely related to schizotypy scores in participants who smoked little or not at all; however, P50 suppression was positively related to schizotypy in heavier smokers. Covarying for age and NEO-V scale scores had little effect on these relations. The findings provide evidence of important confounds that would limit our ability to detect P50 suppression/symptom relations in schizophrenia.
Recent research shows that categorizing patients with schizophrenia based on frontal-striatal and frontal-temporal memory profiles may yield neurobiologically meaningful disease subtypes. We hypothesize that parents of patients exhibit similar memory profiles. Both parents of 36 patients with schizophrenia (N = 72) and 26 healthy married control couples (N = 52) participated in this study. All subjects were physically healthy and had no history of neurological illness or alcohol/drug abuse. The presence of a psychiatric and/or personality disorder was assessed with the Comprehensive Assessment of Symptoms and History (CASH) interview, the Schedule for Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia-lifetime (SADS-L) interview and the Structured Interview for DSM-IV Personality Disorders (SIDP-IV), respectively. Cluster analysis of selected measures from the Dutch version of the California Verbal Learning Test (CVLT) delineated parents into two subgroups with distinct memory deficits and a third subgroup without impairments. Specific frontal-striatal and frontal-temporal subgroups, however, were not found. In addition, our results indicated that mothers seem to be more protected against the negative effects of genetic liability to schizophrenia than fathers. Furthermore, relatives with a higher level of intelligence may have more cognitive reserve to compensate for the negative impact of implied brain dysfunction on verbal memory than relatives with a low level of intelligence. Although the parents of patients with schizophrenia could be delineated into subgroups with primary memory deficits, frontal-striatal and frontal-temporal subgroups could not be unambiguously identified. The association that emerged between level of intelligence, gender and severity of memory impairment deserves further exploration.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid B (GABAB) receptors (GBRs) are G-protein-coupled receptors that mediate a slow, prolonged form of inhibition in the basolateral amygdala (ABL) and other brain areas. Recent studies indicate that this receptor is a heterodimer consisting of GABABR1 (GBR1) and GABABR2 subunits. In the present investigation, antibodies to the GABABR1 subunit were used to study the neuronal localization of GBRs in the rat ABL. GBR immunoreactivity was mainly found in spine-sparse interneurons and astrocytes at the light microscopic level. Very few pyramidal neurons exhibited perikaryal staining. Dual-labeling immunofluorescence analysis indicated that each of the four main subpopulations of interneurons exhibited GBR immunoreactivity. Virtually 100% of large CCK+ neurons in the basolateral and lateral nuclei were GBR+. In the basolateral nucleus 72% of somatostatin (SOM), 73% of parvalbumin (PV) and 25% of VIP positive interneurons were GBR+. In the lateral nucleus 50% of somatostatin, 30% of parvalbumin and 27% of VIP positive interneurons were GBR+. Electron microscopic (EM) analysis revealed that most of the light neuropil staining seen at the light microscopic level was due to the staining of dendritic shafts and spines, most of which probably belonged to spiny pyramidal cells. Very few axon terminals (Ats) were GBR+. In summary, this investigation demonstrates that the distal dendrites of pyramidal cells, and varying percentages of each of the four main subpopulations of interneurons in the ABL, express GBRs. Because previous studies suggest that GBR-mediated inhibition modulates NMDA-dependent EPSPs in the ABL, these receptors may play an important role in neuronal plasticity related to emotional learning.
The Saccharomyces cerevisiae OLE1 gene encodes a membrane-bound Delta9 fatty-acid desaturase, whose expression is regulated through transcriptional and mRNA stability controls. In wild type cells grown on fatty acid-free medium, OLE1 mRNA has a half-life of 10 +/- 1.5 min (basal stability) that becomes highly unstable when cells are exposed to unsaturated fatty acids (regulated stability). Activation of OLE1 transcription is dependent on N-terminal fragments of two membrane proteins, Mga2p and Spt23p, that are proteolytically released from the membrane by a ubiquitin-mediated mechanism. Surprisingly, disruption of the MGA2 gene also reduces the half-life of the OLE1 transcript and abolishes fatty acid regulated instability. Disruption of its cognate, SPT23, has no effect on the half-life of the mRNA. Mga2p appears to have two distinct functions with respect to the OLE1 mRNA stability: a stabilizing effect in cells grown in fatty acid-free medium and a destabilizing function in cells that are exposed to unsaturated fatty acids. These functions are independent of OLE1 transcription and can confer basal and regulated stability on OLE1 mRNAs that are produced under the control of the unrelated GAL1 promoter. Expression of soluble, N-terminal fragments of Mga2p stabilize the transcript but do not confer fatty acid-regulated instability on the mRNA suggesting that the stabilizing functions of Mga2p do not require membrane processing and that modifications to the protein introduced during proteolysis may play a role in the destabilizing effect. An analysis of mutants that are defective in mRNA degradation indicate that the Mga2p-requiring control mechanism that regulates the fatty acid-mediated instability of the OLE1 transcript acts by activating exosomal 3' --&gt; 5'-exonuclease degradation activity.
We studied the effects of cyclosporin A (CsA) administration 1) on the properties of the permeability transition pore (PTP) in mitochondria isolated from the liver and 2) on the susceptibility to hepatotoxicity induced by lipopolysaccharide of Escherichia coli (LPS) plus D-galactosamine (D-GalN) in rats. CsA exerted a marked PTP inhibition ex vivo, with an effect that peaked between 2 and 9 h of drug treatment and decayed with an apparent half-time of about 13 h. Administration of LPS plus D-GalN to naive rats caused the expected increased serum levels of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, liver inflammation with BID cleavage, activation of caspase 3, appearance of terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling-positive nuclei, and release of alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase into the bloodstream. Treatment with CsA before or within 5 h of the administration of LPS plus D-GalN protected rats from hepatotoxicity despite the normal increase of serum TNF-alpha and BID cleavage. These results indicate that CsA prevents the hepatotoxic effects of TNF-alpha by blocking the mitochondrial proapoptotic pathway through inhibition of the PTP and provides a viable strategy for the treatment of liver diseases that depend on increased production and/or liver sensitization to TNF-alpha.


The presence of a columnar or clustered organization for some property often denotes that this property is important to the local information processing in a cortical area. To determine whether self-motion is systematically organized in the ventral intraparietal area (VIP), we made long electrode penetrations, recording both multi-unit and single-unit tuning for horizontally varying heading stimuli at frequent intervals. Single units were well correlated with the tuning of multi-unit activity at the same location and multi-unit activity was more correlated with tuning at nearby locations than it was with tuning at locations beyond approximately 0.5 mm. From this, we conclude that heading information is represented in a clustered, and possibly columnar, fashion in VIP.
Data from rodent models of induced microgyria suggest that bilateral damage leads to more severe rapid auditory processing deficits than unilateral damage. It is unclear whether this reflects the degree, or bilateral/unilateral nature, of damage. The current study evaluates the effects of microgyric severity by assessing rats with single- vs double-pair bilateral focal microgyric lesions, using auditory discrimination and MGN measures. Behavioral data show a significant auditory processing deficit on rapid processing tasks for microgyric as compared to control subjects, and also reveal more severe deficits for double- than for single-pair bilateral microgyrics. Greater disruptions are also seen in the MGN of double-pair compared to single-pair bilateral microgyric subjects.
Human neural stem cells survive and improve motor function after transplantation to the contused brain. However, the transplants might be rejected and that depends on the graft immunogenicity, the host immunological status and the immunosuppression strategy. We transplanted human neural stem cells to rats with brain contusion and analyzed the donor and host MHC antigen expression and the effect of a short-term immunosuppression with cyclosporine. In vitro human neural stem cells expressed only MHC-II antigens. This expression was down-regulated 6 weeks after transplantation. The host response was characterized by an increased MHC-II expression which was down-regulated by a longer term of immunosuppression. These findings are novel and necessary in order to understand the immunogenicity of human neural stem cell grafts.
Lateralisation is an attractive and intriguing feature of the vertebrate CNS studied for decades in the different disciplines of the neurosciences. Due to the complexity of the phenomena and intrinsic limitations of the approaches used to date, it has been difficult to establish useful links between the different, and usually distant, levels of lateralisation e.g. between genetics, morphology, physiology and behaviour. Recently, the dorsal diencephalon of the teleost zebrafish has emerged as a valuable model to begin addressing this issue and as a result unravel the role of vertebrate CNS lateralisation. Zebrafish is a well-established genetic system that allows a 'bottom up' ('gene to behaviour') approach to the study of lateralisation. In fact, it is the single vertebrate system to date in which asymmetric gene expression in the brain has been directly linked to asymmetric morphology. Zebrafish offers several experimental advantages that allow the study of brain lateralisation using a wide range of experimental tools, from study of gene function through in vivo analysis of morphology and physiology to behavioural assessments. Altogether, these features will allow the establishment of operational links between lower (genetics and morphology) and upper (physiology and behaviour) levels of brain lateralisation.
Homer protein expression is dependent in part on neuronal activity and sleep. Homer1a differs in function from Homer1bc although both are involved in synaptic scaffolding. The effects of sleep loss, time of day and afferent activity on these molecules were investigated. Rats were sacrificed at the midpoint of either their activity or sleep phases and RNA was prepared from somatosensory cortex samples. Homer1a and 1bc mRNA levels were determined by real time PCR. There were greater amounts of both Homer1a and 1bc in night time samples. In controls, there was more Homer1bc than 1a both day and night. Sleep loss upregulated Homer1a in the morning but not at night. Homer1bc was much less affected by manipulations of sleep. Thus, Homer1a may be a state- and activity-dependent synaptic scaling factor.
A recent study has shown that cerebellar GABAergic interneuron (Golgi cell) terminals contain the zinc transporter znt3, raising the possibility that zinc is synaptically released to modulate GABAergic transmission. To test this possibility, the actions of exogenous zinc on Golgi cell to granule cell synaptic transmission were investigated and then the effects of removing endogenous zinc were examined. Application of zinc markedly reduced the tonic GABA(A)-receptor-mediated current in granule cells but produced a much smaller heterogeneous inhibitory effect on evoked phasic GABAergic currents. Neither the tonic current, single evoked synaptic currents nor trains of synaptic currents were modulated when endogenous zinc was chelated. Thus, there is no physiological evidence that zinc is released from Golgi cells to modulate GABAergic transmission.
The aim of the present study was to determine the effects of monopolar and bipolar high frequency stimulation (HFS) on histological damage and current flow using a commonly applied stimulus amplitude (300 microA). Bipolar HFS resulted in a large amount of histological damage whereas with monopolar HFS no damage was observed except for the electrode trajectory. Oscilloscopic readings confirmed that this was due to the application of twice as much current to the target with bipolar HFS. Our results demonstrate that there are differences in tissue damage dependent of polarity. In order to create a better comparison to the clinical condition, we suggest that the present rodent models for studying the effect of chronic HFS require further adjustment. This can be achieved by decreasing the present current densities to a level comparable to the human situation.
Individuals with Down's syndrome (DS), i.e., trisomy 21, over 40 years of age, are likely to develop neuropathological changes characteristic of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The involvement of chromosome 21 both in DS and AD suggests a shared genetic susceptibility to these disorders, but genetic determinants are still undefined. The -48C/T polymorphism in the PSEN1 promoter is a possible candidate, since it has recently been associated with an increased risk of early onset AD. Based on the assumption that the excess of dementia in DS might be a consequence of a different distribution of the -48C/T polymorphism, we investigated the association between DS and this polymorphism in patients with trisomy 21 and controls. Overall, 260 DS patients and 197 controls were recruited at the Department of Neurosciences, Tor Vergata University of Rome. Cases and controls had similar age and gender distribution. High molecular weight DNA was extracted from whole blood samples collected in EDTANa(2) and -48C/T genotypes were determined. Genotype and allele frequencies were compared between cases and controls. Cases were less likely than controls to have the CC genotype ( P = 0.05). A significant difference for allele distribution between DS cases and controls was found, with DS showing a lower frequency of the allele C compared with the control population (OR: 0.57; 95% CI: 0.35-0.91; P = 0.01). No significant interaction of PSEN1 with age, gender, ApoE and -850 TNF-alpha polymorphisms was found. The association found suggests that the -48C/T polymorphism in the PSN1 gene promoter, which is involved in the modulation of amyloid beta load in human AD, is associated with DS. However, the biological role of this polymorphism in DS-related dementia remains unclear and merits further investigation.
The neuroprotective effect of diazepam has been demonstrated in global ischemia models in vivo and in vitro [Neuroscience (2000) 471]. We studied the effect of diazepam on lesion volume in a photothrombotic model of focal brain ischemia in the rat, and the relation of such effect to time of drug administration. For this purpose we induced photochemically a focal brain lesion, and added diazepam 10 mg/kg intraperitoneally just before, at 1 and 4 h after lesion induction. After 24 h the rats were decapitated, and lesion volumes of 27 diazepam-treated rats were compared with that of 12 controls. Treated animals had a significant smaller lesion volume than controls, except those who received diazepam before induction of the lesion. We conclude that diazepam is neuroprotective in focal brain ischemia even when administered up to 4 h after ischemia onset.
This paper evaluates the possible reasons for consistent vitamin B12 deficiency in chronic toxigenic mold exposures and the synergistic relationships with the possible mycotoxic effects on one-carbon metabolism that lead to the manifestations of clinical neuropathological symptomology. Vitamins are first defined in general and the nutritional sources of vitamin B12 are evaluated in particular. Since patients with chronic exposures to toxigenic molds manifest vitamin B12 deficiencies, the role of mycotoxins in vitamin B12 metabolism is assessed, and since vitamin B12 plays important biochemical roles in one-carbon metabolism, the synergistic effects with mycotoxins on humans are reviewed. An outline of the proposed mechanism by which mycotoxins disrupt or interfere with the normal functions of vitamin B12 on one-carbon metabolism is proposed. The overall functions of vitamin B12 as a source of coenzymes, in intracellular recycling of methionine, in methionine synthase reaction, in the prevention of chromosome breakage, in methylation, and in maintaining a one-carbon metabolic balance are reviewed. Signs, symptoms, and clinical neurological indications of vitamin B12 deficiency are also cited. By implication and derivation, it is likely that the interruption of the structure and function of vitamin B12 would in turn interfere with the one-carbon metabolism leading to the neurological manifestations. This review is an attempt to formulate a basis for an ongoing research investigation on the subject.
Regulation of AMPA receptors (AMPARs) at synapses plays a critical role in alterations of synaptic strength in the brain. Stargazin, an AMPAR-interacting protein, is critical for clustering and regulation of synaptic AMPARs. Stargazin interacts with AMPARs via its extracellular domain and with PDZ [postsynaptic density-95 (PSD-95)/Discs large (Dlg)/zona occludens-1 (ZO-1)] proteins via its C-terminal PDZ-binding motif, and these interactions are necessary for stargazin and AMPAR synaptic targeting. By studying the expression of stargazin mutant constructs in cultured hippocampal neurons, we identified a novel domain corresponding to residues 243-283 within the cytoplasmic C terminus of stargazin that is also required for stargazin and AMPAR synaptic clustering. To identify proteins that interact with this stargazin synaptic clustering domain, we performed a yeast two-hybrid assay and found that this stargazin domain binds to nPIST (neuronal isoform of protein-interacting specifically with TC10), a Golgi-enriched protein implicated in trafficking of transmembrane proteins. Using in situ hybridization, immunohistochemistry, coimmunoprecipitation studies, and biochemical fractionation, we found that stargazin and nPIST colocalize and interact in the brain. Finally, by studying AMPAR clustering in transfected hippocampal neurons, we found that overexpression of nPIST enhances AMPAR synaptic clustering, whereas transfection of a dominant-negative nPIST construct attenuates AMPAR synaptic clustering. These studies identify a novel stargazin domain necessary for synaptic clustering of AMPARs and suggest that nPIST and stargazin interactions play a critical role in AMPAR trafficking to the synapse.
Trace memories are formed when a stimulus event becomes associated with another event that occurs later in time and is discontinuous with the first event. The formation of trace memories enhances the survival of newly generated neurons in the dentate gyrus of the adult hippocampus (Gould et al., 1999a). Here we tested whether the acquisition of trace memories early during training is sufficient to enhance cell survival. We also examined whether the new neurons affected by trace memory formation persist indefinitely or only as long as the hippocampus is necessary for the expression of those memories. Groups of adult rats were injected with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU), a marker of dividing cells, and trained 1 week later with paired stimuli using a trace eyeblink conditioning task or exposed to the same number of unpaired stimuli. Cell survival was assessed after different numbers of training trials and survival periods after training. Overall cell survival was not enhanced by exposure to 200 trials of paired stimuli during trace conditioning. However, there was a positive correlation between performance of individual animals and cell survival. In addition, exposure to 800 trials of paired stimuli during trace conditioning increased the number of BrdU-labeled cells 60 d after training. The vast majority of these cells were neurons and coexpressed the neuronal markers class IIIbeta-tubulin or neuronal nuclei. These data suggest that individual differences in associative learning predict whether new neurons will survive and that once affected, these neurons remain for months and beyond the time when they are required for the retention of trace memories.
Synaptic feedback from rhythmically active neuronal circuits commonly causes their descending inputs to exhibit the rhythmic activity pattern generated by that circuit. In most cases, however, the function of this rhythmic feedback is unknown. In fact, generally these inputs can still activate the target circuit when driven in a tonic activity pattern. We are using the crab stomatogastric nervous system (STNS) to test the hypothesis that the neuronal circuit-mediated rhythmic activity pattern in projection neurons contributes to intercircuit regulation. The crab STNS contains an identified projection neuron, modulatory commissural neuron 1 (MCN1), whose tonic stimulation activates and modulates the gastric mill (chewing) and pyloric (filtering of chewed food) motor circuits in the stomatogastric ganglion (STG). During tonic stimulation of MCN1, the pyloric circuit regulates both gastric mill cycle frequency and gastropyloric coordination via a direct synapse onto a gastric mill neuron in the STG. However, when MCN1 is spontaneously active, it has a pyloric-timed activity pattern attributable to synaptic input from the pyloric circuit. This pyloric-timed activity in MCN1 provides the pyloric circuit with a second pathway for regulating the gastric mill rhythm. At these times, the direct STG synapse from the pyloric circuit to the gastric mill circuit is not necessary for pyloric regulation of the gastric mill rhythm. However, in the intact system, these two pathways play complementary roles in this intercircuit regulation. Thus, one role for rhythmicity in modulatory projection neurons is to enable them to mediate the interactions between distinct but related neuronal circuits.
The authors describe here the procedures for using the gelatin half-embedding method to obtain thin spinal cord slices with attached dorsal roots and performing visually guided whole-cell patch-clamp recording of postsynaptic currents evoked by primary afferent fibers in rat spinal dorsal horn. A segment of spinal cord with attached dorsal roots was prepared and half-embedded in an agar block with 20% (w/v) gelatin. Thin spinal cord slices with attached dorsal roots were obtained with a vibratome and whole-cell patch-clamp configuration was established under the infrared observation. At the holding potential of -70 mV, spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) and dorsal root stimulation-evoked EPSCs were recorded as inward currents. According to the conduction velocity of afferent fibers and stimulus threshold, evoked EPSCs that are mediated by A-like or C-like fibers were distinguished. At the holding potential of 0 mV, spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) and dorsal root stimulation-evoked IPSCs were recorded as outward currents. Using 5 micromol/L strychnine or 20 micromol/L bicuculline, GABAergic or glycinergic evoked IPSCs could be isolated. Using visual patch-clamp method synaptic transmission can be accurately assessed by measuring postsynaptic currents of the dorsal horn neurons. More importantly, with the aid of infrared observation, the incidence of failure to establish a clamp configuration can be greatly reduced and it becomes easier to make recordings from the neurons in deep dorsal horn laminae. Thus, the present research approach an effective approach to study the modulation of primary afferent synaptic transmission.
Spinal dorsal horn neurons play an important role in the processing of sensory information and are also targets of modulation by both endogenous and exogenous drugs. Propofol is an intravenous anesthetic and whether it has direct modulatory actions on sensory neuronal responses of the spinal cord dorsal horn has not been well studied. In the present study, a single dose (0.5 micromol) of propofol dissolved in dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) was directly applied onto the dorsal surface of the spinal cord and its effect was evaluated in 25 wide-dynamic-range (WDR) neurons and 10 low-threshold mechanoreceptive (LTM) neurons by using extracellular single unit recording technique in sodium pentobarbital anesthetized rats. Compared with the DMSO treatment, propofol produced a significant inhibition of WDR neuronal activity evoked by both noxious heat (45, 47, 49 or 53 degrees C, 15 s) and mechanical (pinch, 10 s) stimuli applied to their cutaneous receptive fields (cRF) on the ipsilateral hind paw skin. To investigate whether propofol exerts a modulatory effect on non-nociceptive afferent-mediated activity, the responses of WDR or LTM neurons to non-noxious brush and pressure were also evaluated. The non-noxious mechanically-evoked responses of both WDR and LTM neurons were significantly suppressed by propofol. The present results indicate that propofol has direct actions on the dorsal horn neurons of the spinal cord in rats. However, since both non-nociceptive and nociceptive afferent-mediated activity can be suppressed, the spinal effects of propofol are not likely to be specifically associated with anti-nociception.

A median safinamide (SAF) dose of 70 mg/day (range 40 to 90 mg/day) increased the percentage of parkinsonian patients improving their motor scores by &gt; or =30% from baseline (responders) after 3 months from 21.4% (placebo) to 37.5% (p &lt; 0.05, calculated by logistic regression analysis). In a subgroup of 101 patients under stable treatment with a single dopamine agonist, addition of SAF magnified the response (47.1% responders, mean 4.7-point motor score decrease; p &gt; or = 0.05). These results suggest that doses of SAF exerting ion channel block and glutamate release inhibition add to its symptomatic effect and warrant exploration of higher doses.



How olfactory sensory neurons converge on spatially invariant glomeruli in the olfactory bulb is largely unknown. In one model, olfactory sensory neurons interact with spatially restricted guidance cues in the bulb that orient and guide them to their target. Identifying differentially expressed molecules in the olfactory bulb has been extremely difficult, however, hindering a molecular analysis of convergence. Here, we describe several such genes that have been identified in a screen that compiled microarray data to create a three-dimensional model of gene expression within the mouse olfactory bulb. The expression patterns of these identified genes form the basis of a nascent spatial map of differential gene expression in the bulb.
Omi/HtrA2 is a novel protein that contributes to the regulation of mitochondrial apoptosis after a variety of cell death stimuli in vitro and is thought to negatively control the inhibitor-of-apoptosis protein (IAP) family. However, the Omi/HtrA2 pathway remains unknown in apoptotic neuronal cell death in vivo. To examine the role of the Omi/HtrA2 pathway and its relationship to oxidative stress after reperfusion following cerebral ischemia, we used a transient focal cerebral ischemia (tFCI) model in copper/zinc-superoxide dismutase (SOD1) transgenic mice and wild-type mice. We evaluated the link between the Omi/HtrA2 pathway and the caspase cascade reaction after tFCI by administration of a pan-caspase inhibitor, Z-VAD-FMK. We observed the time-dependent expression of Omi/HtrA2 and its binding to X-chromosome-linked IAP (Omi/XIAP) by immunohistochemistry, Western blotting and coimmunoprecipitation. Translocation of Omi/HtrA2 into the cytosolic space was detected during the early period after tFCI and was not affected by Z-VAD-FMK administration, but it was prevented by SOD1 overexpression. Coimmunoprecipitation revealed that Omi/XIAP transiently increased and that it was prevented by SOD1 overexpression. These results suggest that the Omi/HtrA2 pathway may play an important role in the progress of apoptotic neuronal cell death and that overexpression of SOD1 may attenuate this apoptotic cell death by preventing the Omi/HtrA2 cell signaling pathway.
A cDNA encoding a potassium channel of the two-pore domain family (K2p) of leak channels was cloned from the CNS of the marine opisthobranch Aplysia californica. This is the first sequence of the K2p family identified in molluscs and has been named AcK2p1. The deduced amino acid sequence is homologous to channels of the mammalian two-pore domain halothane inhibited (THIK) subfamily, bearing 46% identity to THIK-1 (KCNK 13) and 48% to THIK-2 (KCNK12). We used in-situ hybridization to analyze the distribution of this class of channels in the CNS. AcK2p1 is specifically expressed in many central neurons of all major ganglia including the largest identified neurons MCC, R2 and LP1. The highest expression of AcK2p1 was detected in an asymmetrical and distinct cluster of up to 30 cells located at the dorsal-medial region of the right pleural ganglion. The neuron-specific distribution seen in the molluscan CNS is consistent with data from mammals that indicate THIK is only expressed in restricted neuronal populations, suggesting its involvement in both the maintenance of neuronal phenotype and in the specific functional role of these neurons in their respective networks.
Mutations in torsinA, a member of the AAA+ family of ATPases, are associated with early onset-dystonia. A closely related homologue, torsinB, has also been described but the significance of this second form is not clear. Here, we demonstrate that in transfected cells, torsinB has similar electrophoretic mobility to torsinA but is more basic consistent with predictions from the cDNA sequence. Like torsinA, torsinB is glycosylated and localized to PDI-positive structures in cells. However, torsinB unlike torsinA has a tendency to form intracellular inclusions when expressed at similar levels. We were able to confirm previous reports that torsinA is present in brainstem Lewy bodies, but we saw no torsinB-like immunoreactivity in the same structures. These results show that torsins A and B are similar proteins, although there are differences in the abundance of the two homologues and in their recruitment into Lewy bodies.
The cannabis gateway hypothesis purports that early exposure to cannabis is a risk factor for subsequent use of other addictive drugs, e.g., psychostimulants. Neurobiological sensitization, consistent with a gateway hypothesis, was currently studied in regard to amphetamine response. Rats were exposed to the cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN 55,212-2 [(R)-(+)-[2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-(4-morpholinylmethyl)pyrrolo[1,2,3-de]-1,4-benzoxazin-6-yl]-1-naphthalenylmethanone] 1.25 mg/kg, intraperitoneally; i.p. for 5 days during early adolescence. Amphetamine (0.5 mg/kg, i.p.) or WIN 55,212-2 (1.25 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered in late adolescence and in vivo dopamine levels were simultaneously measured in the nucleus accumbens. Locomotor and stereotyped behaviors were also monitored in rats pretreated with WIN 55,212-2 (0.625, 1.25 or 2.5 mg/kg) or Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (0.75, 1.5 or 3.0 mg/kg, i.p.) for 5 days during early adolescence and challenged with amphetamine (0.5 or 2.0 mg/kg) in late adolescence or as adults. Pretreatment with WIN 55,212-2 or Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol during early adolescence did not alter the dopaminergic or behavioral responses to amphetamine in adolescence or adulthood. In conclusion, these findings do not support the cannabis gateway hypothesis in regard to subsequent amphetamine exposure.
Tritiation of the dopamine D(4) receptor selective agonist A-369508 ([2-[4-(2-cyanophenyl)-1-piperazinyl]-N-(3-methylphenyl) acetamide) has provided a radioligand for the characterization of dopamine D(4) receptors. [(3)H] A-369508 binds with high affinity to the major human dopamine D(4) receptor variants D(4.2), D(4.4) and D(4.7) (K(d)=1.7, 4, and 1.2 nM, respectively). It also binds to the rat dopamine D(4) receptor, (K(d)=4.4 nM), implying similar binding affinity across human and rat receptors. A-369508 shows &gt;400-fold selectivity over D(2L), &gt;350-fold selectivity over 5-HT(1A) and &gt;700-1,000-fold selectivity over all other receptors tested. Agonist activity determined by inhibition of forskolin-induced cAMP in Chinese hamster ovary cells transfected with the human dopamine D(4.4) receptor (EC(50)=7.5 nM, intrinsic activity=0.71) indicates that A-369508 is a potent agonist at the human dopamine D(4) receptor. Similar data was observed in other functional assays. [(3)H] A-369508 binds to a single, high affinity site on membranes containing the human dopamine D(4.4) receptor. When compared to the D(2)-like antagonist [(3)H] spiperone, competition binding for agonists like dopamine and apomorphine were 2-10-fold more potent with [(3)H] A-369508, while the antagonists clozapine, haloperidol and L-745870 bind with similar affinity to both ligands. Binding to rat brain regions demonstrated that the most abundant area was cerebral cortex (51.2 fmol/mg protein) followed by hypothalamus, hippocampus, striatum and cerebellum. [(3)H] A-369508 is a useful tool to define the localization and physiological role of dopamine D(4) receptors in central nervous system and can facilitate measuring accurate affinities (K(i)) for structure/activity relationship studies designed to identify dopamine D(4) receptor selective agonists.
Reward is an important factor motivating food intake in satiated animals. Two sites involved in the reward response are the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and the nucleus accumbens shell region (sNAcc), between which communication is partially regulated by opioids and dopamine (DA). Previous studies have shown that the mu-opioid agonist Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-MePhe-Gly(ol)-enkephalin (DAMGO) dose-dependently enhances food intake in satiated animals when injected into either the VTA or the sNAcc. The enhanced intake elicited by DAMGO injected into the sNAcc was dose-dependently blocked by injection of naltrexone (NTX) bilaterally into the VTA, indicating an opioid-dependent signaling pathway from the sNAcc to the VTA in mediation of food intake. In the present study, we cannulated animals bilaterally in both the VTA and the sNAcc to further study the nature of opioid- and DA-dependent communication between the sites. Food intake elicited by DAMGO (2 or 5 nmol) injected unilaterally into the VTA was dose-dependently diminished by bilateral injection of NTX (2.5, 5, and 25 g/side) or the D1 antagonist SCH 23390 (3, 1, 0.3, 0.15, 0.05, and 0.015 nmol/side) into the sNAcc. When DAMGO (5 nmol) was injected into the sNAcc, the resulting food intake was decreased by doses of SCH 23390 ranging from 0.05 to 100 nmol/side injected bilaterally into the VTA, but not by equimolar doses of Raclopride, a D2 antagonist. These results, combined with previous findings, suggest a signaling pathway between the VTA and the sNAcc in which opioids and DA facilitate feeding in an interdependent manner.
The exocyst is a 734-kDa complex essential for development. Perturbation of its function results in early embryonic lethality. Extensive investigation has revealed that this complex participates in multiple biological processes, including protein synthesis and vesicle/protein targeting to the plasma membrane. In this article we report that the exocyst may also play a role in modulating microtubule dynamics. Using monoclonal antibodies, we observed that endogenous exocyst subunits co-localized with microtubules and mitotic spindles in normal rat kidney cells. To test for a functional relationship between the exocyst complex and microtubules, we established an in vitro exocyst reconstitution assay and studied exocyst effect on microtubule dynamics. We found that the exocyst complex reconstituted from eight recombinant exocyst subunits inhibited tubulin polymerization in vitro. Deletion of exocyst subunit sec5, sec6, sec15, or exo70 diminished its tubulin polymerization inhibition activity. Surprisingly, exocyst subunit exo70 itself was also capable of inhibiting tubulin polymerization, although exocyst complex with exo70 deletion did not lose its activity completely. Overexpression of exo70 in NRK cells resulted in microtubule network disruption and the formation of filopodia-like plasma membrane protrusions. The formation of these membrane protrusions was greatly hampered by stabilizing microtubules with taxol. Overexpression of exo84, an exocyst subunit that did not show tubulin polymerization inhibition activity, did not cause this phenotype. Results shown in this article, along with a previous report that localized microtubule instability induces plasma membrane addition, implicates a novel role for the exocyst in modulating microtubule dynamics underlying exocytosis.

Muscular dystrophies are among the most common human genetic diseases and are characterized by progressive muscle degeneration. Muscular dystrophies result from genetic defects in components of the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC), a multimeric complex found in the muscle cell plasma membrane. The DGC links the intracellular cytoskeleton to the extracellular matrix and is thought to be important for maintaining the mechanical integrity of muscles and organizing signalling molecules. The exact role of the DGC in the pathogenesis of disease has, however, remained uncertain. Mutations in Caenorhabditis elegans DGC genes lead to specific defects in coordinated movement and can also cause muscle degeneration. Here we show that mutations in the gene snf-6 result in phenotypes indistinguishable from those of the DGC mutants, and that snf-6 encodes a novel acetylcholine/choline transporter. SNF-6 mediates the uptake of acetylcholine at neuromuscular junctions during periods of increased synaptic activity. SNF-6 also interacts with the DGC, and mutations in DGC genes cause a loss of SNF-6 at neuromuscular junctions. Improper clearing of acetylcholine and prolonged excitation of muscles might contribute to the pathogenesis of muscular dystrophies.

A central question in cognitive neuroscience is whether mechanisms exist that are specialized for particular domains. One of the most commonly cited examples of a domain-specific competence is the human ability to recognize upright faces. However, according to a widely discussed alternative hypothesis, face recognition is instead performed by mechanisms specialized for processing any object class for which an individual has expertise. Faces, according to this domain-general hypothesis, are just one example of an expert class. Nonface object expertise has been intensively investigated using a training procedure involving an artificial stimulus class known as greebles. A key prediction of this hypothesis is that individuals with face recognition impairments will also have impairments with other categories that control subjects have expertise with. Our results show that a man with severe prosopagnosia performed normally throughout the standard greeble training procedure. These findings indicate that face recognition and greeble recognition rely on separate mechanisms.
Neurotransmitter release from synapses is one of the most important interneuronal signaling in the nervous system. We previously reported that aging decreases depolarization-induced acetylcholine release in rat brain synaptosomes. To investigate the mechanisms underlying the age-related decrements of neurotransmission, we determined the levels of the alpha1 subunit proteins of voltage-dependent calcium channels (VDCCs) and three synaptic proteins that relate to exocytotic processes using synaptosomes prepared from cerebral cortices of young (6-month-old) and aged (27-month-old) rats. Immunoblotting analyses revealed that the protein levels of alpha1A (P/Q-type) and alpha1B (N-type) subunits in aged rats were 38% and 43% lower than the levels of young rats, respectively, but the levels of the alpha1C (L-type) subunit were not different between young and aged. On the contrary, the levels of synaptotagmin-1, synaptophysin and syntaxin were not significantly different between the two age groups in the synaptosomal preparations. These results suggest that synaptic density does not change much in the cerebral cortex in normal aging, and that the reduction of P/Q-type and N-type VDCCs, both of which participate in neurotransmitter release, is one of the causes for the decrease of neurotransmission at aged synapses.
Despite higher neural activation during active as compared to passive muscle shortening, Hoffman reflexes (H-reflexes) are similar. This may be explained by homosynaptic post-activation depression (HPAD) of Ia-afferents being present during active shortening. Accordingly, it was investigated whether conditioning electrical stimulation of the tibial nerve reduced the H-reflex less during active than passive shortening. The effects of two conditioning modes (0.2 and 1 Hz) were compared to a control mode without conditioning. H-reflexes and M-waves were elicited as the ankle passed 90 degrees with the soleus muscle undergoing passive or active (20% MVC) lengthening or shortening. Conditioning had no effect during active shortening. In contrast, during passive shortening, the H:M of the 1 Hz mode was significantly less than that of the 0.2 Hz and control modes. In lengthening, H:M was unaffected by conditioning. These findings support that HPAD reduces the synaptic efficacy of Ia-afferents during active shortening, active and passive lengthening, but not passive shortening.

To investigate the possibility that glutamate receptor levels in the spinal cord are altered following injury to young rats, we used a previously characterized model of spinal cord contusion that produces a reliable injury in rats at postnatal day 14-15. Quantitative Western blot analysis was used to measure relative amounts of protein for several glutamate receptor subunits acutely (24 h) and chronically (28 days) after spinal cord injury (SCI). Acutely after injury significant decreases were observed in the GluR1, GluR2, and GluR4 subunits of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole proprionate (AMPA) receptor, and the NR2A and NR2B subunits, but not the NR1 subunit, of the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor. However, 28 days after injury only one subunit (GluR4) was shown to be altered. These widespread changes that occur acutely in receptor subunit expression may be an attempt to protect cells from glutamate-induced death. The injured spinal cord in these young animals, however, appears to have the capacity to regulate receptor subunit levels to normal within a month of injury.
Direction-selective retinal ganglion cells show an increased activity evoked by light stimuli moving in the preferred direction. This selectivity is governed by direction-selective inhibition from starburst amacrine cells occurring during stimulus movement in the opposite or null direction. To understand the intrinsic membrane properties of starburst cells responsible for direction-selective GABA release, we performed whole-cell recordings from starburst cells in mouse retina. Voltage-clamp recordings revealed prominent voltage-dependent K(+) currents. The currents were mostly blocked by 1 mm TEA, activated rapidly at voltages more positive than -20 mV, and deactivated quickly, properties reminiscent of the currents carried by the Kv3 subfamily of K+ channels. Immunoblots confirmed the presence of Kv3.1 and Kv3.2 proteins in retina and immunohistochemistry revealed their expression in starburst cell somata and dendrites. The Kv3-like current in starburst cells was absent in Kv3.1-Kv3.2 knock-out mice. Current-clamp recordings showed that the fast activation of the Kv3 channels provides a voltage-dependent shunt that limits depolarization of the soma to potentials more positive than -20 mV. This provides a mechanism likely to contribute to the electrical isolation of individual starburst cell dendrites, a property thought essential for direction selectivity. This function of Kv3 channels differs from that in other neurons where they facilitate high-frequency repetitive firing. Moreover, we found a gradient in the intensity of Kv3.1b immunolabeling favoring proximal regions of starburst cells. We hypothesize that this Kv3 channel gradient contributes to the preference for centrifugal signal flow in dendrites underlying direction-selective GABA release from starburst amacrine cells
High densities of sodium channels at nodes of Ranvier permit action potential conduction and depend on betaIV spectrins, a family of scaffolding proteins linked to the cortical actin cytoskeleton. To investigate the molecular organization of nodes, we analyzed qv(3J)&quot;quivering&quot; mice, whose betaIV spectrins have a truncated proline-rich &quot;specific&quot; domain (SD) and lack the pleckstrin homology (PH) domain. Central nodes of qv(3J) mice, which lack betaIV spectrins, are significantly broader and have prominent vesicle-filled nodal membrane protrusions, whereas axon shape and neurofilament density are dramatically altered. PNS qv(3J) nodes, some with detectable betaIV spectrins, are less affected. In contrast, a larger truncation of betaIV spectrins in qv(4J) mice, deleting the SD, PH, and ankyrinG binding domains, causes betaIV spectrins to be undetectable and causes dramatic changes, even in peripheral nodes. These results show that quivering mutations disrupt betaIV spectrin retention and stability at nodes and that distinct protein domains regulate nodal structural integrity and molecular organization.

When schedules of several operant trials must be successfully completed to obtain a reward, monkeys quickly learn to adjust their behavioral performance by using visual cues that signal how many trials have been completed and how many remain in the current schedule. Bilateral rhinal (perirhinal and entorhinal) cortex ablations irreversibly prevent this learning. Here, we apply a recombinant DNA technique to investigate the role of dopamine D2 receptor in rhinal cortex for this type of learning. Rhinal cortex was injected with a DNA construct that significantly decreased D2 receptor ligand binding and temporarily produced the same profound learning deficit seen after ablation. However, unlike after ablation, the D2 receptor-targeted, DNA-treated monkeys recovered cue-related learning after 11-19 weeks. Injecting a DNA construct that decreased N-methyl-d-aspartate but not D2 receptor ligand binding did not interfere with learning associations between the cues and the schedules. A second D2 receptor-targeted DNA treatment administered after either recovery from a first D2 receptor-targeted DNA treatment (one monkey), after N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor-targeted DNA treatment (two monkeys), or after a vector control treatment (one monkey) also induced a learning deficit of similar duration. These results suggest that the D2 receptor in primate rhinal cortex is essential for learning to relate the visual cues to the schedules. The specificity of the receptor manipulation reported here suggests that this approach could be generalized in this or other brain pathways to relate molecular mechanisms to cognitive functions.
Recently, great interest has been shown in understanding the functional roles of specific gap junction proteins (connexins) in brain, lens, retina, and elsewhere. Some progress has been made by studying knockout mice with targeted connexin deletions. For example, such studies have implicated the gap junction protein Cx36 in synchronizing rhythmic activity of neurons in several brain regions. Although knockout strategies are informative, they can be problematic, because compensatory changes sometimes occur during development. Therefore, it would be extremely useful to have pharmacological agents that block specific connexins, without major effects on other gap junctions or membrane channels. We show that mefloquine, an antimalarial drug, is one such agent. It blocked Cx36 channels, expressed in transfected N2A neuroblastoma cells, at low concentrations (IC(50) approximately 300 nM). Mefloquine also blocked channels formed by the lens gap junction protein, Cx50 (IC(50) approximately 1.1 microM). However, other gap junctions (e.g., Cx43, Cx32, and Cx26) were only affected at concentrations 10- to 100-fold higher. To further examine the utility and specificity of this compound, we characterized its effects in acute brain slices. Mefloquine, at 25 microM, blocked gap junctional coupling between interneurons in neocortical slices, with minimal nonspecific actions. At this concentration, the only major side effect was an increase in spontaneous synaptic activity. Mefloquine (25 microM) caused no significant change in evoked excitatory or inhibitory postsynaptic potentials, and intrinsic cellular properties were also mostly unaffected. Thus, mefloquine is expected to be a useful tool to study the functional roles of Cx36 and Cx50.
Three new approaches have been tested to modify existing pyridopyrimidine and alkynylpyrimidine classes of nonnucleoside adenosine kinase inhibitors 2 and 3. 4-Amino-substituted pteridines 8a-e were generally less active than corresponding 5- and 6-substituted pyridopyrimidines 2. Pyrazolopyrimidine 13c with IC(50)=7.5 nM was superior to its open chain alkynylpyrimidine analog 13g (IC(50)=22 nM) while pyrrolopyrimidines such as 17a were inactive.
Recently, we demonstrated that mice lacking the GABA(B(1)) subunit were more anxious than wild-type animals in several behavioural paradigms, most notably in the light-dark test. In an attempt to assess the effects of classical benzodiazepine anxiolytics on anxiety-like behaviour observed in these mice, animals were administered either chlordiazepoxide (10 mg/kg, p.o.) or diazepam (7.5 mg/kg, p.o.) prior to testing in the light-dark box. Surprisingly, in contrast with the wild-type mice, neither benzodiazepines decreased anxiety-like behaviour in GABA(B(1))(-/-) mice. These data suggest that targeted deletion of GABA(B(1)) subunit alters GABA(A) receptor function in vivo.
Adenosine receptor agonists have anti-inflammatory properties and modulate immune responses partly by inhibiting pro-inflammatory cytokine production by monocytes. We investigated signal transduction mechanisms by which adenosine receptor activation inhibits tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) production. Phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA) and phytohemagglutinin treatment of human pro-monocytic U937 cells increased TNF-alpha protein release. Activation of adenosine receptors up to 1 hr following stimulation with PMA/phytohemagglutinin significantly inhibited TNF-alpha protein release indicating that inhibition of TNF-alpha occurred post-transcriptionally. The adenosine receptor agonist 2-p-(carboxyethyl)phenethylamino-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine hydrochloride (CGS 21680) decreased stability and half-life of PMA/phytohemagglutinin-induced TNF-alpha mRNA from 80 to 37 min. p38 signaling pathways control TNF-alpha mRNA stability in macrophages and we confirmed in our cells that p38 was involved in controlling TNF-alpha release post-transcriptionally. Activation of adenosine receptors with CGS 21680 decreased phospho-p38 protein levels. These data suggest that adenosine receptor activation regulates TNF-alpha release post-transcriptionally by decreasing mRNA stability through a mechanism involving inhibition of p38 activity.
Although the importance of mitochondria in patho-physiology has become increasingly evident, it remains unclear whether these organelles play a role in Ca(2+) handling by skeletal muscle. This undefined situation is mainly due to technical limitations in measuring Ca(2+) transients reliably during the contraction-relaxation cycle. Using two-photon microscopy and genetically expressed &quot;cameleon&quot; Ca(2+) sensors, we developed a robust system that enables the measurement of both cytoplasmic and mitochondrial Ca(2+) transients in vivo. We show here for the first time that, in vivo and under highly physiological conditions, mitochondria in mammalian skeletal muscle take up Ca(2+) during contraction induced by motor nerve stimulation and rapidly release it during relaxation. The mitochondrial Ca(2+) increase is delayed by a few milliseconds compared with the cytosolic Ca(2+) rise and occurs both during a single twitch and upon tetanic contraction.
Olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) project to the rodent main olfactory bulb (MOB) from spatially distinct air channels in the olfactory recesses of the nose. The relatively smooth central channels of the dorsal meatus map onto the dorsal MOB, whereas the highly convoluted peripheral channels of the ethmoid turbinates project to the ventral MOB. Medial and lateral components of each projection stream innervate the medial and lateral MOB, respectively. To ascertain whether such topography entails the disproportionate representation seen in other sensory maps, we used disector-based stereological techniques in hamsters to estimate the number of ORNs associated with each channel in the nose and the number of their targets (glomeruli and mitral and tufted cells) in corresponding divisions of the MOB. Each circumferential half of the MOB (dorsal/ventral, medial/lateral) contained about 50% of the 3,100 glomeruli and about 50% of the 160,000 mitral and tufted cells per bulb. We found equivalent numbers of ORNs with dendritic knobs in the medial and lateral channels (4.5 million each). However, the central channels had only 2 million knobbed ORNs, whereas the peripheral channels had 7 million. Thus, there is a disproportionate mapping of the central-peripheral axis of olfactory airspace onto the dorsal-ventral axis of the MOB, encompassing a greater than threefold variation in the average convergence of ORNs onto MOB secondary neurons. We hypothesize that the disproportionate projections help to optimize chemospecific processing by compensating, with differing sensitivity, for significant variation in the distribution and concentration of odorant molecules along the olfactory air channels during sniffing.
Dendritic geometry has been shown to be a critical determinant of information processing and neuronal computation. However, it is not known whether cortical projection neurons that target different subcortical nuclei have distinct dendritic morphologies. In this study, fast blue retrograde tracing in combination with intracellular Lucifer yellow injection and diaminobenzidine (DAB) photoconversion in fixed slices was used to study the morphological features of corticospinal, corticostriatal, and corticothalamic neurons in layer V of rat motor cortex. Marked differences in the distribution of soma, somal size, and dendritic profiles were found among the three groups of pyramidal neurons. Corticospinal neurons were large, were located in deep layer V, and had the most expansive dendritic fields. The apical dendrites of corticospinal pyramidal neurons were thick, spiny, and branched. In contrast, nearly all corticostriatal neurons were small cells located in superficial layer V. Their apical dendritic shafts were significantly more slender, though spiny like those of corticospinal neurons. Corticothalamic neurons, which were located in superficial layer V and in layer VI, had small or medium-sized soma, slender apical dendritic shafts, and dendrites that were largely spine free. This study indicates that, in layer V of rat motor cortex, each population of projection neurons has a unique somatodendritic morphology and suggests that distinct modes of cortical information processing are operative in corticospinal, corticostriatal, and corticothalamic neurons.
We describe the genetic and neurological features of toppler, a spontaneous autosomal mutation that appeared in a colony of FVB/N mice and that manifests as severe ataxia appearing at around 12 days of age, worsening with age. The lifespan of affected mice is 8-12 months, with occasional mice living longer. Both homozygous males and females are fertile, and females are able to nurture litters. Histological examination of brain revealed no striking abnormalities other than the loss of cerebellar Purkinje cells. The toppler mutation was mapped to mouse chromosome 8, and to assess whether it was novel or a recurrence of a previously described chromosome 8 mouse mutant, toppler mice were crossed with the nervous and tottering mouse mutants. These studies demonstrate that toppler is a unique mouse mutation. Purkinje cell abnormalities in toppler mice were obvious around postnatal day (P) 14, i.e., toppler Purkinje cells already exhibited abnormal morphology. Staining for calbindin, a calcium binding protein enriched in Purkinje cells, showed altered dendritic morphology. Between P14 and P30, dramatic Purkinje cell loss occurred, although there were differences in the degree of Purkinje cell loss in each lobule. At P30, the surviving Purkinje cells expressed zebrin II. From P30 through 6 months, many of the remaining Purkinje cells gradually degenerated. Purkinje cell loss was analyzed by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated biotinylated UTP nick end labeling (TUNEL), and Purkinje cells were TUNEL-positive most abundantly at P21. In addition, Bergmann glia were TUNEL positive at P21, and they expressed activated caspase-3 at earlier time points. Interestingly, despite the apparent death of some Bergmann glia, there was up-regulation of glial fibrillary acidic protein, expressed in astrocytes as well as Bergmann glia. Given the changes in both Purkinje cells and glia in toppler cerebellum, this may be a very useful model in which to investigate the developmental interaction of Purkinje cells and Bergmann glia.
The apolipoprotein E epsilon4 allele contributes to the genetic susceptibility underlying a large proportion (~40-60%) of typical, sporadic Alzheimer disease. Apolipoprotein E deficient mice made transgenic for human apolipoprotein E epsilon4 accumulate excess cerebral amyloid when compared to similarly prepared mice expressing human apolipoprotein E epsilon3. Therefore, it is important to search for relevant interactions(s) between apolipoprotein E epsilon4 and Abeta in order to clarify the biological role for apolipoprotein E epsilon4 in Alzheimer disease. Using a thioflavine T (ThT)-based assay, we have investigated the effects of native human apolipoprotein E isoforms on the kinetics of Abeta fibrillogenesis. No obvious profibrillogenic activity was detected in Abeta1-40-based assays of any native apolipoprotein E isoform. However, when ThT assays were repeated using Abeta1-42, modest, but statistically significant, profibrillogenic activity was detected in both apolipoprotein E epsilon3- and apolipoprotein E epsilon4-containing media and was similar in magnitude for the two isoforms. These data demonstrate that native apolipoprotein E possesses &quot;pathological chaperone&quot;-type activity for Abeta: in other words, the data indicate that a chaperone-like misfolding reaction can occur between native apolipoprotein E and Abeta. However, the equipotent activities of the apolipoprotein E epsilon3 and epsilon4 isoforms suggests the possibility that either extended co-incubation of apolipoprotein E and Abeta, or, perhaps, the inclusion in the reaction of other fibrillogenesis-modulation co-factors (such as metal ions, or inflammatory mediators such as reactive oxygen species, alpha2-macroglobulin, apolipoprotein J, etc.) may be required for modeling in vitro the apolipoprotein E-isoform-specific-regulation of extracellular Abeta accumulation that occurs in vivo. Alternatively, other events, such as differential apolipoprotein E-isoform-mediated clearance of Abeta or of apolipoprotein E/Abeta complexes may underlie apolipoprotein E-isoform-dependent Abeta accumulation.
Several lines of evidence have implicated that neurotrophins play an important role in the pathophysiology of mood disorders. This study examined whether a common missense polymorphism (S205L) of a gene encoding the p75NTR, the low-affinity receptor for neurotrophins, is associated with depressive disorder in a Japanese sample of 164 patients and the same number of controls matched for age and sex. There were significant differences in the genotype distribution and allele frequency between the cases and controls. The minor allele (L205) was significantly decreased in the patients than in the controls (P &lt; 0.05, odds ratio 0.54, 95% CI 0.31-0.94), suggesting that this allele may have a protective effect against the development of major depression. Furthermore, this association was more strongly observed in the patients with a history of attempted suicide than those without such a history. Our results suggest that the S205L polymorphism of the p75NTR gene is involved in the pathogenesis of depressive disorder and suicidal behavior.
Venom of an Australian ant species of the Myrmecia pilosula species complex (mss. name Myrmecia banksi Taylor) contains two major allergenic peptides, pilosulin 1 and pilosulin 2. To obtain novel cDNA clones that encode the pilosulin-related bioactive peptides, mRNA of another Myrmecia species was subjected to RT-PCR in which the forward primer corresponds to a nucleotide sequence in the leader sequences of pilosulin 1 and pilosulin 2. As a result, we isolated cDNA clones encoding the novel antimicrobial peptides pilosulin 3 and pilosulin 4. The nucleotide and the amino acid sequences of all four pilosulins have high homology except for the mature peptide coding regions. Synthetic pilosulin 3 and pilosulin 4 peptides displayed antimicrobial activity with histamine-releasing and low hemolytic activities.
The goal of this study was to develop a new approach to study the pharmacology of the dopamine D(4) receptor that could be used in comparative studies with dopamine D(2) and D(3) receptors. Stable HEK-293 cell lines co-expressing recombinant human D(2L), D(3) or D(4) receptors along with Galpha(qo5) cDNA were prepared. Dopamine induced a robust, transient calcium signal in these cell lines with EC(50)s for D(2L), D(3) and D(4) of 18.0, 11.9 and 2.2 nM, respectively. Reported D(4)-selective agonists CP226269 and PD168077 were potent, partial D(4) agonists exhibiting 31-1700-fold selectivity for D(4) over D(3) or D(2). Non-selective D(2)-like agonists apomorphine and quinpirole showed full efficacy but did not discriminate across the three receptors. D(3)-selective agonists 7-hydroxy-DPAT and PD128907 were potent but non-selective D(2)-like agonists. The reported D(3) partial agonist BP-897 exhibited minimal agonist activity at D(3) but was a potent D(3) antagonist and a partial D(4) agonist. Other D(2)-like antagonists, haloperidol, clozapine, and domperidone showed concentration-dependent inhibition of dopamine responses at all three receptors with K(i) ranging from 0.05 to 48.3 nM. The D(3) selective antagonist S33084 and D(4)-selective antagonist L-745870 were highly selective for D(3) and D(4) receptors with K(b) of 0.7 and 0.1 nM, respectively. Stable co-expression of D(2)-like receptors with chimeric Galpha(qo5) proteins in HEK-293 cells is an efficient method to study receptor activation in a common cellular background and an efficient method for direct comparison of ligand affinity and efficacy across human D(2L), D(3) and D(4) receptors.
Amphoterin (HMGB1) is a 30-kD heparin-binding protein involved in process extension and migration of cells by a mechanism involving the receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE). High levels of amphoterin are released to serum during septic shock. We have studied the expression of amphoterin in monocytes and the role of amphoterin and RAGE in monocyte transendothelial migration. Un-activated monocytes in suspension did not reveal amphoterin on their surface, but adherent monocytes exported amphoterin to the cell surface. Immunohistochemical staining of arterial thrombi in vivo revealed amphoterin in mononuclear cells and in surrounding extracellular matrix. Amphoterin was secreted from phorbol ester and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma)-activated macrophages, and the secretion was inhibited by blocking the adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP)-binding cassette transporter-1, a member of the multidrug resistance protein family. Amphoterin was specifically adhesive for monocytes in peripheral blood leukocyte adhesion assay. Adhesion caused an extensive spreading of cells, which was inhibited by the dominant-negative RAGE receptor (soluble ectodomain of RAGE), and adhesion up-regulated chromogranin expression in monocytes, also suggesting a RAGE-dependent interaction. Monocyte transendothelial migration was efficiently inhibited by anti-amphoterin and anti-RAGE antibodies and by the soluble RAGE. We suggest that amphoterin is an autocrine/paracrine regulator of monocyte invasion through the endothelium.
Transplantation of genetically manipulated cells to the central nervous system holds great promise for the treatment of several severe neurological disorders. The success of this strategy relies on sufficient levels of transgene expression after transplantation. This has been difficult to achieve, however, due to transgene silencing. In this study, we transduced the neural stem cell line RN33B with self-inactivating lentiviral vectors and analyzed transgenic expression of green fluorescent protein (GFP) in several different settings both in vitro and after transplantation to the brain. We found that the transgene was affected of silencing both when transduced cells were proliferating and after differentiation. To prevent silencing, the cHS4 insulator was incorporated into the lentiviral vector. We found that a vector carrying the cHS4 insulator was partially protected against differentiation-dependent downregulation in vitro and in vivo. However, in proliferating cells, we found evidence for variegation and positional effects that were not prevented by the cHS4 insulator, suggesting that the mechanism behind silencing in proliferating cells is not the same mechanism influencing differentiation-dependent silencing. Taken together, these findings favor vector optimization as a strategy for achieving efficient ex vivo gene transfer in the central nervous system.
Rapid signaling between vertebrate neurons occurs primarily at synapses, intercellular junctions where quantal release of neurotransmitter triggers rapid changes in membrane conductance through activation of ionotropic receptors. Glial cells express many of these same ionotropic receptors, yet little is known about how receptors in glial cells become activated in situ. Because synapses were thought to be the sole provenance of neurons, it has been assumed that these receptors must be activated following diffusion of transmitter out of the synaptic cleft, or through nonsynaptic mechanisms such as transporter reversal. Two recent reports show that a ubiquitous class of progenitors that express the proteoglycan NG2 (NG2 cells) engage in rapid signaling with glutamatergic and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic neurons through direct neuron-glia synapses. Quantal release of transmitter from neurons at these sites triggers rapid activation of aminomethylisoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) or GABA(A) receptors in NG2 cells. These currents exhibit properties consistent with direct rather than spillover-mediated transmission, and electron micrographic analyses indicate that nerve terminals containing clusters of synaptic vesicles form discrete junctions with NG2 cell processes. Although activation of AMPA or GABA(A) receptors depolarize NG2 cells, these receptors are more likely to serve as routes for ion flux rather than as current sources for depolarization, because the amplitudes of the synaptic transients are small and the resting membrane potential of NG2 cells is highly negative. The ability of both glutamate and GABA to influence the morphology, physiology, and development of NG2 cells in vitro suggests that this rapid form of signaling may play important roles in adapting the behavior of these cells to the needs of surrounding neurons in vivo.
Until the last decade, it was widely accepted that D-amino acids had no functional role in higher organisms, but that they were restricted to lower organisms, such as bacteria, where they are integrated into the proteoglycans of the cell wall. However, D-serine proved to be an effective coagonist at the &quot;glycine-binding&quot; site of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptors, and this observation led to chemical analyses that have now revealed the presence of high levels of D-serine in the central nervous system, including many regions of the brain and retina. D-Serine has been localized to astrocytes and can be released by glutamate through stimulation of AMPA receptors. A new enzyme, serine racemase has been localized to glial cells and converts L-serine to D-serine. Degradation of D-serine takes place through D-amino acid oxidase, an enzyme once thought to metabolize D-amino acids from external sources. Although the &quot;glycine-binding&quot; site of NMDA receptors was initially regarded as a saturated site, evidence in many brain regions has established that this site is not saturated and is therefore modulated by interactions between glial cells and neurons. In some, but not all, studies, D-serine enhances NMDA-mediated currents; a light-evoked enhancement to NMDA currents has been reported in the retina. D-serine also plays a role in synaptic and cellular development, particularly in the cerebellum, where the normal developmental sequences underlying synapse formation onto Purkinje cells and the migration of granule cells are dependent on NMDA receptors during a time when high levels of D-serine are expressed in the Bergmann glia and other cerebellar astrocytes. D-serine must be added to the list of agents through which glial cells participate in controlling the excitability of neurons.
Glial modulation of synaptic transmission and neuronal excitability in the mammalian retina is mediated by several mechanisms. Stimulation of glial cells evokes Ca(2+) waves, which propagate through the network of retinal astrocytes and Mller cells and result in the modulation of the activity of neighboring ganglion cells. Light-evoked spiking is enhanced in some ganglion cells and depressed in others. A facilitation or depression of light-evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents is also seen in ganglion cells following glial stimulation. In addition, stimulation of glial cells evokes a sustained hyperpolarizing current in ganglion cells which is mediated by ATP release from Mller cells and activation of neuronal A(1) adenosine receptors. Recent studies reveal that light-evoked activity in retinal neurons results in an increase in the frequency of Ca(2+) transients in Mller cells. Thus, there is two-way communication between neurons and glial cells, suggesting that glia contribute to information processing in the retina.
It is becoming evident that glia, and astrocytes in particular, are intimately involved in neuronal signaling. Astrocytic modulation of signaling in neurons appears to be mediated by the release of neuroactive compounds such as the excitatory amino acid glutamate. Release of these transmitters appears to be driven by two different processes: (1) a volume regulatory response triggered by hypo-osmotic conditions that leads to the release of osmotically active solutes from the cytoplasm into the extracellular space, and (2) intracellular calcium-dependent vesicle-mediated excytotic release. The regulatory volume decrease may be mediated by any of several different pathways that increase membrane permeability, thus allowing osmolytes to travel down their concentration gradient into the extracellular space. Such pathways include anion channels, hemichannels, P2X receptor channels, and transporters or multidrug resistance proteins. The excytotic release process may use calcium triggered synaptic like vesicle fusion or alterations in constitutive vesicle trafficking to the membrane. Determining the contribution of any of these release mechanisms requires agents that can be used to specifically block pathways of interest. Currently, many of the pharmacological compounds being used exhibit a great deal of cross-reactivity between several of these pathways. For example, the popular anion channel inhibitor 5-nitro-2-(3-phenyl-propylamino)benzoic acid (NPPB) is an efficient blocker of both hemichannels and vesicle loading. This demonstrates the need to more fully characterize the activities of the agents currently available and to choose pathway blockers carefully when designing experiments.
To investigate the consequences of the simultaneous expression in progenitor cells of a TCRgammadelta and a pre-TCR on alphabeta/gammadelta lineage commitment, we have forced expression of functionally rearranged TCRbeta, TCRgamma, and TCRdelta chains by means of transgenes. Mice transgenic for the three TCR chains contain numbers of gammadelta thymocytes comparable to those of mice transgenic for both TCRgamma and TCRdelta chains, and numbers of alphabeta thymocytes similar to those found in mice solely transgenic for a rearranged TCRbeta chain gene. gammadelta T cells from the triple transgenic mice express the transgenic TCRbeta chain, but do not express a TCRalpha chain, and, by a number of phenotypic and molecular parameters, appear to be bona fide gammadelta thymocytes. Our results reveal a remarkable degree of independence in the generation of alphabeta and gammadelta lineage cells from progenitor cells that, in theory, could simultaneously express a TCRgammadelta and a pre-TCR.
Recent fMRI studies are of interest in exploring long-range interactions between different brain structures and the functional activation of specific brain regions by known neuroanatomical pathways. One of the experimental approaches requires the invasive implantation of an intracranial electrode to excite specific brain structures. In the present report, we describe a procedure for the production of a glass-coated carbon fiber electrode and the use of this electrode for direct activation of the brain in fMRI studies. The glass-coated carbon fiber microelectrode was implanted in the medial thalamus of anaesthetized rats and T2*-weighted gradient echo images in the sagittal plane obtained on a 4.7 T system (Biospec BMT 47/40) during electrical stimulation of the medial thalamus. The image quality obtained using this electrode was acceptable without reduction of the signal-to-noise ratio and image distortion. Cross-correlation analysis showed that the signal intensities of activated areas in the ipsilateral anterior cingulate cortex were significantly increased by about 4-5% during medial thalamus stimulation. The present study shows that glass-coated carbon fiber electrodes are suitable for fMRI studies and can be used to investigate functional thalamocingulate activation.
We have developed an optical telemetry system for recording electrical signals associated with muscle and neuronal activities from freely walking crayfish under water. The device was made from conventional electronic parts which are commercially available, utilizing infrared light (880 nm) for signal transmission. Two or four channels of biological signals were multiplexed, the voltage of each data point modulated to the duration of subcarrier pulses and further to the interval of narrower carrier pulses that directly drove the infrared light emission diode (IRLED) under water. The light-pulse modulated signals were received by photodiodes and demodulated to restore the original two or four channel signals. Electrical recordings using wired electrodes and conventional amplifiers revealed that the optically transmitted signals were consistent with the wire-transmitted ones. In order to test the performance of this system, we recorded electromyograms (EMGs) from the second and third walking legs on each side of crayfish together with the neuronal activity in the ventral nerve cord. The results confirmed our previous observation in tethered crayfish that the background tonus of leg muscles showed an increase preceding their rhythmic activation.
Conventional studies of neuronal mitochondria have been limited to the use of purified preparations of isolated mitochondria, neural cell homogenates, living neurons, or brain slices. However, each technique has several drawbacks. Here, we demonstrate that the neuronal cell's membrane can be effectively permeabilized by saponin-treatment and that these permeabilized neurons can be used for qualitative and quantitative assessments of oxygen consumption in combination with registration of mitochondrial membrane potential and free [Ca2+] in the matrix. Under these conditions, the mitochondrial function can be studied without removing the mitochondria from their natural milieu thus avoiding the damage of the associated cytoskeleton and outer membrane. At the same time, the method allows the estimation of the mitochondrial function independently of other processes in the cell, and the easy manipulation of the milieu surrounding the mitochondria. Thus, the presented method offers the opportunity to study the neuronal mitochondrial function in situ and can also be applied to examine the mitochondrial function by other commonly used methods.
Immunofluorescence techniques allow the determination of protein and small molecule distribution within tissues and individual cells. There have been important, innovative modifications of these techniques since their introduction to the biosciences including the use of a mounting medium that prevents photo-bleaching, non-ionic detergents to permeabilize membranes, multiple immunofluorescence labeling and antigen recovery techniques for optimizing ligand-target interactions. While methods have been optimized for ligand-target accessibility in free-floating sections, little innovation has occurred to improve antibody access and epitope recognition in immunohistochemistry on slide-mounted sections or cell culture. During our studies of brain signaling pathways, we sought to improve the immunofluorescence signal to noise ratio in these specimens. We present here a minor modification of immunofluorescence procedures that significantly increases antibody access to epitopes within tissue and improves staining quality while significantly shortening incubation time. Antibody-epitope interactions are dependent on access and affinity. Our technique is based upon application of a vibration source during antibody incubation which increases epitope access, shortens incubation time and thereby minimizes background immunofluorescence. Data are presented on benefits evident with several antibodies raised against proteins and peptides localized in various subcellular compartments. Analysis of the quality of labeling was performed to show that signal intensity is enhanced and background intensity is often diminished when incubations are performed under gentle vibration. This, together with the significant saving of time, should make this procedure applicable to a wide range of neurobiological questions.
To identify hexapeptides capable of inducing neurite outgrowth, we used three groups of soluble combinatorial peptide libraries each consisting of 100 mixtures of hexapeptides (each mixture consisting of 10,000 individual peptides) with partially predetermined sequences (in two out of six amino acid positions). Using this approach a number of neuritogenic peptides were identified. Three selected peptides, QSGKKF, QSGPLA and QSGKQG, were found to induce neurite outgrowth from primary hippocampal neurons with potency comparable to that of growth factors. None of the peptides protected cerebellar granule neurons from cell death induced by withdrawal of potassium chloride. The approach described here suggests the feasibility to use combinatorial peptide libraries in order to identify compounds capable of modulating a specific functional response in the nervous system, without prior knowledge of a molecular target.
The nucleus accumbens (NAc) is an important component of circuitry that underlies reward related behaviors and the rewarding properties of drugs of abuse. Glutamatergic afferents to the nucleus are critical for its normal function and for behaviors related to drug addiction. An angled, sagittal mouse brain slice preparation has been designed to facilitate concurrent stimulation of two major glutamatergic afferent pathways to the nucleus accumbens. Medium spiny neurons at the medial core/shell boundary of the accumbens were depolarized by stimulation of either hippocampal or limbic cortical afferents through activation of AMPA-type glutamate receptors. High frequency but not low frequency stimulation of hippocampal afferents depolarized medium spiny neurons to a membrane potential that resembled the up state observed upon high frequency stimulation in vivo. The magnitude of the membrane depolarization was positively correlated with the amplitude of the stimulus-evoked EPSP. Concurrent stimulation of hippocampal and limbic cortical afferents at theta frequency selectively induced a long-term depression (LTD) in the magnitude of stimulus-evoked EPSPs on the hippocampal afferent only. These data suggest that this brain slice preparation can be used to study mechanisms underlying synaptic plasticity at two of the critical glutamatergic afferent synapses in the nucleus accumbens as well as characterizing potential interactions between afferents. Additionally, LTD at hippocampo-accumbens synapses can be induced at a stimulus frequency known to support reinstatement of drug seeking behavior.
The indistinct regional anatomy and intermixing of second order neurons with projection and interneurons make cellular studies more difficult within the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS). Here, we outline experimental strategies to join in vitro electrophysiological with neuroanatomical protocols to discriminate specific subpopulations of NTS neurons. Horizontally cutting the brain stem produces slices in which electrical activation of the solitary tract (ST) is free of local interneuron contamination. Such ST excitatory synaptic currents (EPSCs) functionally identify second order NTS neurons by their minimal variation of latency (jitter). Sapphire blades, cold cutting temperatures and a mechanically stable microtome were critical to consistently obtain viable slices that were optimized for infrared and fluorescence microscopy. Anterogradely transported carbocyanine dye implanted on the aortic depressor nerve anatomically identified second order NTS neurons and their ST synaptic performance conformed to the minimal jitter signature of second order neurons. Retrograde tracers and green fluorescent protein labeled neurons afford two additional promising approaches for discriminating NTS neuron phenotypes in broader system contexts. Detailed methods and troubleshooting are described. Coupling tracing techniques with electrophysiology adds important new dimensions to NTS studies and such strategies provide bridging information between cellular mechanisms, neuroanatomy and systems integration.
We have developed a simple method for the estimation of coenzyme Q homologues, neurotransmitters, metal ions, lipid peroxidation, gene expression, and DNA fragmentation simultaneously from genetically engineered mice brain regions and cultured neurons. The primary objective of this study was to improve conventional time-consuming, cumbersome, and less efficient procedures, and reduce the cost of conducting kinetic studies in rare biological samples. The improved method is novel, precise, efficient, accurate, sensitive, economical, versatile, and highly reproducible. The recovery and shelf life of coenzyme Q homologues was significantly increased and the chromatograms exhibited reduced background and retention times. It is envisaged that in addition to coenzyme Q homologues, the improved method could be utilized for the multiple analyses of DNA, RNA and proteins from clinically significant biopsy and autopsy samples.
Platelet-activating factor (PAF) is a potent phospholipid messenger in the nervous system that participates in synaptic plasticity and in pathologic processes, including neurodegeneration. Oxidative stress plays important roles in neuronal cell death. To define the interaction between PAF and oxidative radicals in neuronal death, we studied the effects of PAF in the presence of oxidative radicals in primary neurons in culture. Exogenous PAF (50 microM) caused PAF receptor-independent injury to neurons. A nonneurotoxic PAF concentration (500 nM) potentiated neuronal death caused by hydrogen peroxide as determined by lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) assay, Hoechst staining, and TUNEL analysis, but it did not potentiate neuronal death caused by menadione, a superoxide donor, or by the nitric oxide donors 3-morpholino-sydnonimine (SIN-1) and sodium nitroprusside (SNP). This potentiation of the hydrogen peroxide effect was selectively blocked by a PAF membrane-receptor antagonist, BN52021 (5 microM). The neurotoxic effect of PAF and hydrogen peroxide was also completely blocked by ebselen and partially decreased by pretreatment with (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG), a group I metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) agonist. This study suggests that PAF-receptor antagonists may be useful for neuroprotection. A similar effect might also be obtained with group I mGluR agonists, probably by way of a different underlying mechanism.
Low-molecular-weight secretory phospholipases A(2) (sPLA(2)s) are a subgroup of PLA(2)s, which are secreted, bind to receptors, and may act as intercellular signaling modulators. At least 10 different groups have been characterized in mammals, and there is expanding evidence of the significance of sPLA(2)s in neuronal signaling and survival [Kolko et al. (1996) J. Biol. Chem. 271: 32722-32728]. To date, no retinal sPLA(2)s have been cloned or characterized. We evaluated the existence and abundance of sPLA(2) subtypes in rat retina and explored their possible involvement in light-induced retinal damage. We designed primers to identify the sPLA(2)s in rat retina, based on known sequences of sPLA(2)-specific mRNAs in other tissues. RNA was isolated from rat retina, and cDNA was produced and used for PCR cloning to identify the novel subtypes of sPLA(2). Our study revealed the presence of mRNAs encoding sPLA(2)-IB, -X, -V, -IIE, -IIA, and -IIF in the retina, and quantification by real-time PCR revealed different abundances of the sPLA(2)s. We showed a time-dependent gene induction of sPLA(2)-X, -IB, and -V in light-induced retinal damage. We further explored the location of sPLA(2)-IB by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. This study is the first to reveal the presence, abundance, and induction of mRNAs encoding sPLA(2)s in rat retina. We suggest that these enzymes are themselves intercellular signaling modulators of retinal cell function and perhaps also of retinal degeneration.
We have investigated changes in the neuronal excitability of the auditory brainstem in a congenitally deaf mouse (deafness dn/dn). Whole cell patch recordings from principal neurones of the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) showed strikingly enhanced excitability in the deaf mice when compared to control CBA mice at 12-14 days postnatal. MNTB neurones in normal CBA mice showed the phenotypic single action potential response on depolarization in current clamp; however, recordings from CBA mice carrying the homozygous deafness mutation fired trains of action potentials on depolarization. We show here that these changes are associated with reduced functional expression of dendrotoxin-sensitive Kv1 potassium channels. In contrast, no differences were found in voltage-gated calcium currents between control and deaf mice. These results reveal that loss of hair cell function in the cochlea leads to changes in ion channel expression in the central nervous system and suggests that this deafness model will be an important tool in understanding central changes occurring in human congenital deafness and in exploring activity-dependent regulation of ion channel expression.
Voltage-dependent K(+) channels in the apical dendrites of CA1 pyramidal neurones play important roles in regulating dendritic excitability, synaptic integration, and synaptic plasticity. Using cell-attached, voltage-clamp recordings, we found a large variability in the waveforms of macroscopic K(+) currents in the dendrites. With single-channel analysis, however, we were able to identify four types of voltage-dependent K(+) channels and we categorized them as belonging to delayed-rectifier, M-, D-, or A-type K(+) channels previously described from whole-cell recordings. Delayed-rectifier-type K(+) channels had a single-channel conductance of 19 +/- 0.5 pS, and made up the majority of the sustained K(+) current uniformly distributed along the apical dendrites. The M-type K(+) channels had a single-channel conductance of 11 +/- 0.8 pS, did not inactivate with prolonged membrane depolarization, deactivated with slow kinetics (time constant 100 +/- 6 ms at -40 mV), and were inhibited by bath-applied muscarinic agonist carbachol (10 microm). The D-type K(+) channels had a single-channel conductance of around 18 pS, and inactivated with a time constant of 98 +/- 4 ms at +54 mV. The A-type K(+) channels had a single-channel conductance of 6 +/- 0.6 pS, inactivated with a time constant of 23 +/- 2 ms at +54 mV, and contributed to the majority of the transient K(+) current previously described. These results suggest both functional and molecular complexity for K(+) channels in dendrites of CA1 pyramidal neurones.
High-frequency deep brain stimulation (DBS) in the thalamus alleviates most kinds of tremor, yet its mechanism of action is unknown. Studies in subthalamic nucleus and other brain sites have emphasized non-synaptic factors. To explore the mechanism underlying thalamic DBS, we simulated DBS in vitro by applying high-frequency (125 Hz) electrical stimulation directly into the sensorimotor thalamus of adult rat brain slices. Intracellular recordings revealed two distinct types of membrane responses, both of which were initiated with a depolarization and rapid spike firing. However, type 1 responses repolarized quickly and returned to quiescent baseline during simulated DBS whereas type 2 responses maintained the level of membrane depolarization, with or without spike firing. Individual thalamic neurones exhibited either type 1 or type 2 response but not both. In all neurones tested, simulated DBS-evoked membrane depolarization was reversibly eliminated by tetrodotoxin, glutamate receptor antagonists, and the Ca(2+) channel antagonist Cd(2+). Simulated DBS also increased the excitability of thalamic cells in the presence of glutamate receptor blockade, although this non-synaptic effect induced no spontaneous firing such as that found in subthalamic nucleus neurones. Our data suggest that high-frequency stimulation when applied in the ventral thalamus can rapidly disrupt local synaptic function and neuronal firing thereby leading to a 'functional deafferentation' and/or 'functional inactivation'. These mechanisms, driven primarily by synaptic activation, help to explain the paradox that lesions, muscimol and DBS in thalamus all effectively stop tremor.
A novel soluble non-opioid dynorphin A-binding factor (DABF) was identified and characterized in neuronal cell lines, rat spinal cord, and brain. DABF binds dynorphin A(1-17), dynorphin A(2-17), and the 32 amino acid prodynorphin fragment big dynorphin consisting of dynorphin A and B, but not other opioid and non-opioid peptides, opiates, and benzomorphans. The IC50 for dynorphin A(1-17), dynorphin A(2-17), and big dynorphin is in the 5-10 nM range. Using dynorphin A and big dynorphin fragments a binding epitope was mapped to dynorphin A(6-13). DABF has a molecular mass of about 70 kDa. SH-groups are apparently involved in the binding of dynorphin A since p-hydroxy-mercuribenzoic acid inhibited this process. Upon interaction with DABF dynorphin A was converted into Leu-enkephalin, which remained bound to the protein. These data suggest that DABF functions as an oligopeptidase that forms stable and specific complexes with dynorphin A. The presence of DABF in brain structures and other tissues with low level of prodynorphin expression suggests that DABF as an oligopeptidase may degrade other peptides. Dynorphin A at the sites of its release in the CNS may attenuate this degradation as a competitor when it specifically binds to the enzyme.
We examined the effect of CP-154,526 on cardiovascular changes elicited in conscious rabbits by stressful stimuli (loud sound, cage move, pinprick, formaldehyde vapour and air-jet stress). CP-154,526 substantially reduced pressor and heart rate responses to these stimuli (both vagally and sympathetically mediated), and reduced QT shortening during air-jet stress. Blocking of central CRF1 receptors attenuates cardiovascular responses to environmental stimuli, presumably by affecting brain centres that control cardiovascular functions.
After a sub-total hemisection of the cervical cord at level C7/C8 in monkeys, a paralysis of the homolateral hand is rapidly followed by an incomplete recovery of manual dexterity, reaching a plateau after about 40-50 days, whose extent appears related to the size of the lesion. During a few days after the lesion, the hand representation in the contralateral motor cortex disappeared, replaced by representations of either face or more proximal body parts. Later, however, following a time course (about 40 days) consistent with the functional recovery, progressive plastic changes in the contralateral motor cortex took place, as demonstrated by a progressive reappearance of digit movements elicited by intracortical microstimulation. These progressive plastic changes, which parallel the functional recovery, correspond to a reinstallation of a hand representation, though substantially diminished in size as compared to pre-lesion. Regarding the functional recovery, the motor cortex (including the reestablished hand area) contralateral to the unilateral cervical cord lesion played a crucial role in reestablishing control on finger movements, as assessed by reversible inactivation experiments. In contrast, the motor cortex ipsilateral to the cervical cord lesion, with largely intact projections to the spinal cord, did not contribute significantly to the recovered movements by the affected hand. These observations indicate that the CS fibers spared by the lesion are not sufficient, at least in their pre-lesion condition, to control the motoneurones innervating the digit muscles and that the pathways conveying signals from the contralateral M1 underwent reorganization.
Regulated hypothermia produces a decrease in core temperature by lowering the brain's temperature set-point while maintaining thermoregulation at that lower set point. In contrast, forced hypothermia lowers core temperature by overwhelming the body's capacity to thermoregulate, but does not change the set-point. Regulated hypothermia has been shown to be cerebral protective in hibernating mammals. The effect of regulated hypothermia on the brain during reperfusion from hypoxic-ischemia has not been well studied. We induced regulated hypothermia with a neurotensin analogue (NT77) to determine whether it could reduce oxidative stress in the brain during reperfusion from asphyxial cardiac arrest (ACA) in rats. Mild hypothermia (32-34 degrees C) was induced by brief (4 h) external cooling (BC), NT77 or prolonged external cooling (24 h) (PC) 30 min after resuscitation from 8 min of ACA in rats. Malondialdehyde (MDA) levels in the brain were measured during reperfusion to quantitate oxidative stress. Results: MDA levels in the hippocampus were elevated at 16 h of normothermic reperfusion versus 48 h with BC reperfusion. There was no increase in hippocampal MDA levels in the NT77 and PC groups at 24-72 h of reperfusion. Regulated hypothermia induced by NT77 reduced oxidative stress in the hippocampus during reperfusion from hypoxic-ischemia in comparison to forced brief external cooling of the same duration. In addition, the duration of external cooling after resuscitation also alters oxidative stress in the brain during reperfusion.
To assess the potential for functional interaction between synectin and neurotrophin receptors (Trk receptors) in the nervous system, we characterized synectin expression in the rat brain. Synectin is widely expressed in the brain and its expression levels are regulated both temporally and spatially, correlating with those of Trk receptors. Biochemical studies indicated that synectin interacts with TrkB but not with TrkC in the developing brain. We also found that axotomized motoneurons upregulate synectin mRNA expression as well as TrkB mRNA. These data suggest that synectin plays a role in neural development and regeneration in association with TrkB.
Mitotic-centromere-associated kinesin (MCAK) is a member of the KIN I (internal motor domain) subfamily of kinesin related proteins. MCAK and its homologues destabilize microtubules both in cells and in vitro. Here, we analyzed the effects of MCAK in the presence and absence of ATP on the dynamic instability behavior of steady state microtubules assembled from purified HeLa cell tubulin. In the presence of ATP, substoichiometric levels of full length MCAK and a segment (A182) consisting of the motor and neck domains strongly increased the catastrophe frequency of the microtubules. These data demonstrate that MCAK is a microtubule-catastrophe promoting factor in vitro, and support the hypothesis that MCAK may serve as a catastrophe-promoting factor in cells.
The survival motor neuron (SMN) protein forms cytoplasmic granules when overexpressed. We report here that SMN co-localizes with TIA-1/R and G3BP, protein assemblers of stress granules (SGs), and that SMN is co-immunoprecipitated with TIA-1/R, suggesting that SMN granules are SGs. Formation of SMN granules precedes accumulation of TIA-1/R, indicating that SMN serves as a facilitator of SG formation. However, the exon 7 skipping product, SMNDelta7, is largely retained in the nucleus and forms nuclear granules, indicating that exon 7 is critical for SG formation. Our findings reveal a novel SMN function and possible SG involvement in the pathogenesis of spinal muscular atrophy.
In the present study, we investigated the role of membrane cholesterol in the function of glutamate transporters. Depletion of membrane cholesterol by methyl-beta-cyclodextrin resulted in reduced Na(+)-dependent glutamate uptake in primary cortical cultures. Glial glutamate transporter EAAT2-mediated uptake was more sensitive to this effect. Cell surface biotinylation and immunostaining experiments revealed that the loss of cholesterol significantly altered the trafficking of EAAT2 to the plasma membrane as well as their membrane distribution. These effects were also observed in neuronal glutamate transporter EAAT3 but to a lesser extent. Furthermore, the treatment of mouse brain plasma membrane vesicles with methyl-beta-cyclodextrin resulted in a significant reduction in glutamate uptake, suggesting that cholesterol depletion has a direct effect on the function of the glutamate transporters. Plasma membrane cholesterol is localized within discreet microdomains known as lipid rafts. Analyses of purified lipid raft microdomains revealed that a large portion of total EAAT2 and a minor portion of total EAAT1, EAAT3, and EAAT4 were associated with lipid rafts. Artificial aggregation of lipid rafts in vivo resulted in the formation of larger EAAT2-immunoreactive clusters on the cell surface. The purified lipid raft-associated fractions were capable of Na(+)-dependent glutamate uptake. Our data suggest that the glutamate transporters, especially EAAT2, are associated with cholesterol-rich lipid raft microdomains of the plasma membrane and that the association with these cholesterol-rich microdomains is important for excitatory amino acid transporter localization and function.
There is increasing evidence that early life stressors may program blood pressure control mechanisms such that the risk for cardiovascular disease in later life is increased. In the present investigation, the effect of repeated restraint/heat stress during the two-week period immediately after weaning on baroreflex function was determined and the contribution of brain angiotensin II (ANG II) to the changes was assessed in young, conscious, freely moving Sprague Dawley rats. In rats two weeks post weaning, basal MAP was significantly higher and basal HR significantly lower than rats tested immediately after weaning. This change in the operating point of HR was not accompanied by any changes in baroreflex function. Treatment with chronic icv infusion of losartan, an AT1 receptor antagonist, during the two-week period prevented the changes in basal MAP and HR. Chronic stress during the two weeks post weaning, whether due to surgical implantation of icv cannulae or due to restraint/heat stress, significantly shifted the set-point of the baroreflex function to a higher pressure. Chronic icv infusion of losartan during the period prevented these effects (at least in the case of stress due to the presence of icv cannulae) suggesting a role for brain ANG II in the change. Changes in the expression of CRH mRNA in the paraventricular nucleus could not explain the stress-related change in baroreflex function. If the rightward shift in the baroreflex persists into adulthood, it could increase the susceptibility to cardiovascular diseases such as hypertension.
Although the voluntary intake of drugs of abuse is a behavior largely preserved throughout phylogeny, it is currently unclear whether pathological drug use (&quot;addiction&quot;) can be observed in species other than humans. Here, we report that behaviors that resemble three of the essential diagnostic criteria for addiction appear over time in rats trained to self-administer cocaine. As in humans, this addiction-like behavior is present only in a small proportion of subjects using cocaine and is highly predictive of relapse after withdrawal. These findings provide a new basis for developing a true understanding and treatment of addiction.


To determine whether monkeys can navigate a virtual environment, and whether they can represent a virtual environment in their brain, we trained two macaque monkeys to perform a navigation task in a virtual building and conducted behavioral analyses. After learning the task from the first starting point, they were trained to perform the navigation task from a second starting point which is already familiar to them during the first training session. The second training was completed faster than the first one. Furthermore, we found that the time required for a free-way-finding test from a novel starting point was shortened after the second training. These results suggest that monkeys can navigate a virtual environment and can construct a flexible representation of a virtual environment in their brain.
Head direction (HD) cells fire in relation to an animal's directional heading. To examine how these cells may be involved in spatial behavior, HD cells were recorded while animals performed a navigation task requiring the use of a cognitive mapping strategy. Results showed no relationship between performance on the task and the directional stability of the HD cell activity. The HD cell signal, therefore, appears to not always be used by the animal to guide its behavior during all navigation tasks.
With increasing age comes an increased risk for sustaining traumatic brain injuries (TBI). However, the effect of age is rarely studied in animal models of TBI. The present study evaluated the effect of increased age on recovery of function following bilateral medial frontal cortex injury. Groups of young (3 months) and middle-aged (14 months) rats received bilateral frontal cortex contusions or sham injuries. The rats were tested on a variety of tests to measure sensorimotor performance (bilateral tactile adhesive removal test), skilled forelimb use (staircase test), and the acquisition of reference and working memory in the Morris water maze. Results indicated that injury produced significant impairments on all behavioral tests compared to sham controls. Middle-aged rats that received cortical contusions were significantly impaired on the bilateral tactile adhesive removal test, acquisition of a reference memory task, and working memory compared to young-injured rats. Histological analysis showed that middle-aged rats developed significantly larger lesion cavities but did not show an increase in the number of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP+) cells compared to young-injured rats. Age alone also significantly impaired function on the bilateral adhesive tactile removal test, skilled forelimb use, the acquisition of a reference memory task, and also increased the number of GFAP+ cells compared to young rats. These results indicate that middle-aged rats respond to brain injury differently than young rats and that age is an important factor to consider in pre-clinical efficacy studies.
Histamine H3 receptor antagonists/inverse agonists have been proposed as potential therapeutic agents for the treatment of a number of neurological disorders ranging from attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and Alzheimer's disease to narcolepsy and schizophrenia. With respect to the latter, schizophrenic patients typically exhibit impaired prepulse inhibition (PPI) of startle, a reflex that can be modeled in many animal species. Certain strains of mice naturally display poor PPI and it was recently suggested that these mice might offer a new way to screen for novel antipsychotic compounds. To examine whether H3 receptor antagonists might enhance PPI in mice with naturally occurring deficits, DBA/2 and C57BL/6 were tested in a startle paradigm with three prepulse intensities: 5, 10 and 15 dB above background. Both thioperamide and ciproxifan enhanced PPI in the DBA/2 strain; thioperamide also showed a trend towards enhancing PPI in C57BL/6. Risperidone, an atypical antipsychotic, enhanced PPI in both the DBA/2 and the C57BL/6 strain. These data confirm previous reports describing a natural deficit in PPI in some mouse strains that is amenable to enhancement with known antipsychotics. Further, these data suggest that H3 receptor antagonists/inverse agonists have anti-psychotic potential for disorders such as schizophrenia.
The RecA/RAD51 family plays a central role in DNA recombinational repair. The targeted disruption of mouse RAD51L3/TRAD is lethal during embryogenesis, suggesting that this protein is essential for development. Recently, we reported multiple alternative splice variants of human RAD51L3/TRAD transcripts. In this study, we have identified multiple mouse transcript variants. Complete sequence analysis of the genomic and cDNA clones has confirmed that the exon-intron structures obey the GT/AG splicing rule, and that the multiplicity of the transcripts is due to alternative splicing. In addition, we have determined the transcription initiation site by rapid amplification of cDNA 5'-end (5'-RACE). These results show that the mouse gene structure is very similar to that of humans.
Most of the research concerning analgesia following brief exposures to physiologically patterned weak magnetic fields has focused upon their morphine-related properties. However, the alpha-adrenergic system interacts with morphine-induced analgesia. In the present study we found that prazosin, phenylephrine, and yohimbine did not augment the robust analgesia to thermal stimuli in rats evoked by whole-body exposures to a 1 microT, burst-firing magnetic field presented once every 4s for 30 min. However, the alpha2 agonist clonidine enhanced the field-induced analgesia in a dose-dependent manner that reflected a receptor-saturation response. Potentiation between the field and clonidine was evident at 0.2 mg/kg and approached asymptote at 1 mg/kg. The combination of the effects from exposure to the magnetic field and the clonidine explained more than 75% of the variance in the change in nociceptive thresholds from baseline levels. The possibility that properly patterned weak magnetic fields could be a powerful adjunct to pharmacological treatments of pain is considered.
To study the glutamatergic mechanisms underlying changes in excitability in the brain stem pain modulatory circuitry after injury, we examined GluR1 serine 831 phosphorylation in the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) after complete Freund's adjuvant-induced hindpaw inflammation. Western blots indicated a rapid and prolonged (30 min and 7 days post-inflammation) increase in phosphoserine 831 GluR1 protein levels in the RVM. The upregulated GluR1 phosphorylation was blocked by pretreatment, but not by post-treatment, with the local anesthetic, lidocaine, at the site of inflammation. The upregulation of phosphoserine 831 GluR1 was attenuated by pretreatment with chelerythrine, a selective PKC inhibitor, KN-93, a selective CaMKII inhibitor, and two NMDA receptor antagonists, MK-801 and APV. These findings provide new evidence linking in vivo AMPA receptor phosphorylation in the RVM pain modulatory circuitry to the enhanced descending pain modulation after inflammation.
Neuropeptides participate in the pathophysiology of cerebral inflammatory diseases. We analyzed the involvement of neuropeptide Y (NPY) in rat brain infected with Borna Disease Virus (BDV). NPY expressing cerebrocortical neurons were increased during the acute stage of BDV-induced encephalitis. The increase was resistant to immunosuppression by systemic dexamethasone, which greatly reduced inflammatory reactions in the brain. This indicates that the increase of cerebrocortical NPY expression is not causally related to inflammation. As cerebral NPY is known to be increased during experimental seizures and to have anticonvulsive actions, we propose that NPY up-regulated during BDV encephalitis limits seizures known to be associated with Borna Disease.
Genome scans in sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD) have revealed possible susceptibility loci on chromosome 12. Recently, two studies were published investigating the +1071 and +1073 polymorphisms in the lectin-like oxidised low density lipoprotein receptor (OLR1) gene with AD, a gene that lies within the area of chromosome 12 linkage. OLR1 is a good candidate gene, due to its function in lipid metabolism pathways, other components of which have been previously implicated as risk factors for AD. We undertook an association study in our UK cohort of 356 AD patients and 358 matched controls, using the same polymorphisms and performing the same sub-group and haplotype analysis as previously described. We found no association with AD in our case-control group as a whole, or when stratified into those with early (&lt;65 years) or late (&gt;65 years) onset. When the group was split into APOE 4 bearers and 4 non-bearers, we could not confirm the associations described in the original study. Similarly, no significant differences were observed between AD patients and controls, in terms of their haplotype distributions. Therefore, in this present study, we find no evidence for the involvement of these ORL1 polymorphisms in increasing susceptibility to AD.
Cdk5 regulates myogenesis but the signaling cascade through which Cdk5 modulates this process remains to be characterized. Here, we investigated whether PI3K, Akt, p70S6K, p38 MAPK, p44/42 MAPK, and Egr-1 serve as upstream regulators of Cdk5 during L6 myoblast differentiation. Upon serum reduction, we found that besides elevated expression of Cdk5 and its activator, p35, and increased Cdk5/p35 activity, Egr-1, Akt, p70S6K, and p38 MAPK activity were upregulated in differentiating L6 cells. However, p44/42 MAPK was downregulated and SAPK/JNK was unaffected. LY294002, a PI3K inhibitor, blocked the activation of Akt and p70S6K, indicating that Akt and p70S6K activation is linked to PI3K activation. The lack of LY294002 effect on p38 MAPK suggests that p38 MAPK activation is not associated with PI3K activation. Rapamycin, a specific inhibitor of FRAP/mTOR (the upstream kinase of p70S6K), also blocked p70S6K activation, indicating the involvement of FRAP/mTOR activation. LY294002 and rapamycin also blocked the enhancement of Egr-1 level, Cdk5 activity, and myogenin expression, suggesting that upregulation of these factors is coupled to PI3K-p70S6K activation. Overexpression of dominant-negative-Akt also reduced Cdk5/p35 activity and myogenin expression, indicating that the PI3K-p70S6K-Egr-1-Cdk5 signaling cascade is linked to Akt activation. SB2023580, a p38 MAPK inhibitor, had no effect on p70S6K, Egr-1, or Cdk5 activity, suggesting that p38 MAPK activation lies in a pathway distinct from the PI3K-Akt-p70S6K-Egr-1 pathway that we identify as the upstream modulator of Cdk5 activity during L6 myoblast differentiation.
Glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian CNS. Here, we propose a new role for this neurotransmitter in the developing nervous system. We show that glutamate or the metabotropic class I agonist S-3,5-dihydroxyphenyl glycine, acting through the metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 (mGluR1), can reduce the activity of multiple axonal repellents in vitro. This effect is mediated by a pertussis toxin-sensitive activation of protein kinase A and the subsequent inactivation of Rho. This signaling pathway appears to be identical to the one we described previously for stromal derived factor-1-induced reduction of axonal repellent activities. Activation of mGluR1 can also promote increased survival of embryonic retinal ganglion cells in culture. We propose that neurotransmitter-induced modulation of repellent strength provides a novel mechanism by which activity can influence neuronal morphology.
The glycine receptor enables the generation of inhibitory postsynaptic currents at synapses via neurotransmitter-dependent activation. These receptors belong to the ligand-gated ion channel gene superfamily, in which all members are comprised of five subunits, each of which possesses a signature 13-residue disulfide loop (Cys loop) in the extracellular domain. In this study, we used alanine-scanning mutagenesis of the residues between C138 and C152 of the Cys loop of the glycine receptor alpha1 subunit to identify residues critical for receptor activation and allosteric modulation. Mutation of L142, F145, or P146 to alanine produced decreases in the potency, maximal amplitude, and Hill coefficient for currents elicited by glycine and impaired receptor activation by the agonist taurine. These residues, along with D148, are positionally conserved in the family of LGIC subunits. Mutation at several other positions had little or no effect. The inhaled anesthetics halothane and isoflurane potentiate submaximal agonist responses at wild-type receptors, via an allosteric site. The mutations L142A, F145A, P146A, and D148A abolished positive modulation by these anesthetics, in some cases revealing a small inhibitory effect. A molecular model of the glycine receptor alpha1 subunit suggests that the Cys loop is positioned in a region of the receptor at the interface between the extracellular and transmembrane domains and that the critical functional residues identified here lie along the face of a predominantly hydrophobic surface. The present data implicate the Cys loop as an important functional moiety in the process of glycine receptor activation and allosteric regulation by anesthetics.

alpha-latrotoxin (LTX), a 120 kDa protein in black widow spider venom, triggers massive neurotransmitter exocytosis. Previous studies have highlighted a role for both intrinsic pore-forming activity and receptor binding in the action of this toxin. Intriguingly, activation of a presynaptic G protein-coupled receptor, latrophilin, may trigger release independent of pore-formation. Here we have utilized a previously identified ligand of nematode latrophilin, emodepside, to define a latrophilin-dependent pathway for neurotransmitter release in C. elegans. In the pharyngeal nervous system of this animal, emodepside (100 nM) stimulates exocytosis and elicits pharyngeal paralysis. The pharynxes of animals with latrophilin (lat-1) gene knockouts are resistant to emodepside, indicating that emodepside exerts its high-affinity paralytic effect through LAT-1. The expression pattern of lat-1 supports the hypothesis that emodepside exerts its effect on the pharynx primarily via neuronal latrophilin. We build on these observations to show that pharynxes from animals with either reduction or loss of function mutations in Gq, phospholipaseC-beta, and UNC-13 are resistant to emodepside. The latter is a key priming molecule essential for synaptic vesicle-mediated release of neurotransmitter. We conclude that the small molecule ligand emodepside triggers latrophilin-mediated exocytosis via a pathway that engages UNC-13-dependent vesicle priming.


To elucidate the functional link between Ca(2+)/calmodulin protein kinase II (CaMKII) and P2X receptor activation, we studied the effects of electrical stimulation, such as occurs in injurious conditions, on P2X receptor-mediated ATP responses in primary sensory dorsal root ganglion neurons. We found that endogenously active CaMKII up-regulates basal P2X3 receptor activity in dorsal root ganglion neurons. Electrical stimulation causes prolonged increases in ATP currents that lasts up to approximately 45 min. In addition, the total and phosphorylated CaMKII are also up-regulated. The enhancement of ATP currents depends on Ca(2+) and calmodulin and is completely blocked by the CaMKII inhibitor, 2-[N-(2-hydroxyethyl)]-N-(4-methoxybenzenesulfonyl)]amino-N-(4-chlorocinnamyl)-N-methylbenzylamine). Western analyses indicate that electrical stimulation enhances the expression of P2X3 receptors in the membrane and that the enhancement is blocked by the inhibitor. These results suggest that CaMKII up-regulated by electrical stimulation enhances ATP responses by promoting trafficking of P2X receptors to the membrane and may play a key role in the sensitization of P2X receptors under injurious conditions.
The persistent tetrodotoxin (TTX)-sensitive sodium current, detected in neurons of many regions of mammalian brains, is associated with many essential neuronal activities, including boosting of excitatory synaptic inputs, acceleration of firing rates, and promotion of oscillatory neuronal activities. However, the origin and molecular basis of the persistent current have remained controversial for decades. Here, we provide direct evidence that U-to-C RNA editing of an insect sodium channel transcript generates a sodium channel with a persistent current. We detected a persistent TTX-sensitive current in a splice variant of the cockroach sodium channel gene BgNa(v) (formerly para(CSMA)). Site-directed mutagenesis experiments revealed that an F-to-S change at the C-terminal domain of this variant was responsible for the persistent current. We demonstrated that this F-to-S change was the result of a U-to-C RNA editing event, which also occurred in the Drosophila para sodium channel transcript. Our work provides direct support for the hypothesis that posttranscriptional modification of a conventional transient sodium channel produces a persistent TTX-sensitive sodium channel.
Presympathetic vasomotor adrenergic (C1) and nonadrenergic (non-C1) neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) provide the main excitatory drive to cardiovascular sympathetic preganglionic neurons in the spinal cord. C1 and non-C1 neurons contain cocaine- and amphetamine-regulated transcript (CART), suggesting that CART may be a common marker for RVLM presympathetic neurons. To test this hypothesis, we first used double-immunofluorescence staining for CART and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) to quantify CART-immunoreactive (-IR) catecholamine and noncatecholamine neurons in the C1 region. Next, we quantified the proportion of CART-IR RVLM neurons that expressed Fos in response to a hypotensive stimulus, using peroxidase immunohistochemistry for Fos and dual immunofluorescence for CART and TH. Finally, we fluorescently detected CART immunoreactivity in electrophysiologically identified, juxtacellularly labeled RVLM presympathetic neurons. In the RVLM, 97% of TH-IR neurons were CART-IR, and 74% of CART-IR neurons were TH-IR. Nitroprusside infusion significantly increased the number of Fos-IR RVLM neurons compared with saline controls. In nitroprusside-treated rats, virtually all Fos/TH neurons in the RVLM were immunoreactive for CART (98% +/- 1.3%, SD; n = 7), whereas 29% +/- 8.3% of CART-positive, TH-negative neurons showed Fos immunoreactivity. Six fast (2.8-5.8 m/second, noncatecholamine)-, two intermediate (2.1 and 2.2 m/second)-, and five slow (&lt;1 m/second, catecholamine)-conducting RVLM presympathetic vasomotor neurons were juxtacellularly labeled. After fluorescent detection of CART and biotinamide, all 13 neurons were found to be CART-IR. These results suggest that, in rat RVLM, all catecholamine and noncatecholamine presympathetic vasomotor neurons contain CART.

In order to investigate the molecular mechanism of the F-actin conformation modifying activity [Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 319 (2004) 78] of actin-interacting protein 2 (Aip2p) [Nat. Struct. Biol. 2 (1995) 28]/D-lactate dehydrogenase protein 2 (Dld2p) [Yeast 15 (1999) 1377; Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 295 (2002) 910], the ultrastructure and the regulatory mechanism of the activity were further examined. Interestingly, a novel oligomeric grapple-like structure of 10-12 subunits with an ATP-dependent opening was observed. ATP regulates the opening and closing of the &quot;gate&quot; that forms the opening within oligomeric Aip2p/Dld2p, where binding to the substrate occurs while in the open form. In the presence of ATP (open state of oligomeric Aip2p/Dld2p), oligomeric Aip2p/Dld2p bound the F-actin fiber within the opening, whereas in the absence of ATP (closed state of oligomeric Aip2p/Dld2p), no binding was observed. Simultaneously, the oligomeric Aip2p/Dld2p increased the trypsin susceptibility of F-actin in an ATP-dependent manner. Use of the non-hydrolyzable ATP analogue AMP-PNP yielded similar results to those observed with ATP, suggesting that ATP binding rather than ATP hydrolysis is required for the protein conformation modifying reaction of oligomeric Aip2p/Dld2p. Endogenous Aip2p/Dld2p purified from Saccharomyces cerevisiae also exhibited such protein conformation modifying activity, but monomeric Aip2p/Dld2p with a C-terminal coiled-coil region-truncation failed to exhibit the activity. These data suggest that the oligomerization of Aip2p/Dld2p, which exhibits the unique grapple-like structure with an ATP-dependent opening, is required for the F-actin conformation modifying activity.
Previous research has demonstrated that in the Siberian hamster, both photoperiod and estrous cyclicity alter the profile of noradrenergic activity with the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), and that noradrenergic activity is correlated with changes in circulating levels of prolactin. Work from our laboratory has demonstrated an inhibitory role for norepinephrine (NE) acting at the alpha-2 receptor subtype within the PVN on serum prolactin levels; however, the functional significance of other adrenergic receptor subtypes on this system is unknown. The purpose of this study was to investigate the functional significance of the alpha-1b and beta-adrenergic receptor subtypes at the level of the PVN on circulating levels of prolactin. These experiments were performed in male Siberian hamsters using reverse microdialysis coupled with serial blood sampling. In Experiment 1, infusion of l-phenylephrine hydrochloride (alpha-1b agonist) initiated a dose-dependent increase in circulating prolactin, whereas infusion of chloroethylclonidine (alpha-1b antagonist) induced a significant dose-dependent decline in prolactin. In Experiment 2, intraparaventricular administration of propranolol (beta antagonist) initiated a significant increase in prolactin levels in a dose-dependent manner, whereas isoproterenol (beta agonist) induced a dose-dependent decline in prolactin. The results of this study indicate that both the alpha-1b and beta-adrenergic receptor subtypes have a significant role in regulating circulating levels of prolactin at the level of the PVN in the Siberian hamster.
Opioids produce antinociception, and ingested placenta or amniotic fluid modifies that antinociception. More specifically, ingested placenta enhances the antinociception produced by selective activation of central kappa-opioid or delta-opioid receptors but attenuates that produced by activation of central mu-opioid receptors. Opioids also slow gut transit by acting on central or peripheral mu-opioid receptors. Therefore, we hypothesized that ingested placenta would reverse the slowing of gut transit that is produced by morphine, a preferential mu-opioid-receptor agonist. Rats were injected with morphine either centrally or systemically and fed placenta, after which gastrointestinal transit was evaluated. We report here that ingested placenta reversed the slowing of gut transit produced by centrally administered morphine but did not affect the slowing of gut transit produced by systemically administered morphine. These results suggest another likely consequence of placentophagia at parturition in mammals--reversal of opioid-mediated, pregnancy-based disruption of gastrointestinal function--as well as an important consideration in opioid-based treatments for pain in humans--enhancement of desirable effects with attenuation of adverse effects.
The response of the inducible isoform of the prostaglandin H2 synthase (COX-2) and the c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) in post-ischemic neuronal damage was assessed in a model of ischemic tolerance in Mongolian Gerbils. After a single 6-min bilateral carotid occlusion, histological damage was evident in the CA1 region of hippocampus, correlated with a high expression of JNK and COX-2 mRNA. However, in the group of animals with a 2-min ischemia and the tolerance group, in which a 2-min bilateral carotid occlusion was followed 3 days later by a 6-min ischemia, no hippocampal or cortical damage was detected. Accordingly, the JNK and COX-2 mRNA levels remained unaffected. We suggest that the level of JNK and COX-2 expression may determine the outcome as either post-ischemic cell death or tolerance.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is often complicated by the occurrence of seizures, which adversely affect clinical outcome. The risk of seizures increases to the extent that the injury is associated with sub-arachnoid hemorrhage and hematoma. A likely mechanism of seizure development post-TBI is decompartmentalization of iron from extravasated hemoglobin (Hb). It is well known that iron can catalyze formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Based on this proposed mechanism, a descriptive model of TBI-induced seizures, using intracortical injection of iron salts, was developed by Willmore. We have added modifications to enhance the quantifiability of seizure activity and have used the model to examine the therapeutic efficacy of lipoic acids (ROS-scavenging antioxidants). Male SD rats were pretreated with alpha-lipoic acid (ALA) and dihydrolipoic acid (DHLA) or appropriate vehicles. Under anesthesia, unilateral intracortical infusions of ferric chloride were performed stereotaxically. EEG was recorded via extradural electrodes. EEG was sampled for 10 s of every 60-s interval over a 24-h period following injection of ferric chloride. We measured the number of seconds of epileptiform discharges or seizure activity in every 10-s EEG sample during the 24 h. The EEGs of rats pretreated with ALA and DHLA exhibited 55% less seizure activity than vehicle-treated ferric chloride-injected animals, suggesting that lipoic acids may be of use in preventing or attenuating TBI-induced seizures.
Inflammatory mediators modulate voltage-gated sodium channels through protein kinase-mediated pathways. However, it is not clear whether neurogenic inflammation may also alter the properties of distantly located channels along axon shafts supplying the inflamed dermatome. In this study, localized inflammation was induced via intradermal injection of capsaicin within the receptive field of the sural nerve, and compound action potentials (CAP) evoked by sural nerve stimulation were recorded from the sciatic nerve proximally. The area measured under the A beta CAP increased significantly within 5 min after capsaicin injection. Distal injection of lidocaine at the ankle division of the sural nerve prior to capsaicin injection reversed this increase. In addition, application of a lipophilic protein kinase inhibitor H7 (100 microM) through a perfusion chamber placed on the sciatic nerve also reversed this increase. Our results suggest that during neurogenic inflammation, action potential activity is increased, triggering activation of protein kinases that may rapidly alter membrane conductance to potentiate action potential propagation along peripheral nerves.
Lectins are proteins that bind to glycoproteins and glycolipids. The isolectin Griffonia simplicifolia I-B4 (IB4) recognizes terminal alpha-galactose and binds to a subset of small and medium-sized neurons in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG). Using one and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, we have identified several proteins that bind IB4 in sciatic nerve, dorsal horn, and DRG. Treatment with the enzyme alpha-galactosidase reduces IB4 binding, strongly suggesting the binding is specific for the IB4 epitope. Mass spectrometric analysis of tryptic digests of alpha-galactosidase sensitive bands identified three proteins that bind IB4: the laminin beta 2 chain and the light and medium subunits of neurofilaments.

When we look at our hands, we immediately know that they are part of our own body. This feeling of ownership of our limbs is a fundamental aspect of self-consciousness. We have studied the neuronal counterparts of this experience. A perceptual illusion was used to manipulate feelings of ownership of a rubber hand presented in front of healthy subjects while brain activity was measured by functional magnetic resonance imaging. The neural activity in the premotor cortex reflected the feeling of ownership of the hand. This suggests that multisensory integration in the premotor cortex provides a mechanism for bodily self-attribution.
A simple and sensitive high-performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) method with spectrophotometric detection was developed for the determination of moclobemide in human plasma. Plasma samples were extracted under basic conditions with dichloromethane followed by back-extraction into diluted phosphoric acid. Isocratic separation was employed on an ODS column (250 mm x 4.6 mm, 5 microm) at room temperature. The mobile phase consisted of 5 mM NaH2PO4-acetonitrile-triethylamine (1000:350:10 (v/v/v), pH 3.4). Analyses were run at a flow-rate of 1.0 ml/min and ultraviolet (UV) detection was carried out at 240 nm. The method was specific and sensitive with a quantification limit of 15.6 ng/ml and a detection limit of 5 ng/ml at a signal-to-noise ratio of 3:1. The mean absolute recovery was about 98.2%, while the intra- and inter-day coefficient of variation and percent error values of the assay method were all at acceptable levels. Linearity was assessed in the range of 15.6-2000 ng/ml in plasma with a correlation coefficient of greater than 0.999. This method has been used to analyze several hundred human plasma samples for bioavailibility studies.
A highly selective and sensitive column liquid chromatographic method for fluorescence determination of serotonin (5-HT), dopamine (DA), noradrenaline (NA) and their related metabolites 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid (5-HIAA) and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) following derivatization with benzylamine and 1,2-diphenylethylenediamine (DPE) is described. The monoamines and the metabolites (20 microl samples) were derivatized in a two-step reaction, initiated with 20 microl of 0.3M benzylamine in 0.3M 3-cyclohexylaminopropanesulfonic acid (CAPS) buffer (pH 10.0), (for 5-HT, 5-HIAA, 2 min, 24 degrees C) and followed by 20 microl of 0.1M DPE in 0.3M glycine buffer (pH 10.0), (for DA, NA, DOPAC, 20 min, 50 degrees C). Both reagents contained 0.02 M potassium hexacyanoferrate(III) and 50% (v/v) methanol. The resulting highly fluorescent and stable benzoxazole derivatives were isocratically separated on a reversed-phase column (150 mm x 1.5 mm i.d., packed with C18 silica, 5 microm) within 45 min. Using fluorescence detection at ex. and em. wavelengths of 345 and 480 nm, respectively, the detection limit (signal-to-noise ratio of 3) for 5-HT, DA, NA, 5-HIAA, L-DOPA and DOPAC ranged between 0.08 and 5.65 fmol per 20-microl injection (12-847.5 pM in standard solution). The concentrations of monoamines (expressed in microg/g wet weight, mean +/- S.E.M., n=5) in tissue extracts from the rat striatum were: 0.45+/-0.05 (5-HT), 4.27+/-0.08 (DA), 0.27+/-0.04 (NA), 0.55+/-0.06 (5-HIAA), 1.26+/-0.16 (L-DOPA) and 1.62+/-0.11 (DOPAC). Microdialysis samples were collected in 20 min intervals from the probes implanted in the striatum of awake rats. The basal monoamine levels (in fmol/20 microl, mean +/- S.E.M., n=5) in the dialysates were: 4.0+/-0.7 (5-HT), 78.4+/-9.1 (DA), 6.4+/-0.8 (NA), 785.5+/-64.5 (5-HIAA) and 5504.5+/-136.5 (DOPAC). It is concluded that the new fluorescence derivatization protocol provides an excellent means for simultaneous determination of all three monoamines both in the complex samples (e.g. brain homogenates) and also at trace levels, such as those found in the microdialysis samples.
Slowly but surely, Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients lose their memory and their cognitive abilities, and even their personalities may change dramatically. These changes are due to the progressive dysfunction and death of nerve cells that are responsible for the storage and processing of information. Although drugs can temporarily improve memory, at present there are no treatments that can stop or reverse the inexorable neurodegenerative process. But rapid progress towards understanding the cellular and molecular alterations that are responsible for the neuron's demise may soon help in developing effective preventative and therapeutic strategies.

Drug addiction involves complex interactions between pharmacology and learning in genetically susceptible individuals. Members of the Homer gene family are regulated by acute and chronic cocaine administration. Here, we report that deletion of Homer1 or Homer2 in mice caused the same increase in sensitivity to cocaine-induced locomotion, conditioned reward, and augmented extracellular glutamate in nucleus accumbens as that elicited by withdrawal from repeated cocaine administration. Moreover, adeno-associated virus-mediated restoration of Homer2 in the accumbens of Homer2 KO mice reversed the cocaine-sensitized phenotype. Further analysis of Homer2 KO mice revealed extensive additional behavioral and neurochemical similarities to cocaine-sensitized animals, including accelerated acquisition of cocaine self-administration and altered regulation of glutamate by metabotropic glutamate receptors and cystine/glutamate exchange. These data show that Homer deletion mimics the behavioral and neurochemical phenotype produced by repeated cocaine administration and implicate Homer in regulating addiction to cocaine.
LRP (low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein) is linked to Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here, we report amyloid beta-peptide Abeta40 binds to immobilized LRP clusters II and IV with high affinity (Kd = 0.6-1.2 nM) compared to Abeta42 and mutant Abeta, and LRP-mediated Abeta brain capillary binding, endocytosis, and transcytosis across the mouse blood-brain barrier are substantially reduced by the high beta sheet content in Abeta and deletion of the receptor-associated protein gene. Despite low Abeta production in the brain, transgenic mice expressing low LRP-clearance mutant Abeta develop robust Abeta cerebral accumulations much earlier than Tg-2576 Abeta-overproducing mice. While Abeta does not affect LRP internalization and synthesis, it promotes proteasome-dependent LRP degradation in endothelium at concentrations &gt; 1 microM, consistent with reduced brain capillary LRP levels in Abeta-accumulating transgenic mice, AD, and patients with cerebrovascular beta-amyloidosis. Thus, low-affinity LRP/Abeta interaction and/or Abeta-induced LRP loss at the BBB mediate brain accumulation of neurotoxic Abeta.
Recessively inherited mutations in parkin, DJ-1, and PINK1 have recently been linked to familial forms of parkinsonism. These syndromes are often clinically indistinguishable from Parkinson's disease, as similar neuronal groups, notably dopaminergic neurons, are selectively affected. Studies of the functions of these gene products may provide insights into the pathogenic mechanisms underlying the selective degeneration of dopaminergic neurons. Emerging evidence that one or several of these genes play important roles in mitochondrial function and the dopaminergic system suggests that these events may be early steps of the pathophysiological changes of the disease. This review will summarize recent advances in our understanding of these gene products, with emphasis on the surprising convergence of their functions.
The recent identification of molecular cues involved in the generation of the cortical area map, such as the patterning molecule FGF8 and transcription factors such as Emx2, represents an important breakthrough. In this issue of Neuron, Hamasaki et al. use a genetic approach to explore how these signals interact and propose that Emx2 plays a direct, largely FGF8-independent role in the control of the relative size and position that each area occupies within the cortex.
The report by Oddo and colleagues in this issue of Neuron demonstrates for the first time that clearance of amyloid also results in the removal of early-stage tau pathology in mice that develop both amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles (NFT), the two hallmark lesions of Alzheimer's disease (AD). This result supports a primary role for Abeta in AD etiology.
Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by pure neurofibrillary tau pathology involving mainly basal ganglia and brain stem nuclei. One of the kinases involved in tau phosphorylation is glycogen synthase 3 kinase (GSK3). In mammals GSK3 is present in two isoforms, alpha and beta regulated by phosphorylation: phosphorylation of Ser9 in GSK3beta or Ser21 in GSK3alpha leads to inactivation while phosphorylation of Tyr216 in GSK3beta or Tyr279 in GSK3alpha leads to activation. We analyzed the protein levels of GSK3alpha/beta and of the phosphorylated forms GSK3beta S(9), GSK3beta Y(216), GSK3alpha Y(279) in brain tissues of subjects with PSP. The analysis failed to show significant differences of all GSK3 isoforms in PSP in comparison to age-matched control cases. This negative result argues against the role of GSK3 in the pathogenesis of PSP.
Neural stem and progenitor cells from the embryonic forebrain can be expanded under growth factor stimulation in vitro, either as free-floating aggregates called neurospheres or as attached monolayer cultures. We have previously shown that despite the maintenance of important regulatory genes such as Gsh2, in vitro expansion of cells from the lateral ganglion eminence (LGE) restricts their differentiation potential. Specifically, their ability to differentiate into striatal projection neurons is compromised. It is not clear whether this restriction is caused by loss of progenitors with the ability to generate striatal projection neurons or whether the restricted differentiation potential is caused by factors lacking during in vitro differentiation. To address this, we have set up an in vitro system, in which expanded LGE-derived cells are differentiated in coculture with primary cells isolated from different regions of the embryonic brain. We provide evidence that the primary cells supply the expanded cells with contact-mediated region-specific developmental cues. Neurosphere-expanded LGE progenitors can, when presented with these cues, differentiate into neurons with characteristics of striatal projection neurons. Furthermore, we show that the ability of the expanded LGE cells to respond to the developmental cues presented by the primary cells depends on the maintained expression of Gsh2 in the expanded cells.
In the nucleus accumbens (NAc), a key structure to the effects of all addictive drugs, presynaptic cannabinoid CB1 receptors (CB1Rs) and postsynaptic metabotropic glutamate 5 receptors (mGluR5s) are the principal effectors of endocannabinoid (eCB)-mediated retrograde long-term depression (LTD) (eCB-LTD) at the prefrontal cortex-NAc synapses. Both CB1R and mGluR5 are involved in cocaine-related behaviors; however, the impact of in vivo cocaine exposure on eCB-mediated retrograde synaptic plasticity remains unknown. Electrophysiological and biochemical approaches were used, and we report that a single in vivo cocaine administration abolishes eCB-LTD. This effect of cocaine was not present in D1 dopamine receptor (D1R) -/- mice and was prevented when cocaine was coadministered with the selective D1R antagonist 8-chloro-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-3-5-1h-3-benzazepin-7-ol (0.5 mg/kg) or with the NMDA receptor (NMDAR) blocker (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo [a,d] cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate (1 mg/kg), suggesting the involvement of D1R and NMDAR. We found that the cocaine-induced blockade of retrograde signaling was correlated with enhanced expression levels of Homer scaffolding proteins containing the coiled-coil domain and accompanied by a strong reduction of mGluR5 surface expression. The results suggest that cocaine-induced loss of eCB retrograde signaling is caused by a reduction in the ability of mGluR5 to translate anterograde glutamate transmission into retrograde eCB signaling.
We studied the response of dendritic spines in the thalamic-recipient zone of rat visual cortex to simple manipulations of the visual environment. We measured the morphologies of a total of 3824 spines located on the basal dendrites of 60 layer 3 pyramidal cells. As expected from previous studies, we found a significantly lower spine density in dark-reared animals at postnatal day 30 (P30) compared with light-reared controls. Additional analysis revealed that the spines in dark-reared animals were significantly shorter and more bulbous than in light-reared animals. When these two results were combined, we found that the total synaptic area per unit length of dendrite was conserved, compatible with the phenomenon of &quot;synaptic scaling.&quot; We also found that the increase in average spine head diameter is reversed by 10 d of light exposure (starting at P20), but surprisingly, the decrease in spine density is not. Thus, not all effects of dark rearing can be reversed by subsequent visual experience, even when the experience occurs during the third postnatal week.
Retrograde signaling is an essential component of synaptic development and physiology. Previous studies show that bone morphogenetic protein (BMP)-dependent retrograde signaling is required for the proper development of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) in Drosophila. These studies, moreover, raised the significant possibility that the development of central motor circuitry might similarly be reliant on such signaling. To test this hypothesis, retrograde signaling between postsynaptic motoneurons and their presynaptic interneurons is examined. Postsynaptic expression of an adenylate cyclase encoded by rutabaga (rut), is sufficient to strengthen synaptic transmission at these identified central synapses. Results are presented to show that the underlying mechanism is dependent on BMP retrograde signaling. Thus, presynaptic expression of an activated TGF-beta receptor, thickvien (tkv), or postsynaptic expression of a TGF-beta ligand, glass-bottom boat (gbb), is sufficient to phenocopy strengthening of synaptic transmission. In the absence of gbb, endogenous synaptic transmission is significantly weakened and, moreover, postsynaptic overexpression of rut is unable to potentiate synaptic function. Potentiation of presynaptic neurotransmitter release, mediated by increased postsynaptic expression of gbb, is dependent on normal cholinergic activity, indicative that either the secretion of this retrograde signal, or its transduction, is activity dependent. Thus, in addition to the development of the NMJ and expression of myoactive FMRFamide-like peptides in specific central neurons, the results of the present study indicate that this retrograde signaling cascade also integrates the development and function of central motor circuitry that controls movement in Drosophila larvae.
Here, we show that postsynaptic p21-activated kinase (Pak) signaling diverges into two genetically separable pathways at the Drosophila neuromuscular junction. One pathway controls glutamate receptor abundance. Pak signaling within this pathway is specified by a required interaction with the adaptor protein Dreadlocks (Dock). We demonstrate that Dock is localized to the synapse via an Src homology 2-mediated protein interaction. Dock is not necessary for Pak localization but is necessary to restrict Pak signaling to control glutamate receptor abundance. A second genetically separable function of Pak kinase signaling controls muscle membrane specialization through the regulation of synaptic Discs-large. In this pathway, Dock is dispensable. We present a model in which divergent Pak signaling is able to coordinate two different features of postsynaptic maturation, receptor abundance, and muscle membrane specialization.
Human emotional experience is typically associated with enhanced episodic memory. We have used functional magnetic resonance imaging to demonstrate that successful encoding of emotional, compared to neutral, verbal stimuli evokes increased human amygdala responses. Items that evoke amygdala activation at encoding evoke greater hippocampal responses at retrieval compared to neutral items. Administration of the beta-adrenergic antagonist propranolol at encoding abolishes the enhanced amygdala encoding and hippocampal retrieval effects, despite propranolol being no longer present at retrieval. Thus, memory-related amygdala responses at encoding and hippocampal responses at recognition for emotional items depend on beta-adrenergic engagement at encoding. Our results suggest that human emotional memory is associated with a beta-adrenergic-dependent modulation of amygdala-hippocampal interactions.

Inferior olivary hypertrophy (IOH) is an uncommon disorder attributed to transsynaptic degeneration and characterized clinically by palatal myoclonus and histopathologically by swollen, fenestrated neurons and bizarre astrocytic gliosis. IOH is usually associated with the interruption of the dentato-olivary tract, most often from cerebrovascular lesions in the dentate nucleus or red nucleus. In progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), the dentato-olivary tract is consistently affected, and there are reports suggesting that IOH may be relatively common in PSP. To address this issue, the frequency of IOH was investigated in 264 PSP brains. To determine if there was a relationship between IOH and neurofibrillary degeneration in the dentato-olivary pathway, the severity of neurofibrillary degeneration was assessed in the inferior olivary nucleus, cerebellar dentate nucleus and red nucleus in PSP cases with and without IOH. IOH was uncommon in PSP, being found in only 4 of 264 (1.5%) brains, which was not significantly different from the frequency in non-PSP controls (8 of 862; 0.9%). In all non-PSP cases IOH was associated with cerebrovascular lesions, but not in any of the PSP cases with IOH. The severity of neurofibrillary degeneration in the inferior olivary nucleus was significantly greater in PSP cases with IOH than in PSP cases without IOH, whereas there were no significant differences in the cerebellar dentate nucleus and red nucleus. These findings suggest that direct neurofibrillary degeneration in the inferior olivary nucleus may be related to IOH in PSP rather than transsynaptic degeneration.

The 14-3-3 protein family consists of acidic 30-kd proteins expressed at high levels in neurons of the central nervous system. Seven isoforms form a dimeric complex that acts as a molecular chaperone that interacts with key signaling components. Recent studies indicated that the 14-3-3 protein identified in the cerebrospinal fluid of various neurological diseases including multiple sclerosis (MS) is a marker for extensive brain destruction. However, it remains unknown whether the 14-3-3 protein plays an active role in the pathological process of MS. To investigate the differential expression of seven 14-3-3 isoforms in MS lesions, brain tissues of four progressive cases were immunolabeled with a panel of isoform-specific antibodies. Reactive astrocytes in chronic demyelinating lesions intensely expressed beta, epsilon, zeta, eta, and sigma isoforms, among which the epsilon isoform is a highly specific marker for reactive astrocytes. Furthermore, protein overlay, mass spectrometry, immunoprecipitation, and double-immunolabeling analysis showed that the 14-3-3 protein interacts with both vimentin and glial fibrillary acidic protein in cultured human astrocytes. These results suggest that the 14-3-3 protein plays an organizing role in the intermediate filament network in reactive astrocytes at the site of demyelinating lesions in MS.
We assessed the use of nonhuman primates and nonhuman primate biological material in research by reviewing studies published in 2001 in peer-reviewed journals. The number and species of primates used, the origin of the animals, the type of study, the area of research of the investigation, and the location at which the research was performed were tabulated. Additionally, factors related to the animals that may have affected the outcome of the experiments were recorded. A total of 2,937 articles involving 4,411 studies that employed nonhuman primates or nonhuman primate biological material were identified and analyzed. More than 41,000 animals were represented in the studies published in 2001. In the 14% of studies for which re-use could be determined, 69% involved animals that had been used in previous experiments. Published studies most commonly used nonhuman primates or nonhuman primate biological material from the species Chlorocebus aethiops (19%), Macaca mulatta (18%), M. fascicularis (9%), and Papio spp. (6%). Of these studies, 54% were classified as in vitro studies, 14% as noninvasive, 30% as chronic, and 1% were considered acute. Nonhuman primates were primarily used in research areas in which they appear to be the most appropriate models for humans. The most common areas of research were microbiology (including HIV/AIDS (26%)), neuroscience (19%), and biochemistry/chemistry (12%). Most (84%) of the primate research published in 2001 was conducted in North America, Europe, and Japan. The animals and conditions under which they were housed and used were rarely described. Although it is estimated that nonhuman primates account for an extremely small fraction of all animals used in research, their special status makes it important to report the many husbandry and environmental factors that influence the research results generated. This analysis has identified that editors rarely require authors to provide comprehensive information concerning the subjects (e.g., their origin), treatment conditions, and experimental procedures utilized in the studies they publish. The present analysis addresses the use of primates for research, including the effects of a shortage of suitable nonhuman primate subjects in many research areas.


We tested the hypothesis that the DYT1 genotype is associated with a disorder of anatomical connectivity involving primarily the sensorimotor cortex. We used diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging (DTI) to assess the microstructure of white matter pathways in mutation carriers and control subjects. Fractional anisotropy (FA), a measure of axonal integrity and coherence, was reduced (p &lt; 0.005) in the subgyral white matter of the sensorimotor cortex of DYT1 carriers. Abnormal anatomical connectivity of the supplementary motor area may contribute to the susceptibility of DYT1 carriers to develop clinical manifestations of dystonia.
Olfactory dysfunction is an early and common symptom in Parkinson's disease (PD). In an effort to determine whether otherwise unexplained (idiopathic) olfactory dysfunction is associated with an increased risk of developing PD, we designed a prospective study in a cohort of 361 asymptomatic relatives (parents, siblings, or children) of PD patients. A combination of olfactory detection, identification, and discrimination tasks was used to select groups of hyposmic (n = 40) and normosmic (n = 38) individuals for a 2-year clinical follow-up evaluation and sequential single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), using [123I]beta-CIT as a dopamine transporter ligand, to assess nigrostriatal dopaminergic function at baseline and 2 years from baseline. A validated questionnaire, sensitive to the presence of parkinsonism, was used in the follow-up of the remaining 283 relatives. Two years from baseline, 10% of the individuals with idiopathic hyposmia, who also had strongly reduced [123I]beta-CIT binding at baseline, had developed clinical PD as opposed to none of the other relatives in the cohort. In the remaining nonparkinsonian hyposmic relatives, the average rate of decline in dopamine transporter binding was significantly higher than in the normosmic relatives. These results indicate that idiopathic olfactory dysfunction is associated with an increased risk of developing PD of at least 10%.
A search of the chicken expressed sequence tag (EST) database identified 2 cDNA clones that appeared to represent members of the SULT1B and SULT1C enzyme families. These cDNAs were fully sequenced and found to contain full-length inserts. Phylogenetic analysis of the derived amino acid sequences clearly placed them as the first members of the chicken SULT1B and SULT1C families, respectively, to be identified, and we propose they be named SULT1B1 and SULT1C1. (CHICK)SULT1B1 shares approximately 60% amino acid sequence identity with mammalian SULT1B enzymes, whereas the closest neighbor to (CHICK)SULT1C1 was the ortholog (RAT)SULT1C1, with 68% identity. We cloned these cDNAs into the bacterial expression vectors from the pET series. Transformed Escherichia coli cells strongly expressed the recombinant proteins. Purification of the recombinant enzymes from E. coli was accomplished by a three-step procedure involving ammonium sulfate precipitation, anion exchange chromatography, and affinity chromatography. The purified enzymes displayed subunit molecular weights of approximately 35,000Da on SDS-PAGE, as predicted, and were both able to sulfate a wide range of compounds, including xenobiotics and endogenous substrates such as iodothyronines. Detailed kinetic analysis showed SULT1C1 was more prolific in that it was able to sulfate dopamine, tyramine, and apomorphine, which SULT1B1 was not. 2-Bromophenol was the best substrate for both enzymes. We also raised antibodies against these proteins, which were able to detect the SULTs by ELISA, and which were able to strongly inhibit the recombinant enzymes. This is the first detailed characterization of sulfotransferases from the chicken, and it demonstrates that the avian and mammalian SULT1 enzymes are closely related in both structure and function.
This manuscript reports the results of two studies focusing on patients with mild Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI). The first assesses the validity of the Meyers Short Battery (MSB) of neuropsychological tests. The second study reports on the reliability of the MSB. The groups consisted of normal controls, depressed, chronic pain patients, and patients with mild TBI. Validity was assessed using a discriminant function analysis comparing the non-TBI participants with the TBI participants, which showed a 96.1% correct classification rate. When patients were assessed at least 6 months post-injury and re-assessment 12-14 months later, an overall reliability of r = .86 was obtained. This indicates that the MSB has adequate psychometric properties for clinical use. The results are consistent with previous published research indicating that the MSB is sensitive not only to the presence of mild TBI but also to the degree of cognitive impairment based on loss of consciousness.


Termination of motor rehabilitation is often recommended as patients with cerebrovascular accident (CVA) become more chronic and/or when they fail to respond positively to motor rehabilitation (commonly termed a &quot;plateau&quot;). Managed-care programs frequently reinforce this practice by restricting care to patients responding to therapy and/or to the most acute patients. When neuromuscular adaptation occurs in exercise, rather than terminating the current regimen, a variety of techniques (eg, modifying intensity, attempting different modalities) are used to facilitate neuromuscular adaptations. After presenting the concepts of the motor recovery plateau and adaptation, we similarly posit that patients with CVA adapt to therapeutic exercise but that this is not indicative of a diminished capacity for motor improvement. Instead, like traditional exercise circumstances, adaptive states can be overcome by modifying regimen aspects (eg, intensity, introducing new exercises). Findings suggesting that patients with chronic CVA can benefit from motor rehabilitation programs that apply novel or different parameters and modalities. The objectives of this commentary are to (1) to encourage practitioners to reconsider the notion of the motor recovery plateau, (2) to reconsider chronic CVA patients' ability to recover motor function, and (3) to use different modalities when accommodation is exhibited.


Square-wave jerks (SWJs) are small, involuntary saccades that disrupt steady fixation. We report the case of an astronaut (approximately 140 d on orbit) who showed frequent SWJs, especially postflight, but who showed no impairment of vision or decrement of postflight performance. These data support the view that SWJs do not impair vision because they are paired movements, consisting of a small saccade away from the fixation position followed, within 200 ms, by a corrective saccade that brings the eye back on target. Since many returning astronauts show a decrement of dynamic visual function during postflight locomotion, it seems possible that frequent SWJs improved this astronaut's visual function by providing postsaccadic enhancement of visual fixation, which aided postflight performance. Certainly, frequent SWJs did not impair performance in this astronaut, who had no other neurological disorder.
Although the utility of analyzing behavioral experience effects on neural cytochrome oxidase (CO) activity is well recognized, the behavioral correlates of endogenous differences in CO activity have rarely been explored. In male leopard geckos (Eublepharis macularius), the incubation temperature experienced during embryogenesis (IncT) and age affect CO activity in the preoptic area (POA), an area that modulates copulatory behavior. In this study, the authors assessed whether differences in POA CO activity correlate with differences in sexual behavior in intact and castrated geckos. Males with IncT- and age-dependent increases in POA CO activity mounted females with shorter latencies while intact and after castration and ejaculated more frequently after castration. The authors discuss the predictive value of CO activity and propose similar parallels in other species.
Little is known about the specific role of glutamate, in particular its actions at N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, in ethanol reward. Pretreatment with channel blockers MK-801 and ketamine, NMDA NR2B receptor subunit antagonists ifenprodil and CP-101,606, and the glycine(B) partial agonist (+)-HA-966 did not alter acquisition of ethanol-induced conditioned place preference (CPP) in mice. However, pretreatment with the competitive antagonist CGP-37849 attenuated acquisition of ethanol-induced CPP. Follow-up experiments indicated that CGP-37849 also blocked acquisition of ethanol-induced and lithium chloride-induced conditioned place aversion but did not produce rewarding or aversive effects on its own. These results suggest that the NMDA receptor glutamate binding site is important for ethanol place conditioning. Moreover, these results suggest CGP-37849 modulates ethanol place conditioning by impairing the ability to learn these tasks.
Lactating females that fiercely protect offspring exhibit decreased fear and anxiety. The authors tested whether decreased corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), an activator of fear and anxiety, plays a functional role in maternal aggression. Intracerebroventricular (icv) injections of CRF (1.0 and 0.2 microg, but not 0.02 microg) significantly inhibited maternal aggression but not other maternal behaviors. The CRF antagonist D-Phe-CRF(12-41) had no effect. Maternal aggression and icv CRF (0.2 microg) induced Fos in 11 of the same regions, including the lateral and medial septum, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the medial and central amygdala, the periaqueductal gray, the dorsal raphe, and the locus coeruleus. These findings suggest that decreased CRF is necessary for maternal aggression and may act by altering brain activity in response to an intruder.
The authors hypothesized that the progesterone component of some hormone replacement therapies in women is detrimental to cognition. A previous study showed that ovariectomy (ovx) in aged rats enhanced spatial working memory and decreased elevated progesterone levels. The current study evaluated whether progesterone administration counteracts these cognitive enhancing effects of ovx. Aged sham and aged ovx rats given progesterone exhibited compromised learning of the working and reference memory components of the task, and made more working memory errors on the latter testing days compared with aged ovx rats not given progesterone. Results suggest that whereas ovx of the aged female rat enhances learning and the ability to handle numerous items of spatial working memory information, progesterone is detrimental to these aspects of performance. These findings may speak to studies in menopausal women which suggest that combination hormone therapies have a negative impact on cognition.
The purpose of the present study was to gain a deeper understanding of the role of the basal ganglia in learning and memory by examining learning strategies among patients with basal ganglia dysfunction. Using a probabilistic category learning task (the &quot;weather prediction&quot; task) previously shown to be sensitive to basal ganglia function, the authors examined patterns of performance during learning and used mathematical models to capture different learning strategies. Results showed that patients with Parkinson's disease exhibit different patterns of strategy use. Specifically, most controls initially used a simple, but suboptimal, strategy that focused on single-cue-outcome associations; eventually, however, most controls adopted a more complex, optimal learning strategy, integrating single-cue associations to predict outcomes for multiple-cue stimuli. In contrast, the majority of individuals with Parkinson's disease continued to rely on simple single-cue learning strategies throughout the experiment.
The therapeutic management of functional dyspepsia remains a major challenge for the gastroenterologist. Current therapies available are based on putative underlying pathophysiologic mechanisms, including gastric acid sensitivity, slow gastric emptying and Helicobacter pylori infection, but only a small proportion of patients achieve symptomatic benefit from these therapeutic approaches. Relatively novel mechanistic concepts under testing include impaired gastric accomodation, visceral hypersensitivity, and central nervous system dysfunction. Serotonergic modulators (e.g. the 5-HT4 agonist tegaserod, the 5-HT3 antagonist alosetron and the 5-HT1P agonist sumatriptan), CCK-1 antagonists (e.g. dexloxiglumide), opioid agonists (e.g. asimadoline), N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists (e.g dextromethorphan), neurokinin antagonists (e.g. talnetant), capsaicin-like agents and antidepressants are among the agents currently under investigation. It seems unlikely, however, that targeting a single mechanism with an individual drug will result in complete symptom remission in most cases.

There is good evidence supporting the view that the transjunctional voltage sensor (V(j)-sensor) of Cx32 and other Group 1 connexins is contained within a segment of the N-terminus that contributes to the formation of the channel pore. We have shown that the addition of negatively charged amino acid residues at several positions within the first 10 amino acid residues reverses the polarity of V(j)-gating and proposed that channel closure is initiated by the inward movement of this region. Here, we report that positive charge substitutions of the 2nd, 5th, and 8th residues maintain the negative polarity of V(j)-gating. These data are consistent with the original gating model. Surprisingly, some channels containing combinations of positive and/or negative charges at the 2nd and 5th positions display bipolar V(j)-gating. The appearance of bipolar gating does not correlate with relative orientation of charges at this position. However, the voltage sensitivity of bipolar channels correlates with the sign of the charge at the 2nd residue, suggesting that charges at this position may have a larger role in determining gating polarity. Taken together with previous findings, the results suggest that the polarity V(j)-gating is not determined by the sign of the charge lying closest to the cytoplasmic entry of the channel, nor is it likely to result from the reorientation of an electrical dipole contained in the N-terminus. We further explore the mechanism of polarity determination by utilizing the one-dimensional Poisson-Nernst-Plank model to determine the voltage profile of simple model channels containing regions of permanent charge within the channel pore. These considerations demonstrate how local variations in the electric field may influence the polarity and sensitivity of V(j)-gating but are unlikely to account for the appearance of bipolar V(j)-gating.
A frequently used measure for the extent of cooperativity in ligand binding by an allosteric protein is the Hill coefficient, obtained by fitting data of initial reaction velocity (or fractional binding saturation) as a function of substrate concentration to the Hill equation. Here, it is demonstrated that the simple two-state Boltzmann equation that is widely used to fit voltage-activation data of voltage-dependent ion channels is analogous to the Hill equation. A general empiric definition for a Hill coefficient (n(H)) for channel gating transitions that is analogous to the logarithmic potential sensitivity function of Almers is derived. This definition provides a novel framework for interpreting the meaning of the Hill coefficient. In considering three particular and simple gating schemes for a voltage-activated cation channel, the relation of the Hill coefficient to the magnitude and nature of cooperative interactions along the reaction coordinate of channel gating is demonstrated. A possible functional explanation for the low value of the Hill coefficient for gating transitions of the Shaker voltage-activated K(+) channel is suggested. The analogy between the Hill coefficients for ligand binding and for channel gating transitions further points to a unified conceptual framework in analyzing enzymes and channels behavior.
There is significant interest in studying stem cells, both to elucidate their basic biological functions during development and adulthood as well as to learn how to utilize them as new sources of specialized cells for tissue repair. Whether the motivation is basic biology or biomedical application, however, progress will hinge upon learning how to better control stem-cell function at a quantitative and molecular level. There are several major challenges within the field, including the identification of new signals and conditions that regulate and influence cell function, and the application of this information towards the design of stem-cell bioprocesses and therapies. Both of these efforts can significantly benefit from the synthesis of biological data into quantitative and increasingly mechanistic models that not only describe, but also predict, how a stem cell's environment can control its fate. This review will briefly summarize the history and current state of the stem-cell biology field, but will then focus on the development of predictive models for stem-cell control. Early models formulated on the assumption that cell fate was decided by stochastic, cell-intrinsic processes have gradually evolved into hybrid deterministic-stochastic models with increasingly finer molecular resolution that accounts for environmental regulation. As our understanding of cellular control mechanisms expands from the cell surface and towards the nucleus, these efforts may culminate in the development of a stem-cell culture programme, or a series of signals to provide to the cells as a function of time to guide them along a desired developmental trajectory.
A case of recurrent intracranial abscess at the initial site after a latency of 16 years is presented. The causes and possible mechanisms of recurrence are discussed.
CB(1) receptor cellular signal transduction is dependent on the expression of G proteins to which the receptor couples, the potential for precoupling of particular G proteins to the receptors either by scaffolding mechanisms or colocalization in lipid raft domains, and the effector mechanisms that these transducer molecules regulate. This discourse will evaluate studies of efficacy for CB(1) receptor-Gi/o activation at the molecular level. Evidence for brain regional differences in CB(1) receptor signal transduction efficacy and agonist selectivity for G proteins will be summarized. The possibility that CB(1) receptors interact with Gs or Gq will be evaluated, and questions with regard to the constitutive activity and G protein sequestration will be posed.
We previously reported that ascorbate inhibits endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF)-mediated vasodilatation in the bovine perfused ciliary circulation and rat perfused mesentery, but not in rings of bovine or porcine coronary artery. In this study, we have compared the ability of ascorbate to inhibit EDHF-mediated vasodilatation in a single vessel, the bovine long posterior ciliary artery, when perfused and when mounted as rings in a myograph. Both in segments perfused at a flow rate of 2.5 ml min(-1) and in rings mounted in a myograph, bradykinin and acetylcholine each induced vasodilator responses that were mediated jointly by EDHF and nitric oxide, as revealed by their respective blocking agents, apamin/charybdotoxin, and L-NAME. Ascorbate (50 and 150 microm) induced a time (max at 2-3 h)-dependent inhibition of the EDHF-mediated component of vasodilatation to bradykinin or acetylcholine in perfused segments, but not in rings. Ascorbate (50 microm) failed to inhibit bradykinin-induced vasodilatation at a flow rate of 1.25 ml min(-1) or below, but produced graded blockade at the higher flow rates of 2.5 and 5 ml min(-1). Furthermore, using a pressure myograph where pressure and flow were independently controlled, it was confirmed that the inhibitory action of ascorbate (150 microm) was directly related to flow per se and not any associated changes in pressure. Thus, we have shown in the bovine ciliary artery that ascorbate inhibits EDHF-mediated vasodilatation under conditions of flow but not in a static myograph. The mechanism by which flow renders EDHF susceptible to inhibition by ascorbate remains to be determined.

Globus pallidus internus (GPi) deep brain stimulation (DBS) increasingly shows promising efficacy in the treatment of severe primary generalized dystonia. Functional imaging studies have shown previously that dystonia could be related to abnormal cortical activation during voluntary movement. In the present study, the effects of GPi DBS on regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) during a motor task were studied in patients with primary generalized dystonia. rCBF was measured using H215O and PET in eight control subjects and six patients with dystonia treated with bilateral GPi DBS. Subjects were scanned at rest and while performing joystick movements. Dystonic patients were tested in two conditions: 'OFF' (stimulator bilaterally switched off) and 'ON' (unilateral stimulation). In the 'OFF' condition, compared with rest, motor activation of the most dystonic hand was associated with overactivity in the contralateral dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, gyrus frontalis medialis, superior frontal gyrus (area 10), frontoorbital cortex and thalamus. In the 'ON' condition, GPi DBS contralaterally to the most dystonic hand induced a decrease of the overactivation in the same areas, as well as the putamen. According to the present study, generalized dystonia is associated with prefrontal overactivation which can be reversed by effective GPi DBS.
The finding that patients with amnesia retain the ability to learn certain procedural skills has provided compelling evidence of multiple memory systems in the human brain, but the scope, defining features and ecological significance of the preserved mnemonic abilities have not yet been explored. Here, we tested the hypothesis that subjects with amnesia would be able to learn and retain a broad range of procedural skills, by examining their acquisition and retention performance on five novel experimental tasks. The tasks are based on real-world activities and encompass a broad range of perceptual-motor demands: (i) the weaving task involves weaving pieces of fabric from woollen strings, using a manual weaver's loom; (ii) the geometric figures task consists of tracing geometric figures with a stylus as they move horizontally across a touch screen monitor; (iii) the control stick task involves tracking a sequence of visual target locations using a joystick control; (iv) the pouring task consists of pouring 200 ml of water from a watering can into a series of graduated cylinders, from a point 20 cm above the cylinders; and (v) the spatial sequence task involves learning an ordered sequence of pushing five spatially distributed buttons without visual guidance. Ten chronic and stable amnesic subjects (nine with bilateral medial temporal lobe damage due to herpes simplex encephalitis or anoxia, and one with thalamic stroke) and 25 matching normal comparison subjects were tested on three occasions: initial learning at time 1; retention at time 2 (24 h later); and retention at time 3 (2 months later). Despite impaired declarative memory for the tasks, the amnesic subjects demonstrated acquisition and retention of the five skills; their learning slopes over repeated trials were comparable with those of comparison subjects. These findings indicate that preserved learning of complex perceptual-motor skills in patients with amnesia is a robust phenomenon, and that it can be demonstrated across a variety of conditions and perceptual-motor demands. The comparability of the tasks employed in this study with real-world activities highlights the potential application of this memory dissociation in the rehabilitation of patients with amnesia.
The brain activation of a group of high-functioning autistic participants was measured using functional MRI during sentence comprehension and the results compared with those of a Verbal IQ-matched control group. The groups differed in the distribution of activation in two of the key language areas. The autism group produced reliably more activation than the control group in Wernicke's (left laterosuperior temporal) area and reliably less activation than the control group in Broca's (left inferior frontal gyrus) area. Furthermore, the functional connectivity, i.e. the degree of synchronization or correlation of the time series of the activation, between the various participating cortical areas was consistently lower for the autistic than the control participants. These findings suggest that the neural basis of disordered language in autism entails a lower degree of information integration and synchronization across the large-scale cortical network for language processing. The article presents a theoretical account of the findings, related to neurobiological foundations of underconnectivity in autism.
Although epileptic photosensitivity is well known, its genetics and syndromic associations are incompletely understood. Seizures triggered by photic stimulation are usually a manifestation of the idiopathic generalized epilepsies, especially juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME), or of the occipital epilepsies. Idiopathic photosensitive occipital epilepsy (IPOE) is a focal epilepsy with colourful elementary visual auras, often with conscious tonic head and eye version; myoclonus is not a feature. All seizures are induced by photic stimuli. We describe four families with phenotypic overlap between JME and IPOE. Families were identified if two or more affected individuals had visual auras and electro-clinical features of an idiopathic epilepsy. Family members underwent detailed electro-clinical assessment. In addition, 40 unrelated JME probands were investigated systematically for unrecognized features of IPOE (visual aura and conscious head version). There were 12 affected individuals in four families; 11 were female. Clinical onset was at 8-21 years of age. Of 10 patients with visual auras, six had conscious head version and five also experienced myoclonic jerks; eight had non-photic induced tonic-clonic seizures (TCS). Of the remaining individuals, one had myoclonic jerks and occipital spikes; the other had TCS without visual aura or myoclonic jerks. Of 10 patients with EEG studies, eight had generalized spike and wave (GSW) and six had occipital spikes. All had photosensitivity with GSW and four had additional occipital spikes. Of the 40 JME probands, six had visual aura and/or conscious head version; five of these were photosensitive. There is overlap between the clusters of clinical features used to diagnose IPOE and JME. Half of the affected individuals in our families with visual aura had myoclonic jerks; the former is characteristic of IPOE and the latter of JME. Importantly, visual aura is not regarded as part of JME, nor myoclonus part of IPOE, but our data emphasize that these symptoms may occur in both disorders. Moreover, two-thirds of individuals with visual aura had spontaneous TCS; the latter feature is not described in IPOE. Additionally, we demonstrate that visual aura and conscious head version are under-recognized features of JME, particularly among photosensitive patients. These findings could be explained by shared genetic determinants underlying IPOE and JME. Understanding the genetic basis of these disorders must account for the striking female predominance, the variable phenotypes associated with photosensitivity and the overlap of clinical features classically regarded as distinguishing focal and generalized syndromes.
To investigate the aetiology of chronic idiopathic axonal polyneuropathy (CIAP), 50 consecutive patients were compared with 50 control subjects from the same region. There were 22 patients with painful neuropathy and 28 without pain, 26 with sensory neuropathy and 24 with sensory and motor neuropathy. The typical picture was a gradually progressive sensory or sensory and motor neuropathy. It caused mild or sometimes moderate disability, and reduced the quality of life. There was no evidence that alcohol, venous insufficiency, arterial disease or antibodies to peripheral nerve antigens played a significant part. There was a possible history of peripheral neuropathy in the first or second-degree relatives of six patients and no controls (P = 0.01), and claw toes were present in 12 patients and four controls (P = 0.03). Thirty-two per cent of the patients and 14% of the controls had impaired glucose tolerance or fasting hyperglycaemia but, after adjusting for age and sex, the difference was not significant (P = 0.45), even in the painful neuropathy subgroup. The mean (SD) fasting insulin concentrations were significantly (P = 0.01) higher in the patients [75.9 (44.4) mmol/l] than the controls [47.3 (37.9) mmol/l], and the mean was higher still in the painful neuropathy subgroup [92.2 (37.1) mmol/l] (P &lt; 0.0001). However, insulin resistance as assessed using the homeostasis model assessment formula was not significantly greater in the patients, even in those with pain, than the controls. After adjustment for body mass index as well as age and sex, there was no significant difference in the serum cholesterol concentrations, but there were significantly higher triglyceride concentrations in the patients [mean 1.90 (1.41) mmol/l] than the controls [mean 1.25 (0.79] mmol/l) (P = 0.02). In the patients with painful peripheral neuropathy, the mean triglyceride concentration was 2.37 (1.72), which was even more significantly greater compared with the controls (P = 0.003). In conclusion, CIAP is a heterogeneous condition. A logistic regression analysis identified environmental toxin exposure and hypertriglyceridaemia, but not glucose intolerance or alcohol overuse as significant risk factors that deserve further investigation as possible causes of CIAP.
The Sprague effect is well-established-small tectal lesions restore visual orientation in the hemianopic field of animals with extensive unilateral geniculo-striate lesions. Studies of human midbrain visual functions are rare. This man with a midbrain tumour developed left-neglect through subsequent right frontal damage. Bilateral orientation returned after clear evidence of damage to the superior colliculus contralateral to the cortical lesion (showing the Sprague effect extends to man). Sustained right-neglect developed after probable additional damage to right superior colliculus. The regulation of spatial attention by tecto-pulvinar circuits is discussed, and it is argued that the reduced right tecto-pulvinar activity (consequent to the additional right collicular damage) was offset by over-compensatory increase in thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN) suppression of left pulvinar activity.
Some neurological patients with medial frontal lesions exhibit striking confabulations. Most accounts of the cause of confabulations are cognitive, though the literature has produced anecdotal suggestions that confabulations may not be emotionally neutral, having a ('wish-fulfilment') bias that shapes the patient's perception of reality in a more affectively positive direction. The present study reviewed every case (N = 16) of false beliefs about place reported in the neuroscientific literature from 1980 to 2000, with blind raters evaluating the 'pleasantness' of the patient's actual and confabulated locations. In each case the confabulated location was evaluated as more pleasant. This striking finding supports the claim that there may be a systematic affective bias in the false beliefs held by neurological patients with confabulation.
It has been suggested that neglect patients misrepresent the metric spatial relations along the horizontal axis (anisometry). The &quot;fabric&quot; of their internal spatial medium would be distorted in such a way that physically equal distances appear relatively shorter on the contralesional side (canonical anisometry). The case of GL, a 76-year-old lady with left neglect on visual search tasks, is presented. GL showed severe relative overestimation on the left (contralesional) side on two independent tasks evaluating the metrics of her internal representation. A qualitatively similar pattern was found in two out of 10 other neglect patients who performed the second task. This behavior cannot be accounted for by the canonical anisometry hypothesis. Nevertheless, GL produced a relative left overextension (underestimation) when trying to set the endpoints of a virtual line given its midpoint (Endpoints Task). An interpretation of these results is offered in terms of a misprojection of relevant landmarks onto the internal representation without assuming distortion of its &quot;fabric.&quot;
The terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT) dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) stain is in wide use for measuring apoptosis in neurons, as well as in other cell types. TUNEL may give false positive results due to variations in labeling technique as well as staining of cells that have undergone non-apoptotic DNA strand breaks. Therefore, in isolation, TUNEL is not a certain indicator of apoptosis. Recently, we have demonstrated the potent apoptotic effect of secreted phospholipase A2 from group III (sPLA2-III) on primary cortical neurons from rat. Here we describe a computer-assisted method for quantifying TUNEL-positive neurons after sPLA2-III induced apoptosis. Extent of TUNEL is normalized to total nuclear content using 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI) staining. Furthermore, DAPI counterstaining allows for determination of a nuclear morphology indicator, based on nuclear size and roundness, which we call the nuclear area factor. We found that the nuclear area factor is an early indicator of cell death (significant after 4 h post treatment), while TUNEL staining is significant at later times (26 h). Thus, the independent staining techniques using TUNEL and DAPI complement each other, and with commercially available image analysis software, may be used to indicate early as well as delayed cell injury processes.
Substantial evidence indicates that the lateral septum (LS) plays a critical role in regulating processes related to mood and motivation. This review presents findings from the basic neuroscience literature and from some clinically oriented research, drawing from behavioral, neuroanatomical, electrophysiological, and molecular studies in support of such a role, and articulates models and hypotheses intended to advance our understanding of these functions. Neuroanatomically, the LS is connected with numerous regions known to regulate affect, such as the hippocampus, amygdala, and hypothalamus. Through its connections with the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system, the LS regulates motivation, both by stimulating the activity of midbrain dopamine neurons and regulating the consequences of this activity on the ventral striatum. Evidence that LS function could impact processes related to schizophrenia and other psychotic spectrum disorders, such as alterations in LS function following administration of antipsychotics and psychotomimetics in animals, will also be presented. The LS can also diminish or enable fear responding when its neural activity is stimulated or inhibited, respectively, perhaps through its projections to the hypothalamus. It also regulates behavioral manifestations of depression, with antidepressants stimulating the activity of LS neurons, and depression-like phenotypes corresponding to blunted activity of LS neurons; serotonin likely plays a key role in modulating these functions by influencing the responsiveness of the LS to hippocampal input. In conclusion, a better understanding of the LS may provide important and useful information in the pursuit of better treatments for a wide range of psychiatric conditions typified by disregulation of affective functions.
In the current study, event-related potentials (ERPs) were utilized to assess whether ERP correlates would distinguish between prosodic and lexical-semantic information processed during the comprehension of a spoken affective message. To this end, we employed a standard oddball paradigm with stimuli varying in lexical-semantic or prosodic characteristics. An N400 component was obtained in response to all stimuli and conditions (non-targets and targets). Greater negativity in the N400 amplitude was observed in response to semantic as compared to prosodic stimuli. An anterior (P3a) positive component was increased for prosodic as compared to semantic targets. We also investigated whether an N400 and/or P3a component would be present when a stimulus carried affective semantic and affective prosodic information. The ERP structure observed in response to targets of this condition showed a reduction in the amplitude of the N400 component and an explicit anterior P3a component, significantly greater than the P3a component in response to prosodic or semantic targets. Finally, a P3b component was evoked in response to targets, regardless of communicative dimension.
Sustaining attention under conditions of low external demand taxes our ability to stay on task and to avoid more appealing trains of thought or environmental distractions. By contrast, a stimulating, novel environment engages attention far more freely without the subjective feeling of having to override monotony. Our ability to maintain a goal-directed focus without support from the environment requires the endogenous control of behaviour. This control can be modulated by fronto-parietal circuits and this ability is compromised following traumatic brain injury (TBI) leading to increased lapses of attention. In this paper, we further explore a laboratory paradigm that we argue is particularly sensitive to sustained attention as opposed to other aspects of attentional control involving the selection and management of goals in working memory. The paradigm (fixed sequence Sustained Attention to Response Task--SARTfixed) involves withholding a key press to an infrequent no-go target embedded within a predictable sequence of numbers. We demonstrate that TBI patients in this study make disproportionately more errors than controls on this task. An analysis of response times (RTs) and EEG alpha power across the task demonstrates group differences preceding the critical no-go trial. Controls demonstrate a lengthening of RTs accompanied by desynchronization of power within the alpha band (approximately 10 Hz) preceding the no-go trial. Conversely, the TBI group showed a shortening of RTs during this period with no evidence of alpha desynchronization. These findings suggest that TBI patients may have dysfunctional alpha generators as a consequence of their injury that impairs endogenous control during the task.
The aim of the present study was to characterize the interactions of antagonist G (H-Arg-D-Trp-N(me)Phe-D-Trp-Leu-Met-NH 2)-targeted sterically stabilized liposomes with the human variant small cell lung cancer (SCLC) H82 cell line and to evaluate the antiproliferative activity of encapsulated doxorubicin against this cell line. Variant SCLC tumors are known to be more resistant to chemotherapy than classic SCLC tumors. The cellular association of antagonist G-targeted (radiolabeled) liposomes was 20-30-fold higher than that of non-targeted liposomes. Our data suggest that a maximum of 12,000 antagonist G-targeted liposomes were internalized/cell during 1-h incubation at 37 masculine C. Confocal microscopy experiments using pyranine-containing liposomes further confirmed that receptor-mediated endocytosis occurred, specifically in the case of targeted liposomes. In any of the previously mentioned experiments, the binding and endocytosis of non-targeted liposomes have revealed to be negligible. The improved cellular association of antagonist G-targeted liposomes, relative to non-targeted liposomes, resulted in an enhanced nuclear delivery (evaluated by fluorimetry) and cytotoxicity of encapsulated doxorubicin for incubation periods as short as 2 h. For an incubation of 2 h, we report IC50 values for targeted and non-targeted liposomes containing doxorubicin of 5.7 +/- 3.7 and higher than 200 micro M doxorubicin, respectively. Based on the present data, we may infer that receptors for antagonist G were present in H82 tumor cells and could mediate the internalization of antagonist G-targeted liposomes and the intracellular delivery of their content. Antagonist G covalently coupled to liposomal drugs may be promising for the treatment of this aggressive and highly heterogeneous disease.
In an experimental study, mechanisms by which cooperative prey transport is achieved in social spiders were clarified. Factors that could influence the number of individuals that participate in prey transport (prey mass, length and vibration) were investigated. Results show that two factors are fundamental: the vibrations and the prey length. Prey mass did not seem to influence spiders' participation. Thus, the single fact that individuals respond locally to environmental stimuli (intensity of vibration, available site on the prey) explains how spiders cooperate and efficiently capture a wide range of prey types without complex communication systems.
Sleep is a ubiquitous component of animal life, and prolonged sleep deprivation is fatal in both vertebrates and invertebrates. The physiologic function of sleep, however, is not known. We propose here that sleep provides a period of time necessary to reapportion resources within neurons and neural systems that become sub-optimally distributed during active waking. Three specific examples of such reapportionment during sleep are suggested: (1) the return of the neurotransmitter, glutamate, to synaptic vesicles at presynaptic sites most active during waking, (2) the intracellular movement of mitochondria from neuronal processes to the cells soma where mitochondrial replication can occur, and (3) the readjustment of the level and distribution of neurotransmitters within the brainstem modulatory systems and elsewhere that must function in an integrated fashion during waking. Experimental approaches that might be utilized to test these hypotheses are suggested.
In the last decade the study of the human brain and muscle energetics underwent a radical change, thanks to the progressive introduction of noninvasive techniques, including near-infrared (NIR) spectroscopy (NIRS). This review summarizes the most recent literature about the principles, techniques, advantages, limitations, and applications of NIRS in exercise physiology and neuroscience. The main NIRS instrumentations and measurable parameters will be reported. NIR light (700-1000 m) penetrates superficial layers (skin, subcutaneous fat, skull, etc.) and is either absorbed by chromophores (oxy- and deoxyhemoglobin and myoglobin) or scattered within the tissue. NIRS is a noninvasive and relatively low-cost optical technique that is becoming a widely used instrument for measuring tissue O2 saturation, changes in hemoglobin volume and, indirectly, brain/muscle blood flow and muscle O2 consumption. Tissue O2 saturation represents a dynamic balance between O2 supply and O2 consumption in the small vessels such as the capillary, arteriolar, and venular bed. The possibility of measuring the cortical activation in response to different stimuli, and the changes in the cortical cytochrome oxidase redox state upon O2 delivery changes, will also be mentioned.


Stroke is a leading cause of mortality and long-term disability worldwide. Survivors of a previous stroke or transient ischemic attack are vulnerable to further cerebrovascular events, as well as myocardial infarction, peripheral vascular disease, congestive heart failure and vascular death. Traditional approaches to the secondary prevention of stroke have included aspirin after ischemic stroke, warfarin for stroke associated with cardioembolic sources, and carotid endarterectomy for eligible candidates with significant carotid artery stenosis. In recent years, much evidence has emerged to support a broader array of pharmacotherapies, including newer antiplatelet agents, lipid lowering drugs, and several classes of blood pressure lowering therapies. Also under study are B vitamins for patients with cerebrovascular disease and hyper-homocysteinemia, and oral direct thrombin inhibitors for high-risk patients with atrial fibrillation. We review the literature to determine the clinical significance of these therapies, and provide recommendations regarding their use in the prevention of recurrent stroke.

The study of the patterns of gamma-motor activity which accompany natural contractions has been long and difficult, and has not as yet led to general agreement. In this review we have simplified matters by considering the case of locomotion in the cat only, and we have avoided discussion of the various hypotheses which have been advanced to provide general schemes of gamma control for a wide range of movements. The development of the subject is shown to depend very much on devising ingenious methods applicable to reduced and intact animals. Direct recording from gamma-motoneurones has only been possible in reduced preparations, whereas indirect assessment of gamma activity from spindle afferent recordings was used in these and in intact animals. At this point in time, we still have no direct recordings from gamma-motoneurones in normally behaving animals, but those obtained in decerebrate animals show distinct patterns of modulation for static and dynamic types with particular temporal relation to the stepping movements. The spindle recordings in intact animals potentially provide the most important information, and the problems of interpretation, which have previously caused difficulties, are beginning to be solved through the insights obtained from the reduced preparations.
This paper presents a case study that tested the feasibility and efficacy of using injectable microstimulators (BIONs) in a functional electrical stimulation (FES) device to correct foot drop. Compared with surface stimulation of the common peroneal nerve, stimulation with BIONs provides more selective activation of specific muscles. For example, stimulation of the tibialis anterior (TA) and extensor digitorum longus (EDL) muscles with BIONs produces ankle flexion without excessive inversion or eversion of the foot (i.e., balanced flexion). Efficacy was assessed using a 3-dimensional motion analysis of the ankle and foot trajectories during walking with and without stimulation. Without stimulation, the toe on the affected leg drags across the ground. BION stimulation of the TA muscle and deep peroneal nerve (which innervates TA and EDL) elevates the foot such that the toe clears the ground by 3 cm, which is equivalent to the toe clearance in the less affected leg. The physiological cost index (PCI) measured effort during walking. The PCI equals the change in heart rate (from rest to activity) divided by the walking speed; units are beats per metre. The PCI is high without stimulation (2.29 +/- 0.37, mean +/- SD) and greatly reduced with surface (1.29 +/- 0.10) and BIONic stimulation (1.46 +/- 0.24). Also, walking speed increased from 9.4 +/- 0.4 m/min without stimulation to 19.6 +/- 2.0 m/min with surface and 17.8 +/- 0.7 m/min with BIONic stimulation. These results suggest that FES delivered by a BION is an alternative to surface stimulation and provides selective control of muscle activation.
Recent advances in microelectrode array technology now permit a direct examination of the way populations of sensory neurons encode information about a limb's position in space. To address this issue, we recorded nerve impulses from about 100 single units simultaneously in the L6 and L7 dorsal root ganglia (DRG) of the anesthetized cat. Movement sensors, placed near the hip, knee, ankle, and foot, recorded passive movements of the cat's limb while it was moved pseudo-randomly. The firing rate of the neurons was correlated with the position of the limb in various coordinate systems. The firing rates were less correlated to the position of the foot in Cartesian coordinates (x, y) than in joint angular coordinates (hip, knee, ankle), or in polar coordinates. A model was developed in which position and its derivatives are encoded linearly, followed by a nonlinear spike-generating process. Adding the nonlinear portion significantly increased the correlations in all coordinate systems, and the full models were able to accurately predict the firing rates of various types of sensory neurons. The observed residual variability is captured by a simple stochastic model. Our results suggest that compact encoding models for primary afferents recorded at the DRG are well represented in polar coordinates, as has previously been suggested for the cortical and spinal representation of movement. This study illustrates how sensory receptors encode a sense of limb position, and it provides a general framework for modeling sensory encoding by populations of neurons.
The intermediate laminae of the lumbosacral spinal cord are suggested to contain a small number of specialized neuronal circuits that form the basic elements of movement construction (&quot;movement primitives&quot;). Our aim was to study the properties and state dependence of these hypothesized circuits in comparison with movements elicited by direct nerve or muscle stimulation. Microwires for intraspinal microstimulation (ISMS) were implanted in intermediate laminae throughout the lumbosacral enlargement. Movement vectors evoked by ISMS were compared with those evoked by stimulation through muscle and nerve electrodes in cats that were anesthetized, then decerebrated, and finally spinalized. Similar movements could be evoked under anesthesia by ISMS and nerve and muscle stimulation, and these covered the full work space of the limb. ISMS-evoked movements were associated with the actions of nearby motoneuron pools. However, after decerebration and spinalization, ISMS-evoked movements were dominated by flexion, with few extensor movements. This indicates that the outputs of neuronal networks in the intermediate laminae depend significantly on descending input and on the state of the spinal cord. Frequently, the outputs also depended on stimulus intensity. These experiments suggest that interneuronal circuits in the intermediate and ventral regions of the spinal cord overlap and their function may be to process reflex and descending activity in a flexible manner for the activation of nearby motoneuron pools.
Henneman's size principle relates the input and output properties of motoneurons and their muscle fibers to size and is the basis for size-ordered activation or recruitment of motor units during movement. After nerve injury and surgical repair, the relationship between motoneuron size and the number and size of the muscle fibers that the motoneuron reinnervates is initially lost but returns with time, irrespective of whether the muscles are self- or cross-reinnervated by the regenerated axons. Although the return of the size relationships was initially attributed to the recovery of the cross-sectional area of the reinnervated muscle fibers and their force per fiber, direct enumeration of the innervation ratio and the number of muscle fibers per motoneuron demonstrated that a size-dependent branching of axons accounts for the size relationships in normal muscle, as suggested by Henneman and his colleagues. This same size-dependent branching accounts for the rematching of motoneuron size and muscle unit size in reinnervated muscles. Experiments were carried out to determine whether the daily amount of neuromuscular activation of motor units accounts for the size-dependent organization and reorganization of motor unit properties. The normal size-dependent matching of motoneurons and their muscle units with respect to the numbers of muscle fibers per motoneuron was unaltered by synchronous activation of all of the motor units with the same daily activity. Hence, the restored size relationships and rematching of motoneuron and muscle unit properties after nerve injuries and muscle reinnervation sustain the normal gradation of muscle force during movement by size-ordered recruitment of motor units and the process of rate coding of action potentials. Dynamic modulation of size of muscle fibers and their contractile speed and endurance by neuromuscular activity allows for neuromuscular adaptation in the context of the sustained organization of the neuromuscular system according to the size principle.
Numerous investigations over the past 15 years have demonstrated that sensory feedback plays a critical role in establishing the timing and magnitude of muscle activity during walking. Here we review recent studies reporting that sensory feedback makes a substantial contribution to the activation of extensor motoneurons during the stance phase. Quantitative analysis of the effects of loading and unloading ankle extensor muscles during walking on a horizontal surface has shown that sensory feedback can increase the activity of ankle extensor muscles by up to 60%. There is currently some uncertainty about which sensory receptors are responsible for this enhancement of extensor activity, but likely candidates are the secondary spindle endings in the ankle extensors of humans and the Golgi tendon organs in the ankle extensors of humans and cats. Two important issues arise from the finding that sensory feedback from the leg regulates the magnitude of extensor activity. The first is the extent to which differences in the magnitude of activity in extensor muscles during different locomotor tasks can be directly attributed to changes in the magnitude of sensory signals, and the second is whether the enhancement of extensor activity is determined primarily by feedback from a specific group of receptors or from numerous groups of receptors distributed throughout the leg. Limitations of current experimental strategies prevent a straightforward empirical resolution of these issues. A potentially fruitful approach in the immediate future is to develop models of the known and hypothesized neuronal networks controlling motoneuronal activity, and use these simulations to control forward dynamic models of the musculo-skeletal system. These simulations would help understand how sensory signals are modified with a change in locomotor task and, in conjunction with physiological experiments, establish the extent to which these modifications can account for changes in the magnitude of motoneuronal activity.
There is extensive modulation of cutaneous and H-reflexes during rhythmic leg movement in humans. Mechanisms controlling reflex modulation (e.g., phase- and task-dependent modulation, and reflex reversal) during leg movements have been ascribed to the activity of spinal central pattern generating (CPG) networks and peripheral feedback. Our working hypothesis has been that neural mechanisms (i.e., CPGs) controlling rhythmic movement are conserved between the human lumbar and cervical spinal cord. Thus reflex modulation during rhythmic arm movement should be similar to that for rhythmic leg movement. This hypothesis has been tested by studying the regulation of reflexes in arm muscles during rhythmic arm cycling and treadmill walking. This paper reviews recent studies that have revealed that reflexes in arm muscles show modulation within the movement cycle (e.g., phase-dependency and reflex reversal) and between static and rhythmic motor tasks (e.g., task-dependency). It is concluded that reflexes are modulated similarly during rhythmic movement of the upper and lower limbs, suggesting similar motor control mechanisms. One notable exception to this pattern is a failure of contralateral arm movement to modulate reflex amplitude, which contrasts directly with observations from the leg. Overall, the data support the hypothesis that CPG activity contributes to the neural control of rhythmic arm movement.
Motoneurons have extensive dendritic trees that receive the numerous inputs required to produce movement. These dendrites are highly active, containing voltage-sensitive channels that generate persistent inward currents (PICs) that can enhance synaptic input 5-fold or more. However, this enhancement is proportional to the level of activity of monoaminergic inputs from the brainstem that release serotonin and noradrenalin. The higher this activity, the larger the dendritic PIC and the higher the firing rate evoked by a given amount of excitatory synaptic input. This brainstem control of motoneuron input-output gain translates directly into control of system gain of a motor pool and its muscle. Because large dendritic PICs are probably necessary for motoneurons to have sufficient gain to generate large forces, it is possible that descending monoaminergic inputs scale in proportion to voluntary force. Inhibition from sensory inputs has a strong suppressive effect on dendritic PICs: the stronger the inhibition, the smaller the PIC. Thus, local inhibitory inputs within the cord may oppose the descending monoaminergic control of PICs. Most motor behaviors evoke a mixture of excitation and inhibition (e.g., the reciprocal inhibition between antagonists). Therefore, normal joint movements may involve constant adjustment of PIC amplitude.
This report reviews the research and mentoring career of Richard B. Stein (1940-). In 1962, he completed a B.S. degree in physics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA, and thereafter an M.A. (1964), Ph.D. (1966), and postdoctoral training (1966-68) at the University of Oxford, UK. He subsequently assumed a faculty position at the University of Alberta (Canada), where he is currently an active researcher and mentor. To this point in 2004, Stein has trained and collaborated closely with over 160 scientists, largely neuroscientists and biomedical engineers, from 27 countries. He and his former trainees and collaborators have made important contributions on topics that span the cellular-to-behavioral spectrum of movement and rehabilitation-prosthetics neuroscience. His mentors, trainees, and collaborators include scientists whose countries of origin are: Australia, 2; Austria, 1; Belgium, 1; Bulgaria, 1; Canada, 64; China, 6; Denmark, 1; Germany, 1; Great Britain, 16; Hong Kong, 4; India, 5; Iraq, 2; Italy, 2; Japan, 10; Kenya, 1; New Zealand, 4; Pakistan, 1; Palestine, 1; Poland, 1; Romania, 1; South Africa, 1; Sri Lanka, 1; The Netherlands, 1; Turkey, 1; Uruguay, 1; USA, 21; and Yugoslavia, 6. In all instances, Stein's research collaborations and mentoring have advanced the careers of his trainees and junior collaborators, a well-deserved and important compliment to a stellar movement neuroscientist.
1. The vgf gene encodes a neuropeptide precursor with a restricted pattern of expression that is limited to a subset of neurons in the central and peripheral nervous systems and to specific populations of endocrine cells in the adenohypophysis, adrenal medulla, gastrointestinal tract, and pancreas. In responsive neurons, vgf transcription is upregulated by neurotrophins. the basis for the original identification of VGF as nerve growth factor- (NGF) inducible in PC12 cells (A. Levi, J. D. Eldridge, and B. M. Paterson, Science 229:393-395, 1985). 2. In this review, we shall summarize data concerning the transcriptional regulation of vgf in vitro, the structural organization of the vgf promoter as well as the transcription factors which regulate its activity. 3. On the basis of in situ hybridization and immunohistochemical studies, the in vivo tissue-specific expression of VGF during differentiation and in the adult will be summarized. 4. Parallel biochemical data will be reviewed, addressing the proteolytical processing of the pro-VGF precursor within the secretory compartment of neuroendocrine cells. 5. Finally, analysis of the phenotype of VGF knockout mice will be discussed, implying a nonredundant role of VGF products in the regulation of energy storage and expenditure.
The aim of the study was to verify the production of PAF and the activity of PAF acetyl-hydrolase (PAF-AH), the enzyme involved in the catabolism of this phospholipid mediator, in migraine attacks. Their levels were determined during migraine crises in serial samples of internal jugular venous blood taken from five migraine patients without aura, who were admitted to the hospital during the crises. Internal jugular venous blood samples were taken immediately after catheter insertion at 1, 2, and 4 h after attack onset, and within 2 h from its cessation. PAF was purified by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and determined by radioimmunoassay method. The enzymatic activity of PAF-AH was measured by reverse-phase HPLC, based on the derivatization with 7-diethylaminocoumarin-3-carbonylazide. In the internal jugular venous blood of migraine patients without aura (MO), an increase was observed in PAF levels, which was already evident at the time of catheter insertion (885.6 +/- 82.8) and at the first hour (868.4 +/- 65.24) (ANOVA: P &lt; 0.0001). PAF levels remained elevated through the second (746.8 +/- 82.95), fourth (700.6 +/- 34.93) and sixth hours (644.4 +/- 42.85), and then decreased at the end of the attack, reaching levels significantly lower than those measured at the time of catheter insertion (565.5 +/- 38.34). The activity of PAF-AH showed an opposite trend with higher values at the first hour and significantly lower values at the second and fourth hours from the beginning of the migraine attack (ANOVA: P &lt; 0.02). The increased production of PAF may account for persistent platelet activation during migraine crises, even in the presence of an increased production of nitric oxide (NO) end-products which, on the other hand, should instead intervene in counteracting and limiting platelet activation. Potential sources of PAF production are the endothelial cells from cerebral vessels, stimulated by trigeminal neuropeptides, platelets themselves, and mast cells, as suggested by the neurogenic inflammation model.
A neuronal network inspired by the anatomy of the cerebral cortex was simulated to study the self-organization of spiking neurons into neuronal groups. The network consisted of 100 000 reentrantly interconnected neurons exhibiting known types of cortical firing patterns, receptor kinetics, short-term plasticity and long-term spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP), as well as a distribution of axonal conduction delays. The dynamics of the network allowed us to study the fine temporal structure of emerging firing patterns with millisecond resolution. We found that the interplay between STDP and conduction delays gave rise to the spontaneous formation of neuronal groups--sets of strongly connected neurons capable of firing time-locked, although not necessarily synchronous, spikes. Despite the noise present in the model, such groups repeatedly generated patterns of activity with millisecond spike-timing precision. Exploration of the model allowed us to characterize various group properties, including spatial distribution, size, growth, rate of birth, lifespan, and persistence in the presence of synaptic turnover. Localized coherent input resulted in shifts of receptive and projective fields in the model similar to those observed in vivo.
Both the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and medial temporal lobe (MTL) are involved in memory retrieval. Here we distinguish between their roles by manipulating demand for interference resolution and reactivation of maintained information. Subjects were tested on a letter working memory task with distractors. When the memory delay was interrupted with letter distractors, there was higher activity in the middle frontal gyrus at retrieval compared to when the delay was interrupted by number distractors, suggesting the role of the PFC in interference resolution. By contrast, activity in the parahippocampal gyrus did not differ between the two conditions. The two structures were then compared using the dataset of our previous study on memory reactivation, where subjects performed a letter working memory task with arithmetic distractors or non-distractors. The activity in the parahippocampal gyrus at retrieval was higher when distractors interrupted rehearsal than when the intervening task was non-distracting and subjects continued to rehearse, suggesting the role of the MTL in reactivating the stored information. By contrast, the activity in the middle frontal gyrus did not differ between the two conditions. Taking these results together, we have shown the double dissociation between the PFC and MTL in memory retrieval.
Wakefulness and paradoxical sleep (PS) share a similar electrophysiological trait, namely, a more elevated level of high-frequency activities at both thalamic and cortical levels relative to slow wave sleep (SWS). The spatio-temporal binding of these high-frequency activities within thalamo-cortical networks is presumed to generate cognitive experiences during wakefulness. Similarly during PS, this phenomenon could be at the origin of the perceptual experiences forming dreams. However, contents of dreams often present some bizarre features which depart from our cognitive experiences in waking. This suggests some differences in processing and/or integration of brain activities during waking and PS. Using intracranial recordings in epileptic patients we observed, specifically during PS, the presence of unexpected delta frequency oscillations, as well as a surprisingly low amount of high-frequency activities, in a posterior region of the thalamus, the medial pulvinar nucleus (PuM). This discrepancy between activities in a thalamic nucleus and its related cortical areas may compromise the spatio-temporal binding of the high-frequency activities, resulting in altered perceptual experiences during dream periods.
The effect of electrical kindling, applied twice daily in primary auditory cortex on the neural response properties and tonotopic organization in the lightly ketamine anesthetized cat is presented. Kindling refers to a highly persistent modification of brain functioning in response to repeated application of initially sub-convulsant electrical stimulation, typically in the limbic system but here in auditory cortex, which results in the development of epileptiform activity. Kindling resulted in approximately two-thirds of the animals reaching a fully generalized state in 40 stimulation sessions. Multi-unit recordings were obtained from primary auditory cortex contralateral to the kindled site. Spontaneous activity of single units in fully kindled animals showed a decrease in the mean firing rate compared to sham controls, and a reduction in the rate of burst firing as well as in the mean interspike interval in a burst as compared with normal and sham controls. A 40% enhancement of spontaneous neural synchrony, as measured by spike cross-correlation, was found. Hearing sensitivity, measured by auditory brainstem response, was not affected by the kindling sessions. A profound alteration of the tonotopic map in AI was observed with a large extent becoming tuned to similar high characteristic frequencies. The percentage of double tuned neurons was significantly increased, nevertheless the frequency-tuning curve bandwidth was on average reduced. Thus, electrical kindling resulted in substantial alterations in unit firing characteristics and reorganization of cat auditory cortex.

We have previously used homologation of (S)-glutamic acid (Glu) and Glu analogs as an approach to the design of selective ligands for different subtypes of Glu receptors. (RS)-2-Amino-3-(3-carboxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolyl)propionic acid (ACPA), which is an isoxazole homolog of Glu, is a very potent agonist at the (RS)-2-amino-3-(3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolyl)propionic acid (AMPA) subgroup of Glu receptors and a moderately potent ligand for the kainic acid (KA) subgroup of Glu receptors. The enantiomers of ACPA were previously obtained by chiral HPLC resolution. Prompted by pharmacological interest in ACPA, we have now prepared the (S)- and (R)-enantiomers of ACPA by stereocontrolled syntheses using (1R,2R,5R)- and (1S,2S,5S)-2-hydroxy-3-pinanone, respectively, as chiral auxiliaries. Furthermore, the 5-ethyl analog of ACPA, Ethyl-ACPA, was synthesized, and (S)- and (R)-Ethyl-ACPA were also prepared using this method. The absolute configurations of (S)- and (R)-ACPA were established by X-ray crystallographic analysis of a protected (1S,2S,5S)-2-hydroxy-3-pinanone imine derivative of (R)-ACPA. The absolute stereochemistry of (S)- and (R)-Ethyl-ACPA was assigned on the basis of a comparison of their properties with those of the enantiomers of ACPA, employing elution order on chiral HPLC columns, as well as circular dichroism (CD) spectroscopy in combination with time-dependent density functional theory. The structural and electronic basis for the Cotton effect observed for such analogs is examined. The lower homolog of ACPA, (RS)-2-amino-2-(3-carboxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolyl)acetic acid (1), which is a Glu analog, was also synthesized. Affinities and neuroexcitatory effects were determined using rat brain membranes and cortical wedges, respectively, at native AMPA, KA, and N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptors. The molecular pharmacology of (S)- and (R)-ACPA and (S)- and (R)-Ethyl-ACPA was evaluated at homomeric cloned subtypes of AMPA receptors (iGluR1o,3o,4o) and of KA receptors (iGluR5,6), expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. The cloned receptors mGluR1alpha, mGluR2, and mGluR4a, expressed in CHO cell lines, were used to study the effects of the five compounds at metabotropic Glu receptors. In accordance with ligand-receptor complexes known from X-ray crystallography, the conformationally restricted Glu analog 1 was inactive at all Glu receptors studied, and the R-forms of ACPA and Ethyl-ACPA were very weak or inactive at these receptors. At AMPA receptor subtypes, (S)-ACPA and (S)-Ethyl-ACPA showed equally potent agonist effects at iGluR1o and iGluR3o, whereas (S)-Ethyl-ACPA was 6-fold more potent than (S)-ACPA at iGluR4o. (S)-ACPA and (S)-Ethyl-ACPA were approximately an order of magnitude less potent at iGluR5 than at AMPA receptor subtypes, and neither compound showed detectable effects at iGluR6. The binding mode of (S)-Ethyl-ACPA at iGluR2 was examined by docking to the (S)-ACPA-iGluR2 complex.
We assessed changes in cardiovascular function, specifically arterial blood pressure and heart rate in 6 palmar hyperhidrotic patients before, during, and after T2 and T3 ganglionectomy and sympathectomy. We also assessed changes in skin temperature, specifically at the forehead, axilla, thumb, loin, and sole of the foot (all bilaterally) in 10 palmar hyperhidrotic patients before, during, and after T2 ganglionectomy and sympathectomy. In both methods, ganglionectomy and sympathectomy were done by percutaneous stereotactic thermocoagulation, under local anesthesia, at room temperature 21.4 +/- 0.6 degrees C. During the procedure we found a significant acute decrease in systolic and pulse pressures, from 153 +/- 10 to 127 +/- 9 and from 80 +/- 7 to 56 +/- 4mmHg respectively, and a lesser decrease in diastolic pressure; heart rate showed no statistically significant changes. We also noted a marked increase in thumb temperature, from 21.2 +/- 0.6 to 36.0 +/- 0.1 degrees C, with a mean increase of 14.8 degrees C, at a room temperature 21.4 +/- 0.6 degrees C, after complete bilateral T2 ganglionectomy and sympathectomy. Skin temperature at the forehead, axilla, loin, and sole of the foot, all measured bilaterally, showed no significant increase, although there was a decrease in sweating in both forehead and axillary regions. The decrease in systolic and pulse pressures observed during the thermocoagulation procedure were temporary effects. The increase in thumb temperature, however, appears to be a permanent effect for palmar hyperhidrotic patients. Finally, the data indicate that the sympathetic innervation of the blood vessel in the periphery presents a segmental organization.
The role of magnesium (Mg(2+)) in brain injury has been well established. The present paper reviews the use of Mg(2+) therapy to facilitate recovery of function in a focal model of brain injury. Specifically a summary of the ability of magnesium chloride (MgCl(2)) to induce recovery of chronic behavioral impairments and the establishment of MgCl(2)'s wide therapeutic window is presented. These results suggest that Mg(2+) therapy is effective in facilitating recovery of function and exhibits very robust and unique effects.






Functional neuroimaging research has shown that certain classes of visual stimulus selectively activate focal regions of visual cortex. Specifically, cortical areas that generally and selectively respond to faces (Kanwisher, N., McDermott, J., &amp; Chun, M. M. (1997). The fusiform face area: a module in human extrastriate cortex specialized for face perception. Journal of Neuroscience, 17(11), 4302-4311; Puce, A., Allison, T., Asgari, M., Gore, J. C., &amp; McCarthy, G. (1996). Differential sensitivity of human visual cortex to faces, letterstrings, and textures: a functional magnetic resonance imaging study. Journal of Neuroscience, 16(16), 5205-5215.) and to the human body (Downing, P. E., Jiang, Y., Shuman, M., &amp; Kanwisher, N. (2001). A cortical area selective for visual processing of the human body. Science, 293(5539), 2470-2473.) have recently been described using fMRI. A parallel body of research has focused on the ability of faces to &quot;capture&quot; the focus of attention, compared to other kinds of objects (Lavie, N., Ro, T., &amp; Russell, C. (2003). The role of perceptual load in processing distractor faces. Psychological Science, 14(5), 510-515; Ro, T., Russell, C., &amp; Lavie, N. (2001). Changing faces: a detection advantage in the flicker paradigm. Psychological Science, 12(1), 94-99; Vuilleumier, P. (2000). Faces call for attention: evidence from patients with visual extinction. Neuropsychologia, 38(5), 693-700.). The present study uses Mack and Rock's &quot;inattentional blindness&quot; paradigm to investigate whether unexpected, task-irrelevant human body stimuli capture awareness when attention is occupied by a primary task (Mack, A., &amp; Rock, I. (1998). Inattentional blindness. London: MIT Press). Silhouettes and stick figures of human bodies, and silhouettes of hands, were compared to control stimuli including object silhouettes, object stick figures, and scrambled silhouettes of bodies, body parts, and objects. Participants were significantly better able to detect a human figure relative to the control stimuli. These results suggest that the human body, like the face, may be prioritized for attentional selection. More generally, they are consistent with the proposal that the visual system assigns attentional priority to types of stimuli that are also represented in strongly selective cortical regions.

Glucagon-like peptide-1 (7-36)-amide (GLP-1) is an endogenous 30-amino acid gut peptide, which binds at the GLP-1 receptor coupled to the cyclic AMP second messenger pathway. GLP-1 receptor stimulation enhances pancreatic islet beta-cell proliferation, glucose-dependent insulin secretion and lowers blood glucose and food intake in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Not limited to the pancreas, the chemoarchitecture of GLP-1 receptor distribution in the brain of rodents and humans correlates with a central role for GLP-1 in the regulation of food intake. However emerging evidence suggests that stimulation of neuronal GLP-1 receptors plays an important role in regulating neuronal plasticity and cell survival. GLP-1 has been documented to induce neurite outgrowth and to protect against excitotoxic cell death and oxidative injury in cultured neuronal cells. Moreover, GLP-1 and exendin-4, a naturally occurring more stable analogue of GLP-1 that likewise binds at the GLP-1 receptor, were shown to reduce endogenous levels of amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) in mouse brain and to reduce levels of beta-amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP) in neurons. Collectively these data suggest that treatment with GLP-1 or a related peptide beneficially affects a number of the therapeutic targets associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although much remains to be elucidated with regards to the downstream signaling pathways involved in the pro-survival properties of GLP-1, modulation of calcium homeostasis may be critical. This review will consider the potential therapeutic relevance of GLP-1 to CNS disorders, such as AD.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive senile dementia characterized by deposition of a 4 kDa peptide of 39-42 residues known as amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) in the form of senile plaques and the microtubule associated protein tau as paired helical filaments. Genetic studies have identified mutations in the Abeta precursor protein (APP) as the key triggers for the pathogenesis of AD. Other genes such as presenilins 1 and 2 (PS1/2) and apolipoprotein E (APOE) also play a critical role in increased Abeta deposition. Several biochemical and molecular studies using transfected cultured cells and transgenic animals point to mechanisms by which Abeta is generated and aggregated to trigger the neurodegeneration that may cause AD. Three important enzymes collectively known as 'secretases' participate in APP processing leading to the generation of either Abeta or non-amyloid proteins. However, the mechanisms of neurotoxicity of Abeta and the role of APP function in AD remain important unanswered questions. Although early studies recognized the loss of cholesterol and other lipids in the brain, these findings have been poorly connected with AD pathogenesis, despite the identification of the epsilon4 allele of APOE as a major risk factor in AD. The recent finding that cholesterol can modulate the yield of potentially toxic Abeta has boosted research on its role in AD. Consequently, several cholesterol-reducing drugs are currently being evaluated for the treatment of AD. The present review summarizes our current understanding of the relationship of AD pathogenesis with cholesterol, lipids and other genetic and environmental risk factors.
Research on the association between platelet monoamine oxidase (MAO) activity and personality traits, such as sensation seeking and impulsiveness, is reviewed with an emphasis on early history and current situation. The effects of MAO-inhibiting compounds in cigarette smoke for the interpretation of this association are discussed and recent results confirming a true association between platelet MAO activity and personality and vulnerability, for e.g. type 2 alcoholism are presented. From a clinical point of view, the link between platelet MAO activity, which is highly genetically regulated and is stable in the individual, and personality traits, has had its greatest impact on the understanding of the nature of constitutional factors making individuals vulnerable, for e.g. substance abuse and other forms of sociopathic behaviour. The molecular mechanisms underlying the association between platelet MAO and behaviour are discussed and evidence that common transcriptional factors, e.g. within the AP-2 family, regulating both the expression of platelet MAO and components of the central monoaminergic systems, such as synthesising enzymes, receptors and transporters, are presented. A hypothesis is put forward, that such common transcription factors may not directly regulate platelet MAO expression, but rather mitochondrial density, or outer mitochondrial membrane surface.
The improvement of perceptual capabilities with training can offer important insight into the physiological basis of learning in the cerebral cortex. The rapid time course and ease with which some perceptual capabilities can improve suggest that learning is an integral part of normal perception. Electrophysiological and neuroimaging studies of sensory systems in the cortex suggest that the changes underlying perceptual learning can occur in a variety of areas and are likely to involve multiple mechanisms. In particular, recent psychological and physiological studies suggest that perceptual learning might often involve the task-specific suppression of signals that interfere with performance.
Several theoretical, computational, and experimental studies suggest that neurons encode sensory information using a small number of active neurons at any given point in time. This strategy, referred to as 'sparse coding', could possibly confer several advantages. First, it allows for increased storage capacity in associative memories; second, it makes the structure in natural signals explicit; third, it represents complex data in a way that is easier to read out at subsequent levels of processing; and fourth, it saves energy. Recent physiological recordings from sensory neurons have indicated that sparse coding could be a ubiquitous strategy employed in several different modalities across different organisms.
The discovery of two families of mammalian taste receptors has provided important insights into taste recognition and taste perception. Recent studies have examined the receptors and signaling pathways that mediate sweet, bitter, and amino acid taste detection in mammals. These studies demonstrate that taste cells are selectively tuned to different taste modalities and clarify the logic of taste coding in the periphery.
A major part of vision research builds on the assumption that processing of visual stimuli can be understood on the basis of knowledge about the processing of simplified, artificial stimuli. Recent experimental advances, however, show that a combination of responses to simplified stimuli does not adequately describe responses to natural visual scenes. The systems performance exceeds the performance predicted from understanding its basic constituents. This highlights the fact that the visual system is specifically adapted to the properties of its everyday input and can only fully be understood when probed with naturalistic stimuli.



Patients with chronic intestinal pseudoobstruction (CIP) experience a constellation of symptoms including abdominal pain, nausea, fullness, and malaise which fluctuates in severity and invariably result in a diminished quality of life. Though surgical resection or transplantation may be an option for some, there currently is no cure for CIP. Thus, management strategies utilize pharmacologic, intravenous, endoscopic, and surgical techniques to promote transit, minimize painful bloating, reduce complications of stasis, and improve quality of life. Prokinetic agents such as erythromycin, metoclopramide, cisapride, neostigmine, and tegaserod may be effective for acute exacerbations. Octreotide may reduce symptoms of bacterial overgrowth and bloating by stimulating migrating motor complexes. Enteral tubes for venting and nutritional support may reduce hospitalizations. Total parenteral nutrition (TPN), fraught with well-known complications, may be the only tolerated source for nutrients and fluid. Advanced disease may magnify nutritional problems, difficulties of long term intravenous and intestinal access, and poor symptom control. Because the initial process may manifest in other intestinal regions following surgery, resection of involved segments should be performed with caution. Small intestinal transplantation is a high-risk surgery performed in persons unable to tolerate intravenous (IV) nutrition. Optimal management for persons with CIP should not only provide nutritional and symptom focused care but should be part of a supportive network which links patients to their appropriate healthcare needs.
A careful clinical evaluation, exclusion of secondary causes (eg, colonic obstruction, metabolic conditions, and drug-induced constipation), and assessments of colonic transit and rectal evacuation are necessary to ascertain whether constipation is attributable to normal colonic transit, delayed colonic transit (ie, slow-transit constipation), or a rectal evacuation disorder (with or without delayed colonic transit). Idiopathic slow-transit constipation is a clinical syndrome predominantly affecting women and is characterized by intractable constipation and delayed colonic transit. This syndrome is attributed to disordered colonic motor function and spans a spectrum of variable severity ranging from patients who have relatively mild delays in transit, but are otherwise indistinguishable from irritable bowel syndrome, at one extreme to patients with colonic inertia or chronic megacolon at the other extreme. Most patients are treated with one or more pharmacological agent. A subtotal colectomy is effective and occasionally indicated for patients with medically refractory severe slow-transit constipation, provided that pelvic floor dysfunction has been excluded or treated. Pelvic floor dysfunction can be diagnosed by the clinical features and anorectal testing. Most patients with pelvic floor dysfunction will respond to pelvic floor retraining by biofeedback therapy.

The mechanisms that determine whether neural stem cells remain in a proliferative state or differentiate into neurons or glia are largely unknown. Here we establish a pivotal role for gap junction-mediated intercellular communication in determining the proliferation and survival of mouse neural progenitor cells (NPCs). When cultured in the presence of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), NPCs express the gap junction protein connexin 43 and are dye-coupled. Upon withdrawal of bFGF, levels of connexin 43 and dye coupling decrease, and the cells cease proliferating and differentiate into neurons; the induction of gap junctions by bFGF is mediated by p42/p44 mitogen-activated protein kinases. Inhibition of gap junctions abolishes the ability of bFGF to maintain NPCs in a proliferative state resulting in cell differentiation or cell death, while overexpression of connexin 43 promotes NPC self-renewal in the absence of bFGF. In addition to promoting their proliferation, gap junctions are required for the survival of NPCs. Gap junctional communication is therefore both necessary and sufficient to maintain NPCs in a self-renewing state.
Expression of polysialic acid (PSA) promotes migration of progenitor cells from the subventricular zone (SVZ) to the olfactory bulb, where they differentiate into interneurons. This differentiation has been found to coincide with a loss of PSA. Moreover, specific removal of PSA from the mouse SVZ by endoneuraminidase-N was found to cause premature differentiation, as evidenced by neurite outgrowth and tyrosine hydroxylase synthesis in vivo and by expression of neurofilament-L and beta III-tubulin in SVZ explant cultures. This differentiation involved activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase through p59fyn and was blocked by its inhibition. The effects of PSA removal were found to be cell contact-dependent and to be reduced by anti-neural cell adhesion molecule antibodies. These findings indicate that PSA expression regulates the fate of SVZ precursors by two contact-dependent mechanisms, the previously reported reduction in cell-cell adhesion that allows cell translocation, and the postponement of cell differentiation that otherwise would be induced by signals generated through surface molecule-mediated cell-cell interactions.
The three vertebrate Gli proteins play a central role in mediating Hedgehog (Hh)-dependent cell fate specification in the developing spinal cord; however, their individual contributions to this process have not been fully characterized. In this paper, we have addressed this issue by examining patterning in the spinal cord of Gli2;Gli3 double mutant embryos, and in chick embryos transfected with dominant activator forms of Gli2 and Gli3. In double homozygotes, Gli1 is also not expressed; thus, all Gli protein activities are absent in these mice. We show that Gli3 contributes activator functions to ventral neuronal patterning, and plays a redundant role with Gli2 in the generation of V3 interneurons. We also show that motoneurons and three classes of ventral neurons are generated in the ventral spinal cord in double mutants, but develop as intermingled rather than discrete populations. Finally, we provide evidence that Gli2 and Gli3 activators control ventral neuronal patterning by regulating progenitor segregation. Thus, multiple ventral neuronal types can develop in the absence of Gli function, but require balanced Gli protein activities for their correct patterning and differentiation.
Evidence suggests that oxidative stress is involved in the pathophysiology of diabetic complications and that insulin has a neuroprotective role in oxidative stress conditions. In this study, we evaluated the in vitro effect of insulin in the susceptibility to oxidative stress and in the transport of the amino acid neurotransmitters gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and glutamate in a synaptosomal fraction isolated from male type 2 diabetic Goto-Kakizaki (GK) rat brain cortex. The ascorbate/Fe(2+)-induced increase in thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARSs) was similar in Wistar and GK rats and was not reverted by insulin (1 micromol/l), suggesting that other mechanisms, rather than a direct effect in membrane lipid peroxidation, may mediate insulin neuroprotection. Diabetes did not affect GABA and glutamate transport, despite the significant decrease in membrane potential and ATP/ADP ratio, and insulin increased the uptake of both GABA and glutamate in GK rats. Upon oxidation, there was a decrease in the uptake of both neurotransmitters and an increase in extrasynaptosomal glutamate levels and in ATP/ADP ratio in GK rats. Insulin treatment reverted the ascorbate/Fe(2+)-induced decrease in GABA accumulation, with a decrease in extrasynaptosomal GABA. These results suggest that insulin modulates synaptosomal GABA and/or glutamate transport, thus having a neuroprotective role under oxidizing and/or diabetic conditions.
Butyrylcholinesterase is a serine hydrolase biochemically related to the cholinergic enzyme acetylcholinesterase. It is capable of hydrolyzing esters of choline. Butyrylcholinesterase has unique enzymatic properties and is widely distributed in the nervous system, raising the possibility of its involvement in neural function. In particular, recent evidence indicates that along with acetylcholinesterase, butyrylcholinesterase catalyzes the hydrolysis of acetylcholine, and thus serves as a co-regulator of cholinergic transmission. Accumulating evidence also indicates that butyrylcholinesterase is likely to be involved in neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease. Therefore, inhibition of butyrylcholinesterase will not only lead to enhanced cholinergic transmission but also has the potential to interfere with the disease process in Alzheimer's disease and other dementing disorders.
This study investigated the ability of temporal processing measures obtained before school entry to predict early reading development in an unselected sample of 125 children (68 males, 57 females). Visual and auditory temporal order judgement (TOJ) tasks measured at Preschool (mean age 5.36 years) significantly predicted letter and word identification (accuracy) and reading rate (fluency) in early Grade 1 (mean age 5.94 years), even after the effects of age, environment, memory, attention, nonverbal ability, and speech/language problems were accounted for. There were no significant differences in the overall variance accounted for in reading between TOJ measures taken before or after reading had emerged. Both Preschool and Grade 1 measures of auditory TOJ accounted for significant independent variance in reading. However, only visual TOJ performance measured at Grade 1 accounted for unique variance in reading rate. This was discussed in terms of developmental changes in the role of visual temporal processing as reading develops. Reliability of the temporal measures from Preschool to Grade 1 was moderate. The results showed that measures of visual and auditory temporal processing obtained close to school-entry would be a useful addition to predicting risk of early reading difficulties.
Members of the actin-depolymerizing factor (ADF)/cofilin family of proteins are expressed in all eukaryotic cells. In higher vertebrates, cells often express as many as three different ADF/cofilin genes and each of these proteins may be phosphorylated on serine 3, giving rise to up to six different species. Also, many avian, amphibian, and invertebrate systems have been useful in studying different aspects of ADF/cofilin function. Antibodies have been prepared against different members of the ADF/cofilin family, but no systematic examination of their cross-reactivity has been reported. Although ADF and cofilins within a single vertebrate species have about a 70% sequence homology, antibodies often differentiate between these proteins. Here, Western blotting was used with chemiluminescence substrates of different sensitivities to determine the relative immunoreactivities of different polyclonal rabbit antibodies and a mouse monoclonal antibody to purified ADF/cofilins from plants, protists, nematodes, insects, echinoderms, birds, and mammals. From immunocross-reactivities and sequence alignments, the principal epitope in mammalian ADF and cofilin-1 recognized by an antibody raised against avian ADF was identified. The specificity of an antibody to the phosphopeptide epitope of metazoan ADF/cofilins was confirmed by two-dimensional (2-D) immunoblot analysis. Futhermore, this bank of antibodies was used to identify by Western blotting a putative member of the ADF/cofilin family in the sea slug, Aplysia californica.
Desensitization and internalization of G protein-coupled receptors can be mediated by phosphorylation within the C-terminal tail, facilitating beta-arrestin binding and targeting the receptor for internalization. Type II GnRH receptors (GnRH-Rs) show such regulation, but type I GnRH-Rs lack C-tails and are not rapidly desensitized or internalized. Here we show contrasting susceptibility of type I (human and sheep) and II (Xenopus) GnRH-Rs to regulation by protein kinase C (PKC). When human (h) or Xenopus (X) GnRH-Rs were expressed using recombinant adenovirus, PKC activation increased radioligand binding to XGnRH-Rs but not to hGnRH-Rs. A dominant-negative dynamin mutant (K44A) inhibited internalization of XGnRH-Rs (but not hGnRH-Rs) without influencing PKC regulation of XGnRH-R binding. PKC activation increased the affinity of XGnRH-Rs for the type II GnRH ligand and increased effects of low concentrations of GnRH-II on the [Ca(2+)](i) but had no effect on type I ligand binding to hGnRH-Rs, sGnRH-Rs or XGnRH-Rs, or to chimeric receptors with the XGnRH-R C-tail added to a type I receptor. Binding of type II ligand to human or sheep receptors was also unaffected but was increased in the chimeras. Mutation of both PKC-phosphorylation consensus sites in the XGnRH-R tail did not prevent the PKC-mediated increases in binding or alter agonist-induced translocation of beta-arrestin2/green fluorescent protein or inhibition of inositol phosphate accumulation by beta-arrestin2/green fluorescent protein. Thus, it appears that there are two distinct active conformations of XGnRH-Rs (differing in affinity for type I and II ligands) and that these cells exhibit a novel form of inside-out signaling in which PKC feeds back to influence receptor affinity.



Thirty days after the induction of seizures in 16 rats with lithium (3 mEq/kg) and pilocarpine (30 mg/kg), the numbers of episodes of motor seizures (rapid forelimb clonus) during daily 10-minute observational periods were recorded for 11 months. The proportions of neuronal loss were ranked using two methods by light microscopy for all structures between the posterior and anterior commissures. Amounts of damage within the dentate gyrus, hilus (CA4), and CA3 field were most strongly correlated with numbers of seizures per month about 6 months before the brains were removed. The strongest correlations occurred between the amounts of damage within the right temporal cortices, even after the variance associated with damage within the dentate gyrus had been removed, and the numbers of seizures during the last 2 months. These results may explain the greater proportion of spontaneous seizures that begin with left side forelimb clonus and suggest a particular sensitivity of the right side of the brain to either their initiation or their consequences.
Behavioral disinhibition in Go/No-Go task is thought to be associated with impulsiveness in humans. Recent imaging studies showed that neural circuits involving diverse areas of the frontal cortex and other association cortex sites such as the parietal cortex are implicated in the inhibition of response during No-Go trials. The aim of the present study was to investigate the association between regional cerebral activation during No-Go trials and impulsiveness. Seventeen right-handed healthy volunteers participated in the study. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to measure the brain activation during a Go/No-Go task. The Barratt Impulsiveness Scale, 11(th) version (BIS-11) was used to measure impulsiveness. Activated regions included the right middle frontal gyrus and the inferior parietal lobe, which is consistent with previous neuroimaging studies. A negative correlation was observed between the motor impulsiveness of BIS-11 and No-Go-related activation in the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (RDLPFC). Our results suggest that the RDLPFC is the area most sensitive to differences in individual motor impulsiveness and its activity may be an indicator of the individual capacity for response inhibition.
The typical neuroleptic haloperidol increases the state of phosphorylation and activity of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of catecholamines. Here we show that the increases in TH phosphorylation produced by haloperidol at Ser31 and Ser40, two sites critically involved in the regulation of enzymatic activity, are abolished in dopamine D2 receptor-null mice and mimicked by the selective dopamine D2 receptor antagonist, eticlopride. Moreover, the ability of haloperidol and eticlopride to stimulate phosphorylation at both seryl residues is prevented by treatment with SL327, a compound that blocks activation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2). We also show that chronic administration of haloperidol reduces the basal levels of phosphoSer31-TH and decreases the ability of the drug to stimulate Ser40 phosphorylation. These results provide a model accounting for the stimulation exerted by haloperidol on dopamine synthesis. According to this model, haloperidol increases TH activity via blockade of dopamine D2 receptors, disinhibition of dopaminergic projection neurons and ERK1/2-dependent phosphorylation of TH at Ser31 and Ser40. These studies also show that lower levels of phosphorylated TH are associated with chronic neuroleptic treatment and may be related to depressed dopaminergic transmission in nigrostriatal neurons.
The aim of this study was to investigate how the cognitive tuning of corticospinal (CS) excitability adapts to the type of evoked-movement (Flexion vs. Extension) during human gait. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was used both as a central perturbation evoking a movement and as a tool for quantifying the CS excitability of the muscles under study (RF/BF). In the first condition (Dst), the TMS occurred at mid-stance, inducing hip extension, whereas in the second condition (Dsw), the TMS occurred at the beginning of the swing phase, inducing hip flexion. In both conditions, the subjects were asked to cognitively prepare to either not intervene (NINT) or to compensate (COMP) for the evoked-movements. The results showed that, regardless of the type of evoked-movement, preparing to compensate resulted in a selective increase in the CS excitability to those muscles that would be involved in counteracting the possible central perturbation, i.e. the hip extensor muscle (BF) to compensate for an evoked flexion during the swing phase or the hip flexor muscle (RF) to compensate for an evoked extension during the stance phase. This latter result offers the first evidence of a modulation in CS excitability to the proximal muscles during the stance phase. In conclusion, the cognitive tuning of CS excitability was found to adapt to the gait phases. Moreover, the same selective preparation strategy was observed whether the central perturbation occurred during the stance or the swing phase of the step cycle.
In the domestic chicken, providing visual barriers for a brief period early in life has been found to improve spatial memory [R. Freire et al. (2004)Animal Behaviour, 67, 141-150]. In the present study we compared the structure of neurons in the hippocampus and neostriatum in chicks reared with or without visual barriers. From 8 to 16 days of age, chicks were reared in pens either with two wooden screens (Treatment E) or with no screens (Treatment C). At 16 days of age, chicks were anaesthetized, perfused intracardially and brain samples collected and stained using a Golgi-Cox technique. Morphometric analysis revealed that the multipolar projection neurons of Treatment E chicks had longer dendrites (ANOVA, F(1,14) = 7.4, P &lt; 0.05) and had more spines per 20 micro m of dendrite (SLD; ANOVA, F(1,14) = 10.6, P &lt; 0.01) than those of Treatment C chicks. By contrast, no evidence was found that rearing treatment differentially influences dendrite length or SLD in the neostriatum, suggesting that the above environment-induced changes may be specific to the hippocampus. Multipolar projection neuron dendrites of the right hemisphere were longer (ANOVA, F(1,14) = 36.4, P &lt; 0.0001) and had more spines (ANOVA, F(1,14) = 8.8, P &lt; 0.05) than dendrites of the left hemisphere, supporting previous findings that the right hemisphere of chickens is predominantly involved in spatial processing. We conclude that the chicken provides a useful model for the study of developmental plasticity in brain and behaviour, partly because the possibility of rearing chicks in isolation and imprinting them on an artificial object provides a means of accurately manipulating early experience.
Cannabinoids affect various behavioral processes, including emotion, learning and memory, which may be specifically regulated through the CB1 receptors. The exact role CB1 receptors play in anxiety remains unclear. Both genetic and pharmacological blockade of CB1 receptors have produced inconsistent effects on anxiety. However, these studies examined passive avoidance as an index of anxiety. In the present study, both active and passive avoidance were examined using the shock-probe burying test while CB1 receptors were blocked genetically or pharmacologically. In the shock-probe burying test, anxiety is reflected by increased burying (increased active avoidance) and increased freezing (increased passive avoidance). In addition, probe-contacts may reflect cognitive performance and/or passive avoidance. As there have been few studies examining mouse behavior in the shock-probe burying test, experiment 1 was designed to pharmacologically validate this model in mice. Our results indicated that administration (i.p.) of chlordiazepoxide (4 mg/kg) or FG7412 (5 mg/kg) decreased and increased burying behavior, respectively, without affecting freezing or the number of probe contacts. Experiments 2 and 3 showed that both CB1 knockout mice and mice injected (i.p.) with 3 or 10 mg/kg, but not 1 mg/kg, of the CB1 receptor antagonist SR141716A had lower burying scores, fewer contacts with the probe and similar freezing times compared with wild-type mice and mice injected with vehicle (experiments 2 and 3). Collectively, these results suggest that CB1 receptor blockade reduces some, but not all, aspects of anxiety. The decrease in probe contacts induced by CB1 receptor blockade may be due to enhanced cognition.
The present study investigated whether the 'psychological threat' induced by sensory contact with an aggressive conspecific would be a sufficient factor in inducing behavioural and physiological disturbances. Repeated sensory contact with an aggressive mouse (social threat) in a partitioned cage was compared with repeated exposure to a novel partitioned cage in male NMRI mice. We first examined parameters of stress responsiveness (body weight, plasma corticosterone levels, frequency of self-grooming and defecation). The temperature and physical activity responses to stress were also recorded during and after the 4 weeks of stress using radiotelemetry. Finally, cognitivo-emotional performance was assessed after acute stress and 2 and 4 weeks of stress by measuring decision making, sequential alternation performance and behaviour in the elevated T-maze. Social threat had a greater impact than novel cage exposure on most parameters of stress responsiveness, although mice did not habituate to either stressor. Social threat rapidly led to an anticipatory rise in core body temperature and physical activity before the scheduled stress sessions. Such anticipation developed within the first week and persisted for 9 days after ending the stress procedure. Some memory impairment in the sequential alternation test was found in stressed mice, independent of the stressor. After 4 weeks of stress, inhibitory avoidance in the elevated T-maze was enhanced in socially stressed mice and reduced in novel cage mice. The sustained anticipation of stress in the social threat group preceded aversive responding. It remains to be established whether anticipation contributes to the development of aversive responses.
Dopamine is a major neuromodulator in both vertebrates and invertebrates and has profound effects on many physiological processes, including the regulation of attention. Most studies of the functions of dopamine use models with long-term blockade of dopamine release and few effects of transient blockade have yet been reported. The goal of the present study was to determine the role of dopamine in attention-like behavior in Drosophila by taking advantage of the fly's orientation behavior during flight. The examination of several different transgenic flies in a single-target visual attention paradigm showed that flies lost their orientation ability if dopamine release was blocked from the beginning of the development of dopaminergic neurons. This is similar to the attention loss in mammals. However, if the blockade of dopamine release was induced during the experimental procedure, flies performed normally. Statistical analysis of the behavioral assessment showed a significant difference between long-term and transient blockade. Using the RNA interference approach, we generated flies with down-regulated J-domain protein, which is a potential cochaperone in synaptic vesicle release, to make an alternative form of long-term dopamine-blockade mutant. Behavioral assays revealed that flies with permanent J-domain protein down-regulation specifically in dopaminergic neurons have an attention defect similar to that induced by long-term blockade of dopamine release. Furthermore, dopamine depletion beginning at eclosion also caused an attention deficit. Our results indicate that prolonged but not transient blockade of dopamine release impairs visual attention-like behavior in Drosophila.
Dopamine and NO are physiological stimulators of synthesis of cAMP and cGMP, respectively, and NO synthase-containing interneurons in the striatum are physiologically activated by dopamine-containing neurons in the substantia nigra. This study investigated whether lesioning dopamine neurons has multiple consequences in the striatum consistent with the reported sensitization of cAMP synthesis, including alteration of the NO-cGMP pathway and phosphodiesterase-dependent metabolism of cyclic nucleotides. The substantia nigra of adult Sprague-Dawley rats was unilaterally lesioned with 6-hydroxydopamine. Two months later, we determined expression of NO synthase and evaluated cGMP and cAMP levels of intact and deafferented striatum. Moreover, we evaluated cAMP- and cGMP-phosphodiesterase activities in basal conditions and after Ca2+-calmodulin stimulation and determined the expression of the phosphodiesterase-1B isoform and the levels of phosphodiesterase-1B mRNA. Using immunocytochemistry we characterized the distribution of NO synthase and phosphodiesterase-1B within striatal neurons. In the dopamine-deafferented striatum, NO synthase levels were decreased by 42% while NO synthase-immunopositive intrastriatal fibres but not NO synthase neuronal bodies were reduced in number. In the deafferented striatum basal cGMP levels were reduced, and cAMP levels were increased, but cGMP-phosphodiesterase and cAMP-phosphodiesterase activities were both increased in basal and Ca2+-calmodulin-stimulated conditions. Accordingly, phosphodiesterase-1B expression and phosphodiesterase-1B mRNA were upregulated while a large population of medium-sized striatal neurons showed increased phosphodiesterase-1B immunoreactivity. Dopamine deafferentation led to a complex down-regulation of the NO-cGMP pathway in the striatum and to an up-regulation of phosphodiesterase-1B-dependent cyclic nucleotide metabolism, showing new aspects of neuronal plasticity in experimental hemiparkinsonism.
The localization of vesicular glutamate transporter 2 (VGLUT2) was examined by immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization histochemistry in the developing rat olfactory region with special relation to the spatiotemporal location of NCAM, a neural cell adhesion molecule expressed in differentiated neurons, and the calcium-binding protein calbindin D-28k, a marker of neurons migrating from the vomeronasal organ anlage (Y. Toba et al. (2001) J. Neuroendocrinol., 13, 683-694). Both VGLUT2 and NCAM immunoreactivities were first detected at embryonic day 11.5 (E11.5) in the neuronal cell mass beneath the telencephalic vesicle. After E12.5, VGLUT2-immunoreactive cells were detected in the migratory pathways from both medial and lateral olfactory pits, anlagen of the vomeronasal organ and olfactory epithelium. Between E15.5 and E19.5, moderate to intense VGLUT2 immunoreactivity was observed in cell clusters situated along NCAM-bearing vomeronasal nerves, and frequently colocalized with calbindin D-28k immunoreactivity. Using in situ hybridization histochemistry, VGLUT2 mRNA signals were detected in the clustered cells as well as in cells of the vomeronasal and olfactory epithelium. After E20.5, migrating cells gradually decreased in number and VGLUT2 immunoreactivity attenuated in the clustered cells, although calbindin D-28k immunoreactivity in these residual cells was still intense. The presence of intense VGLUT2 immunoreactivity in neurons actively migrating from the olfactory placode suggests that this transporter is involved in the migratory process of these neurons.
Fear-conditioned analgesia is an important survival response mediated by substrates controlling nociception and aversion. Cannabinoid(1) (CB(1)) receptors play an important role in nociception and aversion. However, their role in fear-conditioned analgesia has not been investigated. This study investigated the effects of systemic administration of the CB(1) receptor antagonist, SR141716A (1 mg/kg, i.p.), on fear-conditioned analgesia and conditioned aversion in rats. Twenty-four hours after receiving footshock, rats exhibited reduced formalin-evoked nociceptive behaviour, increased freezing and increased defecation when tested in the footshock apparatus, compared with non-footshocked formalin-injected rats. SR141716A attenuated fear-conditioned analgesia, freezing and defecation. Importantly, SR141716A had no effect on formalin-evoked nociceptive behaviour over an equivalent time period in rats not receiving footshock. SR141716A had no effect on contextually induced freezing during the first half of the test trial in rats receiving intra-plantar injection of saline. Administration of SR1417176A did, however, attenuate short-term extinction of contextually induced freezing and ultrasound emission in rats receiving intra-plantar saline, compared with vehicle-treated saline controls. These data suggest an important role for the CB(1) receptor in mediating fear-conditioned analgesia and provide evidence for differential modulation of conditioned aversive behaviour by CB(1) receptors during tonic, persistent pain.
The adaptive mechanisms that control the amplitude of visually guided saccades (VGS) are only partially elucidated. In this study, we investigated, in six human subjects, the transfer of VGS adaptation to averaging saccades elicited by the simultaneous presentation of two visual targets. The generation of averaging saccades requires the transformation of two representations encoding the desired eye displacement toward each of the two targets into a single representation encoding the averaging saccade (averaging programming site). We aimed to evaluate whether VGS adaptation acts upstream (hypothesis 1) or at/below (hypothesis 2) the level of averaging saccades programming. Using the double-step target paradigm, we simultaneously induced a backward adaptation of 17.5 degrees horizontal VGS and a forward adaptation of 17.5 degrees oblique VGS performed along the +/- 40 degrees directions relative to the azimuth. We measured the effects of this dual adaptation protocol on averaging saccades triggered by two simultaneous targets located at 17.5 degrees along the +/- 40 degrees directions. To increase the yield of averaging saccades, we instructed the subjects to move their eyes as fast as possible to an intermediate position between the two targets. We found that the amplitude of averaging saccades was smaller after VGS adaptation than before and differed significantly from that predicted by hypothesis 1, but not by hypothesis 2, with an adaptation transfer of 50%. These findings indicate that VGS adaptation largely occurs at/below the averaging saccade programming site. Based on current knowledge of the neural substrate of averaging saccades, we suggest that VGS adaptation mainly acts at the level of the superior colliculus or downstream.
Much of the research examining the biological basis for long-term memories has focused on mechanisms that support the formation of conditioned associations. Less information is available on biological mechanisms which underlie processes that modify the strength of conditioned associations. Latent inhibition is a phenomenon by which pre-exposure to a to-be-conditioned stimulus (CS) weakens subsequent conditioning of that CS to an unconditioned stimulus (US). Here we report that latent inhibition of cued fear conditioning is dependent on NMDA receptor activation. MK-801 (1 mg/kg), an NMDA receptor antagonist, abolished latent inhibition of cued fear conditioning. This dose of MK-801 administered before training did not disrupt cued fear conditioning. Conversely, anisomycin (150 mg/kg), a protein synthesis inhibitor, had no effect on latent inhibition of cued fear conditioning when administered 20 min before, immediately after, or 2, 4, 6, or 8 h after CS pre-exposure. Furthermore, continuous anisomycin administration (50 mg/kg, administered every 2 h for 6 h starting 20 min prior to pre-exposure) did not disrupt latent inhibition of cued fear conditioning. In addition, anisomycin had no effect on a long-lasting version of latent inhibition of cued fear conditioning that was maintained over a 7-day interval. Anisomycin administered before training, however, disrupted learning of the CS-US association. These findings suggest that latent inhibition of cued fear conditioning is a long-lasting NMDA receptor-dependent process that can develop during the inhibition of protein synthesis.
Extinction of classical fear conditioning is thought to involve activity-dependent potentiation of synaptic transmission in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), resulting in the inhibition of amygdala-dependent fear responses. While many studies have addressed the mechanisms underlying extinction learning, it is unclear what determines whether extinction memory is consolidated or whether spontaneous recovery of the fear response occurs. Here we show, using a combined electrophysiological and immunocytochemical approach, that spontaneous recovery of conditioned fear in mice is associated with a prolonged expression of long-term depression of synaptic transmission in the mPFC and the failure of induction of the immediate-early genesc-Fos and zif268 in the mPFC and the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala. This suggests that coordinated activity-dependent changes in gene expression in the mPFC and the amygdala may underlie the formation of long-term fear extinction memory.
The (31)P NMR localised method was used to study the metabolism of phospholipid and high energy phosphate in the prefrontal cortex. The spectra were taken from patients with schizophrenia (11 males) receiving neuroleptic medication, and were compared to normal controls (15 males). Their spectral intensities were analysed using a non-linear least-squares method with a prior knowledge of the fixed chemical shifts and linewidths, leading to further resolution into resonances of glycerophosphorylethanolamine (GPE), glycerophosphorylcholine (GPC), phosphorylethanolamine (PE) and phosphorylcholine (PC). The metabolite concentrations were calculated referring to the spectral intensities of phosphate phantoms with known concentrations. T1 values of phantom and cerebrum were estimated from a series of localised inversion recovery spectra to correct for the signal saturation effects. The schizophrenic patients showed an increased concentration of GPC but not GPE, PE or PC. Furthermore, no difference was observed regarding the concentration of high-energy phosphates such as phosphocreatine, inorganic phosphate and ATP. The patients did not show any differences in mitochondrial function such as phosphorylation potential and the ratio of the rate of ATP synthesis. Thus, an increase in GPC concentration in the prefrontal cortex could be characteristic of the pathophysiology of schizophrenia with mild negative symptoms.
The ability of cells to generate an appropriate spike output depends on a balance between membrane depolarizations and the repolarizing actions of K(+) currents. The high-voltage-activated Kv3 class of K(+) channels repolarizes Na(+) spikes to maintain high frequencies of discharge. However, little is known of the ability for these K(+) channels to shape Ca(2+) spike discharge or their ability to regulate Ca(2+) spike-dependent burst output. Here we identify the role of Kv3 K(+) channels in the regulation of Na(+) and Ca(2+) spike discharge, as well as burst output, using somatic and dendritic recordings in rat cerebellar Purkinje cells. Kv3 currents pharmacologically isolated in outside-out somatic membrane patches accounted for approximately 40% of the total K(+) current, were very fast and high voltage activating, and required more than 1 s to fully inactivate. Kv3 currents were differentiated from other tetraethylammonium-sensitive currents to establish their role in Purkinje cells under physiological conditions with current-clamp recordings. Dual somatic-dendritic recordings indicated that Kv3 channels repolarize Na(+) and Ca(2+) spikes, enabling high-frequency discharge for both types of cell output. We further show that during burst output Kv3 channels act together with large-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels to ensure an effective coupling between Ca(2+) and Na(+) spike discharge by preventing Na(+) spike inactivation. By contributing significantly to the repolarization of Na(+) and especially Ca(2+) spikes, our data reveal a novel function for Kv3 K(+) channels in the maintenance of high-frequency burst output for cerebellar Purkinje cells.
In hippocampus and other regions, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptors are inserted into synapses during long-term potentiation and removed during long-term depression. However, little is known about regulation of AMPA receptor trafficking in the nucleus accumbens (NAc), despite growing evidence that glutamate-dependent forms of plasticity in the NAc contribute to drug addiction. Using postnatal rat NAc cultures and an immunocytochemical method that selectively detects newly internalized GluR1, we studied the regulation of AMPA receptor internalization in NAc neurons by glutamate agonists. Newly internalized GluR1 was detected during 15 or 30 min of incubation at room temperature, indicating a basal rate of GluR1 turnover. The rate of GluR1 internalization was increased by glutamate (50 microM) within 5 min of its addition. Glutamate-induced GluR1 internalization was partially blocked by either an AMPA receptor antagonist (CNQX; 20 microM) or an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist (APV; 50 microM). Both NMDA (50 microM) and AMPA (50 microM) increased GluR1 internalization in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner. The NMDA effect was blocked by APV while the AMPA effect was blocked by APV or CNQX. We interpret these findings to suggest that NMDA and AMPA ultimately trigger GluR1 internalization through the same NMDA receptor-dependent pathway. The effect of glutamate was also partially blocked by the group 1 metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist N-phenyl-7-(hydroxyimino)cyclopropa[b]chromen-1a-carboxamide (PHCCC; 50 microM), while the group 1 agonist 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG; 50 microM) stimulated GluR1 internalization. These data suggest that AMPA receptors on NAc neurons may be subject to rapid regulation of their surface expression in response to changes in the activity of glutamate inputs from cortical and limbic regions.
We investigated apoptosis during early stages of in vitro differentiation of neuronal precursors generated by embryonic day 14 (E14) mouse striata stem cells. Differentiation was in conditions of suboptimal growth factor supply. Apoptosis reached 10-15% of cells and affected proliferating as well as postmitotic cells, including TUJ1-positive cells. Inhibition of apoptosis led to an increased proportion of TUJ1-positive cells generated by stem cells. K(+) current was reported to be related to apoptosis. Outward K(+) currents were present in differentiating neuronal precursors that were consistent with delayed rectifier and transient A-type currents. The amplitude of the delayed rectifier current varied during the first 4 days of stem cell differentiation. Current amplitude was greatly increased in the presence of staurosporine but reduced at elevated extracellular K(+) concentration. In addition, the amplitude of the current was significantly diminished by inhibiting several caspases, but not caspase 8. In Bax knock-out transgenic neuronal precursors, K(+) current was not decreased after the first day but at later stages of cell differentiation. At this early stage, apoptosis of proliferating cells and of TUJ1-positive cells was not reduced by the absence of Bax, but was by caspase 9 inhibition. Thus, activation of a delayed rectifier K(+) current in differentiating stem cells is related to apoptosis. Recordings of this current revealed that apoptosis at early stages of neuronal differentiation occurred in two phases that did not exhibit similar dependence on the proapoptotic protein Bax and that probably used different pathways.
The stability of neuronal networks is thought to depend on synaptic transmission which provides activity-dependent maintenance signals for both synapses and neurons. Here, we tested the relationship between presynaptic secretion and neuronal maintenance using munc18-1-null mutant mice as a model. These mutants have a specific defect in secretion from synaptic and large dense-cored vesicles [Verhage et al. (2000), Science, 287, 864-869; Voets et al. (2001), Neuron, 31, 581-591]. Neuronal networks in these mutants develop normally up to synapse formation but eventually degenerate. The proposed relationship between secretion and neuronal maintenance was tested in low-density and organotypic cultures and, in vivo, by conditional cell-specific inactivation of the munc18-1 gene. Dissociated munc18-1-deficient neurons died within 4 days in vitro (DIV). Application of trophic factors, insulin or BDNF delayed degeneration up to 7 DIV. In organotypic cultures, munc18-1-deficient neurons survived until 9 DIV. On glial feeders, these neurons survived up to 10 DIV and 14 DIV when insulin was applied. Co-culturing dissociated mutant neurons with wild-type neurons did not prolong survival beyond 4 DIV, but coculturing mutant slices with wild-type slices prolonged survival up to 19 DIV. Cell-specific deletion of munc18-1 expression in cerebellar Purkinje cells in vivo resulted in the specific loss of these neurons without affecting connected or surrounding neurons. Together, these data allow three conclusions. First, the lack of synaptic activity cannot explain the degeneration in munc18-1-null mutants. Second, trophic support delays but cannot prevent degeneration. Third, a cell-intrinsic yet unknown function of munc18-1 is essential for prolonged survival.
Altered monoaminergic activity has earlier been associated with violent suicidal behaviour. In this study whole brain binding potential of the serotonin transporter (5HTT) and dopamine transporter (DAT) was measured by single photon emission computerised tomography (SPECT) in 12 patients after a serious suicide attempt and in 12 age, sex and season matched healthy controls. Clinical and temperamental assessments were analysed for possible associations with 5HTT and DAT. We found no significant 5HTT or DAT differences between patients and controls. In patients, but not in controls, there was a significant correlation between whole brain 5HTT and DAT. Impulsiveness according to the Marke Nyman Temperament (MNT) was significantly correlated to 5HTT in suicide attempters, but not in controls. Neither of the transporters could be regarded as a marker for serious suicidal behaviour. A previously discussed connection between serotonin and dopamine was replicated in this study. In suicide attempters, low 5HTT was associated with impulsivity and to some extent with depressive disorder-key factors for suicidal behaviour.

Spatial-compatibility effects can be obtained in simple reaction time (SRT) provided that spatially distinct responses are frequently required. Since this effect is limited to trials with relatively long reaction times (RTs), Hommel (1996b) proposed that if the response does not occur shortly after stimulus detection, then the spatial code of the stimulus can interfere with that of the response. A series of experiments is reported showing that (a) spatial compatibility in SRT to lateralized stimuli is not an alternative, but rather a complementary, explanation to interhemispheric transfer time (contrary to what Hommel surmised), and (b) the spatial compatibility component is essentially limited to the first trial after shifting response preparation from one-half of the visual fields to the other, suggesting a mechanism akin to an orienting response.
The physiological mechanisms that contribute to abnormal encoding of speech in children with learning problems are yet to be well understood. Furthermore, speech perception problems appear to be particularly exacerbated by background noise in this population. This study compared speech-evoked cortical responses recorded in a noisy background to those recorded in quiet in normal children (NL) and children with learning problems (LP). Timing differences between responses recorded in quiet and in background noise were assessed by cross-correlating the responses with each other. Overall response magnitude was measured with root-mean-square (RMS) amplitude. Cross-correlation scores indicated that 23% of LP children exhibited cortical neural timing abnormalities such that their neurophysiological representation of speech sounds became distorted in the presence of background noise. The latency of the N2 response in noise was isolated as being the root of this distortion. RMS amplitudes in these children did not differ from NL children, indicating that this result was not due to a difference in response magnitude. LP children who participated in a commercial auditory training program and exhibited improved cortical timing also showed improvements in phonological perception. Consequently, auditory pathway timing deficits can be objectively observed in LP children, and auditory training can diminish these deficits.
Understanding the origin of noise, or variability, in the motor system is an important step towards understanding how accurate movements are performed. Variability of joint torque during voluntary activation is affected by many factors such as the precision of the descending motor commands, the number of muscles that cross the joint, their size and the number of motor units in each. To investigate the relationship between the peripheral factors and motor noise, the maximum voluntary torque produced at a joint and the coefficient of variation of joint torque were recorded from six adult human subjects for four muscle/joint groups in the arm. It was found that the coefficient of variation of torque decreases systematically as the maximum voluntary torque increases. This decreasing coefficient of variation means that a given torque or force can be more accurately generated by a stronger muscle than a weaker muscle. Simulations demonstrated that muscles with different strengths and different numbers of motor units could account for the experimental data. In the simulations, the magnitude of the coefficient of variation of muscle force depended primarily on the number of motor units innervating the muscle, which relates positively to muscle strength. This result can be generalised to the situation where more than one muscle is available to perform a task, and a muscle activation pattern must be selected. The optimal muscle activation pattern required to generate a target torque using a group of muscles, while minimizing the consequences of signal dependent noise, is derived.
The safety and tolerability of high dosages of coenzyme Q10 were studied in 17 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) in an open label study. The subjects received an escalating dosage of coenzyme Q10--1200, 1800, 2400, and 3000 mg/day with a stable dosage of vitamin E (alpha-tocopherol) 1200 IU/day. The plasma level of coenzyme Q10 was measured at each dosage. Thirteen of the subjects achieved the maximal dosage, and adverse events were typically considered to be unrelated to coenzyme Q10. The plasma level reached a plateau at the 2400 mg/day dosage and did not increase further at the 3000 mg/day dosage. Our data suggest that in future studies of coenzyme Q10 in PD, a dosage of 2400 mg/day (with vitamin E/alpha-tocopherol 1200 IU/day) is an appropriate highest dosage to be studied.
The pattern of neuronal discharge within the basal ganglia is disturbed in Parkinson's disease (PD). In particular, there is a tendency for neuronal elements to synchronise at around 20 Hz in the absence of dopaminergic treatment, whereas this activity can be replaced by spontaneous synchronisation at much higher frequencies (&gt;70 Hz) following dopaminergic treatment [J. Neurosci. 21 (2001) 1033; Brain 126 (2003) 2153]. In two PD patients (3 sides), we show that stimulating the subthalamic area at around 20 Hz exacerbates synchronisation at similar frequencies in the globus pallidus interna, the major output structure of the human basal ganglia. In contrast, stimulating the subthalamic area at &gt;70 Hz suppresses pallidal activity at about 20 Hz. Clinically, stimulation of the subthalamic area at similar high frequencies reverses parkinsonism and forms the basis of therapeutic deep brain stimulation in PD. The results point to a possible common mechanism by which both dopaminergic treatment associated synchronisation of subthalamic activity at very high frequency and synchronisation imposed by therapeutic stimulation of the subthalamic area inhibit an abnormal and potentially deleterious synchronisation of basal ganglia output at around 20 Hz. If this activity is unchecked by synchronisation at higher frequency, then pathological 20-Hz oscillations may cascade through the basal ganglia, increasing at subsequent levels of processing.
Experiments were carried out to evaluate whether neural activity in the basal ganglia is functionally related to the neural activity underlying mechanisms of theta band oscillation and synchrony in the hippocampal formation. Experiment 1 demonstrated that electrical stimulation administered to the substantia nigra, globus pallidus (GP) and caudate-putamen (CPu) in urethane anesthetized rats elicited theta field activity in the hippocampal formation. Subsequent microinfusion of the local anesthetic procaine hydrochloride into the medial septum reversibly abolished this effect. In Experiment 2, single cell discharge profiles established for 152 cells recorded in nuclei of the basal ganglia resulted in 101 (66%) being classified as theta-related and 51 (34%) classified as nonrelated. Theta-related cells were further subclassified as tonic theta-ON cells (n = 79) and tonic theta-OFF (n = 22). Tonic theta-ON and tonic theta-OFF cells displayed irregular or regular (tonic) discharge patterns. Rhythmic discharge patterns did not occur in any theta-related cells in the nuclei of the basal ganglia. However, analyses using Kaneoke and Vitek's [J. Neurosci. Methods 68, (1996) 211] algorithms revealed that 51/101 (50%) theta-related cells displayed periodicity in their discharge patterns whereas 27/51 (53%) of the nonrelated cells displayed periodicity in their discharge patterns. The periodicities in the majority of cells were in frequency ranges above that of theta band oscillation and synchrony. The results support the following conclusions: (1) the cellular activity of the basal ganglia, composed of nuclei traditionally associated with motor functions, is functionally connected with the neural circuitry involved in the generation of theta band oscillation and synchrony in the hippocampal formation; (2) the observed functional connectivity provides support for the role of the hippocampal formation in sensorimotor integration.
Accumulation of intracellular sodium through voltage-gated sodium channels (VGSCs) is an important event in the cascade leading to anatomic degeneration of spinal cord axons and poor functional outcome following traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI). In this study, we hypothesized that phenytoin, a sodium channel blocker, would result in protection of axons with concomitant improvement of functional recovery after SCI. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent T9 contusion SCI after being fed normal chow or chow containing phenytoin; serum levels of phenytoin were within therapeutic range at the time of injury. At various timepoints after injury, quantitative assessment of lesion volumes, axonal degeneration, axonal conduction, and functional locomotor recovery were performed. When compared to controls, phenytoin-treated animals demonstrated reductions in the degree of destruction of gray and white matter surrounding the lesion epicenter, sparing of axons within the dorsal corticospinal tract (dCST) and dorsal column (DC) system rostral to the lesion site, and within the dorsolateral funiculus (DLF) caudal to the lesion site, and enhanced axonal conduction across the lesion site. Improved performance in measures of skilled locomotor function was observed in phenytoin-treated animals. Based on these results, we conclude that phenytoin provides neuroprotection and improves functional outcome after experimental SCI, and that it merits further examination as a potential treatment strategy in human SCI.
Caffeinol is currently being tested in acute ischemic stroke patients. However, little is known about the pharmacology or safety of caffeinol in preclinical embolic stroke models. We determined the pharmacological effects of caffeinol administration on clinical rating scores in rabbits following small clot embolic strokes (RSCEM). Male New Zealand white rabbits were embolized by injecting blood clots into the cerebral circulation via a carotid catheter. Behavioral analysis was conducted 24 h following embolization, allowing for the determination of the effective stroke dose (P50) or clot amount (mg) that produces neurological deficits in 50% of the rabbits. In the current study, the P50 values for the control groups were 1.32 +/- 0.23 and 1.66 +/- 0.29 mg for the bolus-injected and infused groups, respectively. Rabbits treated with caffeinol (bolus) starting 15 min following embolization had a P50 value of 1.70 +/- 1.18 mg. Caffeinol-infused rabbits had a P50 value of 2.05 +/- 0.47 and 1.67 +/- 0.48 mg for low- and high-dose ethanol, respectively. In tPA-treated rabbits (0.9 mg/kg), the group P50 was 1.58 +/- 0.43 mg. In caffeinol (bolus) and tPA-treated rabbits, we measured a decrease in the P50 value to 0.70 +/- 0.30 mg and an increase in the rate of intracerebral hemorrhage compared to control. This primary finding of this study indicates that neither bolus-injected nor infused caffeinol affects behavioral deficits following embolic strokes in rabbits. Moreover, the combination of caffeinol plus low-dose tPA does not improve behavioral deficits. However, our study suggests that there is the potential for exacerbation of stroke-induced behavioral deficits following caffeinol administration in combination with a thrombolytic that may be related to increased intracerebral hemorrhage.
Currently, the only FDA-approved treatment for acute ischemic stroke (AIS) is the thrombolytic, tissue plasminogen activator (tPA; alteplase; activase). It has been proposed that both the spin trap agent NXY-059 (cerovive) and tenecteplase (TNK-tPA), which are currently in phase II clinical trials, may also be useful for the treatment of ischemic stroke. However, there is little information available concerning the dose-response profiles or therapeutic window for NXY-059 in a validated embolic stroke model, nor is there information available pertaining to the effects of combining NXY-059 with tenecteplase. Thus, we determined the pharmacological profile of NXY-059 on behavioral outcome following small clot embolic strokes in rabbits when administered alone or in combination with tenecteplase. Male New Zealand white rabbits were embolized by injecting a suspension of small blood clots into cerebral circulation via a carotid catheter. NXY-059 (0.1-100 mg/kg) was infused intravenously (IV), 1 h following embolization, whereas control rabbits received infusions of saline. We also determined the therapeutic window for NXY-059 by administering the drug 1, 3, or 6 h following embolic strokes. Lastly, in combination studies, NXY-059 was given concomitantly with tenecteplase 1 or 6 h following embolization. In the vehicle control group, the P(50) value (milligrams of clots that produce behavioral deficits in 50% of the rabbits) measured 24 h following embolism was 1.20 +/- 0.15 mg, and this was increased by 100-134% if NXY-059 (1-100 mg/kg) was administered following embolization. If NXY-059 was administered beginning 3 or 6 h following embolization, there was no significant behavioral improvement. If NXY-059 (100 mg/kg) and tenecteplase (0.9 mg/kg) were administered concomitantly 1 h postembolization, we did not measure any additional behavioral improvement compared to either drug alone. However, if the drugs were administered 6 h following embolization, we measured a statistically significant reduction of behavioral deficits. This study shows that NXY-059 is neuroprotective over a wide range if administered early following an embolic stroke. In addition, the study shows that NXY-059 can be administered in combination with tenecteplase to provide additional behavioral improvement at extended delays following embolization.
Caffeinol has been proposed as a neuroprotectant for human trials. This review covers a variety of animal models used and various attempts to take animal protocols to human trials. The accompanying paper discusses the rabbit model that was used to identify the efficacy of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) treatment. To date, this is the only model that was able to achieve laboratory to clinical translational success. Use of caffeinol as a cytoprotective agent in rat models yielded exciting results, which led to clinical trials. However, caffeinol given with tPA in rabbits leads to increased hemorrhage. Caffeinol alone does not prove to be neuroprotective, as vasodilation by itself is not efficacious. However, vasodilation combined with thrombolysis (caffeinol with tPA) poses an increased risk of hemorrhage. For a more translational approach to study neuroprotection and neuroprotective agents in human trials, it is necessary to demonstrate the efficacy of the procedure and purported agents in several animal models.
The Strategic Research Institute provided a well-organised 2-day summit that offered presentations and posters on new assay technology, structure-based small-molecule discovery and examples of clinical candidates targeted to G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) targets. A wide variety of topics were presented providing recent advances in GPCR target selection, bioassay-enabling technology and medicinal chemistry targeted to GPCR-relevant chemical libraries. GPCRs continue to be an attractive platform for drug discovery.
The effectiveness of grafts of olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) as a means of promoting functional reconnection of regenerating primary afferent fibers was investigated following dorsal root injury. Adult rats were subjected to dorsal root section and reanastomosis and at the same operation a suspension of purified OECs was injected at the dorsal root entry zone and/or into the sectioned dorsal root. Regeneration of dorsal root fibers was then assessed after a survival period ranging from 1 to 6 months. In 11 animals, electrophysiology was used to look for evidence of functional reconnection of regenerating dorsal root fibers. However, electrical stimulation of lesioned dorsal roots failed to evoke detectable cord dorsum or field potentials within the spinal cord of any of the animals examined, indicating that reconnection of regenerating fibers with spinal cord neurones had not occurred. In a further 11 rats, immunocytochemical labeling and biotin dextran tracing of afferent fibers in the lesioned roots was used to determine whether regenerating fibers were able to grow into the spinal cord in the presence of an OEC graft. Although a few afferent fibers could be seen to extend for a limited distance into the spinal cord, similar minimal in-growth was seen in control animals that had not been injected with OECs. We therefore conclude that OEC grafts are of little or no advantage in promoting the in-growth of regenerating afferent fibers at the dorsal root entry zone following rhizotomy.
We assessed the effects of FK506 administration on regeneration after a 6-mm gap repair with a collagen guide seeded with allogeneic Schwann cells (SCs) in the mouse sciatic nerve. SCs were isolated from predegenerated adult sciatic nerves and expanded in culture using a defined medium, before being seeded in the collagen guide embedded in Matrigel. Functional reinnervation was evaluated by noninvasive methods to determine recovery of motor, sensory, and autonomic functions in the hindpaw over 4 months postoperation. Histological analysis of the regenerated nerves was performed at the end of the study. Using simple collagen guides for tubulization repair, treatment with an immunosuppressant dose of FK506 (5 mg/kg/day) resulted in significant improvement of the onset and the degree of reinnervation. While the introduction of allogeneic SCs did not improve regeneration versus a collagen guide filled only with Matrigel, treatment with FK506 allowed for successful regeneration in all the mice and for significant improvement in the levels of functional recovery. Compared with the untreated group, there was greater survival of transplanted pre-labeled SCs in the FK506-treated animals. Morphologically, the best nerve regeneration (in terms of nerve caliber and numbers of myelinated axons) was obtained with SC-seeded guides from FK506-treated animals. Thus, FK506 should be considered as adjunct therapy for various types of tubulization repair.
Cochlear function and susceptibility to noise over-exposure were examined in the congenic mouse strain B6.CAST+Ahl (B6.CAST) and compared to these same features in the CAST/Ei (CAST) and C57BL/6J (C57) parental strains. For both types of comparisons, the primary measure was the distortion-product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAE) at 2f1-2f2. Our assumption was that the B6.CAST mouse was corrected for the early onset age-related hearing loss (AHL) exhibited by one of its parental strains (C57) by the age-resistant properties of its other parental strain (CAST), and thus would exhibit neither AHL nor susceptibility to noise overstimulation effects. With respect to cochlear function, for 2.5-month mice, there was a tendency for DPOAEs to be slightly lower for mid-frequency primary tones for both C57 and B6.CAST mice, while the former mice showed clear AHL effects at the highest test frequency. However, by 5 months of age, the B6.CAST mice, like the CAST mice, displayed robust DPOAE levels that were significantly larger than DPOAE levels for the C57 mice, which were essentially absent for frequencies above about 30 kHz. To investigate the role of the Ahl gene in the susceptibility of the cochlea to the effects of noise over-exposure, two distinct paradigms consisting of temporary (TTS: 1-min, 105-dB SPL, 10-kHz pure tone) and permanent (PTS: 1-h, 105-dB SPL, 10-kHz octave band noise) threshold-shift protocols were used. The brief TTS exposure produced reversible reductions in DPOAEs that for both the B6.CAST and CAST mice recovered to within a few dB of their baseline levels by 3 min post-exposure. In contrast, the C57 mice recovered somewhat slower and, by 5 min post-exposure, emission levels were still 5 dB or more below their corresponding pre-exposure values. At 3 months of age, the TTS mice along with another group of nave subjects representing the same three mouse strains were exposed to the PTS paradigm. By 4 days post-exposure, for B6.CAST and CAST mice, DPOAE levels had recovered to their pre-exposure control levels. However, DPOAEs for the C57 mice at most of the measurable frequencies were at least 10-30 dB lower than their counterpart baseline levels. Together these data suggest that the Ahl allele in the C57 strain contributes to both the early onset AHL exhibited by these mice as well as their susceptibility to both TTS and PTS over-exposures.
The phenomenology of pitch has been difficult to rationalize and remains the subject of much debate. Here we test the hypothesis that audition generates pitch percepts by relating inherently ambiguous sound stimuli to their probable sources in the human auditory environment. A database of speech sounds, the principal source of periodic sound energy for human listeners, was compiled and the dominant periodicity of each speech sound determined. A set of synthetic test stimuli were used to assess whether the major pitch phenomena described in the literature could be explained by the probabilistic relationship between the stimuli and their probable sources (i.e., speech sounds). The phenomena tested included the perception of the missing fundamental, the pitch-shift of the residue, spectral dominance and the perception of pitch strength. In each case, the conditional probability distribution of speech sound periodicities accurately predicted the pitches normally heard in response to the test stimuli. We conclude from these findings that pitch entails an auditory process that relates inevitably ambiguous sound stimuli to their probable natural sources.
Development of neurones and fibres expressing P2X3 receptors in the myenteric plexus of rat stomach and coexistence of the P2X3 receptor with calbindin, calretinin and NOS during postnatal development, were investigated with immunostaining methods. Extrinsic nerves expressing P2X3 receptors appeared as early as E12 and were localised in the trunk and branches of the vagus nerve, which extended rapidly onto the whole rat stomach from E12 to E14. Intrinsic neurone cell bodies with P2X3-immunoreactivity in the myenteric ganglia were first demonstrated postnatally at P1, and at P14, when the number of neurones expressing the P2X3 receptor peaked at 45%. P2X3 receptor-immunoreactivity decreased subsequently, and at P60 only about 11% were P2X3-immunoreactive. Intraganglionic laminar nerve endings and intramuscular arrays were first demonstrated postnatally at P1 and P7, respectively. In the early postnatal days, there were many growth cone-like structures with strong P2X3 immunostaining associated with these endings and arrays. Double-immunostaining showed that 9-15% of P2X3-immunoreactive neurones in the gastric myenteric plexus expressed calbindin D-28 k only in the early postnatal days, while 14-21% of neurones from P1 to P60 increasingly expressed calretinin. About 20% of neurones with P2X3 immunoreactivity coexpressed NOS throughout perinatal development.
Auditory functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies are limited by the presence of noise produced by echo planar imaging (EPI). The current study quantifies the effect of MR scanner noise on psychophysical measures of the perception of loudness and on measures of tonotopy, the representation of auditory frequencies within the auditory cortex. Seven normal hearing adults were examined using tones of 5 different auditory frequencies (250, 500, 1,000, 2,000, 4,000 Hz) of equal loudness. Using an imaging protocol with peak MR scanner noise at 1,460 Hz, the perception of loudness and detectable fMRI activity in response to a 1-kHz tone was less compared to other frequencies. When the imaging protocol was changed such that peak MR scanner noise occurred at 2,080 Hz, the perception of loudness and detectable fMRI activity in response to a 2-kHz tone was less compared to other frequencies. The reduction in the measured fMRI activity for tones near scanner frequencies may be due to an inflated scanner-induced baseline at those frequencies. In addition, fMRI activity decreased with increasing frequency, possibly due to the upward spread of masking of low-frequency, high-intensity tonal stimuli or the proximity of low-frequency core and belt areas of the auditory cortex. These results demonstrate the direct effect of scanner noise and high-intensity tonal stimuli on measurements of auditory cortex tonotopy.
Multicenter studies can provide additional information over single center studies because of their increased statistical power. Because similar acquisition protocols are being used internationally for structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies of the human brain, volumetric MRI data studies seem suitable for this purpose. Possible systematic differences between sites should be avoided, however, particularly when subtle differences in tissue volume are being searched for, such as in neuropsychiatric diseases. In this calibration study, the brains of six healthy volunteers were (re)scanned with MR scanners from four different manufacturers at five different sites, using the local acquisition protocols. The images were segmented at a central reference site. The intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) was determined for the whole brain, gray and white matter, cerebellum, and lateral and third ventricle volumes. When required, the processing algorithms were calibrated for each site. Calibration of the histogram analysis was needed for segmentation of total brain volume at one site and for gray and white matter volume at all sites. No (additional) calibration was needed for cerebellum and ventricle volumes. The ICCs were &gt; or = 0.96 for total brain, &gt; or = 0.92 for cerebellum, &gt; or = 0.96 for lateral ventricle, &gt; or = 0.21 for third ventricle, &gt; or = 0.84 for gray matter, and &gt; or = 0.78 for white matter volume. Calibration of segmentation procedures allows morphologic MRI data acquired at different research sites to be combined reliably in multicenter studies.
NR2E3, a photoreceptor-specific orphan nuclear receptor, is believed to play a pivotal role in the differentiation of photoreceptors. Mutations in the human NR2E3 gene and its mouse ortholog are associated with enhanced S-cones and retinal degeneration. In order to gain insights into the NR2E3 function, we performed temporal and spatial expression analysis, yeast two-hybrid screening, promoter activity assays and co-immunoprecipitation studies. The Nr2e3 expression was localized preferentially to the rod, and not to the cone, photoreceptor nuclei in rodent retina. The yeast two-hybrid screening of a retinal cDNA library, using NR2E3 as the bait, identified another orphan nuclear receptor NR1D1 (Rev-erbalpha). The interaction of NR2E3 with NR1D1 was confirmed by glutathione S-transferase pulldown and co-immunoprecipitation experiments. In transient transfection studies using HEK 293 cells, both NR2E3 and NR1D1 activated the promoters of rod phototransduction genes synergistically with neural retina leucine zipper (NRL) and cone-rod homeobox (CRX). All four proteins, NR2E3, NR1D1, NRL and CRX, could be co-immunoprecipitated from the bovine retinal nuclear extract, suggesting their existence in a multi-protein transcriptional regulatory complex in vivo. Our results demonstrate that NR2E3 is involved in regulating the expression of rod photoreceptor-specific genes and support its proposed role in transcriptional regulatory network(s) during rod differentiation.

We have developed an animal model in Swiss Webster mice to identify mechanisms by which prenatal exposure to cocaine results in persistent alterations in brain structure and function. Clinical data suggests that children who demonstrate the largest impairments in prenatal brain growth, which are positively correlated with the highest level of prenatal cocaine exposure, are more likely to demonstrate selective impairment in postnatal brain growth, as well as postnatal impairments in motor function, attention and language skills. We conducted neuroanatomic studies to identify the postnatal evolution of structural changes in the primary somatosensory (SI) cortex of the developing mouse brain following prenatal exposure to cocaine. Our previous work, and that of others, provides evidence that many of the processes underlying corticogenesis are disrupted by gestational exposure of the developing mouse brain to cocaine, and that from the earliest phases of corticogenesis that there is an imprecision in the development of cortical lamination. We performed morphometric comparisons between the brains of animals prenatally exposed to varying amounts of cocaine with vehicle and malnutrition controls on postnatal (P) days P9 and P50. We found that on P50, but not P9, the relative number of cortical neurons in S1 is significantly less in cocaine exposed animals as compared with controls. The significant decrease in the number of cells in cocaine exposed animals on P50 is evident as a decreased density of cells restricted to the infragranular compartment (layers V and VI). Those changes are not seen in malnourished animals. Taken together our findings support the conclusion that cocaine-induced alterations in SI cortical cytoarchitectonics are in part a consequence of altered postnatal survival of infragranular cortical neurons, which are lost during the interval between P9 and P50. Determining whether a similar process is evident in a subset of humans following in utero cocaine exposure is a high priority for future clinical brain imaging studies, because analogous structural changes could impact the brain function and behavioral repertoire of infants and children following significant prenatal exposures.
3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine damages fine serotonergic fibers and nerve terminals in adult organisms. Developing animals seem to be less susceptible to this effect, possibly due to a lack of drug-induced hyperthermia. We tested this hypothesis by producing hyperthermia in neonatal rats for 2h after each of twice-daily MDMA (10 mg/kg s.c.) or saline injections administered from postnatal days 1-4. Other drug-treated and control litters were maintained at normothermic temperatures following injection. Changes in forebrain serotonergic innervation were assessed at postnatal day 25 (serotonin transporter binding and serotonin levels), postnatal day 60 (serotonin transporter binding), and 9 months of age (serotonin transporter immunohistochemistry). We also determined the influence of MDMA treatment on apoptotic activity by means of immunohistochemistry for cleaved caspase-3 at postnatal day 5. The hippocampus showed significant MDMA-related reductions in serotonergic markers at postnatal day 25 and postnatal day 60. At 9 months, there was no effect of prior MDMA exposure on serotonin transporter-immunoreactive fiber density in the hippocampus; however, significant reductions in fiber density were observed in two neocortical areas and a hyperinnervation was found in the caudate-putamen and nucleus accumbens shell. MDMA treatment also produced a two-fold increase in the number of cleaved caspase-3-immunoreactive cells in the rostral forebrain and hippocampus. All of these effects were completely independent of pup body temperature. These findings demonstrate that neonatal MDMA administration exposure stimulates apoptotic cell death in various forebrain areas and also leads to a long-term reorganization of the forebrain serotonergic innervation. Consequently, offspring of MDMA-using women may be at heightened risk for abnormal neural and behavioral development.
The cyclotron resonance equation predicts that the frequency of an applied magnetic field that might optimally interact with a single ion species may be computed as a function of the charge-to-mass ratio of the ion and the strength of the background static magnetic field. The present study was undertaken to discern the applicability of this equation for optimizing lithium ion utilization in the rat, as inferred by the predicted magnetic &quot;ion resonance &quot;field-induced shift of lithium's dose-dependent curve for seizure onset times (SOTs) when combined with the cholinergic agent pilocarpine. Groups of rats were administered 1.5 thru 3 mEq/kg lithium chloride (in 0.5 mEq/kg increments) and exposed to reference conditions or to one of three intensities (70 nanoTesla, 0.8 microTesla, or 25 microTesla) of a 85 Hz magnetic field calculated to resonate with lithium ions given the background static geomagnetic field of approximately 38,000 nanoTesla (0.38 Gauss). A statistically significant quadratic relationship for SOT as a function of magnetic field intensity (irrespective of lithium dose) was noted: this U-shaped function was characterized by equal SOTs for the reference and 25 microTesla groups, with a trend toward shorter SOTs for the 70 nanoTesla and 0.8 microTesla groups. Although not predicted by the equations, this report extends other findings suggestive of discrete intensity windows for which magnetic field frequencies derived from the cyclotron ion resonance equation may affect ion activity.
Quantitative electroencephalographic activity over the left and right frontal, temporal, parietal, and occipital lobes was obtained on 4 successive weeks in 12 subjects before they were exposed cerebrally for 30 min to one of two configurations of weak complex magnetic fields or to a sham-field condition. The two configurations were Shakti (c Todd Murphy) and the set of 4 solenoids (Koren boxes) generating a burst-firing magnetic field through the temporal lobes. Compared to baseline measurements there were no statistically significant differences in treatments for relative changes in power over these regions within the delta, theta, low alpha, beta, or gamma ranges. However within the high alpha range (10.5 Hz to 13 Hz), there was a significant interaction between session and type of treatment that was due primarily to the Shakti treatment. These changes were congruent with the subjective experiences reported by some users of the technology.
The concept of trauma currently occupies a central position in interdisciplinary dialogue. Using the concept of psychical trauma as a bridge, the author attempts an interdisciplinary dialogue with psychiatry, biology and neuroscience. Beginning with the concept of psychical trauma in Freud, the author reviews the evolution of Freud's thinking, and links it with the ideas of Ferenczi and post-Freudian psychoanalytical authors. From a different framework, he considers the present state of research on post-traumatic stress disorder in current psychiatric nosography and attempts an interdisciplinary approximation to the concept of psychical trauma. Interesting ideas like the traumatic situation, trauma spectrum and psychopathological spectrum emerge, which enable a better understanding of the concept of psychical trauma through its relatedness, as a bridge connecting a broad psychopathological range extending from normality to psychosis. The ensuing possible relative loss of nosographical rigour is more than compensated by the resulting increased understanding and enlarged therapeutic possibilities. In the second part of the paper, the author attempts a dialogue with neuroscience, taking into account new advances in current research on emotion and memory, and making them compatible with the psychoanalytical concept of trauma. In this sense, the paper underlines the importance of emotion and crucially of memory, regarded as a fundamental axis of the subject explored in this paper. Here a substantial distinction which is pertinent for analytical work appears: declarative memories versus non-declarative or procedural memories. In a concluding discussion the author argues that, taking into account the implications of these current notions regarding a number of theoretical and technical aspects, psychoanalysis currently holds a privileged position, both in its potential for prevention and regarding the treatment of patients, in so far as, through interdisciplinary dialogue, psychoanalysis can be receptive to and be enriched by the contributions of other disciplines, just as it enriches them with its own contributions.
Recently, the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster has been introduced as a model system to study the molecular bases of a variety of ethanol-induced behaviors. It became immediately apparent that the behavioral changes elicited by acute ethanol exposure are remarkably similar in flies and mammals. Flies show signs of acute intoxication, which range from locomotor stimulation at low doses to complete sedation at higher doses and they develop tolerance upon intermittent ethanol exposure. Genetic screens for mutants with altered responsiveness to ethanol have been carried out and a few of the disrupted genes have been identified. This analysis, while still in its early stages, has already revealed some surprising molecular parallels with mammals. The availability of powerful tools for genetic manipulation in Drosophila, together with the high degree of conservation at the genomic level, make Drosophila a promising model organism to study the mechanism by which ethanol regulates behavior and the mechanisms underlying the organism's adaptation to long-term ethanol exposure.

Estrogen replacement therapy in postmenopausal women is associated with a reduced risk of Alzheimer's Disease (AD). The multiple mechanisms by which estrogen protects against AD are still unknown. To conduct a broad screen for estrogen-regulated AD-related genes in the brain, we used cDNA array assays of brain mRNA samples from ovariectomized (ovx) adult female mice treated with either 17beta-estradiol or vehicle at 1 or 5 weeks post-ovx. The gene encoding transthyretin (TTR), which has been reported to scavenge amyloid beta peptides and reduce amyloid plaque formation, is increased by estradiol treatment at both 1 and 5 weeks post-ovx. Northern blot analyses and RNase protection assays performed on whole brain samples obtained from estradiol- or vehicle-treated mice confirmed the cDNA array assays showing a significant increase in TTR mRNA with estradiol treatment. Qualitative in situ hybridization or immunocytochemistry performed on brain sections demonstrated that TTR mRNA is expressed only in choroid plexus and leptomeninges, and that both estrogen receptor proteins, alpha and beta, are present in choroid plexus cells. These novel findings suggest that estrogen may reduce the risk of AD by acting on choroid plexus cells to increase TTR gene expression, leading to enhanced sequestration and reduced aggregation of amyloid beta peptides.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by amyloid plaques, neurofibrillary tangles in the brain, cerebral hypoperfusion/hypometabolism, and amyloid angiopathy. The former two and cell loss occur late in the disease and are probably not the leading causes for the initial memory decline. Cerebral hypoperfusion is a pre-clinical event in AD and represents the most accurate indicator predicting the probable AD patients to develop AD in a future time. However, in young animals, cerebral hypoperfusion as those matching the reduction in AD has no significant effects on learning and memory. Here, we report that association of cerebral hypoperfusion (2-vessel occlusion) with cerebrovascular amyloid (internal-carotid 0.5 mg beta(25-35), an active fragment of Abeta) significantly impaired spatial learning and memory of young adult rats, while neither the same insult alone had significant impact. At the time when the spatial memory was impaired, in vitro recording revealed that the associated cerebral hypoperfusion and internal-carotid amyloid reduced the ability of the hippocampal CA1 network to generate cholinergic theta and the synaptic modification evoked by associative activation of cholinergic and GABAergic inputs. The results suggest that cerebral hypoperfusion and amyloid angiopathy may play an important role as associated events in initiating the early memory decline in AD.
Xenomitochondrial mice harboring trans-species mitochondria on a Mus musculus domesticus (MD) nuclear background were produced. We created xenomitochondrial ES cell cybrids by fusing Mus spretus (MS), Mus caroli (MC), Mus dunni (Mdu), or Mus pahari (MP) mitochondrial donor cytoplasts and rhodamine 6-G treated CC9.3.1 or PC4 ES cells. The selected donor backgrounds reflected increasing evolutionary divergence from MD mice and the resultant mitochondrial-nuclear mismatch targeted a graded respiratory chain defect. Homoplasmic (MS, MC, Mdu, and MP) and heteroplasmic (MC) cell lines were injected into MD ova, and liveborn chimeric mice were obtained (MS/MD 18 of 87, MC/MD 6 of 46, Mdu/MD 31 of 140, and MP/MD l of 9 founder chimeras, respectively). Seven MS/MD, 1 MC/MD, and 11 Mdu/MD chimeric founder females were mated with wild-type MD males, and 18 of 19 (95%) were fertile. Of fertile females, only one chimeric MS/MD (1% coat color chimerism) and four chimeric Mdu/MD females (80-90% coat color chimerism) produced homoplasmic offspring with low efficiency (7 of 135; 5%). Four male and three female offspring were homoplasmic for the introduced mitochondrial backgrounds. Three male and one female offspring proved viable. Generation of mouse lines using additional female ES cell lineages is underway. We hypothesize that these mice, when crossbred with neurodegenerative-disease mouse models, will show accelerated age-related neuronal loss, because of their suboptimal capacity for oxidative phosphorylation and putatively increased oxidative stress.
Cyclosporin A (CsA) is highly neuroprotective in several animal models of acute neurological damage and neurodegenerative disease with inhibition of the mitochondrial permeability transition (mPT) having emerged as a possible mechanism for the observed neuroprotection. In the present study, we have evaluated two new nonimmunosuppressive cyclosporin analogs NIM811 (Novartis) and UNIL025 (Debiopharm) for their ability to inhibit mPT in rat brain-derived mitochondria. Both NIM811 and UNIL025 were found to be powerful inhibitors of calcium-induced mitochondrial swelling under energized and deenergized conditions, and the maximal effects were identical to those of native CsA. The potencies of mPT inhibition by NIM811 and UNIL025 were stronger, with almost one order of magnitude higher potency for UNIL025 compared to CsA, correlating to their respective inhibitory action of cyclophilin activity. These compounds will be instrumental in the evaluation of mPT as a central target for neuroprotection in vivo.
There is substantial evidence that mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative damage may play a key role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disease. Evidence supporting this in both Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases is continuing to accumulate. This review discusses the increasing evidence for a role of both mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative damage in contributing to beta-amyloid deposition in Alzheimer's disease. I also discuss the increasing evidence that Parkinson's disease is associated with abnormalities in the electron transport gene as well as oxidative damage. Lastly, I reviewed the potential efficacy of coenzyme Q as well as a number of other antioxidants in the treatment of both Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases.
The small fraction of glutathione in mitochondria in nonneural tissues is an important contributor to cell survival under some conditions. However, there has been only limited characterization of the properties and function of mitochondrial glutathione in cells from the brain. In astrocytes in culture, highly selective depletion of this glutathione pool does not affect cell viability, at least in the first 24 h, but does greatly increase susceptibility to exposure to nitric oxide or peroxynitrite. In vivo, a selective partial loss of glutathione develops during focal cerebral ischemia and persists during reperfusion. The timing and distribution of glutathione loss shows an apparent association with the likelihood that tissue infarction will subsequently develop. Furthermore, infarct volume is greatly decreased by intracerebroventricular infusion of glutathione monoethylester, a compound that can increase mitochondrial glutathione. Together these recent findings indicate that alterations in mitochondrial glutathione are likely to contribute to the severity of tissue damage in stroke and possibly other neurological disorders. Thus, this antioxidant pool provides a potentially useful target for therapeutic intervention.
Numerous studies support the hypothesis that reperfusion following cerebral ischemia contributes substantially to ischemic injury and that mitochondrial dysfunction plays a central role. Defining the mechanisms by which mitochondrial dysfunction occurs may be important for the development of new therapies against delayed neuronal cell death. Ischemic preconditioning (IP) increases an organ's resistance to ischemic injury. There are two windows for IPC, one that requires several hours to develop and another one with a rapid setting (rapid window). However, the rapid window only provides neuroprotection for few days. We have recently determined that this lack of chronic protection by the rapid window was due to lack of protection against mitochondrial dysfunction.
Mitochondria benefit their host cells by generating ATP, detoxifying oxygen, maintaining cellular redox potential, and detoxifying reactive oxygen species and xenobiotics. These beneficial roles are in stark contrast to mitochondrial participation in both necrotic and apoptotic degenerative pathways. However, cellular stresses do not always result in deleterious mitochondrial changes. Decreases in the calcium sensitivity of the permeability transition may be initial mitochondrial responses to stress that act to preserve mitochondrial function and prolong normal functioning of the host cell.
To elucidate the possible roles of the CNS neurotransmitters glycine and GABA in neuroendocrine paracrine signalling, we investigated their localizations, and those of their transport proteins, by confocal immunofluorescence and quantitative post-embedding immuno-electron microscopy in the pancreatic islets of Langerhans. We show that A-cells contain glycine in synaptic-like microvesicles as well as in secretory granules. A-cells express the macromolecules necessary to: (1) concentrate glycine within both organelle types before release (the vesicular GABA/glycine transporter VGAT=VIAAT); and to (2) take up the transmitter from the extracellular space (the plasma membrane glycine transporter GLYT2). Also B-cells have glycine in their microvesicles and granules, but the microvesicle/cytosol ratio is lower than in A-cells, consistent with the presence of GABA (which competes with glycine for vesicular uptake) in the cytosol at a much higher concentration in B-cells than in A-cells. Both A- and B-cells contain GABA in their microvesicles and secretory granules, and the membranes of the two organelle types contain VGAT in both cell types. A-cells as well as B-cells express a plasma membrane transporter GAT3 that mediates uptake of GABA. The localization of VGAT in the cores of A-cell secretory granules, and in the secretory granule membranes in both cell types, indicates novel aspects of the mechanisms for release of glycine and GABA. The discovery that both A- and B-cells possess the molecular machinery for the evoked release of both glycine and GABA from synaptic-like microvesicles suggests that both of the principal inhibitory transmitters in the brain participate in paracrine signalling in the pancreas.
The neurobiologic basis for autism is not well understood. In contrast, there have been several recent discoveries into the genetics of generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures plus, a group of epilepsy syndromes characterized by multiple seizure phenotypes. Here we describe a family with generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures plus and variably expressed autism spectrum disorder that does not show linkage to any of the four known generalized epilepsy with febrile seizures plus loci. A relationship between these two disorders has not previously been described.
Inhibition was studied in 12 children who had had sustained as severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) at least 1 year earlier and in 15 control children. On the flanker task, which involved pressing a button corresponding to the direction of an arrow, the TBI group performed less accurately than controls under interference (flankers were incongruent with arrow) and go-no-go (adjacent stimulus signaled child to withhold response) conditions, but not neutral or facilitation (flankers were congruent) conditions. Response latency was related to age and task condition, but not group. Severe TBI in children may disrupt development of distributed networks mediating inhibition.
We report the case of a 41-year-old patient with bilateral hemorrhage of the thalamus, leading to death. Post-mortem examination showed acute myocarditis. Neuropathological study showed perivascular infiltrates in affected thalamic regions. Laboratory investigation failed to find any causal agent. We hypothesize an infective agent, affecting the heart and thalamus, as the cause of this syndrome. Diaschisis due to the strategic anatomical position of the thalamus may have been responsible for coma state and death.
Degeneration of brain tissue following stroke leads to functional impairment with limited brain self-repair. New evidence suggests that delivery of circulating CD34(+) human umbilical cord blood cells can produce functional recovery in an animal stroke model with concurrent angiogenesis and neurogenesis leading to some restoration of cortical tissue. While some alternative interpretations of this data are offered herein, the study provides encouraging evidence of functional recovery from stroke in an animal model using stem cell therapy.
We report the case of a young patient suffering from a severe ischaemic stroke due to basilar artery occlusion occurring during selective digital subtraction angiography. This examination was performed in order to assess an arteriovenous malformation in posterior cerebral artery territory responsible for haemorrhagic stroke occurring 17 days before. Intra-arterial thrombolysis with urokinase was performed and basilar artery recanalization was obtained 8 h after stroke onset. Despite the severe neurological impairment, the prolonged symptoms of ischaemia and the high bleeding risk due to the recent cerebral haemorrhage in the same vascular territory involved in thrombolysis, the treatment determined a very favourable clinical outcome.

PROMM (proximal myotonic myopathy) and DM2 (myotonic dystrophy Type 2) are autosomal dominant multisystem disorders that have both been linked to chromosome 3q. Recently, the genetic basis of DM2 has been defined by a '(CCTG)(n)' expansion mutation in intron 1 of the ZNF9 gene. We identified and studied a multigenerational family in which five members had clinical features consistent with PROMM. Two affected members were available for detailed clinical, electrophysiological, radiological and genetic analysis. Our study confirms that the PROMM phenotype is associated with DM2-(CCTG)(n) expansion mutations. In addition, our results may extend the clinical spectrum of manifestations to include vestibular symptoms.



Trehalose is a nonreducing disaccharide in which the two glucose units are linked in an alpha,alpha-1,1-glycosidic linkage. The best known and most widely distributed pathway of trehalose synthesis involves the transfer of glucose from UDP-glucose to glucose 6-phosphate to form trehalose-6-phosphate and UDP via the trehalose-6-phosphate synthase (TPS1). Trehalose-6-phosphate phosphatase (TPS2) then converts trehalose-6-phosphate to free trehalose. This sugar is present in a wide variety of organisms, including bacteria, yeast, fungi, insects, invertebrates and plants, and because of its particular physical features, trehalose is able to protect the integrity of cells against a variety of environmental stresses such as desiccation, dehydration, heat, cold and oxidation. Our current studies described here indicate that trehalose protects Drosophila and mammalian cells from hypoxic and anoxic injury. The mechanism of this protection is probably related to a decrease in protein denaturation through protein-trehalose interactions.
Body patterning behavior in unshelled cephalopod molluscs such as squid, octopuses, and cuttlefish is the ability of these animals to create complex patterns on their skin. This behavior is generated primarily by chromatophores, pigment-containing organs that are directly innervated by central motoneurons. The present study focuses on innervation patterns and location of chromatophore motoneurons in the European cuttlefish Sepia officinalis, specifically those motoneurons that control chromatophores of the fin. The fin is known to be innervated by the large, branching fin nerve. This study further characterizes the innervation of fin chromatophores by the fin nerve, generates a reference system for the location of fin nerve branches across individuals, and localizes the neurons whose axons innervate fin chromatophores through the fin nerve. Data from extracellular stimulation of fin nerve branches in intact animals demonstrate topographic innervation of fin chromatophores, while retrograde labeling data reveal the posterior subesophageal mass of the brain as the primary location of fin chromatophore motoneurons.
Techniques such as mass spectrometry and NMR spectroscopy form an essential part of the medicinal chemist's toolbox for characterizing and assessing the purity of new molecules. Empowering medicinal chemists to gain early insight into their reaction products has a direct impact on productivity. Devolution of cutting-edge techniques from the specialist to the bench chemist also frees the specialist to concentrate on solving the more demanding of analytical problems. For open-access techniques to be taken up, they must be robust and be able to handle differing sample concentrations and varying sample complexities. This paper details the implementation of high-resolution liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry in open access to aid the medicinal chemist in characterizing desired products and identifying unexpected rearrangements, by-products and complete unknowns.
Evaluation of the potential of a cocaine vaccine requires a detailed understanding of the intended and unintended social consequences of its use. Prospective technology assessment is always difficult, but in the case of treatment and prevention of cocaine addiction we need to understand not only the neuroscience and pharmacology of cocaine addiction, but also social attitudes to drug use and addiction, the social context of drug use, and the factors which make drug use a rational strategy for an addict and make treatment seeking or relapse more or less likely. By considering different scenarios related to differing levels of effectiveness of the vaccine, the authors argue that vaccination will be at best a useful adjunct to existing methods of treatment, rather than a substitute for them.
The hypothalamus of rhesus macaques expresses two molecular forms of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH-I and GnRH-II). However, it is unclear whether these two neuropeptides play similar roles in the control of reproductive neuroendocrine function, especially in the context of positive and negative estrogen feedback. To address this issue, in situ hybridization histochemistry was used to compare the effect of 17beta-estradiol (E) on the expression of GnRH-I and GnRH-II mRNA in the medial basal hypothalamus (MBH) of adult female macaques. GnRH-I mRNA expression was found to be significantly (P&lt;0.01) more abundant in ovariectomized (ovx) animals compared with ovariectomized E-treated (ovx+E) animals. In marked contrast, GnRH-II mRNA expression was found to be significantly (P&lt;0.05) more abundant in ovx+E animals than in the ovx animals. To help elucidate how E exerts this stimulatory action on GnRH-II gene expression, hypothalamic sections were subsequently double labeled using a combination of immunohistochemisty for estrogen receptor (ER) -alpha or -beta and in situ hybridization histochemistry for GnRH-II. Approximately 50% of the GnRH-II positive cells in the MBH were found to express ERbeta, but none expressed ERalpha. Taken together, these data give credence to a novel pathway by which E may control the primate neuroendocrine reproductive axis, one that involves stimulation of GnRH-II release via an ERbeta-mediated mechanism.
The occurrence of parkinsonism in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is quite common, however the molecular and neurochemical changes underlying such extrapyramidal features in AD have been not fully understood. Post-mortem as well as in vivo imaging study have produced conflicting results as regards the existence of dopaminergic changes in AD. Aim of the present study was to investigate in vivo the nigro-striatal dopaminergic function in a group of AD patients with parkinsonism. Thirteen patients with AD and extrapyramidal features not related to past neuroleptic use (AD-P) underwent SPECT with 123I-FP-CIT, a ligand of dopamine transporter, and the data were compared with those obtained in 15 patients with Diffuse Lewy Body Dementia (DLBD), 20 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD), and 8 healthy elderly controls. The analysis of the data was performed by regions-of-interest approach and calculations of the striatal-to-non specific (occipital lobes) radioactivity ratios were made. The 123I-FP-CIT striatal uptake in patients with AD-P was similar to that obtained in the control population. Both the DLBD and PD groups showed significantly lower 123I-FP-CIT uptake in all striatal areas with respect to AD-P and control groups (p &lt; 0.005). The lack of dopamine transporter changes in our series of AD-P patients can indicate that dopaminergic presynaptic function is preserved in this population and that different dopaminergic changes such as postsynaptic ones, or different neurotransmitter alterations might underlie the extrapyramidal features in AD.
Neurotransmitters have been implicated in regulating growth cone motility and guidance in the developing nervous system. Anatomical and electrophysiological studies show the presence of functional GABAB receptors on adult olfactory receptor neuron (ORN) nerve terminals. Using antisera against the GABAB R1a/b receptor isoforms we show that developing mouse olfactory receptor neurons express GABAB receptors from embryonic day 14 through to adulthood. GABAB receptors are present on axon growth cones from both dissociated ORNs and olfactory epithelial explants. Neurons in the olfactory bulb begin to express glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), the synthetic enzyme for GABA, from E16 through to adulthood. When dissociated ORNs were cultured in the presence of the GABAB receptor agonists, baclofen or SKF97541, neurite outgrowth was significantly reduced. Concurrent treatment of the neurons with baclofen and the GABAB receptor antagonist CGP54626 prevented the inhibitory effects of baclofen on ORN neurite outgrowth. These results show that growing ORN axons express GABAB receptors and are sensitive to the effects of GABAB receptor activation. Thus, ORNs in vivo may detect GABA release from juxtaglomerular cells as they enter the glomerular layer and use this as a signal to limit their outgrowth and find synaptic targets in regeneration and development.

Previous studies have demonstrated that the mammalian retina contains a circadian clock system that controls several retinal functions. In mammals the location of the retinal circadian clock is unknown whereas, in non-mammalian vertebrates, earlier work has demonstrated that photoreceptor cells contain the circadian clock. New experimental evidence has suggested that in mammals the retinal circadian clock may be located outside the photoreceptor cells. In this study we report that circadian rhythms in Aa-nat mRNA (in vivo) and melatonin synthesis (in vitro) are still present in the retina of rats lacking photoreceptors. The circadian pacemaker(s) controlling such rhythms is probably located in kainic acid sensitive neurons in the inner retina since kainic acid injections abolished the rhythmicity. These data are the first direct demonstration that circadian rhythmicity in the mammalian retina can be generated independently from the photoreceptors and the suprachiasmatic nuclei of the hypothalamus.
Studies of metabolism of the Alzheimer amyloid precursor protein (APP) have focused much recent attention on the biology of juxta- and intra-membranous proteases. Release or 'shedding' of the large APP ectodomain can occur via one of two competing pathways, the alpha- and beta-secretase pathways, that are distinguished both by subcellular site of proteolysis and by site of cleavage within APP. The alpha-secretase pathway cleaves within the amyloidogenic Abeta domain of APP, precluding the formation of toxic amyloid aggregates. The relative utilization of the alpha- and beta-secretase pathways is controlled by the activation of certain protein phosphorylation signal transduction pathways including protein kinase C (PKC) and extracellular signal regulated protein kinase [ERK/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAP kinase)], although the relevant substrates for phosphorylation remain obscure. Because of their apparent ability to decrease the risk for Alzheimer disease, the effects of statins (HMG CoA reductase inhibitors) on APP metabolism were studied. Statin treatment induced an APP processing phenocopy of PKC or ERK activation, raising the possibility that statin effects on APP processing might involve protein phosphorylation. In cultured neuroblastoma cells transfected with human Swedish mutant APP, atorvastatin stimulated the release of alpha-secretase-released, soluble APP (sAPPalpha). However, statin-induced stimulation of sAPPalpha release was not antagonized by inhibitors of either PKC or ERK, or by the co-expression of a dominant negative isoform of ERK (dnERK), indicating that PKC and ERK do not play key roles in mediating the effect of atorvastatin on sAPPalpha secretion. These results suggest that statins may regulate alpha-secretase activity either by altering the biophysical properties of plasma membranes or by modulating the function of as-yet unidentified protein kinases that respond to either cholesterol or to some intermediate in the cholesterol metabolic pathway. A 'phospho-proteomic' analysis of N2a cells with and without statin treatment was performed, revealing changes in the phosphorylation state of several protein kinases plausibly related to APP processing. A systematic evaluation of the possible role of these protein kinases in statin-regulated APP ectodomain shedding is underway.
The peptide transmitter N-acetylaspartylglutamate (NAAG) is present in millimolar concentrations in mammalian spinal cord. Data from the rat peripheral nervous system suggest that this peptide is synthesized enzymatically, a process that would be unique for mammalian neuropeptides. To test this hypothesis in the mammalian CNS, rat spinal cords were acutely isolated and used to study the incorporation of radiolabeled amino acids into NAAG. Consistent with the action of a NAAG synthetase, inhibition of protein synthesis did not affect radiolabel incorporation into NAAG. Depolarization of spinal cords stimulated incorporation of radiolabel. Biosynthesis of NAAG by cortical astrocytes in cell culture was demonstrated by tracing incorporation of [3H]-glutamate by astrocytes. In the first test of the hypothesis that NAA is an immediate precursor in NAAG biosynthesis, [3H]-NAA was incorporated into NAAG by isolated spinal cords and by cell cultures of cortical astrocytes. Data from cerebellar neurons and glia in primary culture confirmed the predominance of neuronal synthesis and glial uptake of NAA, leading to the hypothesis that while neurons synthesize NAA for NAAG biosynthesis, glia may take it up from the extracellular space. However, cortical astrocytes in serum-free low-density cell culture incorporated [3H]-aspartate into NAAG, a result indicating that under some conditions these cells may also synthesize NAA. Pre-incubation of isolated spinal cords and cultures of rat cortical astrocytes with unlabeled NAA increased [3H]-glutamate incorporation into NAAG. In contrast, [3H]-glutamine incorporation in spinal cord was not stimulated by unlabeled NAA. These results are consistent with the glutamate-glutamine cycle greatly favoring uptake of glutamine into neurons and glutamate by glia and suggest that NAA availability may be rate-limiting in the synthesis of NAAG by glia under some conditions.
The present experiment examined the effect of the dopamine transporter blocker nomifensine on subsecond fluctuations in dopamine concentrations, or dopamine transients, in the nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercle. Extracellular dopamine was measured in real time using fast-scan cyclic voltammetry at micron-dimension carbon fibers in freely-moving rats. Dopamine transients occurred spontaneously throughout the ventral striatum in the absence of apparent sensory input or change in behavioral response. The frequency of dopamine transients increased at the presentation of salient stimuli to the rat (food, novel odors and unexpected noises). Administration of 7 mg/kg nomifensine amplified spontaneous dopamine transients by increasing both amplitude and duration, consistent with its known action at the dopamine transporter and emphasizing the dopaminergic origin of the signals. Moreover, nomifensine increased the frequency of detected dopamine transients, both during baseline conditions and at the presentation of stimuli, but more profoundly in the nucleus accumbens than in the olfactory tubercle. This difference was not explained by nomifensine effects on the kinetics of dopamine release and uptake, as its effects on electrically-evoked dopamine signals were similar in both regions. These findings demonstrate the heterogeneity of dopamine transients in the ventral striatum and establish that nomifensine elevates the tone of rapid dopamine signals in the brain.
Mice lacking dopamine D2 receptors exhibit a significantly decreased agonist-promoted forebrain neocortical D1 receptor activation that occurs without changes in D1 receptor expression levels. This raises the possibility that, in brains of D2 mutants, a substantial portion of D1 receptors are uncoupled from their G protein, a phenomenon known as receptor desensitization. To test this, we examined D1-agonist-stimulated [35S]GTPgammaS binding (in the presence and absence of protein phosphatase inhibitors) and cAMP production (in the presence and absence of pertussis toxin) in forebrain neocortical tissues of wild-type mice and D2-receptor mutants. These studies revealed a decreased agonist-stimulated G-protein activation in D2 mutants. Moreover, whereas protein phosphatase 1/2A (PP1/2A) and 2B (PP2B) inhibitors decrease [35S]GTPgammaS binding in a concentration-dependent manner in wild type, they have either no (PP2B) or only partial (PP1/2A) effects in D2 mutants. Furthermore, for D2 mutants, immunoprecipitation experiments revealed increased basal and D1-agonist-stimulated phosphorylation of D1-receptor proteins at serine residues. Finally, D1 immunoprecipitates of both wild type and D2 mutants also contain protein kinase A (PKA) and PP2B immunoreactivities. In D2 mutants, however, the catalytic activity of the immunoprecipitated PP2B is abolished. These data indicate that neocortical D1 receptors are physically linked to PKA and PP2B and that the increased phosphorylation of D1 receptors in brains of D2 mutants is due to defective dephosphorylation of the receptor rather than increased kinase-mediated phosphorylation.
Neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) accumulated in Alzheimer's diseases and related disorders contain hyperphosphorylated tau and display immunoreactivity for active forms of various kinases. To understand the role of p38MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) in NFT formation, we have studied a transgenic (Tg) mouse model of tauopathy, JNPL3, that expresses P301L mutant tau, and bigenic mice, TAPP, generated by cross-breeding of JNPL3 with Tg2576 mice. Age-matched non-Tg mice (NTg), wild-type human tau Tg mice (JN25), and Tg2576 mice were used as controls. Phosphorylated p38MAPK (active form) immunoreactivity was consistently located in NFT and granulovaculolar degeneration in JNPL3 and TAPP mice older than 5 months of age. Unphosphorylated/total-p38MAPK was not detectable in spinal cord and brain sections from 2- to 11-month-old mice, even though JNPL3 mice, but not controls had an age-dependent increase of total-p38MAPK by western blotting. Spinal cord/brain extracts from mice and human with tauopathy were demonstrated to have insignificant amount of active-p38MAPK. However, they contained antiactive-p38MAPK cross-reactive proteins insoluble in sarkosyl and similar to phosphorylated tau in size. Consistently, antiactive-p38MAPK immunoprecipitates displayed tau immunoreactivity, but not total-p38MAPK, and antitau immunoprecipitates displayed active-p38MAPK immunoreactivity. Together, the results indicate that the cross-reactivity of antiactive-p38MAPK antibody with phosphorylated tau is responsible for the immunolabeling of tau-positive inclusion.
The signal transduction and molecular mechanisms underlying alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA)-mediated neuroprotection are unknown. In the present study, we determined a major AMPA receptor-mediated neuroprotective pathway. Exposure of cerebellar granule cells to AMPA (500 microM) + aniracetam (1 microM), a known blocker of AMPA receptor desensitization, evoked an accumulation of brain-derived neurotropic factor (BDNF) in the culture medium and enhanced TrkB-tyrosine phosphorylation following the release of BDNF. AMPA also activated the src-family tyrosine kinase, Lyn, and the downstream target of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-K) pathway, Akt. Extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK), a component of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway, was also activated. K252a, a selective inhibitor of neurotrophin signaling, blocked the AMPA-mediated neuroprotection. The involvement of BDNF release in protecting neurons by AMPA was confirmed using a BDNF-blocking antibody. AMPA-mediated neuroprotection is blocked by PP1, an inhibitor of src family kinases, LY294002, a PI3-K inhibitor, or U0126, a MAPK kinase (MEK) inhibitor. Neuroprotective concentrations of AMPA increased BDNF mRNA levels that was blocked by the AMPA receptor antagonist, 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6-nitro-2,3-dioxo-benzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide (NBQX). The increase in BDNF gene expression appeared to be the downstream target of the PI3-K-dependent activation of the MAPK cascade since MEK or the PI3-K inhibitor blocked the AMPA receptor-mediated increase in BDNF mRNA. Thus, AMPA receptors protect neurons through a mechanism involving BDNF release, TrkB receptor activation, and a signaling pathway involving a PI3-K dependent activation of MAPK that increases BDNF expression.
This study reports some of the modifications in dopaminergic signalling that accompany cocaine and morphine behavioural sensitization. Cocaine-sensitized rats showed increased phosphorylation of dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein Mr 32 kDa (DARPP-32) at threonine-75 (Thr75) and decreased DARPP-32 phosphorylation at Thr34, in the caudate-putamen (CPu) and nucleus accumbens (NAc) 7 days after sensitization assessment. Conversely, in morphine-sensitized rats, no apparent modifications in DARPP-32 phosphorylation pattern were observed. Morphine-sensitized rats have increased binding and coupling of micro -opioid receptors and increased dopaminergic transmission in striatal areas and, upon morphine challenge, exhibit dopamine D1 receptor-dependent stereotypies. Thus, the DARPP-32 phosphorylation pattern was studied in morphine-sensitized rats at different times after morphine challenge. Morphine challenge increased levels of phospho-Thr75 DARPP-32 and decreased levels of phospho-Thr34 DARPP-32 in a time-dependent manner in the CPu and NAc. In order to assess whether these modifications were related to modified cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) activity, the phosphorylation levels of two other PKA substrates were examined, the GluR1 and NR1 subunits of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate and NMDA receptors respectively. The phosphorylation levels of GluR1 and NR1 subunits decreased in parallel with those of phospho-Thr-34 DARPP-32, supporting the hypothesis that morphine challenge elicited a decrease in PKA activity in morphine-sensitized rats.
Frame-shifted amyloid precursor protein (APP(+1)), which has a truncated out-of-frame C-terminus, accumulates in the neuropathological hallmarks of patients with Alzheimer's disease pathology. To study a possible involvement of APP(+1) in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, we expressed APP695 and APP(+1) in the HEK293 cell-line and studied whether the processing of APP695 was affected. APP(+1) is a secretory protein, but high expression of APP695 and APP(+1) results in the formation of intracellular aggregate-like structures containing both proteins and Fe65, an adaptor protein that interacts with APP695. APP(+1) is shown to interact with APP695, suggesting that these structures consist of functional protein complexes. Such an interaction can also be anticipated in post-mortem brains of young Down's syndrome patients without any sign of neuropathology. Here we observed APP(+1) immunoreactivity in beaded fibres. Additional support for functional consequences on the processing of APP695 comes from a 1.4-fold increase in levels of secreted amyloid beta40 in cells co-expressing APP695 and APP(+1), although APP(+1) itself does not contain the amyloid beta sequence. Taken together, these data show that co-expression of APP695 and APP(+1) affects the processing of APP695 in a pro-amyloidogenic way and this could gradually contribute to Alzheimer's disease pathology, as has been implicated in Down's syndrome patients.
Glutamate receptor phosphorylation has been implicated in several forms of modulation of synaptic transmission. It has been reported that protein kinase A (PKA) can phosphorylate the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) receptor subunit GluR4 on Ser842, both in vitro and in vivo. Here, we studied the regulation of GluR4 phosphorylation and intracellular trafficking by PKA and by metabotropic receptors coupled to adenylyl cyclase (AC), in cultured chick retinal amacrine-like neurones, which are enriched in GluR4. The regulation of AMPA receptor activity by PKA and by metabotropic AC-coupled receptors was also investigated by measuring the [Ca2+]i response to kainate in Na(+)-free medium. Stimulation of AC with forskolin (FSK), or using the selective agonist of dopamine D1 receptors (+/-)-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-(1H)-3-benzazepine-7,8-diol (SKF38393), increased the [Ca2+]i response to kainate, GluR4 phosphorylation at Ser842 and GluR4 surface expression. Pre-incubation of the cells with (2S,2'R,3'R)-2-(2',3'-dicarboxycyclopropyl)glycine (DCG-IV), an agonist of group II metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR), which are coupled to inhibition of AC, inhibited the effect of FSK and of SKF38393 on AMPA receptor activity, GluR4 phosphorylation and expression at the plasma membrane. These results indicate that there is a functional cross-talk between dopamine D1 receptors and group II mGluR in the regulation of GluR4 phosphorylation and AMPA receptor activity. Our data show that GluR4 phosphorylation at Ser842 by PKA, and its recruitment to the plasma membrane upon phosphorylation, is regulated by metabotropic receptors.
Although mRNA expression of group IIA secretory phospholipase A2 (sPLA2-IIA) has been implicated in responses to injury in the CNS, information on protein expression remains unclear. In this study, we investigated temporal and spatial expression of sPLA2-IIA mRNA and immunoreactivity in transient focal cerebral ischemia induced in rats by occlusion of the middle cerebral artery. Northern blot analysis showed a biphasic increase in sPLA2-IIA mRNA expression following 60-min of ischemia-reperfusion: an early phase at 30 min and a second increase at a late phase ranging from 12 h to 14 days. In situ hybridization localized the early-phase increase in sPLA2-IIA mRNA to the affected ischemic cortex and the late-phase increase to the penumbral area. Besides sPLA2-IIA mRNA, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and cyclo-oxygenase-2 mRNAs, but not cytosolic PLA2, also showed an increase in the penumbral area at 3 days after ischemia-reperfusion. Immunohistochemistry of sPLA2-IIA indicated positive cells in the penumbral area similar to the GFAP-positive astrocytes but different from the isolectin B4-positive microglial cells. Confocal microscopy further confirmed immunoreactivity of sPLA2-IIA in reactive astrocytes but not in microglial cells. Taken together, these results demonstrate for the first time an up-regulation of the inflammatory sPLA2-IIA in reactive astrocytes in response to cerebral ischemia-reperfusion.
Annexin-II (AII) is a Ca(2+)-dependent phospholipid-binding protein that is present in both intracellular and extracellular compartments. In the present study AII immunoreactivity was found in a subpopulation of neurons in specific brain regions, including the cerebral cortex and the surface of hippocampal pyramidal neurons from adult rats. AII from synaptic membranes was detected by immunoblotting as multiple species containing the monomer (AII36) and heterotetramer (AIIt). AIIt was resistant to beta-mercaptoethanol and dithiothreitol in sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, but was completely reduced to monomers (36 kDa) by two-dimensional electrophoresis. AIIt resided exclusively in the detergent-resistant lipid rafts concentrated in neuronal dendrites, and its recruitment to those structures was enhanced by antibody cross-link. AII abundantly distributed on the outer leaflet of neuronal membranes and between spaces of neurons appeared to be neuronal adhesive. The formation of AIIt required synthesis of sphingolipids and cholesterol, and its stability depended on Ca2+. Increases in neuronal activities such as depolarization and learning were shown to promote formation of AIIt. Our results suggest that, via a dynamic association with dendritic lipid rafts, AII may play a role in synaptic signal transduction and remodeling. This probably involves focal adhesion and interactions with actin that are associated with brain development and memory consolidation.
We recently reported that lasting activation of mouse microglial cells with bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) chronically elevated the basal intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i). This correlated to an attenuated calcium signaling of complement (C5a) and purinergic (UTP) receptors as well as to the capacity for effective production of cytokines-chemokines. Here, we demonstrate that these adjustments in the [Ca2+]i regulation require a critical protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) function--even in varying stimulation scenarios. Changes in basal [Ca2+]i and calcium signaling are not restricted to Gram-negative bacterial confrontation. Pneumococcal cell wall (PCW) modelling Gram-positive infection causes virtually the same effects. Moreover, decreases in calcium signaling efficacy are neither associated with altered receptor expression, nor mediated by autocrine loops. Administration of microglial release products, transfer of conditioned supernatant or presence of a radical scavenger during LPS or PCW treatments have no consequence. However, both the elevation in basal [Ca2+]i as well as the suppression of C5a- and UTP-evoked calcium signals are selectively and dose-dependently reversed by tyrphostin AG126, a PTK inhibitor that, moreover, blocks inducible nitric oxide and cytokine-chemokine release. The findings suggest that the AG126-sensitive PTK critically controls both sensory and executive features of the microglial activation process via sustained up-regulation of basal [Ca2+]i.
Intraplantar (i.pl.) injection of small doses of capsaicin has been shown to produce hyperalgesia and upregulation of the levels of proinflammatory cytokines. The present work aimed at investigating the possible mediation of these effects by sensory neuropeptides and mast cells. Various groups of rats received i.pl. injection of capsaicin alone or preceded by the injection of antagonists to substance P (SP), calcitonin gene-related protein (CGRP) and histamine (H1, H2) or the mast cell blocker ketotifen. All pretreatments prevented, in a dose-related manner, the capsaicin-induced hyperalgesia. The SP, H2 antagonists and ketotifen prevented the upregulation of all cytokines and nerve growth factor (NGF) levels, while the CGRP and H1 antagonists showed only attenuation of the NGF level.
Chemokines and their receptors may be implicated in leukocyte ingress into brain during inflammation observed during the course of multiple sclerosis (MS). To address receptor modulation on CD4+ memory T lymphocytes during diapedesis, we used an in vitro model of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). We found that only memory (CD45RO+) cells transmigrated and type 3 CXC chemokine receptor (CXCR3) was enriched on transmigrated cells. CXCR3 depletion of the input population did not affect transmigration capability. CXCR3 reemerged on CXCR3 depleted cells independently of endothelial cell exposure, but was susceptible to incubation at 4 degrees C, indicating receptor recycling. We propose that CXCR3 serves as a surface marker for cells that have the capacity to cross the BBB, but does not play an essential role in extravasation.
FTY720 is a prodrug for FTY-phosphate, an agonist at four of the five known receptors for sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P). We show that administration of either FTY720 or FTY-P to SJL mice with established relapsing-remitting experimental autoimmune encephalitis (EAE) results in a rapid and sustained improvement in their clinical status, and a reversal of changes in expression of mRNAs encoding some myelin proteins and inflammatory mediators. EAE produced by adoptively transferring lymph node cells from immunized mice to nave hosts is similarly ameliorated by FTY-P. Treatment with FTY-P is accompanied by a dose-responsive peripheral lymphopoenia.
Apolipoprotein D (apoD) is a lipoprotein-associated glycoprotein, structurally unrelated to apoE, that transports small hydrophobic ligands including cholesterol and sterols. Levels are increased in the hippocampus and CSF of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. We tested whether variation in the APOD gene affects AD risk. Four single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were investigated (in map order): exon 2, 15T--&gt;C encodes an amino acid substitution Phe--&gt;Ser at codon 15; intron 2, -352G--&gt;A; intron 3, +45C--&gt;T; intron 4, +718C--&gt;T, determined by SNaPshot assay. SNP frequencies for 394 eastern Finnish AD patients were compared with those found for 470 control subjects, dividing subjects also into early-onset AD (EOAD; &lt; or = 65 years) and late-onset AD (LOAD; &gt;65 years) groups. The -352G allele was associated with a significant 3-fold increase in the risk of EOAD (OR: 2.7; 95% CI: 1.1-6.5). The -352G containing haplotypes were more common for EOAD cases (TGCC: 0.48 vs 0.41; TGCT: 0.08 vs 0.01 (p = 0.002). In the Grade-of-membership analysis, APOD genotype frequencies at each SNP site and disease status were used to construct two latent groups: the affected group carried -352 as GG or GA and +45 CC, was often women and enriched in APOE epsilon4. Each method suggested that the -352G allele frequency is higher for EOAD in the eastern Finnish population.

The goal of this article is to provide a contemporary update on the use of stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) for the treatment of intracranial metastatic disease. We discuss the rationale for employing SRS in brain metastases and describe the critical factors that predict outcome. We highlight the main clinical indications for SRS including treatment of recurrent brain metastases after previous whole brain radiation therapy (WBRT), as a boost after WBRT, and as sole therapy for newly diagnosed tumors. For each clinical scenario, we offer a treatment algorithm based on our clinical experience. The article also addresses the most common complications associated with SRS and their treatment.
Reflections directly involving the ongoing, intense research activities in biology, the neurosciences and in neurosurgery are discussed including the evolving diagnostic and treatment modalities of primary and secondary malignant gliomas of the central nervous system. The etiology of this enigmatic disease remains obscure, and a curative therapy is still not available. Nevertheless, as a result of changing paradigms in neuroanatomy, neuropathology, neurophysiology, neuroradiology and in neurosurgery, and taking into account the broader selection of adjuvant therapies available, well circumscribed malignant gliomas, which are in predilected compartments of the brain, can be efficiently resected. Good life quality and a respectable survival time are achieved in the majority of patients.
We have shown that some neural activity is required for the maintenance of long-term potentiation (LTP) at visual cortical inhibitory synapses. We tested whether this was also the case in N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-independent LTP of excitatory connections in layer 2/3 cells of developing rat visual cortex. This LTP occurred after 2-Hz stimulation was applied for 15 min and always persisted for several hours while test stimulation was continued at 0.1 Hz. When test stimulation was stopped for 1 h after LTP induction, only one-third of the LTP instances disappeared, but most did disappear under a pharmacological suppression of spontaneous firing, indicating that LTP maintenance requires either evoked or spontaneous activities. LTP was totally abolished by a temporary blockade of action potentials with lidocaine or the removal of extracellular Ca(2+) after LTP induction, but it persisted under a voltage clamp of postsynaptic cells or after a temporary blockade of postsynaptic activity with the glutamate receptor antagonist kynurenate, suggesting that LTP maintenance requires presynaptic, but not postsynaptic, firing and Ca(2+) entry. More than one-half of the LTP instances were abolished after a pharmacological blockade of P-type Ca(2+) channels, whereas it persisted after either L-type or Ni(2+)-sensitive Ca(2+) channel blockades. These results show that the maintenance of NMDA receptor-independent excitatory LTP requires presynaptic firing and Ca(2+) channel activation as inhibitory LTP, although the necessary level of firing and Ca(2+) entry seems lower for the former than the latter and the Ca(2+) channel types involved are only partly the same.
We demonstrate that single-variable integrate-and-fire models can quantitatively capture the dynamics of a physiologically detailed model for fast-spiking cortical neurons. Through a systematic set of approximations, we reduce the conductance-based model to 2 variants of integrate-and-fire models. In the first variant (nonlinear integrate-and-fire model), parameters depend on the instantaneous membrane potential, whereas in the second variant, they depend on the time elapsed since the last spike [Spike Response Model (SRM)]. The direct reduction links features of the simple models to biophysical features of the full conductance-based model. To quantitatively test the predictive power of the SRM and of the nonlinear integrate-and-fire model, we compare spike trains in the simple models to those in the full conductance-based model when the models are subjected to identical randomly fluctuating input. For random current input, the simple models reproduce 70-80 percent of the spikes in the full model (with temporal precision of +/-2 ms) over a wide range of firing frequencies. For random conductance injection, up to 73 percent of spikes are coincident. We also present a technique for numerically optimizing parameters in the SRM and the nonlinear integrate-and-fire model based on spike trains in the full conductance-based model. This technique can be used to tune simple models to reproduce spike trains of real neurons.
Mitral cells, the principal cells of the olfactory bulb, respond to sensory stimulation with precisely timed patterns of action potentials. By contrast, the same neurons generate intermittent spike clusters with variable timing in response to simple step depolarizations. We made whole cell recordings from mitral cells in rat olfactory bulb slices to examine the mechanisms by which normal sensory stimuli could generate precisely timed spike clusters. We found that individual mitral cells fired clusters of action potentials at 20-40 Hz, interspersed with periods of subthreshold membrane potential oscillations in response to depolarizing current steps. TTX (1 microM) blocked a sustained depolarizing current and fast subthreshold oscillations in mitral cells. Phasic stimuli that mimic trains of slow excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) that occur during sniffing evoked precisely timed spike clusters in repeated trials. The amplitude of the first simulated EPSP in a train gated the generation of spikes on subsequent EPSPs. 4-aminopyridine (4-AP)-sensitive K(+) channels are critical to the generation of spike clusters and reproducible spike timing in response to phasic stimuli. Based on these results, we propose that spike clustering is a process that depends on the interaction between a 4-AP-sensitive K(+) current and a subthreshold TTX-sensitive Na(+) current; interactions between these currents may allow mitral cells to respond selectively to stimuli in the theta frequency range. These intrinsic properties of mitral cells may be important for precisely timing spikes evoked by phasic stimuli that occur in response to odor presentation in vivo.
When arm movements are perturbed by a load, how does the nervous system adjust control signals to reduce error? While it has been shown that the nervous system is capable of compensating for the effects of limb dynamics and external forces, the strategies used to adapt to novel loads are not well understood. We used a robotic exoskeleton [kinesiological instrument for normal and altered reaching movements (KINARM)] to apply novel loads to the arm during single-joint elbow flexions in the horizontal plane (shoulder rotation was allowed). Loads varied in magnitude with the instantaneous velocity of elbow flexion, and were applied to the shoulder in experiment 1 (interaction loads) and the elbow in experiment 2 (direct loads). Initial exposure to both interaction and direct loads resulted in perturbations at both joints, even though the load was applied to only a single joint. Subjects tended to correct for the kinematics of the elbow joint while perturbations at the shoulder persisted. Electromyograms (EMGs) and computed muscle torque showed that subjects modified muscle activity at the elbow to reduce elbow positional deviations. Shoulder muscle activity was also modified; however, these changes were always in the same direction as those at the elbow. Current models of motor control based on inverse-dynamics calculations and force-control, as well as models based on positional control, predict an uncoupling of shoulder and elbow muscle torques for adaptation to these loads. In contrast, subjects in this study adopted a simple strategy of modulating the natural coupling that exists between elbow and shoulder muscle torque during single-joint elbow movements.
Functional imaging studies of priming-related repetition phenomena have become widely used to study neural object representation. Although blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) repetition decreases can sometimes be observed without awareness of repetition, any role for spatial attention in BOLD repetition effects remains largely unknown. We used fMRI in 13 healthy subjects to test whether BOLD repetition decreases for repeated objects in ventral visual cortices depend on allocation of spatial attention to the prime. Subjects performed a size-judgment task on a probe object that had been attended or ignored in a preceding prime display of 2 lateralized objects. Reaction times showed faster responses when the probe was the same object as the attended prime, independent of the view tested (identical vs. mirror image). No behavioral effect was evident from unattended primes. BOLD repetition decreases for attended primes were found in lateral occipital and fusiform regions bilaterally, which generalized across identical and mirror-image repeats. No repetition decreases were observed for ignored primes. Our results suggest a critical role for attention in achieving visual representations of objects that lead to both BOLD signal decreases and behavioral priming on repeated presentation.
There is an infinity of impedance parameter values, and thus different co-contraction levels, that can produce similar movement kinematics from which the CNS must select one. Although signal-dependent noise (SDN) predicts larger motor-command variability during higher co-contraction, the relationship between impedance and task performance is not theoretically obvious and thus was examined here. Subjects made goal-directed, single-joint elbow movements to either move naturally to different target sizes or voluntarily co-contract at different levels. Stiffness was estimated as the weighted summation of rectified EMG signals through the index of muscle co-contraction around the joint (IMCJ) proposed previously. When subjects made movements to targets of different sizes, IMCJ increased with the accuracy requirements, leading to reduced endpoint deviations. Therefore without the need for great accuracy, subjects accepted worse performance with lower co-contraction. When subjects were asked to increase co-contraction, the variability of EMG and torque both increased, suggesting that noise in the neuromotor command increased with muscle activation. In contrast, the final positional error was smallest for the highest IMCJ level. Although co-contraction increases the motor-command noise, the effect of this noise on the task performance is reduced. Subjects were able to regulate their impedance and control endpoint variance as the task requirements changed, and they did not voluntarily select the high impedance that generated the minimum endpoint error. These data contradict predictions of the SDN-based theory, which postulates minimization of only endpoint variance and thus require its revision.
The ability to navigate in the world and execute appropriate behavioral responses depends critically on the contribution of the vestibular system to the detection of motion and spatial orientation. A complicating factor is that otolith afferents equivalently encode inertial and gravitational accelerations. Recent studies have demonstrated that the brain can resolve this sensory ambiguity by combining signals from both the otoliths and semicircular canal sensors, although it remains unknown how the brain integrates these sensory contributions to perform the nonlinear vector computations required to accurately detect head movement in space. Here, we illustrate how a physiologically relevant, nonlinear integrative neural network could be used to perform the required computations for inertial motion detection along the interaural head axis. The proposed model not only can simulate recent behavioral observations, including a translational vestibuloocular reflex driven by the semicircular canals, but also accounts for several previously unexplained characteristics of central neural responses such as complex otolith-canal convergence patterns and the prevalence of dynamically processed otolith signals. A key model prediction, implied by the required computations for tilt-translation discrimination, is a coordinate transformation of canal signals from a head-fixed to a spatial reference frame. As a result, cell responses may reflect canal signal contributions that cannot be easily detected or distinguished from otolith signals. New experimental protocols are proposed to characterize these cells and identify their contributions to spatial motion estimation. The proposed theoretical framework makes an essential first link between the computations for inertial acceleration detection derived from the physical laws of motion and the neural response properties predicted in a physiologically realistic network implementation.
We have previously shown that extracellular protons inhibit recombinant and native GABA(A) receptors. In this report, we studied the site(s) and mechanism by which protons modulate the GABA(A) receptor. Whole cell GABA-activated currents were recorded from human embryonic kidney (HEK) 293 cells expressing recombinant alpha1beta2gamma2 GABA(A) receptors. Protons competitively inhibited the response to GABA and bicuculline. In contrast, change in pH did not influence direct gating of the channel by pentobarbital, and it did not influence spontaneous channel openings in alpha1(L264T)beta2gamma2 receptors, suggesting pH does not modulate channel activity by affecting the channel gating process directly. To test the hypothesis that protons modulate GABA(A) receptors at the ligand binding site, we systemically mutated N-terminal residues known to be involved in GABA binding and assessed effects of pH on these mutant receptors. Site-specific mutation of beta2 Y205 to F or alpha1 F64 to A, both of which are known to influence GABA binding, significantly reduced pH sensitivity of the GABA response. These mutations did not affect Zn(2+) sensitivity, suggesting that H(+) and Zn(2+) do not share a common site of action. Additional experiments further tested this possibility. Treatment with the histidine-modifying reagent diethylpyrocarbonate (DEPC) reduced Zn(2+)-mediated inhibition of GABA(A) receptors but had no effect on proton-induced inhibition of GABA currents. In addition, mutation of residues known to be involved in Zn(2+) modulation had no effect on pH modulation of GABA(A) receptors. Our results support the hypothesis that protons inhibit GABA(A) receptor function by direct or allosteric interaction with the GABA binding site. In addition, the sites of action of H(+) and Zn(2+) in GABA(A) receptors are distinct.
Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) is a technique for obliterating intracranial targets that are inaccessible or unsuitable for open surgical techniques. By means of well-collimated beams of ionizing radiation, a high-dose, single fraction of radiation is delivered to a defined volume of tissue. The entrance and exit doses are distributed in such a way that tissue outside the target is minimally affected. Treatment effects are seen on scans or angiograms after several months or a few years; consequently, follow-up scans are necessary. The first 72 patients who underwent SRS at the Department of Neurological Sciences and Radiation Therapy, Christian Medical College and Hospital were followed. Of the 72 treated, 35 had arteriovenous malformations, while 37 had brain tumors. Of the 37 patients with brain tumors, 14 had meningioma and 17 had acoustic neuroma. Six patients had other lesions such as pineal tumor, hemangioblastoma, astrocytoma, or metastasis. Of 72 patients, 43 came for follow-up. Twenty-three of the followed-up patients showed improvement; 10 clinically and radiologically remained the same, and 2 died due to recurrence. Of 43 patients, 3 continue to have cranial nerve deficit. Four patients were later found to have central necrosis and clinical deterioration. Observation of outcomes following SRS helps neuroscience nurses identify home healthcare strategies such as chest care, eye care, facial massage, and exercises along with the other specific nursing care. Although nursing care has become more technically oriented, the patient's physical, educational, spiritual, and emotional needs must be addressed.
Dysphagia is a common disability seen in stroke survivors that has been associated with high morbidity and mortality. Research has indicated that implementing clinical guidelines and algorithms improves dysphagia management and patient outcomes. A decision-making algorithm designed to enhance the assessment and dietary treatment of swallowing difficulties in the acute stroke patient was implemented on a dedicated neuroscience unit in January 2002. Following implementation, the medical records of 30 acute stroke patients consecutively admitted to the unit between February and May 2002 were reviewed for stroke and dysphagia characteristics, dysphagia-related complications, discharge dispositions, interdisciplinary baseline assessments, and nursing evaluations throughout the hospitalization. Of those patients admitted with stroke, 56.7% were dysphagic. As compared with the nondysphagic patients, the dysphagic patients had three times' longer inpatient stay, an increased incidence of complications, higher morbidity, and increased need for inpatient rehabilitation services and institutionalized care following discharge. Twenty percent of patients did not receive aformal evaluation of swallowing function within the first 48 hours of admission. In 10% of the patients, diets were changed following the formal evaluation of swallowing to change an unsafe, prescribed diet. More than 70% of patients showed clinical improvement in swallowing function during their hospitalization. Nurses tended to document assessments of general neurological factors (e.g., level of consciousness) related to swallowing function more frequently than factors felt to be more specific to swallowing (e.g., choking) and nutrition (e.g., tolerates diet). The results support the important role of the neuroscience nurse in the early and ongoing assessment of swallowing function and in providing directions to further improve the quality of care delivered to stroke patients with various degrees of swallowing dysfunction.
We present here a fast protocol that could be used to obtain highly purified cultures of maximal proliferating adult rat Schwann cells. These adult rat Schwann cells can be transfected in a nonbiological way using the physical transfection method of electroporation. Schwann cells are decisive in recovery of peripheral nerves after injury. In a clinical context, the use of enriched adult Schwann cells is necessary for autologous cell transplantation within nerve transplants for peripheral nerve repair. Different parameters such as tissue preparation, culture conditions, and protocols for enrichment, elevation of proliferation rates, and transfection were evaluated in cell cultures harvested from adult rat peripheral nerves. Cell preparation from in vivo predegenerated adult rat sciatic nerves combined with the use of melanocyte growth medium supplemented with forskolin, fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-2, and pituitary extract as a selective, serum-free culture medium, with a secondary cell-enrichment step using specific detachment, resulted in highly enriched cultures of adult rat Schwann cells (&gt;90%) with enhanced proliferation rates (&gt;or=40%). About 20% of these adult Schwann cells could be modified genetically using an optimized electroporation protocol.
Dendritic expression of the activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein (Arc) is dramatically enhanced by increased synaptic activity in adult brain. We used immunocytochemical electron microscopy to determine whether the subcellular localization of Arc in developing dendrites corresponds to the peak period of synaptogenesis in the postnatal rat caudate-putamen nucleus (CPN). The distribution was compared with that of mu-opioid receptors (MORs), whose localization in dendritic spines closely parallels excitatory synapse formation during postnatal development (Wang et al. [2003] Neuroscience 118:695-708). Sections were processed for immunocytochemical detection of antisera against Arc or MORs at the beginning (postnatal day 15; P15) and the end (P30) of the peak period of synaptogenesis in rat CPN. At P15, immunolabeling for Arc showed a punctate distribution in the cytoplasm of dendritic shafts, some of which was associated with polyribosomes. In some spiny dendrites, Arc immunoreactivity was more intensely localized in putative spines than in their parental dendrites, whereas, in other spiny dendrites, Arc labeling was restricted in the shafts. Many dendritic shafts and spines also showed immunoreactivity for MORs, although dually labeled spines were less numerous than the shafts. At P30, the proportion of singly and dually labeled spines significantly increased from 2.0% to 7.5% and from 9.5% to 21%, respectively. Arc labeling in spines was more detectable beneath the postsynaptic density or at extrasynaptic sites on the plasma membrane. Our results suggest a correlation between Arc expression in dendritic spines during postnatal development and the onset of synaptogenesis in opioid-responsive neurons in the rat CPN.


Experimental evidence obtained in various animal models of brain injury indicates that vasopressin promotes the formation of cerebral edema. However, the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying this vasopressin action are not fully understood. In the present study, we analyzed the temporal changes in expression of vasopressin V1a receptors after traumatic brain injury (TBI) in rats. In the intact brain, the V1a receptor was expressed in neurons located in all layers of the frontoparietal cortex. The V1a receptor-immunoreactive product was predominantly localized to neuronal nuclei and had both a diffused and punctate staining pattern. The V1a receptors were also expressed in astrocytes, especially in layer 1 of the frontoparietal cortex. In these cells, two distinctive patterns of immunopositive staining for V1a receptors were observed: a diffused cytosolic staining of cell bodies and processes and a clearly punctate staining pattern that was predominantly localized to the astrocytic cell bodies. The real-time reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction analysis of changes in mRNA for the V1a receptor demonstrated that after TBI, there is an early (4 h post-TBI) increase in the number of transcripts in the ipsilateral frontoparietal cortex, when compared to the contralateral hemisphere or the sham-injured rats. This increase in the message was followed by the up-regulation of expression of the V1a receptors at the protein level. This was most evident in cortical astrocytes in the areas surrounding the lesion. The number of the V1a receptor-immunopositive astrocytes in the traumatized parenchyma gradually increased, starting at 8 h and peaking at 4-6 days after TBI. Furthermore, a redistribution of V1a receptors from the astrocytic cell bodies to the astrocytic processes was observed. In addition to astrocytes, an increased expression of V1a receptors was found in the endothelium of both blood microvessels and the large-diameter blood vessels in the frontoparietal cortex ipsilateral to injury. This increase in the V1a receptor expression was apparent between 2 and 4 days after TBI. As early as 1-2 h following the impact, there was also a striking increase in the number of the V1a receptor-immunopositive beaded axonal processes, with greatly enlarged varicosities, that were localized to various areas of the injured parenchyma. It is suggested that the increased expression of V1a receptors plays an important role in the vasopressin-mediated formation of edema in the injured brain.
Olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) were transplanted in adult rats after photochemical injury of the spinal cord. Rats received either 180,000 OECs suspended in DMEM or DMEM alone. Locomotor ability scored by the BBB-scale, pain sensibility, and motor and somatosensory evoked potentials were evaluated during the first 14 days post-surgery. At 3, 7, and 14 days, 5 rats per day of both groups were perfused and transverse sections from proximal, lesioned and distal spinal cord blocks were stained for COX-2, VEGF, GFAP and lectin. The BBB-score and the amplitude of motor and somatosensory evoked potentials were significantly higher in OEC- than in DMEM-injected animals throughout follow-up, whereas the withdrawal latency to heat noxious stimulus was lower in OEC- than in DMEM-injected rats. The area of preserved spinal cord and the levels of COX-2 and VEGF staining were significantly higher in OEC- than in DMEM-injected rats. GFAP- but no LEC-positive cells expressed COX-2 staining in OEC-transplanted rats. The density of blood vessels was also significantly increased in OEC- with respect to DMEM-injected rats. Our results show that OECs promote functional and morphological preservation of the spinal cord after photochemical injury, increasing neoangiogenesis and up-regulation of COX-2 and VEGF expression in astrocytes.
Patients with spinal cord injury (SCI) typically experience body weight loss, motor function deficits, and a general decline of physical fitness. Animal models with these characteristics can serve to study the detailed adaptive changes following SCI. In the present study, we report the use of an adult paraplegic mouse model to study SCI-induced changes. We characterized the early effects of complete thoracic spinal cord transection on (1) whole body weight, (2) forelimb and hindlimb weight and volume, and (3) contractile properties of hindlimb extensor muscle. Drastic changes were found at 7 days post-spinal cord transection. These included a 24% loss in whole body weight accompanied by a large decrease of weight and volume in the forelimbs and the hindlimbs. We also observed in the soleus muscle, a 32% decrease in mass and maximal tetanic tension (Po) as well as a 21% and 48% increase in time-to-peak tension (TPT) and half-relaxation time (1/2 RT) respectively. After 28 days, all of the changes remained, except for 1/2 RT and TPT which nearly returned to control levels. Altogether, the results reveal that large changes in body weight, limb size and musculoskeletal properties occur within only one week after complete spinal cord transection. The use of paraplegic mouse models may provide new therapeutic approaches to restore motor and locomotor functions after SCI.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) often leads to chronic central pain (CCP) syndromes such as allodynia and hyperalgesia. Although several experimental animal models for CCP studies exist, little is known about the effect of age on the development of CCP following SCI. In this study, we evaluated behavioral responses to mechanical and thermal stimuli following SCI using three different age groups of adult Sprague-Dawley rats: young (40 days), adult (60 days), and middle-age (12 months). SCI was produced by unilateral hemisection of the spinal cord at T13. Behavioral measures of locomotor function were assayed in open field tests and somatosensory function by paw withdrawal frequency (PWF) to innocuous mechanical stimuli and paw withdrawal latency (PWL) to radiant heat stimuli on both the forelimbs and hindlimbs. Prior to hemisection, the PWF was not different between the three groups; however, the PWL of the young group was significantly greater than the adult and middle-age group. After spinal hemisection, spontaneous locomotor recovery occurred more rapidly in young and adult than in middle-age rats. In both forelimbs and hindlimbs, the young group displayed a significant increase in PWF and a significant decrease in PWL compared to presurgical and sham values or values from the adult and middle-age groups. These results indicate that younger rats developed more robust neuropathic behaviors than middle-age rats, indicating that age selection is an important factor in animal models of CCP syndromes following SCI. Additionally, our data suggest that age at the time of injury may be one risk factor in predicting the development of CCP after SCI in people.
The construct validity of the Depressive Personality Disorder Inventory (DPDI; Huprich, Margrett, Barthelemy, &amp; Fine, 1996) was examined through its relationship to the constructs of hope, optimism, and quality of life (QOL). Three hundred thirty-two undergraduate students were administered the DPDI and measures of the aforementioned constructs. As predicted, the DPDI negatively correlated with all measures. Individuals classified with a depressive personality disorder had significantly higher scores on measures of hope, optimism, and QOL compared to a control group. Stepwise regression analysis indicated that optimism, QOL, and one component of hope significantly predicted DPDI scores, although more variance was accounted for in women than men. These findings are explained in light of Carver and Scheier's (2000) explanation of optimism and its relationship to hope. In sum, it appears that the construct validity of the DPDI is supported within an undergraduate sample.
The activation of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) after exposure to nitric oxide or oxygen-free radicals can lead to cell injury via severe, irreversible depletion of NAD. Genetic deletion or pharmacological inhibition of PARP-1 attenuates brain injury after focal ischemia and neurotoxicity in several neurodegenerative models in animals. FR247304 (5-chloro-2-[3-(4-phenyl-3,6-dihydro-1(2H)-pyridinyl)propyl]-4(3H)-quinazolinone) is a novel PARP-1 inhibitor that has recently been identified through structure-based drug design. In an enzyme kinetic analysis, FR247304 exhibits potent and competitive inhibition of PARP-1 activity, with a K(i) value of 35 nM. Here, we show that prevention of PARP activation by FR247304 treatment protects against both reactive oxygen species-induced PC12 cell injury in vitro and ischemic brain injury in vivo. In cell death model, treatment with FR247304 (10(-8)-10(-5) M) significantly reduced NAD depletion by PARP-1 inhibition and attenuated cell death after hydrogen peroxide (100 microM) exposure. After 90 min of middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats, poly(ADP-ribosy)lation and NAD depletion were markedly increased in the cortex and striatum from 1 h after reperfusion. The increased poly(ADP-ribose) immunoreactivity and NAD depletion were attenuated by FR247304 (32 mg/kg i.p.) treatment, and FR247304 significantly decreased ischemic brain damage measured at 24 h after reperfusion. Whereas other PARP inhibitors such as 3-aminobenzamide and PJ34 [N-(6-oxo-5,6-dihydro-phenanthridin-2-yl)-N,N-dimethylactamide] showed similar neuroprotective actions, they were less potent in in vitro assays and less efficacious in an in vivo model compared with FR247304. These results indicate that the novel PARP-1 inhibitor FR247304 exerts its neuroprotective efficacy in in vitro and in vivo experimental models of cerebral ischemia via potent PARP-1 inhibition and also suggest that FR247304 or its derivatives could be attractive therapeutic candidates for stroke and neurodegenerative disease.
Two novel N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists with unique chemical structures, EAA-090 (2-[8,9-dioxo-2, 6-diazabicyclo[5.2.0]non-1(7)-en2-yl]ethylphosphonic acid) and EAB-318 (R-alpha-amino-5-chloro-1-(phosphonomethyl)-1H-benzimidazole-2-propanoic acid hydrochloride), were compared with CGS-19755 (Selfotel) in ligand binding, electrophysiology, and neuroprotection assays. CGS-19755, EAA-090 and EAB-318 inhibited [(3)H]3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphonic acid binding to NMDA receptors with IC(50) values of 55, 28, and 7.9 nM, respectively. All three compounds decreased the duration of spontaneous synaptic currents and inhibited NMDA-activated currents in rat hippocampal neurons. IC(50) values for inhibition of current induced by 10 microM NMDA were 795, 477, and 69 nM for CGS-19755, EAA-090, and EAB-318, respectively. The NMDA antagonists protected chick embryo retina slices and cultured rat hippocampal and cortical neurons from glutamate- and NMDA-induced neurotoxicity. In experiments in which different NMDA receptor splice variants and subtypes were expressed in Xenopus oocytes, all three antagonists preferentially blocked NMDA-elicited currents mediated by N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NR)1 splice variants containing the N-terminal insertion. They also favored NR2A-versus NR2B- or NR2C-containing NMDA receptors, with EAA-090 showing the greatest selectivity. EAA-090 was 10 times more potent at blocking NR2A-versus NR2B- or NR2C-containing NMDA receptors. In addition to being the most potent NMDA antagonist, EAB-318 inhibited alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) and kainate receptors. The combination of NMDA and AMPA/kainate block enabled EAB-318 to protect neurons against ischemia induced cell death.
Intracellular recordings were made from either sheets or isolated bundles of the circular muscle layer of guinea-pig proximal colon and the responses evoked by stimulating inhibitory nerve fibres were analysed. Inhibitory junction potentials (IJPs), evoked by single stimuli, had two components which could be separated on their pharmacological and temporal characteristics and their voltage sensitivities. The initial component, which was abolished by apamin and reduced in amplitude by pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulphonic acid (PPADS), had a brief time course: its amplitude was changed when the external concentration of potassium ions ([K+](o)) was changed. The second component of the IJP had a slower onset than the first component, was abolished by l-nitroarginine (NOLA) and oxadiazolo quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ), an inhibitor of soluble guanylate cyclase: its amplitude was little affected by changing [K+](o) and was increased when the membrane potential of the circular layer was hyperpolarized. The observations suggest that the initial component of the IJP results from the release of ATP which triggers an increase in membrane conductance to K+ and that the second component results from the release of nitric oxide which suppresses a background inward current.
Hair cell mechano-electric transducer (MET) channels play a pivotal role in auditory and vestibular signal detection, yet few data exist regarding their molecular nature. Present work characterizes the MET channel pore, a region whose properties are thought to be intrinsically determined. Two approaches were used. First, the channel was probed with antagonists of candidate channel subtypes including: cyclic nucleotide-gated channels, transient receptor potential channels and gap-junctional channels. Eight new antagonists were identified. Most of the effective antagonists had a partially charged amine group predicted to penetrate the channel pore, antagonizing current flow, while the remainder of the molecule prevented further permeation of the compound through the pore. This blocking mechanism was tested using curare to demonstrate the open channel nature of the block and by identifying methylene blue as a permeant channel blocker. The second approach estimated dimensions of the channel pore with simple amine compounds. The narrowest diameter of the pore was calculated as 12.5 +/- 0.8 A and the location of a binding site approximately 45% of the way through the membrane electric field was calculated. Channel length was estimated as approximately 31 A and the width of the pore mouth at &lt; 17 A. Each effective antagonist had a minimal diameter, measured about the penetrating amine, of less than the pore diameter, with a direct correlation between IC(50) and minimal diameter. The IC(50) was also directly related to the length of the amine side chains, further validating the proposed pore blocking mechanism. Data provided by these two approaches support a hypothesis regarding channel permeation and block that incorporates molecular dimensions and ion interactions within the pore.
Hyperphosphorylation of microtubule-associated protein tau at specific sites is a recognized pathological process in Alzheimer's disease (AD), and protein kinase A (PKA) is a crucial kinase in AD-like tau hyperphosphorylation. In the present study, isoproterenol (ISO) was injected bilaterally into hippocampus of rat brain; ISO is a specific PKA activator and it induces tau hyperphosphorylation. With this system, melatonin (MT) was shown to protect against ISO-induced tau hyperphosphorylation. We found that hippocampal injection of ISO (0.02 microm) induced PKA overactivation and tau hyperphosphorylation at both paired helical filament (PHF)-1 and tau-1 sites. ISO injection also resulted in activation of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and elevation of malondialdehyde (MDA), parameters suggesting elevated oxidative stress. Preinfusion of MT intraperitoneally partially reversed ISO-induced tau hyperphosphorylation at the PHF-1 epitope (1 and 10 mg/kg continuously for 4 wk or 10 mg/kg for 1, 2 or 3 wk) and tau-1 epitope (10 mg/kg for 2 wk). Furthermore, MT (10 mg/kg for 2 wk) obviously antagonized ISO-induced PKA overactivation, as well as enhanced SOD activity and decreased the level of MDA. It is suggested from these data that ISO may induce abnormal hyperphosphorylation of tau through not only the activation of PKA but also because of the fact that it increases oxidative stress; MT may protect against ISO-induced tau hyperphosphorylation through suppression of both PKA overactivation and oxidative stress.


A cationic protonatable amine moiety on dopaminergic ligands forms a high affinity reinforced ionic bond with an anionic aspartic acid at position 3.32 of dopamine receptors. When present, catechol hydroxyls of the ligands form hydrogen bonds with serines at position 5.42, 5.43, and 5.46, and this network of hydrogen bonds serves to orient ligands in the binding-site crevice and increase their binding affinity. A steric clash between aromatic moieties of the ligands and aromatic amino acids of the receptor (e.g., H6.55, F6.52 or F6.51 and W6.48) is likely to be propagated in domino-like fashion along the length of TM6, which is believed to trigger activation of the receptor. Specifically, it is the change in the conformation of W6.48 from an orientation perpendicular to the plane of the lipid membrane to one that is parallel that is believed to result in activation. Molecular determinants that mediate the D4/D2-selectivity of many extremely D4-selective 1,4-DAP ligands, include a nonconserved cluster of bulky amino acids at the TM2/TM3 interface (positions 2.61, 3.28 and 3.29).
The D1-like (D1, D5) and D2-like (D2, D3, D4) classes of dopamine receptors each has shared signaling properties that contribute to the definition of the receptor class, although some differences among subtypes within a class have been identified. D1-like receptor signaling is mediated chiefly by the heterotrimeric G proteins Galphas and Galphaolf, which cause sequential activation of adenylate cyclase, cylic AMP-dependent protein kinase, and the protein phosphatase-1 inhibitor DARPP-32. The increased phosphorylation that results from the combined effects of activating cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase and inhibiting protein phosphatase 1 regulates the activity of many receptors, enzymes, ion channels, and transcription factors. D1 or a novel D1-like receptor also signals via phospholipase C-dependent and cyclic AMP-independent mobilization of intracellular calcium. D2-like receptor signaling is mediated by the heterotrimeric G proteins Galphai and Galphao. These pertussis toxin-sensitive G proteins regulate some effectors, such as adenylate cyclase, via their Galpha subunits, but regulate many more effectors such as ion channels, phospholipases, protein kinases, and receptor tyrosine kinases as a result of the receptor-induced liberation of Gbetagamma subunits. In addition to interactions between dopamine receptors and G proteins, other protein:protein interactions such as receptor oligomerization or receptor interactions with scaffolding and signal-switching proteins are critical for regulation of dopamine receptor signaling.

Asymmetrical cell division is a mechanism that gives rise to two daughter cells with different proliferative and differentiative fates. It occurs mainly during development and in adult stem cells. Accumulating evidence suggests that tumour cells arise from the transformation of normal stem cells. Here, we propose that the asymmetrical mitosis potential of stem cells is associated with the generation of migrating tumour progenitors. Application of this speculative model to glioma proposes that the sites where tumour-initiating stem cells reside are indolent and distinct from the tumour mass, and implies that the tumour mass is continuously replenished with new migrating tumour cells from these clinically silent regions. This hypothesis offers explanations for our inability to cure glioblastoma and points to asymmetrical division as a new potential therapeutic target.
Electrochemical techniques are extensively used to investigate in vivo and in vitro events associated with neurotransmission, particularly dopamine (DA) transmission. In vivo amperometric measurements only concern evoked extracellular neurochemical events over short time periods independently of changes in basal release. In this context, DA release is evoked either by brief and low electrical or by chemical stimulation, which, respectively, mimics or elicits the physiological discharge rates of DA neurones. The combination of electrochemically treated carbon fibre electrodes with differential pulse amperometry (DPA) has been extensively used to monitor DA overflow on a 1-s time scale. The more recent in vivo combination of untreated carbon fibre electrodes with continuous amperometry gives better temporal information allowing the precise description of the kinetic parameters of the mechanisms which regulate DA overflow. The results obtained in rats extended by the results obtained in mice lacking a protein involved in DA transmission demonstrate that DA autoregulation and DA uptake: (i) contributes to the operational properties of DA terminals in converting action potentials into DA release as a high pass filter which favours short bursts of action potentials and (ii) inhibits excessive DA release which might result from prolonged and large increases in the impulse flow.
Fish and fish oils contain the omega-3 fatty acids known as eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) plus docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). Epidemiological studies have shown an inverse relation between the dietary consumption of fish containing EPA/DHA and mortality from coronary heart disease. These relationships have been substantiated from blood measures of omega-3 fatty acids including DHA as a physiological biomarker for omega-3 fatty acid status. Controlled intervention trials with fish oil supplements enriched in EPA/DHA have shown their potential to reduce mortality in post-myocardial infarction patients with a substantial reduction in the risk of sudden cardiac death. The cardioprotective effects of EPA/DHA are widespread, appear to act independently of blood cholesterol reduction, and are mediated by diverse mechanisms. Their overall effects include anti-arrhythmic, blood triglyceride-lowering, anti-thrombotic, anti-inflammatory, endothelial relaxation, plus others. Current dietary intakes of EPA/DHA in North America and elsewhere are well below those recommended by the American Heart Association for the management of patients with coronary heart disease.
We engineered single and multiple mutations of serines 203, 204, and 207 in the fifth transmembrane domain of the beta(2)-adrenergic receptor, a region known to interact with hydroxyl groups of the catechol ring. Using such mutants, we measured the binding affinities of a panel of six catecholamine agonists differing only in the presence of substituents in the ethanolamine tail of the molecule. Although all ligands shared an intact catechol ring, they exhibited different losses of binding energy in response to the mutations. For all mutations, we found a clear relationship between the loss of binding caused by receptor mutation and that caused by the ligand modification. This indicates that the catechol ring and the ethanolamine tail synergistically influence their respective interactions when binding to the receptor. To verify this idea by a formal thermodynamic test, we used a double-mutant cycle analysis. We compared the effects of each receptor mutation with those induced by the modifications of the ligand's tail. Because such changes disrupt interactions occurring at different receptor domains, they should produce cumulative losses. In contrast, we found positive cooperativity between such effects. This means that the binding of each side of the catecholamine can enhance the binding of the other, through an effect that is probably propagated via a conformational change. We suggest that the agonist-binding pocket is not rigid but is dynamically formed as the ligand builds an increasing number of contacts with the receptor.
Bipolar disorder afflicts approximately 1-3% of both men and women, and is coincident with major economic, societal, medical, and interpersonal consequences. Current mediations used for its treatment are associated with variable rates of efficacy and often intolerable side effects. While preclinical and clinical knowledge in the neurosciences has expanded at a tremendous rate, recent years have seen no major breakthroughs in the development of novel types of treatment for bipolar disorder. We review here approaches to develop novel treatments specifically for bipolar disorder. Deliberate (ie not by serendipity) treatments may come from one of two general mechanisms: (1) Understanding the mechanism of action of current medications and thereafter designing novel drugs that mimics these mechanism(s); (2) Basing medication development upon the hypothetical or proven underlying pathophysiology of bipolar disorder. In this review, we focus upon the first approach. Molecular and cellular targets of current mood stabilizers include lithium inhibitable enzymes where lithium competes for a magnesium binding site (inositol monophosphatase, inositol polyphosphate 1-phosphatase, glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3), fructose 1,6-bisphosphatase, bisphosphate nucleotidase, phosphoglucomutase), valproate inhibitable enzymes (succinate semialdehyde dehydrogenase, succinate semialdehyde reductase, histone deacetylase), targets of carbamazepine (sodium channels, adenosine receptors, adenylate cyclase), and signaling pathways regulated by multiple drugs of different classes (phosphoinositol/protein kinase C, cyclic AMP, arachidonic acid, neurotrophic pathways). While the task of developing novel medications for bipolar disorder is truly daunting, we are hopeful that understanding the mechanism of action of current mood stabilizers will ultimately lead clinical trials with more specific medications and thus better treatments those who suffer from this devastating illness.

Stroke-induced hemiballismus (HB) has been reported to improve motor function in people with Parkinson's disease (PD). We report on a patient who developed HB from a parietal infarct. The HB was improved by very low-dose clozapine but the HB did not improve the parkinsonism. This suggests that HB itself, whether from a lesion in the subthalamic nucleus or elsewhere, is not what improves motor function in PD; instead, the physiological function of the damaged structure is the determining factor.
Two genes were identified for autosomal recessive forms of early onset Parkinson's disease: parkin and DJ-1. We describe 2 siblings with EOPD due to parkin mutations and peripheral neuropathy, which presented as neuropathy with liability to pressure palsies (HNPP) in the index case. RT-PCR experiments revealed that the parkin gene is expressed in sural nerves from both controls and patient with parkin-related disease. Our findings support the view that parkin may play a role in the peripheral nervous system.
We report on a clinicopathological case of multiple system atrophy with good response to levodopa and subsequent development of motor complications. Because the subject complied with all the inclusion criteria (Core Assessment Program for Surgical Interventional Therapies in Parkinson's Disease), bilateral subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation electrodes were implanted.
The role of the basal ganglia in the adaptive control of movement was investigated by unexpectedly perturbing movements in 8 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) tested off medication and in 6 aged-matched healthy subjects. Subjects performed two movement components simultaneously and without visual feedback: touching the nose with the finger while leaning the trunk forward. Subjects wore a harness connected to an electromagnet, which was attached to a wall. The trunk movement was mechanically blocked in randomly selected trials by engaging the electromagnet. While healthy subjects performed the task equally well in both conditions, PD subjects' hand movements significantly deteriorated in trunk-perturbed compared to trunk-free trials. Deteriorated hand movements were characterized by segmented hand paths, unsmooth velocity profiles, and prolonged movement times. This finding indicated that the relatively local trunk perturbation had a global effect on the hand movement of PD subjects, necessitating them to reinitiate, after some delay, their arm movement in perturbed trials. Thus, the basal ganglia may be a critical node in brain networks mediating the flexibility of responses to altered motor states.
IgA antibodies do not activate complement and may compete with and protect against myelin degradation caused by IgM and IgG in multiple sclerosis (MS). We retrospectively evaluated cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) IgA and IgG (as indices and extended indices) from 1980 to 1988 in 68 patients with definitive MS. Sixty-one of them had survived since the time of sampling (11-19 years). IgA Extended Index was significantly higher for surviving patients (median 0.65) than for the dead patients (median 0.33). CSF IgA or IgG indices did not correlate with disability, walking distance, or time from onset of symptoms to the need of walking aid. The retrospective experimental design allowed an unusually long follow-up time, but it also had the disadvantages of such a study. Thus the results warrant a prospective study to verify the prognostic vale of CSF IgA in MS.
Changes in mean magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-derived measurements between patient groups are often used to determine outcomes in therapeutic trials and other longitudinal studies of multiple sclerosis (MS). However, in day-to-day clinical practice the changes within individual patients may also be of interest In this paper, we estimated the measurement error of an automated brain tissue quantification algorithm and determined the thresholds for statistically significant change of MRI-derived T2 lesion volume and brain atrophy in individual patients. Twenty patients with MS were scanned twice within 30 min. Brain tissue volumes were measured using the computer algorithm. Brain atrophy was estimated by calculation of brain parenchymal fraction. The threshold of change between repeated scans that represented statistically significant change beyond measurement error with 95% certainty was 0.65 mL for T2 lesion burden and 0.0056 for brain parenchymal fraction. Changes in lesion burden and brain atrophy below these thresholds can be safely (with 95% certainty) explained by measurement variability alone. These values provide clinical neurologists with a useful reference to interpret MRI-derived measures in individual patients.
The purpose of this study was to examine whether motor units, grouped by speed of contraction in the human first dorsal interosseous muscle, differed in their sensitivity to ischemia and motoneuron afterhyperpolarization (AHP) time-course. Motor units were recorded while subjects held an abduction force for approximately 10 min. Subsequently, subjects abducted for 4-5 min under ischemic conditions. Motor unit twitches derived using spike-triggered averaging were allocated into &quot;fast&quot; or &quot;slow&quot; contracting groups based on twitch time to peak (TTP) force. Motor units in the &quot;slow&quot; group had a greater sensitivity to ischemia than the &quot;fast&quot; group. When upper and lower quartiles of TTP were compared, motor units with slow TTP had long AHP time-constants (as estimated by an interspike interval histogram transform). Thus, motor units grouped by speed of contraction differed in both their sensitivity to ischemia and motoneuron AHP time-course. This provides preliminary evidence that the estimated AHP time-constant may be used to deduce motor-unit type in humans.
From insects to mammals, olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) expressing a common olfactory receptor target their axons to specific glomeruli with high precision. Here we show in Drosophila that the POU transcription factor Acj6 controls the axon targeting specificity of a subset of ORN classes, as defined by the olfactory receptors that they express. Of these classes, some require Acj6 cell-autonomously, whereas others require Acj6 cell-nonautonomously. Mosaic analyses show that cooperative targeting occurs between axon terminals of the same ORN classes and that there are hierarchical interactions among different ORN classes. We propose that the precision of ORN axon targeting derives from both intrinsic transcriptional control and extensive axon-axon interactions.
Object perception depends on shape processing in the ventral visual pathway, which in monkeys culminates in inferotemporal cortex (IT). Here we provide a description of fundamental quantitative principles governing neural selectivity for complex shape in IT. By measuring responses to large, parametric sets of two-dimensional (2D) silhouette shapes, we found that neurons in posterior IT (Brodmann's areas TEO and posterior TE) integrate information about multiple contour elements (straight and curved edge fragments of the type represented in lower-level areas) using both linear and nonlinear mechanisms. This results in complex, distributed response patterns that cannot be characterized solely in terms of example stimuli. We explained these response patterns with tuning functions in multidimensional shape space and accurately predicted neural responses to the widely varying shapes in our stimulus set. Integration of contour element information in earlier stages of IT represents an important step in the transformation from low-level shape signals to complex object representation.

Modern science begins to understand pleasure as a potential component of salutogenesis. Thereby, pleasure is described as a state or feeling of happiness and satisfaction resulting from an experience that one enjoys. We examine the neurobiological factors underlying reward processes and pleasure phenomena. Further, health implications related to pleasurable activities are analyzed. With regard to possible negative effects of pleasure, we focus on addiction and motivational toxicity. Pleasure can serve cognition, productivity and health, but simultaneously promotes addiction and other negative behaviors, i.e., motivational toxicity. It is a complex neurobiological phenomenon, relying on reward circuitry or limbic activity. These processes involve dopaminergic signaling. Moreover, endorphin and endogenous morphinergic mechanisms may play a role. Natural rewarding activities are necessary for survival and appetitive motivation, usually governing beneficial biological behaviors like eating, sex and reproduction. Social contacts can further facilitate the positive effects exerted by pleasurable experiences. However, artificial stimulants can be detrimental, since flexibility and normal control of behavior are deteriorated. Additionally, addictive drugs are capable of directly acting on reward pathways. Thus, the concrete outcome of pleasant experiences may be a question of dose. Moderate pleasurable experiences are able to enhance biological flexibility and health. Hence, pleasure can be a resistance resource or may serve salutogenesis. Natural rewards are mediated by sensory organ stimulation, thereby exhibiting a potential association with complementary medical approaches. Trust and belief can be part of a self-healing potential connected with rewarding stimuli. Further, the placebo response physiologically resembles pleasure phenomena, since both involve brain's reward circuitry stimulation and subjective feelings of well-being. Pleasurable activities can stimulate personal growth and may help to induce healthy behavioral changes, including stress management. However, more research is needed to better understand the nature, neurobiology and maybe dangerous aspects of pleasure. Also, a possible involvement of endogenous morphinergic signaling has to be studied further.
Individuals with Down's syndrome (DS) develop neuropathological features similar to Alzheimer's disease (AD) early in life, including dementia, accumulation of beta-amyloid, and irregular phosphorylation of tau proteins. Ts65Dn mice, an animal model of DS, provide a unique method to investigate the mechanisms related to AD-like symptoms in DS and possible therapeutic interventions. Ts65Dn mice undergo a decline in cholinergic phenotype and cognitive deterioration beginning at 6-8 months of age. In middle-aged female Ts65Dn mice, estrogen supplementation alleviated these cholinergic and cognitive impairments. The current study investigated AD-like markers and the effects of estrogen in male Ts65Dn mice. Estrogen treatment prior to behavioral testing did not improve cognitive deficits in 6-month-old male Ts65Dn mice, but decreased total and phosphorylated (pS199) tau in the entorhinal cortex compared to normosomic animals. Hippocampal beta-amyloid(1-42) levels were increased in Ts65Dn animals, regardless of estrogen treatment. These findings further support Ts65Dn mice as a model for specific AD-like symptoms, and demonstrate that estrogen treatment of this type does not improve the cognitive ability of male Ts65Dn mice.
Food modulates gastrointestinal (GI) function and GI symptoms could alter food intake, but it is not established whether or not obese people experience more or less GI symptoms. We aimed at evaluating the association between body mass index (BMI) and specific GI symptoms in the community. Population-based random samples from Sydney, Australia (n = 777) completed a validated questionnaire. The association of each GI symptom with BMI (kg m(-2)) categories was assessed using logistic regression analysis adjusting for potential confounders. The prevalence of obesity (BMI &gt; or =30 kg m(-2)) was 22%. There were univariate associations (adjusting for age, sex, education level, alcohol and smoking) between increased BMI category and heartburn (OR = 1.9, 95% CI 1.4, 2.5), acid regurgitation (OR = 2.1, 95% CI 1.4, 2.9), increased bloating (OR = 1.3, 95%CI 1.1, 1.6), increased stool frequency (OR = 1.4, 95% CI 1.1, 1.7), loose and watery stools (OR = 1.5, 95% CI 1.1, 2.0) and upper abdominal pain (OR = 1.3, 95% CI 1.03, 1.6). Early satiety was associated with a lower BMI category but this was not significant after adjustment (OR = 0.8, 95% CI 0.6, 1.1). Lower abdominal pain, postprandial fullness, nausea and vomiting were not associated with BMI category. In a regression model adjusting for sex, education, smoking, alcohol and all GI symptoms, older age, less early satiety and increased stool frequency and heartburn were all independently associated with increasing BMI (all P &lt; 0.01). Heartburn and diarrhoea were associated with increased BMI, while early satiety was associated with a lower BMI in this population.
This article reviews the pharmacology and physiology of opiate receptors and the current and potential uses of opioid agonists and antagonists in clinical gastroenterology. Mu-receptors are involved in motor and sensory functions, and their modulation is established for treatment of diarrhea. Mu-antagonists have potential to reverse endogenous (e.g., postoperative ileus) or iatrogenic dysmotility (e.g., opioid bowel dysfunction). Modulation of the function of kappa-receptors may be a novel approach to control visceral pain in functional gut disorders. Results of formal testing of novel opioid modulators are keenly awaited.
Mammalian sensory cortex is functionally partitioned into cortical fields that are specialized for different processing operations. In theory, averaging functional and anatomical images across subjects can reveal both the average anatomy and the mean functional organization of sensory regions. However, this averaging process must overcome at least two obstacles: (1) the relative locations and sizes of cortical sensory areas vary in different subjects so that across-subject averaging introduces spatial smearing; (2) the relative locations and sizes of cortical areas vary between hemispheres, making it difficult to compare activations between hemispheres or to combine activations across hemispheres. These difficulties are particularly acute for small cortical regions such as auditory cortex. In whole-brain averaging procedures, considerable intersubject variance in the location and orientation of auditory cortex is introduced by variance of the size and shape of structures outside auditory cortex. Here, we compared these global methods with local landmark-based methods (LLMs) that use warping based on local anatomical landmarks. In comparison to maps made with global methods, LLMs produced anatomical maps of auditory cortex with clearer gyral and sulcal structure, and produce functional maps with improved resolution. These results suggest that LLMs have significant advantages over global mapping procedures in studying the details of auditory cortex organization.
Prior work has shown that when responses to incidentally encoded words are sorted, subsequently remembered words elicit greater left prefrontal BOLD signal change relative to forgotten words. Similarly, low-frequency words elicit greater activation than high-frequency words in the same left prefrontal regions, contributing to their better subsequent memorability. This study examined the relative contribution of encoding and retrieval processes to the correct recognition of target words. A mixture of high- and low-frequency words was incidentally encoded. Scanning was performed at encoding as well as during retrieval. During encoding, greater activation in the left prefrontal and anterior cingulate regions predicted a higher proportion of hits for low-frequency words. However, data acquired during recognition showed that word frequency did not modulate activation in any of the areas tracking successful recognition. This result demonstrates that under some circumstances, the recognition of studied words is determined purely by processes that are active during encoding. In contrast to the finding for hits, activation associated with correctly rejected foils was modulated by word frequency, being higher for high-frequency words in the left lateral parietal and anterior prefrontal regions. These findings were replicated in two further experiments, one in which the number of test items at recognition was doubled and another where encoding strength for high-frequency words was varied (once vs. 10 times). These results indicate that word frequency modulates activity in the left lateral parietal and anterior prefrontal regions contingent on whether the item involved is correctly recognized as a target or a foil. This observation is consistent with a dual process account of episodic memory.
Human swallowing represents a complex highly coordinated sensorimotor function whose functional neuroanatomy remains incompletely understood. Specifically, previous studies have failed to delineate the temporo-spatial sequence of those cerebral loci active during the differing phases of swallowing. We therefore sought to define the temporal characteristics of cortical activity associated with human swallowing behaviour using a novel application of magnetoencephalography (MEG). In healthy volunteers (n = 8, aged 28-45), 151-channel whole cortex MEG was recorded during the conditions of oral water infusion, volitional wet swallowing (5 ml bolus), tongue thrust or rest. Each condition lasted for 5 s and was repeated 20 times. Synthetic aperture magnetometry (SAM) analysis was performed on each active epoch and compared to rest. Temporal sequencing of brain activations utilised time-frequency wavelet plots of regions selected using virtual electrodes. Following SAM analysis, water infusion preferentially activated the caudolateral sensorimotor cortex, whereas during volitional swallowing and tongue movement, the superior sensorimotor cortex was more strongly active. Time-frequency wavelet analysis indicated that sensory input from the tongue simultaneously activated caudolateral sensorimotor and primary gustatory cortex, which appeared to prime the superior sensory and motor cortical areas, involved in the volitional phase of swallowing. Our data support the existence of a temporal synchrony across the whole cortical swallowing network, with sensory input from the tongue being critical. Thus, the ability to non-invasively image this network, with intra-individual and high temporal resolution, provides new insights into the brain processing of human swallowing.
EEG-fMRI is capable of providing novel localizing information in a substantial proportion of patients with frequent epileptiform discharges, even at 1.5T, suggesting a potential clinical role. Increasing availability of equipment capable of providing good-quality intra-MR imaging EEG with relative ease should ensure a more widespread application of the technique in neurology and neuroscience. Early findings in epilepsy have raised a number of interesting issues related to the localization of the activations and the time course of the event-related response that require further investigation. These investigations will benefit from substantial increases in sensitivity resulting from recent and forthcoming technical developments. Validation of the findings will require comparison with invasive and postsurgical findings and further correlations with other measures of brain activity,which should also lead to an improved understanding of the underlying phenomena. To facilitate comparison of findings, improved reporting standards are needed-namely, illustration of activation maps using the glass-brain-more consistent threshold selection,and the listing of all activation clusters, including their volumes, maximum (or minimum) z scores, and peak signal change.
The diagnostic approach to neuromuscular disorders begins with clinical evaluation and electromyographic examination. The histology of the muscle, nerve, and skin are the subsequent essential steps in establishing the diagnosis.
Minocycline, a tetracycline derivative with pleiotropic biological effects, exhibits anti-inflammatory properties in several models of CNS disease. In addition to reducing production of inflammatory mediators, it has been postulated that minocycline might also be directly neuroprotective under these circumstances. Therefore, we investigated the effect of minocycline on primary cortical neuronal cultures exposed to a nitric oxide (NO)-donor. Cultures were assessed for neuronal survival, axon survival and markers of intracellular signaling pathways. The NO donor significantly increased neuronal death and minocycline was protective under these conditions. Furthermore NO-induced reductions in axonal length were significantly attenuated by minocycline.Improvements in axonal length were dependent on mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAP kinase)/extracellular signal-related kinase (Erk) signaling, whereas phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI 3-kinase)/Akt signaling was important in neuronal survival.Further investigation into MAP kinase signaling pathways revealed inhibition of p38 MAP kinase and c-jun N-terminal kinase(JNK) signaling by minocycline. JNK pathways were activated by trophic factor-withdrawal and minocycline attenuated neuronal death induced by trophic withdrawal. These results indicate that, in addition to anti-inflammatory properties, minocycline has direct protective effects on neurons and provides further evidence for its use in disorders of the CNS.
Transplantation of olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) into the injured spinal cord has been shown to exert neuroprotective effects and promote functional recovery. In the present study, we investigated the potential modulatory effects of OECs on the inflammatory reaction developed after photochemical injury to the spinal cord. OEC cultures were obtained from olfactory bulbs of adult Sprague-Dawley rats. Photochemical spinal cord injury was induced in adult rats at T8. Thirty minutes after the insult, either a suspension of OECs (180 000 cells in 12 microl DMEM) or DMEM alone was injected into the lesioned spinal cord.At 3, 7 and 14 days post-operation (dpo), five animals from each group were processed for histology. Double-fluorescent labeling of transverse sections of the cord were made by combination of immunohistochemistry for inflammatory markers, interleukin 1b(IL-1b) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), and for selective markers of astrocytes (glial fibrillar acidic protein; GFAP)and microglia/macrophages (tomato lectin; LEC). Differences in the intensity and time course of glial response, and IL-1band iNOS expression were found between the two groups of rats. The reactivity grade against IL-1beta, iNOS, GFAP and LEC in OEC-transplanted rats was higher at 7 dpo and lower at 14 dpo compared with DMEM-injected rats. These results indicate that the mechanisms underlying neuroprotection by OECs might be caused by earlier, higher and shorter duration of microglia/macrophage and astrocyte responses after injury.
Bidirectional signaling between neurons and glial cells has been demonstrated in brain slices and is believed to mediate glial modulation of synaptic transmission in the CNS. Our laboratory has characterized similar neuron-glia signaling in the mammalian retina. We find that light-evoked neuronal activity elicits Ca(2+) increases in Mller cells, which are specialized retinal glial cells. Neuron to glia signaling is likely mediated by the release of ATP from neurons and is potentiated by adenosine. Glia to neuron signaling has also been observed and is mediated by several mechanisms. Stimulation of glial cells can result in either facilitation or depression of synaptic transmission. Release of D-serine from Mller cells might also potentiate NMDA receptor transmission. Mller cells directly inhibit ganglion cells by releasing ATP, which, following hydrolysis to adenosine, activates neuronal A(1) receptors. The existence of bidirectional signaling mechanisms indicates that glial cells participate in information processing in the retina.
Abundant recent evidence favors a neurotransmitter/neuromodulator role for D-serine. D-serine is synthesized from L-serine by serine racemase in astrocytic glia that ensheath synapses, especially in regions of the brain that are enriched in NMDA-glutamate receptors. D-serine is more potent than glycine at activating the 'glycine' site of these receptors. Moreover, selective degradation of D-serine but not glycine by D-amino acid oxidase markedly reduces NMDA neurotransmission. D-serine appears to be released physiologically in response to activation by glutamate of AMPA-glutamate receptors on D-serine-containing glia. This causes glutamate-receptor-interacting protein, which binds serine racemase, to stimulate enzyme activity and D-serine release. Thus, glutamate triggers the release of D-serine so that the two amino acids can act together on postsynaptic NMDA receptors. D-serine also plays a role in neural development, being released from Bergmann glia to chemokinetically enhance the migration of granule cell cerebellar neurons from the external to the internal granular layer.
Injury and disease in the CNS increases the amount of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) that neurons are exposed to. This cytokine is central to the inflammatory response that occurs after injury and during prolonged CNS disease, and contributes to the process of neuronal cell death. Previous studies have addressed how long-term apoptotic-signaling pathways that are initiated by TNFalpha might influence these processes, but the effects of inflammation on neurons and synaptic function in the timescale of minutes after exposure are largely unexplored. Our published studies examining the effect of TNFalpha on trafficking of AMPA-type glutamate receptors (AMPARs) in hippocampal neurons demonstrate that glial-derived TNFalpha causes a rapid (&lt;15 minute) increase in the number of neuronal, surface-localized, synaptic AMPARs leading to an increase in synaptic strength. This indicates that TNFalpha-signal transduction acts to facilitate increased surface localization of AMPARs from internal postsynaptic stores. Importantly, an excess of surface localized AMPARs might predispose the neuron to glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity and excessive intracellular calcium concentrations, leading to cell death. This suggests a new mechanism for excitotoxic TNFalpha-induced neuronal death that is initiated minutes after neurons are exposed to the products of the inflammatory response. Here we review the importance of AMPAR trafficking in normal neuronal function and how abnormalities that are mediated by glial-derived cytokines such as TNFalpha can be central in causing neuronal disorders. We have further investigated the effects of TNFalpha on different neuronal cell types and present new data from cortical and hippocampal neurons in culture. Finally, we have expanded our investigation of the temporal profile of the action of this cytokine relevant to neuronal damage. We conclude that TNFalpha-mediated effects on AMPAR trafficking are common in diverse neuronal cell types and very rapid in their onset. The abnormal AMPAR trafficking elicited by TNFalpha might present a novel target to aid the development of new neuroprotective drugs.
Multiple sclerosis and experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) are autoimmune inflammatory diseases in which cytokines are intimately involved. Here we test the hypothesis that injection of pro-inflammatory cytokines, tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha) and interferon gamma (IFNgamma) into the brain of animals in the prodromal phase of EAE significantly enhances inflammation in the central nervous system (CNS). We were particularly interested to learn whether a local increase in cytokines influenced the pathology locally, or more extensively, within the CNS. EAE was induced in female adult Lewis rats. Eight days post-inoculation, TNFalpha or INFgamma was injected into one cerebral hemisphere. Days 11 and 13 post-inoculation (3 and 5 days after the injection of cytokine) inflammation was quantified by the number of perivascular cuffs and the degree of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II expression by microglia. Normal animals injected with cytokines, and EAE animals with saline injection served as controls. Results: microglial activation was increased three- to fourfold in the brain and eightfold in the spinal cord (P &lt;/= 0.05); lymphocyte invasion was increased sixfold in the brain and three- to fourfold in the spinal cord (P &lt;/= 0.01) following injections of TNFalpha or INFgamma in EAE animals compared with controls. Significant axonal damage was observed in white matter associated with the perivascular cuffs. Conclusion: local changes in the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines within the brain in EAE results in the widespread enhancement of autoimmune inflammation within the brain and cord, and exacerbation of clinical symptoms.
Recurrent epileptic seizures in the rat enhance the expression of neuropeptide Y (NPY) and its mRNA in various brain areas including the hippocampus, cerebral cortex and the amygdala. In the hippocampus, the most prominent expression of NPY is observed in mossy fibers and in GABAergic interneurons. At the same time, expression of Y2 receptors is also increased whereas Y1 receptors are reduced. Similar changes in Y1 and Y2 receptors were observed in the hippocampus of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). In contrast to the rat, NPY expression is not enhanced in mossy fibers in TLE. In the same tissue, surviving NPY interneurons show marked axonal sprouting into areas innervated by mossy fibers (dentate hilus, stratum lucidum, inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus). Stimulation of presynaptic Y2 receptors inhibits glutamate release, and exert an anticonvulsant action in experimental models. Y1 receptors mediate a weak excitatory component of NPY action. These findings suggest that changes in the NPY system induced by seizures represent an endogenous adaptive mechanism aimed at counteracting hyperexcitability underlying epileptic activity. This concept is strongly supported by evidence that genetically modified rats overexpressing the NPY gene are less susceptible to seizures while deletion of NPY or Y2 receptor genes results in increased susceptibility to seizures.
Neuropeptide Y is the most potent physiological appetite transducer known. The NPY network is the conductor of the hypothalamic appetite regulating orchestra in the arcuate nucleus-paraventricular nucleus (ARC-PVN) of the hypothalamus. NPY and cohorts, AgrP, GABA and adrenergic transmitters, initiate appetitive drive directly through Y1, Y5, GABAA and alpha1 receptors, co-expressed in the magnocellular PVN (mPVN) and ARC neurons and by simultaneously repressing anorexigenic melanocortin signaling in the ARC-PVN axis. The circadian and ultradian rhythmicities in NPY secretion imprint the daily circadian and episodic feeding patterns. Although a number of afferent hormonal signals from the periphery can directly modulate NPYergic signaling, the reciprocal circadian and ultradian rhythmicities of anorexigenic leptin from adipocytes and orexigenic ghrelin from stomach, encode a corresponding pattern of NPY discharge for daily meal patterning. Subtle and progressive derangements produced by environmental and genetic factors in this exquisitely intricate temporal relationship between the two opposing humoral signals and the NPY network promote hyperphagia and abnormal rate of weight gain culminating in obesity and attendant metabolic disorders. Newer insights at cellular and molecular levels demonstrate that a breakdown of the integrated circuit due both to high and low abundance of NPY at target sites, underlies hyperphagia and increased adiposity. Consequently, interruption of NPYergic signaling at a single locus with NPY receptor antagonists may not be the most efficacious therapy to suppress hyperphagia and obesity. Central leptin gene therapy in rodents has been shown to subjugate, i.e. bring under homeostatic control, NPYergic signaling and suppress the age-related and dietary obesity for extended periods and thus shows promise as a newer treatment modality to curb the pandemic of obesity and metabolic syndrome.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) neurons abundantly innervate the hypothalamus, where NPY is involved in the regulation and integration of a broad range of homeostatic functions. In order to understand NPY-mediated behavioral, autonomic and neuroendocrine effects, it is important to characterize in detail the distribution of the hypothalamic NPY receptors. In this review, we briefly summarize the origin of NPY and its two related peptides, peptide YY and pancreatic polypeptide in the hypothalamus. Moreover, based on the results obtained with histological techniques such as in situ hybridization, immunohistochemistry and ligand binding, we summarize data on the hypothalamic distribution of the known NPY receptors, the Y1 Y2, Y4 and Y5 receptors as best characterized to date. These NPY receptors are found with individual distribution patterns in many hypothalamic neurons including neuroendocrine motoneurons, magnocellular neurosecretory neurons and numerous neurons connecting the hypothalamus with the limbic and the autonomic nervous systems. The histochemical analyses allow characterization of coexisting molecules and in this way definition of the neurochemistry of NPY circuitries. By showing coexistence of various NPY receptors they provide a morphological basis for in vitro studies showing heterodimerization of NPY receptors. The NPY neurons and their circuitries underlie the integrative role of NPY as a pleiotropic neuropeptide in the regulation of homeostasis.
The neuropeptide Y (NPY) system consists in mammals of three peptides and 4-5 G-protein-coupled receptors called Y receptors that are involved in a variety of physiological functions such as appetite regulation, circadian rhythm and anxiety. Both the receptor family and the peptide family display unexpected evolutionary complexity and flexibility as shown by information from different classes of vertebrates. The vertebrate ancestor most likely had a single peptide gene and three Y receptor genes, the progenitors of the Y1, Y2 and Y5 subfamilies. The receptor genes were probably located in the same chromosomal segment. Additional gene copies arose through the chromosome quadruplication that took place before the emergence of jawed vertebrates (gnathostomes) whereupon differential losses of the gene copies ensued. The inferred ancestral gnathostome gene repertoire most likely consisted of two peptide genes, NPY and PYY, and no less than seven Y receptor genes: four Y1-like (Y1, Y4/a, Y6, and Yb), two Y2-like (Y2 and Y7), and a single Y5 gene. Whereas additional peptide genes have arisen in various lineages, the most common trend among the Y receptor genes has been further losses. Mammals have lost Yb and Y7 (the latter still exists in frogs) and Y6 is a pseudogene in several mammalian species but appears to be still functional in some. One challenge is to find out if mammals have been deprived of any functions through these gene losses. Teleost fishes like zebrafish and pufferfish, on the other hand, have lost the two major appetite-stimulating receptors Y1 and Y5. Nevertheless, teleost fishes seem to respond to NPY with increased feeding why some other subtype probably mediates this effect. Another challenge is to deduce how Y2 and Y4 came to evolve an inhibitory effect on appetite. Changes in anatomical distribution of receptor expression may have played an important part in such functional switching along with changes in receptor structures and ligand preferences.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) was first reported as an abundant peptide in brain tissue in 1982. Shortly thereafter, NPY was found to be a member of a peptide family consisting of the endocrine peptides pancreatic polypeptide (PP) and peptide YY (PYY). These peptides exert most of their biological effects through five G-protein coupled receptors termed Y1, Y2, Y4, Y5 and y6 that mediate either inhibition adenylate cyclase or increases in intracellular calcium. Since the discovery of NPY, a robust a body of literature has developed around the potential functions of this peptide. While initial findings identified NPY is an important contributor to the regulation of feeding, body weight and blood pressure, more recent work as revealed more subtle functions of this peptide and its potential role in affective disorders, bone formation and cravings. The accompanying twelve reviews detail important developments in our understanding of the functional role of NPY.
Excessive proinflammatory cytokine and NO production by activated microglia play a role in neurodegenerative disorders. In this study, we found that a new compound KL-1037 suppressed LPS-induced NO release/inducible nitric oxide synthase expression in BV2 mouse microglial cells. In addition, KL-1037 prominently diminished LPS-induced production of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as TNF-alpha, IL-1 beta and IL-6, while it increased anti-inflammatory IL-10 and TGF-beta 1 production. By RNase protection assay and RT-PCR, we showed that KL-1037 regulated iNOS and cytokines at transcriptional or post-transcriptional level. Further analysis of molecular mechanisms revealed that KL-1037 prominently increased intracellular cAMP levels and potentiated LPS-induced pCREB expression. However, LPS-induced MAP kinase or NF-kappa B activities were slightly or little changed by KL-1037. Treatment with cAMP antagonist or IL-10 neutralizing antibody completely reversed upregulation of IL-10 and partially repression of TNF-alpha or NO induced by KL-1037. These data suggest that microglial inactivation by KL-1037 is at least in part due to activation of PKA pathway and/or upregulation of IL-10. Thus, repressing proinflammatory cytokines and iNOS gene expression in activated microglia by KL-1037 may provide potential therapeutic strategies for various neurodegenerative diseases including ischemic cerebral disease.
5-HT(6) receptors are expressed in brain regions associated with learning and memory, and blockade of their function increases central cholinergic and glutamatergic neurotransmission and enhances cognitive processes. This study examined the effects of acute systemic administration of two selective 5-HT(6) receptor antagonists Ro 04-6790 and SB-271046 (10 mg kg(-1) i.p.) on acquisition, consolidation, and retrieval in the novel object discrimination (NOD) task, a two-trial test of recognition memory in which rats exposed to two identical objects during a familiarisation trial can discriminate a novel from a familiar object during the subsequent choice trial, following inter-trial delays of up to 3 h. 5-HT(6) receptor antagonist administration 20 min prior to or immediately after the familiarisation trial, but not 20 min prior to the choice trial reversed the deficit in object discrimination produced by a 4 h inter-trial interval. The nootropic effects of the 5-HT(6) receptor antagonists in this task thus appear to involve enhanced consolidation. Pre-treatment with the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 (0.05 mg kg(-1) i.p.) prevented the effect of Ro 04-6790 on delay-induced deficits in object discrimination. This suggests that the 5-HT(6) receptor antagonist-induced enhancement of consolidation involves increased central glutamatergic neurotransmission.
We recently found increased adrenal cortisol responses to adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH)1-24 and increased pituitary ACTH and adrenal cortisol responses to corticotropin-releasing factor in premenopausal women with chronic post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) compared to healthy nontraumatized subjects. This pattern of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA) hyper-reactivity has been previously seen in healthy individuals treated with the antiglucocorticoid mifepristone. We therefore investigated whether endogenous plasma levels of antiglucocorticoids such as dehydroepiandrosteroine (DHEA) and progesterone were increased in premenopausal women with PTSD at baseline or in response to adrenal activation by ACTH1-24. The study revealed that DHEA responses to 250 microg ACTH1-24 were increased in 13 PTSD subjects compared to 13 healthy nontraumatized subjects, while DHEA levels were generally increased in the PTSD subjects compared to seven healthy traumatized subjects. Cortisol responses to ACTH1-24 were also higher in the women with PTSD, while progesterone levels and responses were not different among the three groups. In addition, among the PTSD subjects, the peak change in DHEA in response to ACTH1-24 was negatively correlated with the total Clinician Administered PTSD Scale score, while the peak DHEA to cortisol ratio was inversely associated with negative mood symptoms measured by the Profile of Mood States scale. This work suggests that an increased capacity for DHEA release in response to extreme adrenal activation may influence the pattern of HPA axis adaptation to extreme stress, as well as mitigate the severity of PTSD and negative mood symptoms in premenopausal women with PTSD.
Monoamine oxidase A (MAOA) activity is altered in mood disorders and lower activity associated with aggressive behavior. The gene has a functional polymorphism with a variable number tandem repeat (VNTR) in the upstream regulatory region (MAOA-uVNTR). In this study, we examined possible associations between the MAOA-uVNTR polymorphism and mood disorders, suicidal behavior, aggression/impulsivity, and effects of reported childhood abuse. In total, 663 unrelated subjects with a psychiatric disorder and 104 healthy volunteers were genotyped for the 30 base pair functional VNTR. A novel repeat variation was identified. No statistically significant associations were found between this functional MAOA-uVNTR polymorphism and mood disorders or suicide attempts. However, the lower expression allele was associated with a history of abuse before 15 years of age in male subjects and with higher impulsivity in males but not females. Our results suggest that the lower expression of the MAOA-uVNTR polymorphism is related to a history of early abuse and may sensitize males, but not females, to the effects of early abuse experiences on impulsive traits in adulthood. The polymorphism may be a marker for impulsivity that in turn may contribute to the risk for abuse. This trait could then be further aggravated by abuse.
&quot;Fogging&quot; is the temporary loss of visibility of an infarct on CT which occurs in the subacute phase at about 2 weeks after stroke. It occurs in up to 40% of medium to large infarcts on CT. It is unclear whether or how often fogging occurs on T2-weighted MR, but if it does occur, it can cause underestimation of true infarct size. This study examined the possible frequency and time scale of &quot;fogging&quot; on T2-weighted MR. We conducted a blinded, independent review of prospectively collected MR scans from patients with symptoms of cortical ischaemic stroke, scanned sequentially up to 7 weeks after stroke. On each scan maximum infarct area was measured, and the infarct extent and swelling were coded on a validated scale. &quot;Fogging&quot; was suggested by reduced infarct extent between initial and subsequent scans. In 30 patients (with 74 scans) there was some apparent &quot;fogging&quot; in 50% of patients between 6 and 36 days (median 10 days) after stroke. Reduction in infarct extent on T2-weighted MR which may be attributed to &quot;fogging&quot; occurs in a significant proportion of patients with cortical infarcts. This may lead to an underestimation of true final infarct extent. This suggests that true infarct extent on T2-weighted MR can probably only be assessed on scans obtained beyond 7 weeks after stroke.
Walking can be a very automated process, and it is likely that central pattern generators (CPGs) play a role in the coordination of the limbs. Recent evidence suggests that both the arms and legs are regulated by CPGs and that sensory feedback also regulates the CPG activity and assists in mediating interlimb coordination. Although the strength of coupling between the legs is stronger than that between the arms, arm and leg movements are similarly regulated by CPG activity and sensory feedback (e.g., reflex control) during locomotion.
Compelling new findings have revealed that receptor tyrosine kinases of the Eph family, along with their ephrin ligands, play an essential role in regulating the properties of developing mature excitatory synapses in the central nervous system. The cell surface localization of both the Eph receptors and the ephrins enables these proteins to signal bidirectionally at sites of cell-to-cell contact, such as synapses. Eph receptors and ephrins have indeed been implicated in multiple aspects of synaptic function, including clustering and modulating N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, modifying the geometry of postsynaptic terminals, and influencing long-term synaptic plasticity and memory. In this review, we discuss how Eph receptors and ephrins are integrated into the molecular machinery that supports synaptic function.
A prevailing view in neuroscience is that the mature CNS has relatively little capacity to respond adaptively to injury. Recent data indicating a high degree of structural plasticity in the adult brain provides an impetus to reexamine how central neurons react to trauma. An analysis of both in vivo and in vitro experimental studies demonstrates that certain brain neurons may have an intrinsic ability to respond to structural injury by an attempt at regenerative sprouting. Indeed, aberrant sprouting following neuronal injury may be the cause of epilepsy following brain trauma and may underlie the neuronal changes stimulated by plaque formation in Alzheimer's disease. An understanding of the stereotypical reaction to injury of different CNS neurons, as well as the role of nonneuronal cells, may provide new avenues for therapeutic intervention for a range of neurodegenerative diseases and &quot;acquired&quot; forms of CNS injury.
Neurosurgeons, working as surgical scientists, can have a prominent role in developing and implementing genetic and cellular therapies for cerebral ischemia. The rapid emergence of both genetic and cellular therapies for neural regeneration warrants a careful analysis before implementation of human studies to understand the pitfalls and promises of this strategy. In this article, we review the topic of genetic and cellular therapy for stroke to provide a foundation for practicing neurosurgeons and clinical scientists who may become involved in this type of work. In Part 1, we review preclinical approaches with gene transfer, such as 1) improved energy delivery, 2) reduction of intracellular calcium availability, 3) abrogation of effects of reactive oxygen species, 4) reduction of proinflammatory cytokine signaling, 5) inhibition of apoptosis mediators, and 6) restorative gene therapy, that are paving the way to develop new strategies to treat cerebral infarction. In Part 2, we discuss the results of studies that address the possibility of using cellular therapies for stroke in animal models and in human trials by reviewing 1) the basics of stem cell biology, 2) exogenous and 3) and endogenous cell sources for therapy, and 4) clinical considerations in cell therapy applications. These emerging technologies based on the advancements made in recent years in the fields of genetics, therapeutic cloning, neuroscience, stem cell biology, and gene therapy provide significant potential for new therapies for stroke.
No one can escape from memory decay with advancing age. Understanding molecular mechanisms underlying age-related memory impairment (AMI) is important not only from the scientific viewpoint but also for elucidating novel targets that may eventually lead to developing therapeutics for combating memory loss. AMI had been generally considered to be an overall or nonspecific decay of memory processes that results from dysfunction of neural networks. However, behavioral genetic tests of this hypothesis have not been carried out. Using Drosophila, we have demonstrated the first extensive behavioral-genetic characterization of AMI. We discovered that AMI results from the specific decay of only one memory component, amnesiac-dependent middle-term memory, and not other components. In support of this finding, we show that memory in aged flies is identical to that of amnesiac mutants, and while other memory mutants show a further decrease in memory upon aging, amnesiac flies do not. These results provide the first identification of a specific gene pathway underlying AMI.
This special issue is aimed at providing the readers of this journal with an indication of the exciting and important areas in which in vivo electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) [or equivalently electron spin resonance (ESR)] is making contributions to experimental progress and to provide perspectives on future developments, including the potential for in vivo EPR to be an important new clinical tool. There also are many situations where the combination of in vivo EPR with NMR may be very synergistic. EPR (ESR) is a magnetic resonance-based technique that detects species with unpaired electrons. The technique has become a major tool in diverse fields ranging from biology and chemistry to solid-state physics. In the last few years, many publications have demonstrated that EPR measurements in living animals (in vivo EPR) can provide very significant new insights to physiology, pathophysiology and pharmacology. The most successful applications of in vivo EPR have been non-invasive measurements of oxygen, nitric oxide, bioradicals, pH and redox state, with applications in oncology, cardiology, neuroscience and toxicology. EPR also appears to be the method of choice for measuring radiation dose retrospectively, including the potential to do this in vivo in human subjects. While far from comprehensive, the reviews, original contributions and viewpoints provided in this issue by several leaders in the field of in vivo EPR should provide the readers with confirmation that in vivo EPR is an exciting field that is likely to provide very valuable complementary information for many NMR-based studies in experimental animals and, probably, also for clinical studies.


Activation of peripheral somatostatin receptors (SSTRs) inhibits sensitization of nociceptors, thus having a short term or phasic effect [Pain 90 (2001) 233] as well as maintaining a tonic inhibitory control over nociceptors [J Neurosci 21 (2001) 4042]. The present study provides several lines of evidence that an important mechanism underlying SSTR modulation of nociceptors is regulation of the transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 ion channel (TRPV1, formerly the VR1 receptor). Double labeling of L5 dorsal root ganglion cells demonstrates that approximately 60% of SSTR2a-labeled cells are positive for TRPV1. Conversely, approximately 33% of TRPV1-labeled cells are positive for SSTR2a. In vivo behavioral studies demonstrate that intraplantar injection of 20.0 but not 2.0 microM octreotide (OCT, SSTR agonist) significantly reduces capsaicin (CAP, a ligand for TRPV1) -induced flinching and lifting/licking behaviors. This occurs through local activation of SSTRs in the injected hindpaw and is reversed following co-application of the SSTR antagonist cyclo-somatostatin (c-SOM). In vitro studies using a skin-nerve preparation demonstrate that activation of peripheral SSTRs on nociceptors with 20.0 microM OCT significantly reduces CAP-induced activity and can prevent CAP-induced desensitization. Furthermore, blockade of peripheral SSTRs with c-SOM dramatically enhances CAP-induced behaviors and nociceptor activity, demonstrating SSTR-induced tonic inhibitory modulation of TRPV1. Finally, TRPV1 does not appear to be under tonic opioid receptor control since the opioid antagonist naloxone does not change CAP-induced excitation and does not effect OCT-induced inhibition of CAP responses. These data strongly suggest that SSTRs modulate nociceptors through phasic and tonic regulation of peripheral TRPV1 receptors.
It has become clear that spinal cord glia (microglia and astrocytes) importantly contribute to the creation of exaggerated pain responses. One model used to study this is peri-spinal (intrathecal, i.t.) administration of gp120, an envelope protein of HIV-1 known to activate glia. Previous studies demonstrated that i.t. gp120 produces pain facilitation via the release of glial proinflammatory cytokines. The present series of studies tested whether spinal nitric oxide (NO) contributes to i.t. gp120-induced mechanical allodynia and, if so, what effect NO has on spinal proinflammatory cytokines. gp120 stimulation of acutely isolated lumbar dorsal spinal cords released NO as well as proinflammatory cytokines (tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1beta (IL1), interleukin-6 (IL6)), thus identifying NO as a candidate mediator of gp120-induced behavioral effects. Behaviorally, identical effects were observed when gp120-induced mechanical allodynia was challenged by i.t. pre-treatment with either a broad-spectrum nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor (L-NAME) or 7-NINA, a selective inhibitor of NOS type-I (nNOS). Both abolished gp120-induced mechanical allodynia. While the literature pre-dominantly documents that proinflammatory cytokines stimulate the production of NO rather than the reverse, here we show that gp120-induced NO increases proinflammatory cytokine mRNA levels (RT-PCR) and both protein expression and protein release (serial ELISA). Furthermore, gp120 increases mRNA for IL1 converting enzyme and matrix metalloproteinase-9, enzymes responsible for activation and release of proinflammatory cytokines.

Modafinil is a wake-promoting drug approved by the FDA for the treatment of narcolepsy. Recent evidence suggests that modafinil may improve learning and memory processes. To further evaluate possible cognitive properties associated with modafinil, male Sprague-Dawley rats were tested in a delayed nonmatching to position (DNMTP) task. A modified water maze allowed animals to make one of two choices for the location of the escape platform. Each trial consisted of two swims. On the information swim (IS), only one choice was open to the animal for escape. One minute later, a choice swim (CS) presented the animal with two choices with the escape platform in the opposite position. There were 10 trials per day for 10 days. Rats received 0, 30, 55, or 100 mg/kg ip of modafinil 30 min prior to testing. Locomotor activity was also assessed. Animals that received 55 and 100 mg/kg made significantly more correct choices, indicating that higher doses of modafinil learned the task faster than did controls. While animals that received 100 mg/kg did exhibit an enhancement of locomotor activity, this effect did not result in more efficient goal-directed behavior. The evidence is consistent with previous research showing that modafinil facilitates cognitive processes.
A fundamental tenet of the intellectual history of science is that the examination of the intellectual qualities of individual eminent scientists is a fruitful exercise for scholars who come after. I therefore review some salient aspects of the scientific character and thought of Gerard P. Smith (GPS), as they have been expressed in his writings. The first section considers some biographical details in respect to the sort of qualities that may prepare a mind for scientific achievement. The second section considers some logical and rhetorical qualities evident in the scientific writing of GPS, especially in the period of his career before the crucial tests of the CCK satiation hypothesis. The third section then considers the character of his thought as revealed in the formal statement, the operationalization, and the critical testing of the CCK satiation hypothesis. The qualities of mind discussed certainly contributed decisively to the scientific achievements of GPS, and their emulation may well contribute to the success of others.
During the approximately 15 years that Gerry and I collaborated on studying the ingestive behavior of the rat, we showed (1) using a microstructural analysis of the licking behavior of that animal, that the volume ingested during 30-min intake tests was controlled by an interaction between oropharyngeal and postingestional stimulation; (2) that the inhibiting effect of dopamine blockade on intake acts through sensory rather than motor systems; (3) that CCK-8 acts on licking behavior the same way that gastric filling does. We also discovered (4) that learning altered the effectiveness of oropharyngeal stimulation to control the intake of concentrated carbohydrate and sodium chloride solutions; and (5) that the stomach is remarkably insensitive to the volume of its contents.
My postdoctoral training under Dr. Gerard Smith began me on a lifetime of investigation on the role of stress, hormones, and disease. The first set of experiments asked what hormone, if any, best reflected the range of aroused behaviors. We found that catecholamines performed substantially better than glucocorticoids did, despite the belief that glucocorticoids were sensitive indices of stress. But we also learned that hormones themselves were nowhere near as good in monitoring stress than motor behaviors were. In a second set of experiments, we tried to understand how stress affected medical disease. We learned that stress can produce disease in a healthy organism but has its most profound effects when disease already exists. Finally, in the early 1990s, I shifted my focus on stress and disease to a broader problem in behavioral medicine, namely, medically unexplained fatigue and pain. Among the studies we have done investigating these disorders, we looked specifically at veterans of the first Gulf War--many of whom developed problems with severe fatigue. A critical question in the literature asked if unexplained fatigue was simply a physical component of concurrent posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). In a large epidemiological study, we found that PTSD tracked stressor intensity in a stepwise fashion, while fatiguing illness increased with stressor intensity only on the milder side of the intensity spectrum. This result indicated that the two ailments are both stress sensitive but dissimilar.
Gerry Smith's emphasis on the meal as the functional unit of ingestion spurred experiments designed to (1) identify oral and postoral stimuli that affect meal size, and (2) identify peripheral and central neural mechanisms involved in the processing of sensory signals generated by these stimuli. His observations that gut-brain peptides can limit meal size were important in formulating the idea that neuropeptides involved in the control of food intake modulate the peripheral and central neural processing of meal-stimulated sensory signals. This focus on meal size continues to foster the development of hypotheses and the design of experiments that characterize the sites and modes of action of feeding modulatory neuropeptides. These investigations have focused attention on the gut-brain neuraxis as a critical sensory pathway in the control of ingestive behavior, and have revealed important integrative properties of peripheral and central neurons along this axis. The neuromodulatory function of peptides that alter food intake is supported by their ability to recruit the activation of neurons at multiple central nodes of the gut-brain axis and to affect the neural processing and behavioral potency of meal-related gastrointestinal signals important in the negative feedback control of meal size. This sensory neurobiological perspective may also be applied to determine whether feeding modulatory neuropeptides affect the neural and behavioral potency of oral positive feedback signals that promote ingestion.
Eating has important physiological consequences. Experiments in which food and components of food are manipulated in ways to activate various food-contingent physiological signals have revealed mechanisms for eating-elicited satiety and thirst. This kind of approach also has revealed that eating can activate physiological signals for drinking to prevent challenges to fluid homeostasis.
The classic analyses of the inhibitory effects of cholecystokinin (CCK) on meal size, conducted by Professor Gerard P. Smith and his colleagues at the Bourne Laboratory, inspired my initial interest in this field. My current research, which investigates the role of estradiol in the control of meal size, continues to be guided by Gerry's thoughtful, scientific approach to the study of ingestive behavior. In 1996, the year I arrived as a Postdoctoral Fellow at the Bourne Laboratory, Gerry published a new theory of the controls of meal size. In this important paper, Gerry proposed that the controls of meal size can be either direct or indirect. He argued that direct controls of meal size interact with peripheral, preabsorptive receptors that are sensitive to the chemical, mechanical, and colligative properties of ingested food and that indirect controls of meal size function to modulate the activity of direct controls. The purpose of this review is to illustrate how Gerry's theory has guided much of what is known about the mechanism by which estradiol inhibits food intake in female rats. I will provide evidence, primarily from behavioral studies of gonadally intact and ovariectomized rats, that estradiol exerts phasic and tonic inhibitory effects on food intake by acting as a rhythmic, inhibitory, indirect control of meal size.

Retrograde amnesia can occur after brain damage because this disrupts sites of storage, interrupts memory consolidation, or interferes with memory retrieval. While the retrieval failure account has been considered in several animal studies, recent work has focused mainly on memory consolidation, and the neural mechanisms responsible for reactivating memory from stored traces remain poorly understood. We now describe a new retrieval phenomenon in which rats' memory for a spatial location in a watermaze was first weakened by partial lesions of the hippocampus to a level at which it could not be detected. The animals were then reminded by the provision of incomplete and potentially misleading information-an escape platform in a novel location. Paradoxically, both incorrect and correct place information reactivated dormant memory traces equally, such that the previously trained spatial memory was now expressed. It was also established that the reminding procedure could not itself generate new learning in either the original environment, or in a new training situation. The key finding is the development of a protocol that definitively distinguishes reminding from new place learning and thereby reveals that a failure of memory during watermaze testing can arise, at least in part, from a disruption of memory retrieval.
This review addresses three principal questions about adenosine and sleep-wake regulation: (1) Is adenosine an endogenous sleep factor? (2) Are there specific brain regions/neuroanatomical targets and receptor subtypes through which adenosine mediates sleepiness? (3) What are the molecular mechanisms by which adenosine may mediate the long-term effects of sleep loss? Data suggest that adenosine is indeed an important endogenous, homeostatic sleep factor, likely mediating the sleepiness that follows prolonged wakefulness. The cholinergic basal forebrain is reviewed in detail as an essential area for mediating the sleep-inducing effects of adenosine by inhibition of wake-promoting neurons via the A1 receptor. The A2A receptor in the subarachnoid space below the rostral forebrain may play a role in the prostaglandin D2-mediated somnogenic effects of adenosine. Recent evidence indicates that a cascade of signal transduction induced by basal forebrain adenosine A1 receptor activation in cholinergic neurons leads to increased transcription of the A1 receptor; this may play a role in mediating the longer-term effects of sleep deprivation, often called sleep debt.
In this article, we have reevaluated the role of noradrenergic dysfunction in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia in the light of today's neuroscience and clinical data. Neurophysiological, psychophysiological, psychopharmacological, and biochemical findings that have accumulated in last decades indicate that certain noradrenergic dysfunctions play important roles in the pathogenesis of the disorder. Moreover, these findings provide us with consistent evidence for the existence of two syndromes generated by either overactivity or underactivity of the central noradrenaline (NA) system. The former appears to correspond to the type I syndrome (positive symptoms) and the latter to the type II syndrome (negative symptoms). We conclude that the involvement of brain NA in cerebral metabolism and blood flow as well as the amine's role in brain development and neuronal differentiation may provide the mechanisms underlying the disease process in schizophrenia. Development of chemical agents acting specifically on the brain noradrenergic mechanisms may be a promising approach to novel treatments of the disorder.
At present, 13% of world population are suffering from neuropsychiatric disorders. Prevention and treatment of these pathological conditions are very important. New research strategies are needed for the creation of effective methods for controlling of neuropsychiatric disorders. International collaborative research projects within WHO's activities in psychopharmacology and biological psychiatry with the participation of 12 countries representing different world regions have been organized and successfully finalized. The author discusses some of these in the Festschrift for Dr. Corneille Radouco-Thomas.
Neurochemistry, the biochemistry of brain and nerve, had its identifiable scientific origins in France just before the French Revolution. Its main development remained in the hands of Parisian chemists over the next four decades. Thereafter, interest in the subject spread slowly through the German-speaking world. The most significant advances were made by a Hessian, practicing medicine and chemistry as an migr in London in the second half of the 19th century. Some chemists had an intrinsic interest in exploring the brain by the techniques which they had applied to various organs of the body. However, there were others for whom social, medical, even philosophical, factors were the spur in their choice of study of the chemistry of the nervous system. This paper describes the early growth of neurochemistry as I have come to understand it during the course of historical research during the past 10 years.
Development of the diagnostic concept of schizophrenia (dementia praecox) is traced from the fourth edition of [Kraepelin, E., 1893. Ein Kurzes Lehrbuch der Psychiatrie. 4 Aufl. Barth, Lepzig] textbook to the DSM-IV [American Psychiatric Association, 1994. Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders. Fourth ed. American Psychiatric Association, Washington, 273-316]. The differences between the criteria used by Bleuler [Bleuler, E., 1911. Dementia Praecox oder Gruppe der Schizophrenien. Deuticke, Leipzig] and Schneider [Fortschr. Neurol. Psychiatr. 25 (1957) 487] in the diagnosis of schizophrenia are discussed. The nosologic contributions of Kleist [Klin. Wochenschr. 2 (1923) 962] and Leonhard [Leonhard, K., 1957. Aufteilung der endogenen Psychosen. Akademie, Berlin]--which split schizophrenia into two major classes of disease with several forms and subforms--are outlined. Epidemiological findings--which show wide variations in the prevalence of schizophrenia in the general population and in the admission rate of schizophrenics to psychiatric clinics--are presented. Findings in genetic studies are reviewed with special reference to family, twin, and adoption studies which have raised the possibility that heredity plays an important role in the etiology of schizophrenia; mathematical analyses are examined which have ruled out monogenic transmission, as well as molecular genetic investigations indicating that the schizophrenic population is genetically heterogeneous. The relevance of findings with endophenotypes to the genetics of schizophrenia is questioned. The history of pharmacotherapy, neuropharmacology, and psychopharmacology of schizophrenia is outlined. Attention is focused on findings which indicate that the schizophrenic population is pharmacologically heterogenous. It is emphasized that neuropsychopharmacology, through its unique capability of linking the effects of psychotropic drugs to brain structures--encoded by genes which have been identified--offers a pioneering methodology for bridging the gap between the genes and psychiatric nosology. It is pointed out that for the detection of subpopulations within schizophrenia, clinical investigations with antipsychotic drugs have to proceed beyond the demonstration of therapeutic efficacy to the identification of treatment-responsive form(s) of illness. Early findings by Fish [L'Encephale 53 (1964) 245] are presented which indicate that affect-laden paraphrenia, one of the three forms of unsystematic schizophrenia in Leonhard [Leonhard, K., 1957. Aufteilung der endogenen Psychosen. Akademie, Berlin] classification, is the treatment-responsive subpopulation within schizophrenia for typical antipsychotic drugs. It is suggested that if the findings of Fish [L'Encephale 53 (1964) 245] could be verified, affect-laden paraphrenia would qualify for molecular genetic research. Another possible subpopulation that might qualify for genetic research is systematic hebephrenia, one of the three forms of systematic hebephrenia. The paper concludes that resolving the heterogeneity of the schizophrenic population would open up a new perspective for genetic research and for the pharmacotherapy of the different illnesses covered up for a century by the diagnostic label of schizophrenia.


Animal research has demonstrated reductions in punishment sensitivity and enhanced reward dependency after testosterone administration. In humans, elevated levels of testosterone have been associated with violent and antisocial behavior. Interestingly, extreme forms of violent and antisocial behavior can be observed in the psychopath. Moreover, it has been argued that reduced punishment sensitivity and heightened reward dependency are crucially involved in the etiology and maintenance of psychopathy. A task that has been proven to be capable of simulating punishment-reward contingencies is the IOWA gambling task. Decisions to choose from decks of cards become motivated by punishment and reward schedules inherent in the task. Importantly, clinical and subclinical psychopaths demonstrate a risky, disadvantageous pattern of decision-making in the task, indicating motivational imbalance (insensitivity for punishment and enhanced reward dependency). Here, in a double-blind placebo-controlled crossover design (n = 12), whether a single administration of testosterone would shift the motivational balance between the sensitivity for punishment and reward towards this tendency to choose disadvantageously was investigated. As hypothesized, subjects showed a more disadvantageous pattern of decision-making after testosterone compared to placebo administration. These findings not only provide the first direct evidence for the effects of testosterone on punishment-reward contingencies in humans, but they also give further insights into the hypothetical link between testosterone and psychopathy.
The hypothesis was tested that thyroid function, as indicated by serum thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level, is associated with cognitive performance in a healthy aging population. In a random sample of 120 participants recruited from the Maastricht Aging Study (MAAS), aged between 49 and 71 years, we assessed TSH level, mood state (Symptom Check List, subscale depression), and three domains of cognitive function: verbal memory, general sensorimotor speed, and complex flexibility. After correction for age, sex, and educational level, a negative association between TSH and memory function was apparent: higher levels of TSH predicted lower levels of memory performance. Exclusion of individuals with TSH levels suspect for thyroid disorder (n=2) or who were on thyroid replacement (n=3) attenuated this association. Furthermore, additional control for mood status reduced the association below the significance level. No interaction between age and TSH on cognition was found, which indicated that the TSH-memory association was independent of age group level. We conclude that the association between TSH level and memory performance was small and dependent on mood status and the presence of (possible) thyroid disease in this relatively healthy population based sample. Prospective studies are needed to address the role of thyroid function in age-related cognitive decline.
The ovarian hormone estrogen is presumed to modulate processes of learning and memory in adulthood. In this study, we examined the effects of short-term estrogen replacement on associative memory formation. Adult ovariectomized female rats received two injections of estradiol (10, 20 or 40 microg) 24 h apart and were trained 4 h following each injection on the hippocampal-dependent task of trace eyeblink conditioning. Only the highest dose of estrogen, which produced plasma estradiol levels &gt;250 pg/ml, enhanced conditioned responding. One day after the last injection, estrogen treated rats continued to exhibit elevated levels of conditioning and extinguished responding when the conditioned stimulus was no longer presented. Exposure to estrogen did not alter pain sensitivity or activity levels, but did greatly increase uterine weight. These results provide additional support to the view that that ovarian steroids are beneficial to the performance of certain forms of learning and memory tasks, albeit at supraphysiological doses. They are discussed with reference to hormone replacement and its effects on cognitive processes.
Serotonin systems appear to play a key role in the pathophysiology of major depressive disorder. Consequently, ongoing research determines whether serotonin related genes account for the very robust differential behavioral and neural mechanisms that discriminate patients with depression from healthy controls. Serotonin type 1(A) receptors and the serotonin transporters are reduced in depression, and recent genetic research in animals and humans has implicated both in depression. Preclinical studies have utilized a variety of animal models that have been used to explain pathophysiological mechanisms in humans, although it is not clear at all whether these models constitute relevant models for depression in humans. However, data from preclinical studies can generate hypotheses that are tested in humans by combining genetic data with behavioral and physiological challenge paradigms and neuroimaging. These studies will enhance our understanding about combined influences from multiple interacting genes, as well as from environmental factors on brain circuits and their function, and about how these mechanisms may contribute to the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disorders.







The aim of this paper was to examine associations between personality traits, eating disorder (ED) behavior, exercise, and gender. The participants (n=1482: 905 women and 577 men) were students from four universities in Norway. The subjects filled out a compound questionnaire including demographics, weekly hours of exercise, type of sport, Karolinska Scales of Personality (KSP), and the Eating Disorder Inventory (EDI). Because of the data collection procedure, it is difficult to provide a clear-cut response rate in this study. The results showed that the risk ratio for women who scored 40 or higher on the EDI was three times higher compared with men. ED behavior did not seem to be associated with high weekly hours of physical activity in general. There were significant gender differences in personality traits. However, women and men with high scores on the EDI showed no differences on the KSP scales, except on &quot;detachment&quot; and &quot;indirect aggression&quot;. The most important predictors for weekly hours of physical activity were the EDI scales &quot;drive for thinness&quot; and &quot;body dissatisfaction&quot;, and the personality variables &quot;extraversion&quot; and &quot;neuroticism&quot;. The factors that contributed most to the differences between students who scored 40 or higher on the EDI and those who scored below 40 on the EDI were neuroticism, BMI, gender, and age.
Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) is a major protein of astrocyte intermediate filaments and a specific marker for astrocytes. Alterations in levels of GFAP may reflect pathological regulation of neuronal function and survival as well as abnormal synaptogenesis and neurotransmission. We employed quantitative gel electrophoresis and Western blotting to measure levels of GFAP in cerebella of 60 subjects divided equally among schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, major depression, and normal controls. GFAP levels were reduced by 32%, 17% and 14.5% in depressed, bipolar, and schizophrenic cerebella, respectively, versus controls. Only the depressed value was significantly different (p=0.015 Post-hoc Bonferroni test). Measurement of beta-actin levels showed no differences between the various groups. No significant effects of confounding variables were found. This is the first demonstration of GFAP reductions in cerebellum of subjects with mood disorders and schizophrenia, thereby adding to the reports of reductions in GFAP/glial cell counts in other brain regions of subjects with major depression, thus suggesting a downregulation of glial function in this disorder.
Many neuropsychological studies have described deficits of memory and executive functions in patients with schizophrenia, and the severity of these deficits seems to be determinant in predicting the community outcome of these patients [Schizophr. Bull. 26 (2000) 119]. However, neuropsychological evaluation does not provide valuable information about how the cognitive deficits directly affect daily living, that is, which cognitive deficit affects which behavior. The present study aimed at determining whether executive dysfunction in schizophrenia could be directly measured by analyzing three activities of daily living (ADL), in addition to assessing the ecological validity of commonly used neuropsychological tests. Within specific ADL (choosing a menu, shopping the ingredients, cooking a meal), the sequences of behaviors that have been performed by 27 control subjects and 27 patients with schizophrenia were both analyzed by using a preset optimal sequence of behavior. When compared with control subjects, patients with schizophrenia showed more omissions when choosing the menu, more sequencing and repetitions errors during the shopping task, and more planning, sequencing, repetition and omission errors during the cooking task. These behavioral errors correlated significantly with negative, but not with positive symptoms of the patients. Furthermore, they also correlated with the poor performances on executive neuropsychological tests, especially those sensitive to shifting and sequencing abilities, but not with memory tests. These results suggest that executive deficits in schizophrenia may specifically affect ADL and that such deficits can be quantitatively assessed with a behavioral scale of action sequences.
The purpose of this study was to compare slow cortical electrical activity between healthy and schizophrenic individuals using 123-channel EEG and current density reconstruction (CDR). Twenty-nine healthy subjects and 14 drug-free patients performed three visual paired-associate tasks (verbal, pictorial and spatial). We modeled the generators of the slow potentials (SPs) at their peak amplitude by Lp-norm minimization using individual MRIs to model the volume conductor and source. Activity in each architectonic area of Brodmann was scored with respect to individual maximum current by a percentile method. Resulting scores by cortical area were analyzed by multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) with planned comparisons, to search for differences among levels. Results showed a multifocal pattern of current density foci comprising the SP generators, including frontal and posterior cortices in all subjects. A few cortical areas, not exclusively frontal, were observed to significantly differ between groups. Moreover, changes in patients' frontal activity were not exclusively to lower scores or 'hipofrontality': overall effects (all tasks collapsed) included increased electrical activity in right area 10, left 38 and 47 bilaterally, and decreased activity in right area 6 and left areas 39, 21 and 19. A few additional areas showed significantly altered activity only in particular tasks. We conclude that the present method, by preserving individual anatomical and functional information, indicates bidirectional patterns of altered electrical activity in specific cortical association areas in schizophrenia, which are not compatible with the exclusive 'hipofrontality' hypothesis. Our results agree with the hypothesis of schizophrenia as a syndrome resulting from abnormalities in multiple encephalic foci.
Glycosphingolipids (GSLs) known as gangliosides have been documented to accumulate in a wide range of lysosomal storage disorders, including those with and without primary defects in ganglioside degradation. The same two gangliosides, GM2 and GM3, are often found elevated in diseased neurons whereas in normal mature neurons both are essentially undetectable. Altered expression of these two gangliosides does not appear to result solely from cellularity changes or gliosis since immunocytochemical studies show that both GM2 and GM3 reside in vesicular structures within affected neurons. Elevated expression of one of these gangliosides (GM2) has also been found to closely correlate with the growth of ectopic dendrites on susceptible neurons, a phenomenon that uniquely characterizes many lysosomal diseases. Understanding the precise role of the endosomal-lysosomal system in the overall homeostatic control of GSL expression in neurons can be expected to provide key insight into both the function of gangliosides and the pathogenic mechanisms underlying lysosomal disease.







Long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) are currently the most widely investigated models of the synaptic mechanisms underlying learning and memory. Previous research has shown that induction of LTP increases measures of pyramidal cell dendritic morphology in the hippocampus and layers III and V of the neocortex. However, to date there are no reports on the direct effects of LTD induction on dendritic morphology. Here, we investigated the effects of LTD induction on sensorimotor pyramidal cell dendritic morphology. Rats carried a stimulating electrode in the corpus callosum (midline) and a recording electrode in the right sensorimotor cortex. Each rat received low-frequency stimulation composed of 900 pulses at 1 Hz or handling daily for a total 15 days. Evoked potentials (EPs) of the transcallosal pathway were recorded in the right hemisphere before and after the 15 days of stimulation or handling. The rats were then perfused with saline and the brains were immediately processed for Golgi-Cox staining. Our results show that LTD induction is related to decreases in dendritic length and spine density both in layers III and V as well as a decrease in dendritic branch complexity in layer V of the sensorimotor cortex. Thus, neuronal alterations following modifications in neocortical synaptic efficacy may provide a general mechanism for the physical instantiation of learning and memory.
SK3 small conductance, calcium-activated potassium channels play an important role in regulating the activity of mesencephalic dopamine (DA) neurons. In the present series of experiments, in situ hybridization techniques were used to compare SK3 and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA expression throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the ventral midbrain in juvenile and adult rats. SK3 mRNA was found exclusively in areas that also contained large numbers of DA neurons including the substantia nigra (SN), the ventral tegmental area, and related cell groups (VTA-A10). An anteroposterior and mediolateral gradient in SK3 mRNA hybridization was apparent in the VTA-A10 but not in the SN. Younger rats appeared to possess higher levels and less regional variation in TH and SK3 transcripts. These results are consistent with previous studies reporting differential expression of SK3 protein within the midbrain and suggest that variations in SK3 channel distribution could contribute to differences in dopamine-related functions in the rat.
(S,S)-2-(alpha-(2-Fluoromethoxyphenoxy)benzyl)morpholine ((S,S)-FMeNER) was found to be a selective high-affinity ligand for the norepinephrine transporter (NET). (S,S)-FMeNER) was labeled with fluorine-18 (t1/2 = 109.8 min) by O-fluoromethylation of desfluoromethoxy-(S,S)-FMeNER with [18F]bromofluoromethane. An analog, di-deuterated in the fluoromethoxy group ((S,S)-FMeNER-D2), was similarly labeled with di-deutero-[18F]bromofluoromethane. These two new radioligands were obtained in radiochemical purities greater than 98% and with specific radioactivities ranging from 111-185 GBq/micromol at the end of synthesis (75 min). After intravenous injection of (S,S)-[18F]FMeNER into cynomolgus monkey, PET examination with the head in the field of view revealed skull-bound radioactivity, contaminating images of the brain, and indicated fast defluorination of the radioligand. Defluorination was much reduced in similar PET experiments with (S,S)-[18F]FMeNER-D2. Ratios of radioactivity in the lower brainstem, mesencephalon, thalamus, and temporal cortex to striatum obtained with (S,S)-[18F]FMeNER-D2 at 160 min after i.v. injection were 1.5, 1.6, 1.3, and 1.5, respectively. In another PET experiment, pretreatment of the monkey with the selective NET inhibitor, desipramine, decreased the radioactivity ratios in all examined regions to near unity (e.g., to a ratio of 1.03 in mesencephalon). Labeled metabolites of (S,S)-[18F]FMeNER-D2 or (S,S)-[18F]FMeNER found in plasma were all more polar than the parent radioligand. In vitro autoradiography of (S,S)-[18F]FMeNER-D2 on post-mortem human brain cryosections furthermore showed specific binding to NET in the locus coeruleus and thalamus. (S,S)-[18F]FMeNER-D2 is the first useful radiofluorinated ligand for imaging brain NET in monkey in vivo and is superior to (S,S)-[11C]MeNER because a specific binding peak equilibrium is obtained during the PET experiment at a lower noise level.
Originally developed for increased scanning velocity in cardiac imaging, parallel imaging (PI) techniques have recently also been applied for the reduction of artifacts in single-shot techniques. In functional brain imaging (fMRI) techniques, PI has been used for several purposes. It has been applied to reduce the distortions caused by the length of the echo-planar imaging readout, diminution of the gradient-related acoustic noise, as a means to increase acquisition speed or to increase the achievable brain coverage per unit time. In this article, the different applications of PI techniques in fMRI are reviewed, together with the basic theoretical background and the recently developed hardware necessary to achieve rapid, high signal-to-noise ratio PI-fMRI.
Erythropoietin, a hematopoietic growth-factor possessing manifold, potent neuroprotective properties, after multiple testing in cell culture and animal studies now gradually finds its way into clinical neuroscience. The first time this took place was in 1998 with a pilot study in stroke patients, the &quot;Gttingen EPO-Stroke-Trial&quot;. This study was able to demonstrate that EPO is perfectly well tolerated and safe with this indication. Furthermore, the EPO-treated patients showed a significantly better outcome regarding their clinical progress as well as regarding the infarct size as observed by MRI, when compared to the placebo treated patients. At the moment a multicenter study is being carried out in Germany.
Dog experts, ornithologists, radiologists and other specialists are noted for their remarkable abilities at categorizing, identifying and recognizing objects within their domain of expertise. A complete understanding of the development of perceptual expertise requires a combination of thorough empirical research and carefully articulated computational theories that formalize specific hypotheses about the acquisition of expertise. A comprehensive computational theory of the development of perceptual expertise remains elusive, but we can look to existing computational models from the object-recognition, perceptual-categorization, automaticity and related literatures for possible starting points. Arguably, hypotheses about the development of perceptual expertise should first be explored within the context of existing computational models of visual object understanding before considering the creation of highly modularized adaptations for particular domains of perceptual expertise.
Ten years ago, the linkage between mutations in the gene coding for the antioxidant enzyme Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) and the neurodegenerative disease known as familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS) was established. This finding has prompted a myriad of new studies in experimental models aimed at investigating the toxic function of the mutant enzymes. The cellular functions that are impaired in motoneurons as a consequence of molecular alterations induced by the expression of FALS SOD1 converge on pathways that might be activated in sporadic ALS by other toxic factors. Recent data demonstrate that, although motoneurons are lost in patients, other cell types are also affected and actively contribute to the pathogenesis of the disease.
Historically, different groups of researchers have investigated the mechanisms of perceptual learning and motor learning. For sensory cortex, neurophysiological and psychophysical findings have linked changes in perception with altered neuronal tuning properties. However, less information has been forthcoming from motor cortex. This review compares recent findings on perceptual and motor learning, and suggests that similar mechanisms govern both. These mechanisms involve changes in both the center of neuronal tuning functions and their width or slope. The former reflects the values of the sensory or motor parameters that a neuron encodes, and the latter adjusts the encoding sensitivity. These similarities suggest that specific unifying principles for neural coding and computation exist across sensory and motor domains.
Since its conception three decades ago, the idea that the striatum consists of a dorsal sensorimotor part and a ventral portion processing limbic information has sparked a quest for functional correlates and anatomical characteristics of the striatal divisions. But this classic dorsal-ventral distinction might not offer the best view of striatal function. Anatomy and neurophysiology show that the two striatal areas have the same basic structure and that sharp boundaries are absent. Behaviorally, a distinction between dorsolateral and ventromedial seems most valid, in accordance with a mediolateral functional zonation imposed on the striatum by its excitatory cortical, thalamic and amygdaloid inputs. Therefore, this review presents a synthesis between the dorsal-ventral distinction and the more mediolateral-oriented functional striatal gradient.
Neuroimaging is often pilloried for providing little more than pretty pictures that simply show where activity occurs in the brain. Strong critics (notably Uttal) have even argued that neuroimaging is nothing more than a modern day version of phrenology: destined to fail, and fundamentally uninformative. Here, I make the opposite case, arguing that neuroimaging is in a vibrant and healthy state of development. As recent investigations of memory illustrate, when used well, neuroimaging goes beyond asking 'where' activity is occurring, to ask questions concerned more with 'what' functional role the activity reflects.
It is almost axiomatic in neuroscience that postsynaptically induced NMDA-dependent long-term potentiation (LTP) is a cellular substrate of memory. As a result, memory impairments caused by experimental reductions of NMDA currents are often interpreted as evidence that this form of plasticity is involved in memory formation. However, a recent Nature study indicates that not all NMDA-dependent LTP is induced postsynaptically.


Munc-18-interacting (Mint) proteins are adaptors involved in regulation of synaptic vesicle exocytosis. We have investigated expression and cellular localization of Mint1 in pancreatic islets with special reference to insulin-secreting beta-cells. Western blotting showed that Mint1 was expressed in hamster (HIT-T15) and rat (RINm5F) beta-cell lines. Mint1 immunoreactivity was preferentially localized to the periphery of individual islet cells. RT-PCR analysis revealed that apart from Mint1, RINm5F cells and rat islets also transcribed the mRNAs for Mint2 and Mint3. Expression of Mint proteins in pancreatic beta-cells suggests a functional role for these proteins in insulin granule exocytosis.
After ipsilateral injections of biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) into the central nucleus of the amygdala (ACe) and cholera toxin B subunit (CTb) into the motor trigeminal nucleus (Vm) in the rat, numerous BDA-labeled axons with bouton-like varicosities were distributed bilaterally with a clear-cut ipsilateral dominance in the parvicellular reticular formation (RFp), where many CTb-labeled neurons existed bilaterally with slightly ipsilateral dominance. The prominent overlapping distribution of these labeled axons and neurons was found in the RFp region just ventral to the nucleus of the solitary tract and medial to the spinal trigeminal nucleus throughout the caudalmost part of the pons and the rostral half of the medulla oblongata. Within the neuropil of the RFp region in the rostral half of the medulla oblongata, BDA-labeled axons made symmetrical synaptic contacts predominantly with the dendrites and additionally with the somata of RFp neurons, some of which were labeled with CTb. These data suggest that output signals from the ACe may be transmitted disynaptically to the Vm via the RFp neurons in the medulla oblongata for the control of jaw movements.
This study investigated the effects of neonatal handling and maternal separation on the development of anxiety behavior and the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis of C57BL/6 mice. We hypothesized short periods of neonatal handling would diminish anxiety and secretion of corticosterone, while longer periods of maternal separation would elevate anxiety and plasma corticosterone compared to a nonhandled group. Mice were bred and reared as follows. After birth, each litter was assigned to one of four groups: mother and pups removed from the home cage for 10 min (group 1) or 180 min a day (group 2); mother only removed from home cage 180 min a day (group 3); and no handling until weaning (group 4). All separation occurred on the first 10 days of life. Juvenile males that experienced 10 min of separation/day exhibited decreased anxiety behavior compared to all other mice. A second group of litters were bred and reared according to groups 1, 2, and 4 as described above. Upon adulthood, anxiety behavior was assessed in males, and the corticosterone response to an acoustic stressor was quantified. No effect of differential rearing was observed on behavior, but there was a marked effect on plasma corticosterone secretion between the groups. Adult male mice neonatally handled for 10 min/day exhibited a blunted corticosterone response, and mice that experienced 180 min of maternal separation exhibited a prolonged corticosterone response to the acoustic stimulus compared to the nonhandled group. These results demonstrate the development of the mouse's hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis can be modified by neonatal rearing conditions, and suggest that the mouse could be a viable animal model to determine the genetic-environmental interactions governing brain development.
We used a phytoestrogen (PE) and a phytoestrogen-free (PE-Free) diet to determine whether or not diet can have neurobehavioral effects on intermale aggression in Syrian hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus). In Experiment 1, 20 adult male hamsters were pre-tested for aggression and then placed on a PE (n=10) or a PE-Free diet (n=10) for 4 weeks in isolation. During week 5, experimental hamsters were exposed to a group-housed, nonaggressive opponent (NAO) for 5 min in a neutral cage arena. PE-fed hamsters exhibited more attacks (33.4+/-6.1) toward the NAO compared to the PE-Free-fed hamsters (18.1+/-4) (p&lt;0.05). Interestingly, testosterone in the blood serum was higher in the PE-fed group (11.01+/-1.48 ng/ml) compared to the PE-Free group (6.5+/-0.87 ng/ml). In Experiment 2, 16 juvenile hamsters were weaned onto a PE (n=8) or a PE-Free diet (n=8). After 7 weeks on the diet, experimental hamsters were exposed to a NAO for 5 min in a neutral cage arena. Although the PE group exhibited higher levels of aggressive behavior, there were no statistically significant differences between groups. However, the PE group had higher levels of testosterone (9.0+/-0.95 ng/ml) compared to the PE-Free group (4.6+/-0.98 ng/ml) (p&lt;0.05). In addition, analysis of the brains from both experiments revealed differences in binding for vasopressin 1A (V1A) receptors. Optical densities were converted to disintegrating units per min/mg. The PE-Free group had higher levels of V1A receptor binding (2689.93+/-254.8 dpm/mg) compared to the PE group (1907.32+/-136.3 dpm/mg) in the lateral septum (p&lt;0.05). In addition, there were differences in the lateral hypothalamus, but the PE group had higher receptor binding (2550.9+/-63.59 dpm/mg) when compared to the PE-Free group (2011.9+/-174.14 dpm/mg) (p&lt;0.05). In sum, these data present the first evidence that phytoestrogens can affect aggressive behavior and, concurrently, alter hormonal status and stimulate changes in the brain of male hamsters.
While substantial advances have been made in discovering how the brain learns and remembers, less is known about how the brain discards information, reorganizes information, or both. These topics are not only relevant to normal brain functioning but also speak to pathologies in which painful memories do not wane but are evoked time and again (e.g., post-traumatic stress disorder; PTSD). Here, we measured brain activity (as indicated by the regional expression of c-Fos protein) in rats during acquisition and throughout extinction of a conditioned taste aversion (CTA). We compared that brain activity with animals that had intact CTA memories or those that experienced an explicitly unpaired (EU) conditioned stimulus (CS; saccharin, SAC) and unconditioned stimulus (US; lithium chloride, LiCl). The data show a dynamic and nonuniform pattern of c-Fos protein expression in brain nuclei known to mediate gustation and CTAs. In particular, brainstem nuclei (e.g., nucleus of the solitary tract; NTS) and the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala (BLA) are active early as CTAs are formed and as extinction of the learned response begins. Later in the extinction process, the BLA reduces c-Fos expression relative to nonextinguished controls. Finally, as almost full reacceptance of the taste is achieved, the gustatory neocortex (GNC) expresses enhanced levels of c-Fos protein. Thus, extinction of a CTA is not represented by a simple reversal of the c-Fos activity evoked by CTA conditioning. Rather, the data demonstrate that extinction of conditioned responses is a dynamic process in which the activity levels of particular nuclei along the brain's taste pathway change depending on the extent to which the conditioned response has been extinguished.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has an acute excitatory effect on rat hippocampal synaptic transmission. To compare the action of BDNF upon the release of excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmitters in the hippocampus, we studied the effect of acutely applied BDNF on the K+-evoked glutamate and on the K+-evoked gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) release from rat hippocampal nerve terminals (synaptosomes). The acute application of BDNF (30-100 ng/ml) enhanced the K+-evoked [3H]glutamate release. This effect involved tyrosine-kinase B (TrkB) receptor phosphorylation and Ca2+ entry into synaptosomes through voltage-sensitive calcium channels, since it was abolished by K252a (200 nM), which prevents TrkB-mediated phosphorylation, and by CdCl2 (0.2 mM), a blocker of voltage-sensitive calcium channels. In contrast, BDNF (3-100 ng/ml) inhibited K+-evoked [3H]GABA release from hippocampal synaptosomes. This action was also mediated by phosphorylation of the TrkB receptor, but was independent of Ca2+ entry into synaptosomes through voltage-sensitive calcium channels. Blockade of transport of GABA with SKF 89976a (20 microM) prevented the inhibitory action of BDNF upon GABA release, indicating that BDNF influences the activity of GABA transporters. It is concluded that BDNF influences in an opposite way, through distinct mechanisms, the release of glutamate and the release of GABA from hippocampal synaptosomes.
The noradrenergic locus coeruleus (LC) has been implicated in the promotion of arousal, in focused attention and learning, and in the regulation of the sleep/waking cycle. The complex biological functions of the central noradrenergic system have been investigated largely through electrophysiological recordings and neurotoxic lesions of LC neurons. Activation of LC neurons through electrical or chemical stimulation has also led to important insights, although these techniques have limited cellular specificity and short-term effects. Here, we describe a novel method aimed at stimulating the central noradrenergic system in a highly selective manner for prolonged periods of time. This was achieved through the conditional expression of a transgene for chlorotoxin (Cltx) in the LC of adult mice. Chlorotoxin is a component of scorpion venom that partially blocks small conductance chloride channels. In this manner, the influence of GABAergic and glycinergic inhibitory inputs on LC cells is greatly reduced, while their ability to respond to excitatory inputs is unaffected. We demonstrate that the unilateral induction of Cltx expression in the LC is associated with a concomitant ipsilateral increase in the expression of markers of noradrenergic activity in LC neurons. Moreover, LC disinhibition is associated with the ipsilateral induction of the immediate early gene NGFI-A in cortical and subcortical target areas. Unlike previous gain of function approaches, transgenic disinhibition of LC cells is highly selective and persists for at least several weeks. This method represents a powerful new tool to assess the long-term effects of LC activation and is potentially applicable to other neuronal systems.
We examined plastic changes in serotonin (5-HT) axons following repeated stress in the adult rat brain, and compared stress-induced changes between 5-HT and noradrenaline (NA) axons. We locally injected the specific neurotoxin to 5-HT axons or to NA axons into the frontal cortex to cause partial denervation. The animals were mildly restrained from 1 day after the neurotoxin injection and this stress was repeated daily for 20 min during the first 2 days and for 40 min during the next 11 days. On the fourteenth day after injection, the brains were removed to visualize 5-HT and NA axons by immunohistochemistry. Repeated stress did not significantly alter the denervation area of 5-HT or NA axons, but the density of 5-HT axons was increased whereas that of NA axons was decreased in cortical regions outside the denervation site. In addition, the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) was increased in cortical regions where the 5-HT axon density was increased in response to stress. These results suggest that repeated stress causes opposite changes in the morphology of partially denervated 5-HT and NA axons in the cerebral cortex. The stress-induced increase in BDNF expression may contribute to 5-HT axon sprouting following repeated stress.
Although cancer of the prostate (CaP) is the most commonly occurring cancer in males, there are major limitations in its diagnosis and long-term cure. Consequently, understanding the molecular mechanisms involved in the progression of CaP is of particular importance for production of pharmacological and biological agents to manage the disease. The development of the normal prostate is regulated by stromal-epithelial interactions via endocrine and paracrine factors, such as androgens and growth factors, which act as precise homeostatic regulators of cellular proliferation. Importantly, after a period of hormonal therapy, CaP shifts from an androgen-dependent to an androgen-independent state with a concomitant switch from paracrine to autocrine growth factor stimulation and subsequent upregulation of growth factor expression. Thus, growth factors and their receptors have a pivotal role in CaP. This is emphasized by current evidence obtained from clinical specimens as well as several in vitro and in vivo models strongly suggesting that epidermal growth factor and the neurotrophins (nerve growth factor, brain derived neurotrophin factor, neurotrophin-3 and neurotrophin-4/5) together with their tyrosine kinase receptors could play a very significant role in CaP progression.
Sodium channels play an essential role in generating the action potential in eukaryotic cells, and their transcripts, especially those in insects, undergo extensive A-to-I RNA editing. The functional consequences of RNA editing of sodium channel transcripts, however, have yet to be determined. We characterized 20 splice variants of the German cockroach sodium channel gene BgNa(v). Functional analysis revealed that these variants exhibited a broad range of voltage-dependent activation and inactivation. Further analysis of two variants, BgNa(v)1-1 and BgNa(v)1-2, which activate at more depolarizing membrane potentials than other variants, showed that RNA editing events were responsible for variant-specific gating properties. Two U-to-C editing sites identified in BgNa(v)1-1 resulted in a Leu to Pro change in segment 1 of domain III (IIIS1) and a Val to Ala change in IVS4. The Leu to Pro change shifted both the voltage dependence of activation and steady-state inactivation in the depolarizing direction. Two A-to-I editing events in BgNa(v)1-2 resulted in a Lys to Arg change in IS2 and an Ile to Met change in IVS3. The Lys to Arg change shifted the voltage dependence of activation in the depolarizing direction. Moreover, these RNA editing events occurred in a tissue-specific and development-specific manner. Our findings provide direct evidence that RNA editing is an important mechanism generating tissue-/cell type-specific functional variants of sodium channels.
Microglia make up the innate immune system of the central nervous system and are key cellular mediators of neuroinflammatory processes. Their role in central nervous system diseases, including infections, is discussed in terms of a participation in both acute and chronic neuroinflammatory responses. Specific reference is made also to their involvement in Alzheimer's disease where microglial cell activation is thought to be critically important in the neurodegenerative process.
The laboratory mouse is now considered the preferred mammalian species for molecular and genetic analysis in neurobiology. In part, this is due to the existence, in the mouse, of several well characterised naturally occurring mutations in ligand gated ion channels and recent knockout, knockin, and transgenic techniques, which facilitate the manipulation of key molecules. These techniques have recently been applied to pain research with in vitro electrophysiological and behavioural techniques traditionally developed for the rat, now being adapted for the mouse particularly at the level of the spinal cord. Here, we describe an in vivo preparation of the mouse spinal cord for patch-clamp recording of nociceptive processing in the superficial dorsal horn (SDH) that permits analysis in the intact nervous system. We have recorded from SDH neurons and characterised their background synaptic activity, discharge properties, and evoked synaptic responses following controlled application of innocuous and noxious stimuli to the hind paw. Application of these techniques along with genetic, biomolecular, in vitro and behavioural approaches will allow future studies to comprehensively analyse the contributions of specific molecules involved in nociceptive processing in the spinal cord of a single species.
Application of coherence estimation needs not only to correctly estimate coherence values but also to efficiently test the statistical significance of the estimates. In the present report, we have explained the approach of optimising a coherence estimator by restricting its normalised bias error and random error. In addition to the commonly used independence threshold, two more tests based on the probability of detection and the exact confidence interval have been proposed for detecting the significance of the coherence estimates. All three methods have been used to evaluate the significant functional correlation between oscillatory field potentials (FPs) in the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and the surface electromyogram (EMG) of the forearm muscles during tremor in Parkinson's disease.
We present a new technique that uses a custom-built ink-jet printer to fabricate precise micropatterns of cell adhesion materials for neural cell culture. Other work in neural cell patterning has employed photolithography or &quot;soft lithographic&quot; techniques such as micro-stamping, but such approaches are limited by their use of an un-alterable master pattern such as a mask or stamp master and can be resource-intensive. In contrast, ink-jet printing, used in low-cost desktop printers, patterns material by depositing microscopic droplets under robotic control in a programmable and inexpensive manner. We report the use of ink-jet printing to fabricate neuron-adhesive patterns such as islands and other shapes using poly(ethylene) glycol as the cell-repulsive material and a collagen/poly-D-lysine (PDL) mixture as the cell-adhesive material. We show that dissociated rat hippocampal neurons and glia grown at low densities on such patterns retain strong pattern adherence for over 25 days. The patterned neurons are comparable to control, un-patterned cells in electrophysiological properties and in immunocytochemical measurements of synaptic density and inhibitory cell distributions. We suggest that an inexpensive desktop printer may be an accessible tool for making micro-island cultures and other basic patterns. We also suggest that ink-jet printing may be extended to a range of developmental neuroscience studies, given its ability to more easily layer materials, build substrate-bound gradients, construct out-of-plane structure, and deposit sources of diffusible factors.
A new method is presented for extracting the amplitude of excitatory post synaptic potentials (EPSPs) and spikes in real time. It includes a low pass filter (LPF), a differentiator, a threshold function, and an intelligent integrator. It was applied to EPSP and population spike data recorded in the Dentate Gyrus and the CA1 hippocampus in vitro. The accuracy of the extraction algorithm was evaluated via the extraction normalized mean square error (eNMSE) and was found to be very high (eNMSE &lt; 5%). The preservation of neuronal information was confirmed using the Volterra-Poisson modeling approach. Volterra-Poisson kernels were computed using amplitudes extracted with both proposed and traditional methods. The accuracy of the computed kernels and the resulting model was evaluated via the prediction normalized mean square error (pNMSE) and was found to be very high (pNMSE &lt; 5%). The similarity between the kernels computed when the proposed method was used to extract the field potential amplitude and their counterparts when the traditional method was used to extract the field potential amplitude confirms the preservation of the neuronal dynamics. The proposed method represents a new class of real time field potential amplitude extraction algorithms with complexity that can be included in hardware implementations.
While several studies have suggested a relationship between the hippocampus and psychosis in schizophrenia, fewer studies have specifically investigated the presence of psychosis in mood disorders from a neurobiological perspective. Moreover, a limitation of these earlier studies is that the majority of them were performed in chronic patients. The present proton magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging (1H-MRSI) study assessed neuronal integrity (as assessed with N-acetylaspartate, NAA) in the hippocampus of patients with a first episode of mood disorders with psychotic symptoms. We studied 17 patients and 17 healthy subjects matched for age and sex. Subjects underwent 1H-MRSI, and measures of NAA, choline-containing compounds (CHO), and creatine+phosphocreatine (CRE) in 11 brain regions were obtained, i.e. hippocampus (HIPPO), dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, superior temporal gyrus, inferior frontal gyrus, occipital cortex, anterior and posterior cingulate, centrum semiovale, prefrontal white matter, thalamus and putamen. NAA/CRE ratios in HIPPO of patients were significantly lower than in controls. Sporadic and non-hypothesis-driven results were found in occipital cortex and prefrontal white matter as a main effect of diagnosis, and in superior temporal gyrus as a hemisphere by diagnosis interaction. These results would not survive a Bonferroni correction for the number of ROIs. No correlations were found with the available demographic and clinical data. Therefore, hippocampal neuronal abnormalities are present at the onset of mood disorders with psychotic symptoms. These data suggest that neuronal abnormalities in HIPPO may be associated with psychosis in mood disorders. Since these data were obtained in patients at first episode, they cannot be explained by chronicity of illness or pharmacological treatment.


Throughout the animal kingdom the innate nature of basic behaviour routines suggests that the underlying neuronal substrates necessary for their execution are genetically determined and developmentally programmed. Complex innate behaviours require proper timing and ordering of individual component behaviours. In Drosophila melanogaster, analyses of combinations of mutations of the fruitless (fru) gene have shown that male-specific isoforms (Fru(M)) of the Fru transcription factor are necessary for proper execution of all steps of the innate courtship ritual. Here, we eliminate Fru(M) expression in one group of about 60 neurons in the Drosophila central nervous system and observe severely contracted courtship behaviour, including rapid courtship initiation, absence of orienting and tapping, and the simultaneous occurrence of wing vibration, licking and attempted copulation. Our results identify a small group of median bundle neurons, that in wild-type Drosophila appropriately trigger the sequential execution of the component behaviours that constitute the Drosophila courtship ritual.
A critical step in self-motion perception and spatial awareness is the integration of motion cues from multiple sensory organs that individually do not provide an accurate representation of the physical world. One of the best-studied sensory ambiguities is found in visual processing, and arises because of the inherent uncertainty in detecting the motion direction of an untextured contour moving within a small aperture. A similar sensory ambiguity arises in identifying the actual motion associated with linear accelerations sensed by the otolith organs in the inner ear. These internal linear accelerometers respond identically during translational motion (for example, running forward) and gravitational accelerations experienced as we reorient the head relative to gravity (that is, head tilt). Using new stimulus combinations, we identify here cerebellar and brainstem motion-sensitive neurons that compute a solution to the inertial motion detection problem. We show that the firing rates of these populations of neurons reflect the computations necessary to construct an internal model representation of the physical equations of motion.
Using immunohistochemistry, RT-PCR, and Western Blot techniques, we studied the tissue expression of the 165-aa Vascular permeability factor (VPF) after spinal cord injury (SCI) in adult Wistar rats. The results were compared according to that the animals received or non-dexamethasone, at the dose of 1mg/kg and day after trauma. Furthermore, the different functional recovery between treated and non-treated animals was recorded. Although the administration of dexamethasone showed a beneficial effect on the functional recovery of the animals, the tissue expression of VPF after SCI is not influenced by dexamethasone administration. Therefore, the neuroprotective effect of the dexamethasone after experimental SCI is not mediated through an interference on the biological effects of the 165-aa vascular permeability factor.
Dendritic targeting of mRNA and local protein synthesis are mechanisms that enable neurons to deliver proteins to specific postsynaptic sites. Here, we demonstrate that epileptogenic stimuli induce a dramatic accumulation of BDNF mRNA and protein in the dendrites of hippocampal neurons in vivo. BDNF mRNA and protein accumulate in dendrites in all hippocampal subfields after pilocarpine seizures and in selected subfields after other epileptogenic stimuli (kainate and kindling). BDNF accumulates selectively in discrete dendritic laminas, suggesting targeting to synapses that are active during seizures. Dendritic targeting of BDNF mRNA occurs during the time when the cellular changes that underlie epilepsy are occurring and is not seen after intense stimuli that are non-epileptogenic, including electroconvulsive seizures and high-frequency stimulation. MK801, an NMDA receptor antagonist that can prevent epileptogenesis but not acute seizures, prevents the dendritic accumulation of BDNF mRNA, indicating that dendritic targeting is mediated via NMDA receptor activation. Together, these results suggest that dendritic accumulation of BDNF mRNA and protein plays a critical role in the cellular changes leading to epilepsy.
Normal cognitive and autonomic functions require nicotinic synaptic signaling. Despite the physiological importance of these synapses, little is known about molecular mechanisms that direct their assembly during development. We show here that the tumor-suppressor protein adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) functions in localizing alpha3-nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) to neuronal postsynaptic sites. Our quantitative confocal microscopy studies indicate that APC is selectively enriched at cholinergic synapses; APC surface clusters are juxtaposed to synaptic vesicle clusters and colocalize with alpha3-nAChRs but not with the neighboring synaptic glycine receptors or perisynaptic alpha7-nAChRs on chick ciliary ganglion (CG) neurons. We identify PSD (postsynaptic density)-93, beta-catenin, and microtubule end binding protein EB1 as APC binding partners. PSD-93 and beta-catenin are also enriched at alpha3-nAChR postsynaptic sites. EB1 shows close proximity to and partial overlap with alpha3-nAChR and APC surface clusters. We tested the role of APC in neuronal nicotinic synapse assembly by using retroviral-mediated in vivo overexpression of an APC dominant-negative (APC-dn) peptide to block the interaction of endogenous APC with both EB1 and PSD-93 during synapse formation in CG neurons. The overexpressed APC-dn led to dramatic decreases in alpha3-nAChR surface levels and clusters. Effects were specific to alpha3-nAChR postsynaptic sites; synaptic glycine receptor and perisynaptic alpha7-nAChR clusters were not altered. In addition, APC-dn also reduced surface membrane-associated clusters of PSD-93 and EB1. The results show that APC plays a key role in organizing excitatory cholinergic postsynaptic specializations in CG neurons. We identify APC as the first nonreceptor protein to function in localizing nAChRs to neuronal synapses in vivo.
Substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) receives both GABAergic and glutamatergic (GLU) inputs that are believed to act together to regulate neuronal activity in this structure. To examine the role of these inputs, single-unit recording was coupled with iontophoresis of GLU and GABA in rats under two conditions: awake, unrestrained and under chloral hydrate anesthesia. Although GABA potently inhibited SNr cells in both conditions, freely moving rats showed lower sensitivity than anesthetized animals. Likewise, GLU effectively induced excitations in most SNr neurons in anesthetized animals but was much less effective in awake, unrestrained animals in terms of both the number of sensitive cells and the magnitude of GLU-induced excitation. These findings, along with consistent excitations induced by bicuculline in awake, unrestrained rats, suggest that modulation of GABA inhibitory input, not the opposing actions of GLU and GABA, is the primary factor that regulates the activity state of SNr neurons.
Individual neuronal circuits can generate multiple activity patterns because of the influence of different projection neurons. However, in most systems it has been difficult to identify and assess the relative contribution of all upstream neurons responsible for the activation of any single activity pattern by a behaviorally relevant stimulus. To elucidate this issue, we used the stomatogastric nervous system (STNS) of the crab. The STNS includes the gastric mill (chewing) motor circuit in the stomatogastric ganglion (STG) and no more than 20 projection neurons that innervate the STG. We previously identified at least some (four) of the projection neurons that are activated directly by the ventral cardiac neuron (VCN) system, a population of mechanosensory neurons that activates the gastric mill circuit. Here we show that two of these projection neurons, the previously identified modulatory commissural neuron 1 (MCN1) and commissural projection neuron 2 (CPN2), are necessary and likely sufficient for the initiation/maintenance of the VCN-elicited gastric mill rhythm. Selective inactivation of either MCN1 or CPN2 still enabled a VCN-elicited gastric mill rhythm. However, because MCN1 and CPN2 have different actions on gastric mill neurons, these manipulations resulted in rhythms distinct from each other and from that occurring in the intact system. After removal of both MCN1 and CPN2, VCN stimulation failed to activate the gastric mill rhythm. Selective conjoint stimulation of MCN1 and CPN2, approximating their VCN-elicited activity patterns and firing frequencies, elicited a VCN-like gastric mill rhythm. Thus the VCN mechanosensory system elicits the gastric mill rhythm via its activation of a subset of the relevant projection neurons.
Alpha-synuclein contributes to the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD), but its precise role in the disorder and its normal function remain poorly understood. Consistent with a presumed role in neurotransmitter release and its prominent deposition in the dystrophic neurites of PD, alpha-synuclein localizes almost exclusively to the nerve terminal. In brain extracts, however, alpha-synuclein behaves as a soluble, monomeric protein. Using a binding assay to characterize the association of alpha-synuclein with cell membranes, we find that alpha-synuclein binds saturably and with high affinity to characteristic intracellular structures that double label for components of lipid rafts. Biochemical analysis demonstrates the interaction of alpha-synuclein with detergent-resistant membranes and reveals a shift in electrophoretic mobility of the raft-associated protein. In addition, the A30P mutation associated with PD disrupts the interaction of alpha-synuclein with lipid rafts. Furthermore, we find that both the A30P mutation and raft disruption redistribute alpha-synuclein away from synapses, indicating an important role for raft association in the normal function of alpha-synuclein and its role in the pathogenesis of PD.
The glomeruli of the olfactory bulb are the first site of synaptic processing in the olfactory system. The glomeruli contain three types of neurons that are referred to collectively as juxtaglomerular (JG) cells: external tufted (ET), periglomerular (PG), and short axon (SA) cells. JG cells are thought to interact synaptically, but little is known about the circuitry linking these neurons or their functional roles in olfactory processing. Single and paired whole-cell recordings were performed to investigate these questions. ET cells spontaneously fired rhythmic spike bursts in the theta frequency range and received monosynaptic olfactory nerve (ON) input. In contrast, all SA and most PG cells lacked monosynaptic ON input. PG and SA cells exhibited spontaneous, intermittent bursts of EPSCs that were highly correlated with spike bursts of ET cells in the same but not in different glomeruli. Paired recording experiments demonstrated that ET cells provide monosynaptic excitatory input to PG/SA cells; the ET to PG/SA cell synapse is mediated by glutamate. ET cells thus are a major excitatory linkage between ON input and other JG cells. Spontaneous bursting is highly correlated among ET cells of the same glomerulus, and ET cell activity remains correlated when all fast synaptic activity is blocked. The findings suggest that multiple, synchronously active ET cells synaptically converge onto single PG/SA cells. Synchronous ET cell bursting may function to amplify transient sensory input and coordinate glomerular output.
A multidisciplinary approach was followed to investigate whether the opioid-like peptide nociceptin/orphanin FQ (N/OFQ) regulates the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway and motor behavior. Nigrostriatal dopaminergic cells, which express N/OFQ peptide (NOP) receptors, are located in the substantia nigra pars compacta and extend their dendrites in the substantia nigra pars reticulata, thereby modulating the basal ganglia output neurons. In vitro electrophysiological recordings demonstrated that N/OFQ hyperpolarized the dopaminergic cells of the substantia nigra pars compacta and inhibited their firing activity. In vivo dual-probe microdialysis showed that N/OFQ perfused in the substantia nigra pars reticulata reduced dopamine release in the ipsilateral striatum, whereas UFP-101 ([Nphe1,Arg14,Lys15]N/OFQ(1-13)-NH2) (a selective NOP receptor peptide antagonist) stimulated it. N/OFQ microinjected in the substantia nigra pars reticulata impaired rat performance on a rotarod apparatus, whereas UFP-101 enhanced it. Electromyography revealed that N/OFQ and UFP-101 oppositely affected muscle tone, inducing relaxation and contraction of triceps, respectively. The selective NOP receptor nonpeptide antagonist J-113397 (1-[3R,4R)-1-cyclooctylmethyl-3-hydroxymethyl-4-piperidyl]-3-ethyl-1,3-dihydro-2H benzimidazol-2-one), either injected intranigrally or given systemically, also elevated striatal dopamine release and facilitated motor activity, confirming that these effects were caused by blockade of endogenous N/OFQ signaling. The inhibitory role played by endogenous N/OFQ on motor activity was additionally strengthened by the finding that mice lacking the NOP receptor gene outperformed wild-type mice on the rotarod. We conclude that NOP receptors in the substantia nigra pars reticulata, activated by endogenous N/OFQ, drive a physiologically inhibitory control on motor behavior, possibly via modulation of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway.
Cyclic nucleotide levels within extending growth cones influence how navigating axons respond to guidance cues. Pharmacological alteration of cAMP or cGMP signaling in vitro dramatically modulates how growth cones respond to attractants and repellents, although how these second messengers function in the context of guidance cue signaling cascades in vivo is poorly understood. We report here that the Drosophila receptor-type guanylyl cyclase Gyc76C is required for semaphorin-1a (Sema-1a)-plexin A repulsive axon guidance of motor axons in vivo. Our genetic analyses define a neuronal requirement for Gyc76C in axonal repulsion. Additionally, we find that the integrity of the Gyc76C catalytic cyclase domain is critical for Gyc76C function in Sema-1a axon repulsion. Our results support a model in which cGMP production by Gyc76C facilitates Sema-1a-plexin A-mediated defasciculation of motor axons, allowing for the generation of neuromuscular connectivity in the developing Drosophila embryo.
Early visual experience is indispensable to shape the maturation of cortical circuits during development. Monocular deprivation in infancy, for instance, leads to an irreversible reduction of visually driven activity in the visual cortex through the deprived eye and a loss of binocular depth perception. It was tested whether or not early experience is also necessary for color perception. Infant monkeys were reared for nearly a year in a separate room where the illumination came from only monochromatic lights. After extensive training, they were able to perform color matching. But, their judgment of color similarity was quite different from that of normal animals. Furthermore, they had severe deficits in color constancy; their color vision was very much wavelength dominated, so they could not compensate for the changes in wavelength composition. These results indicate that early visual experience is also indispensable for normal color perception.
Enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) has improved the quality of life in patients with Gaucher disease (GD). An emerging concern is whether ERT can also halt the neurologic progression in type 3 GD. The authors examined the auditory brainstem response (ABR) in eight children with type 3 GD undergoing high-dose ERT and found a consistent deterioration in ABR response. They conclude that ERT does not halt brainstem degeneration and that alternative therapies must be sought.
The authors describe a paradoxical reaction to lamotrigine (LTG) treatment in a patient with idiopathic rolandic epilepsy characterized by seizure deterioration, the appearance of new seizure type, and transient cognitive impairment. This phenomenon was present at a low dose after a slow titration and promptly reverted on LTG discontinuation. This rare event may have similarities with carbamazepine-induced seizure worsening caused by the Na++ channel inhibitory effect of the two antiepileptic drugs.

Endometriosis (ENDO) is a disorder in which vascularized growths of endometrial tissue occur outside the uterus. Its symptoms include reduced fertility and severe pelvic pain. Mechanisms that maintain the ectopic growths and evoke symptoms are poorly understood. One factor not yet considered is that the ectopic growths develop their own innervation. Here, we tested the hypothesis that the growths develop both an autonomic and a sensory innervation. We used a rat model of surgically induced ENDO whose growths mimic those in women. Furthermore, similar to women with ENDO, such rats exhibit reduced fertility and increased pelvic nociception. The ENDO was induced by autotransplanting, on mesenteric cascade arteries, small pieces of uterus that formed vascularized cysts. The cysts and healthy uterus were harvested from proestrous rats and immunostained using the pan-neuronal marker PGP9.5 and specific markers for calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) (sensory C and A delta fibers), substance P (SP) (sensory C and A delta fibers) and vesicular monoamine transporter (sympathetic fibers). Cysts (like the uterus) were robustly innervated, with many PGP9.5-stained neurites accompanying blood vessels and extending into nearby luminal epithelial layers. CGRP-, SP-, and vesicular monoamine transporter-immunostained neurites also were observed, with CGRP and SP neurites extending the furthest into the cyst lining. These results demonstrate that ectopic endometrial growths develop an autonomic and sensory innervation. This innervation could contribute not only to symptoms associated with ENDO but also to maintenance of the ectopic growths.
Myelencephalon-specific protease (MSP) is one of the serine proteases and is expressed in the central nervous system of rats. Its function and alternation in brain injury have not yet been clarified. In this study, we investigated the expression of MSP after transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. In situ localization of MSP mRNA demonstrated a higher level in the corpus callosum and around the ischemic area from 12 h to 14 days after MCA reperfusion, with the peak of expression coming 3 days after reperfusion in both regions. Immunohistochemically, the expression of protein was found 1 day after reperfusion in the same brain region that was observed for mRNA. The peak was 7 days after reperfusion in both regions. Micro-autoradiography, immunostaining and double immunohistochemical labeling revealed the expression of MSP to be located mainly in the oligodendrocytes. The present results indicate that MSP may be related to the turnover of the myelin-associated proteins and the extracellular matrix proteins after transient MCAO. The activation of MSP may play a role in remodeling processes such as neurite outgrowth and remyelination.
A fundamental question in developmental biology is how a limited number of growth factors and their cognate receptors coordinate the formation of tissues and organs endowed with enormous morphological complexity. We report that the related neurotrophins NGF and NT-3, acting through a common receptor, TrkA, are required for sequential stages of sympathetic axon growth and, thus, innervation of target fields. Yet, while NGF supports TrkA internalization and retrograde signaling from distal axons to cell bodies to promote neuronal survival, NT-3 cannot. Interestingly, final target-derived NGF promotes expression of the p75 neurotrophin receptor, in turn causing a reduction in the sensitivity of axons to intermediate target-derived NT-3. We propose that a hierarchical neurotrophin signaling cascade coordinates sequential stages of sympathetic axon growth, innervation of targets, and survival in a manner dependent on the differential control of TrkA internalization, trafficking, and retrograde axonal signaling.
NGF and NT-3 both signal through TrkA receptors on the axons of developing sympathetic neurons, but while NGF supports survival and differentiation, NT-3 does not. In this issue of Cell, the difference is explained as the ability of NGF, but not NT-3, to induce internalization and retrograde transport of activated TrkA.
The heme oxygenase family of enzymes catalyzes the metabolism of heme to biliverdin, ferrous iron, and carbon monoxide (CO). At least two isoforms exist, heme oxygenase-1 (HO1) and heme oxygenase-2 (HO2), which are encoded by separate genes. HO2 is selectively enriched in neurons, and substantial evidence suggests that HO2-derived CO functions as a neurotransmitter/neuromodulator. However, a molecular mechanism for the rapid activation of HO2 during neuronal activity has not been described. Through a yeast two-hybrid screen we identified calmodulin as a potential regulator of HO2 activity. Calmodulin binds with nanomolar affinity to HO2 in a calcium-dependent manner via a canonical 1-10 motif, resulting in a 3-fold increase in catalytic activity. Mutations within this motif block calmodulin binding and calcium-dependent stimulation of enzyme activity in vitro and in intact cells. The calcium mobilizing agents ionomycin and glutamate stimulate endogenous HO2 activity in primary cortical cultures, establishing in vivo relevance. Calcium-calmodulin provides a mechanism for rapid and transient activation of HO2 during neuronal activity.
At vertebrate neuromuscular junctions, ATP is known to stabilize acetylcholine in the synaptic vesicles and to be co-released with it. We have shown previously that a nucleotide receptor, P2Y(1) receptor, is localized at the nmjs, and we propose that this mediates a trophic role for synaptic ATP there. In cultured myotubes, the activation of P2Y(1) receptors modulated agrin-induced acetylcholine receptor (AChR) aggregation in a potentiation manner. This potentiation effect in agrin-induced AChR aggregation was reduced by antagonizing the P2Y(1) receptors. The guanosine triphosphatase RhoA was shown to be responsible for this P2Y(1)-potentiated effect. The localization of RhoA in rat and chicken skeletal muscles was restricted at the neuromuscular junctions. Application of P2Y(1) agonists in cultured myotubes induced RhoA activation, which showed an additive effect with agrin-induced RhoA activation. Over-expression of dominant-negative mutant of RhoA in cultured myotubes diminished the agrin-induced AChR aggregation, as well as the potentiation effect of P2Y(1)-specific agonist. Application of UTP in the cultures also triggered similar responses as did 2-methylthioadenosine 5'-diphosphate, suggesting the involvement of other subtypes of P2Y receptors. These results demonstrate that RhoA could serve as a downstream mediator of signaling mediated by P2Y(1) receptor and agrin, which therefore synergizes the effects of the two neuron-derived trophic factors in modulating the formation and/or maintenance of post-synaptic apparatus at the neuromuscular junctions.
Inherited channelopathies are at the origin of many neurological disorders. Here we report a form of channelopathy that is acquired in experimental temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), the most common form of epilepsy in adults. The excitability of CA1 pyramidal neuron dendrites was increased in TLE because of decreased availability of A-type potassium ion channels due to transcriptional (loss of channels) and posttranslational (increased channel phosphorylation by extracellular signal-regulated kinase) mechanisms. Kinase inhibition partly reversed dendritic excitability to control levels. Such acquired channelopathy is likely to amplify neuronal activity and may contribute to the initiation and/or propagation of seizures in TLE.



Most people acquire literacy skills with remarkable ease, even though the human brain is not evolutionarily adapted to this relatively new cultural phenomenon. Associations between letters and speech sounds form the basis of reading in alphabetic scripts. We investigated the functional neuroanatomy of the integration of letters and speech sounds using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Letters and speech sounds were presented unimodally and bimodally in congruent or incongruent combinations. Analysis of single-subject data and group data aligned on the basis of individual cortical anatomy revealed that letters and speech sounds are integrated in heteromodal superior temporal cortex. Interestingly, responses to speech sounds in a modality-specific region of the early auditory cortex were modified by simultaneously presented letters. These results suggest that efficient processing of culturally defined associations between letters and speech sounds relies on neural mechanisms similar to those naturally evolved for integrating audiovisual speech.
Axons need to be above a minimum size before they can be ensheathed by myelin-forming glia. But it has generally been assumed that the axonal signals that initiate myelination, whatever they are, would act similarly in both the CNS and the PNS. The surprising finding of Chan et al. in this issue of Neuron is that NGF can act as a regulator of ensheathment but that it has opposite effects on CNS and PNS axons.
Thirty-nine patients with hepatitis C viral infection on interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) therapy were monitored weekly using the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI). Thirteen of thirty-nine patients (33%) developed IFN-alpha-induced major depressive disorder (MDD). During the course of IFN-alpha therapy, patients who became depressed were treated with citalopram, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) antidepressant. Results indicated that: (1) IFN-alpha response rates were significantly higher in those patients who developed IFN-alpha-induced MDD than in those who did not (end-of-treatment response (ETR) rates: 61.5% versus 26.9% and sustained viral response (SVR) rates: 38.5% versus 11.5%), (2) male patients with ETR to IFN-alpha therapy were, on average, approximately 33 pounds lighter in body weight than male patients who did not respond, and (3) gender, race, past history of MDD, and past history of substance abuse were not significantly associated with ETR. In conclusion, our findings suggest that IFN-alpha-induced MDD may be a predictor of a positive response to IFN-alpha therapy, or an indication of optimal dosing.
Rab3A, Rab3B, Rab3C, and Rab3D are closely related GTP-binding proteins of synaptic vesicles that may function in neurotransmitter release. We have produced knock-out (KO) mice for Rab3B and Rab3C and crossed them with previously generated Rab3A and 3D knock-out mice to generate double, triple, and quadruple Rab3 knock-out mice. We have found that all single and double Rab3 knock-out mice are viable and fertile. Most triple Rab3 knock-out mice perish whenever Rab3A is one of the three deleted proteins, whereas all triple knock-out mice that express Rab3A are viable and fertile. Finally, all quadruple knock-out mice die shortly after birth. Quadruple Rab3 KO mice initially develop normally and are born alive but succumb to respiratory failure. Rab3-deficient mice display no apparent changes in synapse structure or brain composition except for a loss of rabphilin, a Rab3-binding protein. Analysis of cultured hippocampal neurons from quadruple knock-out mice uncovered no significant change in spontaneous or sucrose-evoked release but an approximately 30% decrease in evoked responses. This decrease was caused by a decline in the synaptic and the vesicular release probabilities, suggesting that Rab3 proteins are essential for the normal regulation of Ca2+-triggered synaptic vesicle exocytosis but not for synaptic vesicle exocytosis as such. Our data show that Rab3 is required for survival in mice and that the four Rab3 proteins are functionally redundant in this role. Furthermore, our data demonstrate that Rab3 is not in itself essential for synaptic membrane traffic but functions to modulate the basic release machinery.
The visual system can adjust its sensitivity over a wide range of light intensities. Photoreceptors account for some of this adjustment, but there is evidence that postreceptoral processes also exist. To investigate the latter, we pharmacologically mimicked the effects of light stimulation on mouse On bipolar cells, thus avoiding confounding effects of receptoral mechanisms. Here, we report that cGMP selectively enhances responses to dim, but not bright, stimuli through a purely postsynaptic mechanism. This action of cGMP was completely blocked by inhibitors of cGMP-dependent kinase. We propose that cGMP-dependent kinase decreases coupling of the On bipolar cell glutamate receptor to the downstream cascade, thus amplifying small decreases in photoreceptor transmitter levels that would otherwise go undetected by the visual system.
Orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) damage elicits impulsivity and perseveration, and impairments in OFC function may underlie compulsive drug seeking in cocaine users. To test this hypothesis, we assessed the effects of fiber-sparing lesions or functional inactivation of OFC subregions on cocaine seeking in rats. Rats were trained to lever press for intravenous cocaine (0.20 mg/infusion) paired with the presentations of light plus tone stimuli. Responding was then allowed to extinguish. Rats received bilateral NMDA (0.1 M) or sham lesions of the lateral OFC (lOFC) or medial OFC (mOFC) before self-administration training (experiment 1) or muscimol plus baclofen (0.1 and 1.0 mM) or vehicle infusions into the lOFC or mOFC before reinstatement testing (experiment 2). The effects of these manipulations on reinstatement of cocaine seeking (i.e., responding on the previously cocaine-paired lever) were assessed in the presence of the light plus tone stimuli or after a cocaine priming injection (10 mg/kg, i.p.). Post-training lOFC inactivation impaired conditioned cue-induced reinstatement, whereas other manipulations failed to alter this behavior. This suggests that the lOFC plays a critical role in assessing the current motivational significance of cocaine-conditioned stimuli or in using this information to guide cocaine-seeking behavior if stimulus-reward learning takes place before lOFC damage. OFC inactivation failed to alter cocaine-primed reinstatement. However, lOFC lesions augmented cocaine-primed reinstatement in a perseverative manner, whereas mOFC lesions attenuated cocaine-primed reinstatement, suggesting that prolonged cell loss in OFC subregions may modulate the propensity for cocaine seeking in a subregion-specific manner.
The corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) receptors (CRF1 and CRF2) are crucial mediators of physiological and behavioral responses to stress. In animals, CRF1 appears to primarily mediate CRF-induced anxiety-like responses, but the role of CRF2 during stress is still unclear. Here we report the effects of CRF1 and CRF2 on the magnitude and plasticity of defensive startle responses in mice. Startle plasticity is measured by inhibition of startle by sensory stimuli, i.e., prepulse inhibition (PPI), and is disrupted in patients with panic or posttraumatic stress disorders in which CRF neurotransmission may be overactive. Pharmacological blockade of CRF1 reversed both CRF-induced increases in startle and CRF-induced deficits in PPI. CRF2 blockade attenuated high-dose but not low-dose CRF-induced increases in startle and reduced PPI. Conversely, activation of CRF2 enhanced PPI. CRF had no effect on startle and increased PPI in CRF1 knock-out mice. These data indicate that CRF receptors act in concert to increase the magnitude of defensive startle yet in opposition to regulate the flexibility of startle. These data support a new model of respective CRF receptor roles in stress-related behavior such that, although both receptors enhance the magnitude of defensive responses, CRF1 receptors contravene, whereas CRF2 receptors enhance, the impact of sensory information on defensive behavior. We hypothesize that excessive CRF1 activation combined with reduced CRF2 signaling may contribute to information processing deficits seen in panic and posttraumatic stress disorder patients and support CRF1-specific pharmacotherapy.
We have developed a novel in vitro model of the glial scar that mimics the gradient of proteoglycan found in vivo after spinal cord injury. In this model, regenerated axons from adult sensory neurons that extended deeply into the gradient developed bulbous, vacuolated endings that looked remarkably similar to dystrophic endings formed in vivo. We demonstrate that despite their highly abnormal appearance and stalled forward progress, dystrophic endings are extremely dynamic both in vitro and in vivo after spinal cord injury. Time-lapse movies demonstrated that dystrophic endings continually send out membrane veils and endocytose large membrane vesicles at the leading edge, which were then retrogradely transported to the rear of the &quot;growth cone.&quot; This direction of movement is contrary to membrane dynamics that occur during normal neurite outgrowth. As further evidence of this motility, dystrophic endings endocytosed large amounts of dextran both in vitro and in vivo. We now have an in vitro model of the glial scar that may serve as a potent tool for developing and screening potential treatments to help promote regeneration past the lesion in vivo.
An interaction with the GABA type A (GABA(A)) receptor has long been recognized as one of the main neurochemical mechanisms underlying many of the pharmacological actions of ethanol. However, more recent data have suggested that certain behavioral and electrophysiological actions of ethanol are mediated by an increase in brain concentration of neuroactive steroids that results from stimulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Neuroactive steroids such as 3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one (3alpha,5alpha-THP) are, in fact, potent and efficacious endogenous positive modulators of GABA(A) receptor function. Because neurosteroids can be synthesized de novo in the brain, we have investigated whether ethanol might affect both neurosteroid synthesis and GABA(A) receptor function in isolated rat hippocampal tissue. Here, we show that ethanol increases the concentration of 3alpha,5alpha-THP as well as the amplitude of GABA(A) receptor-mediated IPSCs recorded from CA1 pyramidal neurons in isolated hippocampal slices. These effects are shared by the neurosteroid precursor progesterone, the peripheral benzodiazepine receptor-selective agonist CB34, and gamma-hydroxybutyrate, all of which are known to increase the formation of neuroactive steroids in plasma and in the brain. The action of ethanol on GABA(A) receptor-mediated IPSC amplitude is biphasic, consisting of a rapid, direct effect on GABA(A) receptor activity and an indirect effect that appears to be mediated by neurosteroid synthesis. Furthermore, ethanol affects GABA(A) receptor activity through a presynaptic action, an effect that is not dependent on neurosteroid formation. These observations suggest that ethanol may modulate GABA(A) receptor function through an increase in de novo neurosteroid synthesis in the brain that is independent of the HPA axis. This novel mechanism may have a crucial role in mediating specific central effects of ethanol.
The induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampal formation can be modulated by different behavioral states. However, few studies have addressed modulation of LTP during behavioral states in which the animal is likely acquiring new information. Here, we demonstrate that both the induction and the longevity of LTP in the dentate gyrus are enhanced when LTP is induced during the initial exploration of a novel environment. These effects are independent from locomotor activity, changes in brain temperature, and theta rhythm. Previous exposure to the novel environment attenuated this enhancement, suggesting that the effects of novelty habituate with familiarity. LTP longevity also was enhanced when induced in familiar environments containing novel objects. Together, these data indicate that both LTP induction and maintenance are enhanced when LTP is induced while rats investigate novel stimuli. We suggest that novelty initiates a transition of the hippocampal formation to a mode that is particularly conducive to synaptic plasticity, a process that could allow for new learning while preserving the stability of previously stored information. In addition, LTP induced in novel environments elicited a sustained late LTP. This suggests that a single synaptic population can display distinct profiles of LTP maintenance and that this depends on the animal's behavioral state during its induction. Furthermore, the duration of LTP enhanced by novelty parallels the time period during which the hippocampal formation is thought necessary for memory, consistent with the view that dentate LTP is of a duration sufficient to sustain memory in the hippocampal formation.
Identifying the cells and circuits that underlie perception, behavior, and learning is a central goal of contemporary neuroscience. Although techniques such as lesion analysis, functional magnetic resonance imaging, 2-deoxyglucose studies, and induction of gene expression have been helpful in determining the brain areas responsible for particular functions, these methods are technically limited. Currently, there is no method that allows for the identification and electrophysiological characterization of individual neurons that are associated with a particular function in living tissue. We developed a strain of transgenic mice in which the expression of the green fluorescent protein (GFP) is controlled by the promoter of the activity-dependent gene c-fos. These mice enable an in vivo or ex vivo characterization of the cells and synapses that are activated by particular pharmacological and behavioral manipulations. Cortical and subcortical fosGFP expression could be induced in a regionally restricted manner after specific activation of neuronal ensembles. Using the fosGFP mice to identify discrete cortical areas, we found that neurons in sensory-spared areas rapidly regulate action potential threshold and spike frequency to decrease excitability. This method will enhance our ability to study the way neuronal networks are activated and changed by both experience and pharmacological manipulations. In addition, because activated neurons can be functionally characterized, this tool may enable the development of better pharmaceuticals that directly affect the neurons involved in disease states.
Previously it has been shown that the hippocampus and neocortex can spontaneously reactivate ensemble activity patterns during post-behavioral sleep and rest periods. Here we examined whether such reactivation also occurs in a subcortical structure, the ventral striatum, which receives a direct input from the hippocampal formation and has been implicated in guidance of consummatory and conditioned behaviors. During a reward-searching task on a T-maze, flanked by sleep and rest periods, parallel recordings were made from ventral striatal ensembles while EEG signals were derived from the hippocampus. Statistical measures indicated a significant amount of reactivation in the ventral striatum. In line with hippocampal data, reactivation was especially prominent during post-behavioral slow-wave sleep, but unlike the hippocampus, no decay in pattern recurrence was visible in the ventral striatum across the first 40 min of post-behavioral rest. We next studied the relationship between ensemble firing patterns in ventral striatum and hippocampal ripples-sharp waves, which have been implicated in pattern replay. Firing rates were significantly modulated in close temporal association with hippocampal ripples in 25% of the units, showing a marked transient enhancement in the average response profile. Strikingly, ripple-modulated neurons in ventral striatum showed a clear reactivation, whereas nonmodulated cells did not. These data suggest, first, the occurrence of pattern replay in a subcortical structure implied in the processing and prediction of reward and, second, a functional linkage between ventral striatal reactivation and a specific type of high-frequency population activity associated with hippocampal replay.
The effects of continuous glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) overexpression in the intact nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) system was studied using recombinant lentiviral (rLV) vector delivery of GDNF to the striatum or substantia nigra (SN) in the rat. Intrastriatal delivery of rLV-GDNF resulted in significant overexpression of GDNF in the striatum (2-4 ng/mg tissue) and anterograde transport of GDNF protein to the SN. Striatal rLV-GDNF delivery initially induced an increase in DA turnover (1-6 weeks), accompanied by significant contralateral turning in response to amphetamine, suggesting an enhancement of the DA system on the injected side. Starting 6 weeks after continuous GDNF delivery, we observed a selective downregulation of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) protein (approximately 70%) that was maintained until the end of the experiment (24 weeks). A similar effect was observed when rLV-GDNF was injected into the SN. The magnitude of TH downregulation was related to the level of GDNF expression and was most pronounced in animals in which the striatal GDNF level exceeded 0.7 ng/mg tissue. The decreased TH protein levels were associated with similar reductions in the in vitro TH enzyme activity (approximately 70%); however, in vivo L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine production rate and DA tissue levels were maintained at normal levels. The results indicate that downregulation of TH protein reflects a compensatory effect in response to continuous GDNF stimulation of the DA neurons mediated by a combination of overactivity at the DA synapse and a direct GDNF-induced action on TH gene expression. This compensatory mechanism is proposed to maintain long-term DA neuron function within the normal range.

Many hereditary and sporadic neurodegenerative disorders are characterized by the accumulation of aberrant proteins. In sporadic Parkinson's disease, representing the most prevalent movement disorder, oxidative and nitrosative stress are believed to contribute to disease pathogenesis, but the exact molecular basis for protein aggregation remains unclear. In the case of autosomal recessive-juvenile Parkinsonism, mutation in the E3 ubiquitin ligase protein parkin is linked to death of dopaminergic neurons. Here we show both in vitro and in vivo that nitrosative stress leads to S-nitrosylation of wild-type parkin and, initially, to a dramatic increase followed by a decrease in the E3 ligase-ubiquitin-proteasome degradative pathway. The initial increase in parkin's E3 ubiquitin ligase activity leads to autoubiquitination of parkin and subsequent inhibition of its activity, which would impair ubiquitination and clearance of parkin substrates. These findings may thus provide a molecular link between free radical toxicity and protein accumulation in sporadic Parkinson's disease.
Several major bacterial pathogens and related commensal species colonizing the human mucosa express phosphocholine (PC) at their cell surfaces. PC appears to impact host-microbe biology by serving as a ligand for both C-reactive protein and the receptor for platelet-activating factor. Type IV pili of Neisseria gonorrhoeae (Ng) and Neisseria meningitidis, filamentous protein structures critical to the colonization of their human hosts, are known to react variably with monoclonal antibodies recognizing a PC epitope. However, the structural basis for this reactivity has remained elusive. To address this matter, we exploited the finding that the PilE pilin subunit in Ng mutants lacking the PilV protein acquired the PC epitope independent of changes in pilin primary structure. Specifically, we show by using mass spectrometry that PilE derived from the pilV background is composed of a mixture of subunits bearing O-linked forms of either phosphoethanolamine (PE) or PC at the same residue, whereas the wild-type background carries only PE at that same site. Therefore, PilV can influence pilin structure and antigenicity by modulating the incorporation of these alternative modifications. The disaccharide covalently linked to Ng pilin was also characterized because it is present on the same peptides bearing the PE and PC modifications and, contrary to previous reports, was found to be linked by means of 2,4-diacetamido-2,4,6-trideoxyhexose. Taken together, these findings provide new insights into Ng type IV pilus structure and antigenicity and resolve long-standing issues regarding the nature of both the PC epitope and the pilin glycan.
Calcineurin (Cn) signaling has been implicated in nerve activity-dependent fiber type specification in skeletal muscle, but the downstream effector pathway has not been established. We have investigated the role of the transcription factor nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT), a major target of Cn, by using an in vivo transfection approach in regenerating and adult rat muscles. NFAT transcriptional activity was monitored with two different NFAT-dependent reporters and was found to be higher in slow compared to fast muscles. NFAT activity is decreased by denervation in slow muscles and is increased by electrostimulation of denervated muscles with a tonic low-frequency impulse pattern, mimicking the firing pattern of slow motor neurons, but not with a phasic high-frequency pattern typical of fast motor neurons. To determine the role of NFAT, we transfected regenerating and adult rat muscles with a plasmid coding for VIVIT, a specific peptide inhibitor of Cn-mediated NFAT activation. VIVIT was found to block the expression of slow myosin heavy chain (MyHC-slow) induced by slow motor neuron activity in regenerating slow soleus muscle and to inhibit the expression of MyHC-slow transcripts and the activity of a MyHC-slow promoter in adult soleus. The role of NFAT was confirmed by the finding that a constitutively active NFATc1 mutant stimulates the MyHC-slow, inhibits the fast MyHC-2B promoter in adult fast muscles, and induces MyHC-slow expression in regenerating muscles. These results support the notion that Cn-NFAT signaling acts as a nerve activity sensor in skeletal muscle in vivo and controls nerve activity-dependent myosin switching.
The neurotoxin 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT) is often used in neonatal rats to induce specific, rapid, and permanent depletion of brain serotonin (5-HT). One assumed benefit of using this drug in neonates is that it is well-tolerated, with pups exhibiting few side effects normally attributed to 5-HT depletion. Here, we present evidence that 5,7-DHT administered neonatally induces seizure-like behavior, decreases weight gain, and increases plasma corticosterone without depletion of brain 5-HT.
Expression of the dopaminergic neurotrophin GDF-5 in developing rat ventral mesencephalon (VM) was found to begin at embryonic day (E) 12 and peak on E14, when dopaminergic neurones undergo terminal differentiation. In the adult rat, GDF-5 was found to be restricted to heart and brain, being expressed in many areas of the brain, including striatum and midbrain. This indicates a role for GDF-5 in the development and maintenance of dopaminergic neurones.
Labeling of newly divided retinal cells with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) and a rhodopsin mRNA probe revealed that rhodopsin is first expressed by new rod photoreceptors 2 days after cell birth in an adult cichlid fish. Most new cells that expressed rhodopsin had nuclei located in the vitreal half of the outer nuclear layer (ONL), lending further support to the hypothesis that movement from scleral to vitreal ONL is associated with rod differentiation.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), in addition to its role as a hormone in the stress response, functions as a neuromodulator in the cerebellum, where it enhances both the spontaneous and amino acid induced firing rate of Purkinje cells. In the cerebellum, CRF and its two types of receptors (CRF-R(1) and CRF-R(2)) are present during cerebellar development at ages that precede the onset of afferent ingrowth and synaptogenesis, suggesting a distinct role during early cerebellar development. The present study was undertaken to determine whether CRF enhances the survival of cerebellar neurons, in particular GABAergic neurons. Primary cultures of cerebellar neurons obtained from embryonic day 18 mice were composed primarily, but not exclusively, of GABAergic neurons. Although CRF-R(1) is present in most neurons in this culture system, when CRF was added to the medium, no significant change in neuronal survival was observed when compared to control cultures. It is possible that a role for CRF is not seen in growth-promoting culture medium at the plating density chosen for this study and may only be evident when the cells have been exposed to conditions that reduce the likelihood of survival, such as exposure to neurotoxins such as AraC. We propose that, because AraC increases the number of cleaved caspase-3 positive cells, indicating apoptosis, it is possible that a CRF effect involves an inhibition of the apoptotic pathway. Cultures treated with AraC had a decrease in the total number of GABAergic neurons and an increase in apoptotic cells as measured with the apoptotic marker cleaved caspase-3. Co-treatment with CRF rescued many GABAergic neurons. It is interesting to note that apoptotic cells do not exhibit GABA or c-fos positive immunolabeling. Thus, these data support the concept that CRF plays a neuroprotective role in the survival of GABAergic cerebellar neurons in culture after exposure to a neurotoxin.
Neural stem cells (NSCs) are believed to repair brain damage primarily through cell replacement: i.e., the ability to regenerate lost neurons and glia in a site-specific fashion. The neural stem cell line, MHP36, has been shown to have this capacity, but we have little idea of the molecular mechanisms that control the differentiation of such cells during brain repair. In this study we show that an early event in the differentiation of MHP36 cells, both in vivo and in vitro, is the loss of expression of the intermediate filament protein, nestin. We use a co-culture assay to show that loss of nestin is fast, being detectable after just 1 h and complete in 4 h, and is controlled by proteasome degradation rather than down-regulation of de novo nestin synthesis. We also show that nestin loss is regulated by Notch, and mediated by cell contact.
In scrapie-infected cells, the abnormal isoform of the prion protein, PrP(Sc), accumulates in endosomes/lysosomes. In this study, the involvement of two lysosomal proteases, cathepsin B and L, in cellular processing of PrP(Sc) was analyzed in immortalized neuronal gonadotropin-releasing hormone cells (GT1-1) infected with scrapie. Treatment with inhibitors of either cathepsin B or L resulted in accumulation of PrP(Sc). Such an increased accumulation also occurred when the activities of both cathepsins were inhibited using RNA interference. We conclude that cathepsin B and L are involved in the degradation of PrP(Sc) in scrapie-infected GT1-1 cells and that they can compensate for each other's functions. This study shows that specific proteases, abundantly present in neurons, have the capacity to degrade PrP(Sc).
The i.v. agent etomidate exerts its anaesthetic actions through potentiation of gamma-aminobutyric acid-A receptors containing beta2 and beta3 subunits. It was recently shown that the beta2 subunit contributes to the sedative properties of etomidate, whereas the beta3 subunit is responsible for its anaesthetic properties. However, these studies evaluated anaesthetic effects in point mutation mice in which the effect of etomidate was decreased, but not abolished, at the beta2 subunit. Here we have used beta2 knockout mice to completely remove any contribution of the beta2 subunit to the effects of etomidate. Etomidate was equally anaesthetic in wildtype and knockout mice, thus further confirming that efficacy at the beta3 subunit only is sufficient to induce general anaesthesia.
The effect of chronic mild stress (CMStress) was examined in an animal model of chronic cerebral hypoperfusion. Eight-month-old male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent permanent bilateral occlusion of the carotid arteries (2VO) or sham surgery. At 7 days postsurgery, animals from these groups were randomly assigned to undergo CMStress consisting of relatively mild stressor exposure 6 days a week for 6 weeks or a no-stress regimen. They were perfused 24 h thereafter and stereology was used to estimate the total number of hippocampal CA1 and CA3 pyramidal cells. Glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP) immunoreactivity in the hippocampus was also measured. Degenerating neurons were quantified with the Fluoro-Jade B staining technique. CMStress significantly potentiated CA1 cell loss in 2VO rats (17% loss), compared to a 7% loss of CA1 cells in nonstressed 2VO rats. CMStress had no effect on CA3 cell number. CMStress also caused a significant reduction in GFAP-immunoreactive astrocyte density in CA1, CA3, and the hilus of both sham and 2VO rats. Fluoro-Jade staining was absent, indicating that cell loss probably occurred in the early stage of combined 2VO and CMStress. It was concluded that CMStress exacerbates the consequences of chronic cerebral hypoperfusion on CA1 probably by reducing astrocytes, thereby increasing extracellular glutamate and/or diminishing free radical defense systems. These findings have particular relevance to understanding the contribution of chronic stress to Alzheimer's disease, which, in its premorbid stage, is characterized by cerebral hypoperfusion, and, in its clinical stage, is characterized by CA1 cell loss.
It is well accepted that peripheral electrical stimulation (PES) can produce an analgesic effect in patients with acute and chronic pain. However, the neural basis underlying stimulation-induced analgesia remains unclear. In the present study, we examined the pain-related neural activity modified by peripheral stimulation in rats. The stimulation frequency of pulses applied to needle electrodes in the hindlimb was 2 Hz alternating with 100 Hz, with 0.6 ms pulse width for 2 Hz and 0.2 ms for 100 Hz. The intensity of the stimulation was increased stepwise from 1 to 3 mA with each 1-mA step lasting for 10 min. The nociceptive neural and behavioral responses were examined immediately after the termination of stimulation. Using a multiple-channel recording technique, we simultaneously recorded the activity of many single neurons located in the primary somatosensory and anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), as well as the ventral posterior and medial dorsal thalamus in behaving rats. Our results showed that peripheral electrical stimulation significantly reduced the nociceptive responses in ventroposterior thalamus and somatosensory cortex, indicating an inhibition of nociceptive processing. In contrast, the analgesic stimulation produced a significant increase in mediodorsal thalamus while a less significant decrease in cingulate cortex, reflecting a complicated effect associated with combined antinociceptive activation and nociceptive suppression. These results support the idea that peripheral electrical stimulation can ultimately alter the pain perception by specifically inhibiting the nociceptive transmission in the sensory pathway while mobilizing the antinociceptive action in the affective pathway, thus to produce pain relief.
Ingestion of placenta or amniotic fluid produces a dramatic enhancement of centrally mediated opioid antinociception in the rat. The present experiments investigated the role of each opioid receptor type (mu, delta, kappa) in the antinociception-modulating effects of Placental Opioid-Enhancing Factor (POEF-presumably the active substance). Antinociception was measured on a 52 degrees C hotplate in adult, female rats after they ingested placenta or control substance (1.0 g) and after they received an intracerebroventricular injection of a delta-specific ([D-Pen2,D-Pen5]enkephalin (DPDPE); 0, 30, 50, 62, or 70 nmol), mu-specific ([D-Ala2,N-MePhe4,Gly5-ol]enkephalin (DAMGO); 0, 0.21, 0.29, or 0.39 nmol), or kappa-specific (U-62066; spiradoline; 0, 100, 150, or 200 nmol) opioid receptor agonist. The results showed that ingestion of placenta potentiated delta- and kappa-opioid antinociception, but attenuated mu-opioid antinociception. This finding of POEF action as both opioid receptor-specific and complex provides an important basis for understanding the intrinsic pain-suppression mechanisms that are activated during parturition and modified by placentophagia, and important information for the possible use of POEF as an adjunct to opioids in pain management.
The neurofibromatosis type 2 gene-encoded protein, merlin, is related to the ERM (ezrin, radixin, and moesin) family of membrane-cytoskeleton-associated proteins. Recent studies suggest that the loss of neurofibromatosis type 2 function contributes to tumor development and metastasis. Although the cellular functions of merlin as a tumor suppressor are relatively well characterized, the cellular mechanism whereby merlin controls cell proliferation from membrane locations is still poorly understood. During our efforts to find potential merlin modulators through protein-protein interactions, we identified transactivation-responsive RNA-binding protein (TRBP) as a merlin-binding protein in a yeast two-hybrid screen. The interaction between TRBP and merlin was confirmed by glutathione S-transferase pull-down assays, co-immunoprecipitation, and co-localization experiments. The carboxyl-terminal regions of each protein were responsible for their interaction. Cells overexpressing TRBP showed enhanced cell growth in cell proliferation assays and also exhibited transformed phenotypes, such as anchorage-independent cell growth and tumor development in mouse xenografts. Merlin efficiently inhibited these oncogenic activities of TRBP in our experiments. These results provide the first clue to the functional interaction between TRBP and merlin and suggest a novel mechanism for the tumor suppressor function of merlin both in vitro and in vivo.
Neprilysin (NEP) is a rate-limiting amyloid beta peptide (Abeta)-degrading enzyme in the brain. We demonstrated previously that overexpression of neprilysin in primary cortical neurons remarkably decreased not only extracellular but also intracellular Abeta levels. To investigate the subcellular compartments where neprilysin degrades Abeta most efficiently, we expressed neprilysin chimeric proteins containing various subcellular compartment-targeting domains in neurons. Sec12-NEP, beta-galactoside alpha2,6-sialyltransferase-NEP, transferrin receptor-NEP, and growth-associated protein 43-NEP were successfully sorted to the endoplasmic reticulum, trans-Golgi network, early/recycling endosomes, and lipid rafts, respectively. We found that intracellularly, wild-type neprilysin and all the chimeras showed equivalent Abeta40-degrading activities. Abeta40 was more effectively cleared than Abeta42, and this tendency was greater for intracellular Abeta than for extracellular Abeta. Wild-type and trans-Golgi network-targeted ST-NEP cleared more intracellular Abeta42 than the other chimeras. Wild-type neprilysin cleared extracellular Abeta more effectively than any of the chimeras, among which endoplasmic reticulum-targeted Sec12-NEP was the least effective. These observations indicate that different intracellular compartments may be involved in the metabolism of distinct pools of Abeta (Abeta40 and Abeta42) to be retained or recycled intracellularly and to be secreted extracellularly, and that the endogenous targeting signal in wild-type neprilysin is well optimized for the overall neuronal clearance of Abeta.

In the present experiments, in vivo microdialysis techniques together with nanoprobe NMR spectroscopy were used to evaluate the neurochemical environment of the rat frontal cortex. Metabonomics techniques of data reduction and pattern recognition were used to examine whether collected neurochemicals were sensitive to tetrodotoxin (TTX), a neurotoxin that when infused into discrete brain regions can help distinguish between the neuronal versus glial origin of neurochemicals in cerebrospinal fluid microdialysate. (1)H NMR spectra recorded on samples collected from the rat frontal cortex before and after an intracortical TTX infusion (10 microM for 60 min) were subjected to multivariate statistical analysis. Glutamate, isoleucine, valine, alanine, and alpha- and beta-hydroxybutyrate were found to have decreased concentrations after the addition of TTX, suggesting that their release is likely from cortical neurons. In contrast, lactate, formate, acetate, glucose, creatinine, pyruvate, and other neurochemicals remained unchanged following local application of TTX. The present findings extend our previous work combining the analytical technology of small-volume nanoprobe NMR spectroscopy with in vivo microdialysis in freely moving animals and show that it is possible to apply metabonomics methodology to this important class of biofluid to monitor changes in neurochemical composition of the rat brain.


Ngn1 is a basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor expressed in specific regions within the developing brain and spinal cord, sensory ganglia, and olfactory epithelium. We have identified sequences both 5' and 3' of the mouse ngn1 gene that function in regulating ngn1 expression, and each of these sequences contains distinct regulatory cassettes for different subregions of the expression domain. Enhancers for expression in ngn1 domains of the midbrain, hindbrain, trigeminal ganglia, and ventral-neural tube appear redundant and are spread both 5' and 3' of the ngn1 coding sequence. In contrast, a single discrete dorsal-neural tube enhancer was located in the 5' sequence that is conserved among mouse, human, chick, and zebrafish ngn1 genes. Functionally, this enhancer is both necessary and sufficient for driving expression of a heterologous reporter in transgenic mice specifically to the dorsal domain of ngn1 expression in the spinal neural tube. Thus, sequences are identified that can be used to direct temporally and spatially restricted expression of heterologous genes to the developing neural tube.
The vertebrate hindbrain is segmented into an array of rhombomeres (r), but it remains to be fully understood how segmentation is achieved. Here we report that reducing meis function transforms the caudal hindbrain to an r4-like fate, and we exploit this experimental state to explore how r4 versus r5-r6 segments are set aside. We demonstrate that r4 transformation of the caudal hindbrain is mediated by paralog group 1 (PG1) hox genes and can be repressed by vhnf1, a gene expressed in r5-r6. We further find that vhnf1 expression is regulated by PG1 hox genes in a meis-dependent manner. This implies that PG1 hox genes not only induce r4 fates throughout the caudal hindbrain, but also induce expression of vhnf1, which then represses r4 fates in the future r5-r6. Our results further indicate that r4 transformation of the caudal hindbrain occurs at intermediate levels of meis function, while extensive removal of meis function produces a hindbrain completely devoid of segments, suggesting that different hox-dependent processes may have distinct meis requirements. Notably, reductions in the function of another Hox cofactor, pbx, have not been reported to transform the caudal hindbrain, suggesting that Meis and Pbx proteins may also function differently in their roles as Hox cofactors.
Radial glia are among the first cells that develop in the embryonic central nervous system. They are progenitors of glia and neurons but their relationship with restricted precursors that are also derived from neuroepithelia is unclear. To clarify this issue, we analyzed expression of cell type specific markers (BLBP for radial glia, 5A5/E-NCAM for neuronal precursors and A2B5 for glial precursors) on cortical radial glia in vivo and their progeny in vitro. Clones of cortical cells initially expressing only BLBP gave rise to cells that were A2B5+ and eventually lost BLBP expression in vitro. BLBP is expressed in the rat neuroepithelium as early as E12.5 when there is little or no staining for A2B5 and 5A5. In E13.5-15.5 forebrain, A2B5 is spatially restricted co-localizing with a subset of the BLBP+ radial glia. Analysis of cells isolated acutely from embryonic cortices confirmed that BLBP expression could appear without, or together with, A2B5 or 5A5. The numbers of BLBP+/5A5+ cells decreased during neurogenesis while the numbers of BLBP+/A2B5+ cells remained high through the beginning of gliogenesis. The combined results demonstrate that spatially restricted subpopulations of radial glia along the dorsal-ventral axis acquire different markers for neuronal or glial precursors during CNS development.
The mechanisms of action of four snake presynaptic phospholipase A2 neurotoxins were investigated in cultured neurons isolated from various parts of the rat brain. Strikingly, physiological concentrations of notexin, beta-bungarotoxin, taipoxin or textilotoxin induced a dose-dependent formation of discrete bulges at various sites of neuronal projections. Neuronal bulging was paralleled by the redistribution of the two synaptic vesicle markers synaptophysin I (SypI) and vesicle-attached membrane protein 2 (VAMP2) to the bulges, and by the exposure of the luminal domain of synaptotagmin on the cell surface. These neurotoxins induced glutamate release from cultured neurons similarly to the known evoked release of acetylcholine from neuromuscular junctions. In addition, partial fragmentation of F-actin and neurofilaments was observed in neurons, but not in astrocytes. These findings indicate that these snake presynaptic neurotoxins act with by same mechanism and that the observed phenotype results from the fusion of synaptic vesicles with the plasma membrane not balanced by an adequate membrane retrieval. These changes closely resemble those occurring at neuromuscular junctions of intoxicated animals and fully qualify these primary neuronal cultures as pertinent models for studying the molecular mode of action of these neurotoxins.
Identification of polymorphic genes regulating inflammatory diseases may unravel crucial pathogenic mechanisms. Initial steps to map such genes using linkage analysis in F(2) intercross or backcross populations, however, result in broad quantitative trait loci (QTLs) containing hundreds of genes. In this study, an advanced intercross line in combination with congenic strains, was used to fine-map Eae18 on rat chromosome 10 in myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein-induced EAE is a chronic relapsing disease that closely mimics key features of multiple sclerosis. Congenic DA.ACI rat strains localized Eae18 to an approximately 30-Mb large region. Fine-mapping was then performed in an advanced intercross line consisting of a (DA x PVG.1AV1)F(7) intercross, resulting in two adjacent EAE-regulating QTLs designated Eae18a and Eae18b. The two QTLs span 5.5 and 3 Mb, respectively, and the 3-Mb Eae18b contains as few as 10 genes, including a cluster of chemokine genes (CCL1, CCL2, CCL7, and CCL11). Eae18a and Eae18b are syntenic to human chromosome 17p13 and 17q11, respectively, which both display linkage to multiple sclerosis. Thus, Eae18 consists of at least two EAE-regulating genes, providing additional evidence that clustering of disease-regulating genes in QTLs is an important phenomenon. The overlap between Eae18a and Eae18b with previously identified QTLs in humans and mice further supports the notion that susceptibility alleles in inflammatory disease are evolutionary conserved between species.
It has been shown that peptides corresponding to the NF-kappaB essential modifier-binding domain (NBD) of IkappaB kinase alpha or IkappaB kinase beta specifically inhibit the induction of NF-kappaB activation without inhibiting the basal NF-kappaB activity. The present study demonstrates the effectiveness of NBD peptides in inhibiting the disease process in adoptively transferred experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model of multiple sclerosis. Clinical symptoms of EAE were much lower in mice receiving wild-type (wt)NBD peptides compared with those receiving mutated (m)NBD peptides. Histological and immunocytochemical analysis showed that wtNBD peptides inhibited EAE-induced spinal cord mononuclear cell invasion and normalized p65 (the RelA subunit of NF-kappaB) expression within the spinal cord. Analysis of lymph node cells isolated from donor and recipient mice showed that wtNBD peptides but not mNBD peptides were able to shift the immune response from a Th1 to a Th2 profile. Consistently, wtNBD peptides but not mNBD peptides inhibited the encephalitogenicity of myelin basic protein-specific T cells. Furthermore, i.p. injection of wtNBD peptides but not mNBD peptides was also able to reduce LPS- and IFN-gamma-induced expression of inducible NO synthase, IL-1beta, and TNF-alpha in vivo in the cerebellum. Taken together, our results support the conclusion that NBD peptides are antineuroinflammatory, and that NBD peptides may have therapeutic effect in neuroinflammatory disorders such as multiple sclerosis.
CD154 (CD40L) mRNA turnover is regulated in part at the posttranscriptional level by a protein complex (termed Complex I) that binds to a highly CU-rich region of the 3'UTR. Polypyrimidine tract-binding protein (PTB) has previously been identified as a major RNA-binding protein in Complex I. Nondenaturing gel filtration of total extract from Jurkat T cells demonstrated that the CD154 mRNA-binding activity migrates as a approximately 200-kDa complex, indicating the presence of multiple complex-associated proteins. We have currently undertaken a biochemical approach to further characterize Complex I and observed that it segregates over DEAE-Sepharose into two subcomplexes (termed I-L and I-U). Furthermore, nucleolin was identified as a component of both subcomplexes and was shown that it is the major RNA-binding protein in I-U. To directly demonstrate the biological significance of Complex I binding to the CD154 transcript, cytoplasm from human Jurkat cells was fractionated over a sucrose gradient and the different cellular fractions subjected to immunoprecipitation with anti-PTB and anti-nucleolin Abs. RT-PCR of the immunoprecipitated products using CD154-specific primers clearly demonstrated that nucleolin and PTB are associated with CD154 mRNA in both the ribonucleoprotein and polysome fractions. These data strongly support a model whereby nucleolin and PTB are integral to the stability of CD154 mRNA and are components of the CD154 ribonucleoprotein particle associated with actively translating ribosomes.
A new class of agents with potential utility for the treatment of erectile dysfunction has been discovered, guided by the hypothesis that selective D4 agonists are erectogenic but devoid of the side effects typically associated with dopaminergic agents. The lead agent 2-(4-pyridin-2-ylpiperazin-1-ylmethyl)-1H-benzimidazole (1, ABT-724) was discovered by optimization of a series of benzimidazole arylpiperazines. This highly selective D4 agonist was found to be very potent and efficacious in vivo, eliciting penile erections in rats at a dose of 0.03 micromol/kg, with a positive response rate of 77% erectile incidence. Even at high doses, it was devoid of side effects in animal models of central nervous system behaviors, emesis, or nausea. The structure-activity relationship of the parent benzimidazole series leading to 1 is described, with the detailed in vitro and in vivo profiles described. Distinctive structural features were discovered that are associated with D4 selective agonism in this series of analogues.
N-aryloxylethylindolealkylamines (5) having dual 5-HT transporter and 5-HT(1A) affinity are described. These compounds represent truncated analogues of our previously reported piperidinyl derivatives (3). Compounds in this investigation were found to have more similar affinities and functional activities for the 5-HT(1A) receptor and 5-HT transporter. Though 5-HT(1A) antagonism is not consistently observed throughout series 5, several molecular features were found to be essential to obtain high and balanced activities. The proper placement of a heteroatom in the aryl ring and the length of the linkage used to tether the indole moiety had significant influence on 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT transporter affinities. Introduction of a halogen into the aryl ring usually lowered intrinsic activity and in some cases led to full 5-HT(1A) antagonists. Compounds 33 and 34 were observed to be full 5-HT(1A) antagonists with K(i) values of approximately 30 nM for the 5-HT(1A) receptor and K(i) values of 5 and 0.5 nM for the 5-HT transporter, respectively. Unfortunately, similar to our previous series (3), compounds in this report also had high affinity for the alpha(1) receptor.

Levels of the polyamines putrescine, spermidine, and spermine were investigated in postmortem spinal cord from seven patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and seven control subjects. The method consisted of precolumn derivatization of the polyamines, followed by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis and fluorescence detection. The stability of the polyamines was examined in rat spinal cord during the interval of 0-36 h postmortem. The levels of putrescine, spermidine, and spermine increased by 32%, 15%, and 2%, respectively. Polyamine levels did not differ significantly between the ALS group and the control group, suggesting a maintained regulation of polyamines in the end stage of the disease. However, an effect of gender on the levels of spermidine and spermine was observed. Levels of spermidine and spermine in the ventral horn region of female ALS patients were significantly higher in comparison with the same region of the male ALS group (p&lt;0.05). The female ALS group also presented significantly higher levels of spermidine in comparison with female controls (p&lt;0.05).
Differentiation of stem cells toward a neuronal lineage normally involves a gradually progressive restriction in developmental potential and is regulated by a diverse set of specific and temporally precise genetic events. However, recent studies have indicated that both rodent and human bone marrow stromal cells (MSCs) can be rapidly (within minutes to hours) induced to differentiate into neurons in vitro by relatively simple chemical means (using beta-mercaptoethanol [BME] or dimethylsulfoxide [DMSO] and butylated hydroxyanisol [BHA]; Woodbury et al. [ 2000] J. Neurosci. Res. 61:364-370). The ability to transdifferentiate an easily accessible cell source into neurons could have substantial potential for promoting neural repair. We therefore explored the potential of simple chemical methods to transdifferentiate other cell types, including primary rat fibroblasts, primary human keratinocytes, HEK293 cells, rat PC-12 cells, and as positive control rat bone marrow stromal (BMS) cells. Surprisingly, all cells except for keratinocytes adopted at least partial &quot;neuron-like&quot; pyramidal cell morphology with fine-cellular extensions resembling neurites upon stimulation with BME or DMSO/BHA. However, time-lapse microscopy indicated that the chemical exposure of MSCs did not result in new neurite growth but rather cellular shrinkage, with retraction of the majority of existing cell extensions, leaving only few, fine neurite-like processes. To determine whether the chemically induced transdifferentiation resulted from simple cellular toxicity, MSCs were exposed to various stressors, including detergents, high-molarity sodium chloride, and extremes of pH. In all cases, cellular shrinkage and adoption of pseudoneuronal morphology were observed. Concomitantly with cellular shrinkage, apparent increases in immunolabeling for the neuronal markers NSE and NeuN were detected in the cell soma that could not be confirmed by RT-PCR. Furthermore, blockade of protein synthesis with cycloheximide did not prevent cells from adopting &quot;neuron-like&quot; morphology after chemical induction. Thus, morphological changes and increases in immunolabeling for certain cellular markers upon &quot;chemical induction&quot; of MSCs are likely the result of cellular toxicity, cell shrinkage, and changes in the cytoskeleton and do not represent regulated steps in a complicated cellular differentiation process.
T-type channels are expressed weakly or not at all in adult rat chromaffin cells (RCCs) and there is contrasting evidence as to whether they play a functional role in catecholamine secretion. Here we show that 3-5 days after application of pCPT-cAMP, most RCCs grown in serum-free medium expressed a high density of low-voltage-activated T-type channels without altering the expression and characteristics of high-voltage-activated channels. The density of cAMP-recruited T-type channels increased with time and displayed the typical biophysical and pharmacological properties of low-voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels: (1) steep voltage-dependent activation from -50 mV in 10 mm Ca(2+), (2) slow deactivation but fast and complete inactivation, (3) full inactivation following short conditioning prepulses to -30 mV, (4) effective block of Ca(2+) influx with 50 microM Ni(2+), (5) comparable permeability to Ca(2+) and Ba(2+), and (6) insensitivity to common Ca(2+) channel antagonists. The action of exogenous pCPT-cAMP (200 microM) was prevented by the protein synthesis inhibitor anisomycin and mimicked in most cells by exposure to forskolin and 1-methyl-3-isobutylxanthine (IBMX) or isoprenaline. The protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor H89 (0.3 microM) and the competitive antagonist of cAMP binding to PKA, Rp-cAMPS, had weak or no effect on the action of pCPT-cAMP. In line with this, the selective Epac agonist 8CPT-2Me-cAMP nicely mimicked the action of pCPT-cAMP and isoprenaline, suggesting the existence of a dominant Epac-dependent recruitment of T-type channels in RCCs that may originate from the activation of beta-adrenoceptors. Stimulation of beta-adrenoceptors occurs autocrinally in RCCs and thus, the neosynthesis of low-voltage-activated channels may represent a new form of 'chromaffin cell plasticity', which contributes, by lowering the threshold of action potential firing, to increasing cell excitability and secretory activity during sustained sympathetic stimulation and/or increased catecholamine circulation.
GABA(B) agonists inhibit excitatory transmission to hippocampal CA3 neurons during low frequency stimulation. We examined whether GABA(B) receptor activation can also enhance synaptic efficacy, when investigated at an input with high initial release probability. Short-term depression of field excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) amplitude was observed during trains of stimuli applied to associational/commissural inputs (10-50 Hz; 22 degrees C). Baclofen (10 microM) reduced the amplitude of initial EPSPs in a train, and also reduced the degree of short-term depression. EPSPs recorded late in a train were significantly larger in baclofen than those recorded in control solution. These dual effects were mimicked by another selective GABA(B) agonist (SKF 97541, 10 microM), and abolished by a GABA(B)-selective antagonist (SCH 50911, 20 microM). The effects of baclofen were similar at a higher recording temperature (32 degrees C), where short-term depression was observed at higher stimulation frequencies. These results are consistent with the idea that a reduction of transmitter release probability could increase the fidelity of high-frequency transmission at this input, an effect that could help account for excitatory effects of GABA(B) agonists in some seizure models.
The slowpoke channel binding protein Slob from Drosophila melanogaster contains a putative protein kinase domain within its amino acid sequence. We find that Slob exhibits weak and barely detectable protein kinase activity in vitro, as evidenced by autophosphorylation and by phosphorylation of exogenously added histone as substrate. The phosphorylation of histone is enhanced markedly when Slob is pretreated with the catalytic subunit of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (PKAc). Mass spectrometric and mutational analysis demonstrates that the major site of phosphorylation by PKAc within Slob is serine 54. The enhancement of Slob kinase activity by PKAc pretreatment is eliminated when serine 54 in Slob is mutated to alanine (S54A). Furthermore, Slob kinase activity is enhanced in an S54E mutant that mimics phosphorylation at serine 54, and there is no further enhancement of S54E Slob kinase activity by pretreatment with PKAc. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that Slob exhibits regulatable protein kinase activity, whose activity is enhanced by phosphorylation at serine 54.

In schizophrenia both an involvement of a reduced prefrontal dopaminergic activity and an enhanced noradrenergic activity have been suggested. In addition, patients suffering from schizophrenia show reduced sensorimotor gating and reduced habituation. If there is a causality between these neurotransmitters and these processes, then either a reduction in dopaminergic activity or an enhanced noradrenergic activity in healthy volunteers would result in reduced sensorimotor gating and reduced habituation. In the present study, a group of 12 healthy male volunteers was tested four times in a prepulse inhibition (PPI) paradigm 2.5 h following administration of placebo/placebo, placebo/desipramine (50 mg), placebo/haloperidol (2 mg) and desipramine (50 mg)/haloperidol (2 mg). A significant reduction of percentage PPI was found in all active treatments compared with placebo/placebo, while no treatment effects on habituation were found. Furthermore, a significant increase in heart rate was found in both desipramine treatments, from 120 min following oral intake onwards. Both desipramine and haloperidol reduced PPI, which suggests that an enhanced noradrenergic activity and a reduced dopaminergic activity lead to a reduction in sensorimotor gating. Since reduced sensorimotor gating is found in schizophrenia, these results supply further evidence for a reduced prefrontal dopaminergic activity and an enhanced noradrenergic activity in schizophrenia. Furthermore, the combination of haloperidol and desipramine did not have a synergistic effect on PPI, which indicates an interaction between the compounds. The site for this interaction is most likely located in the prefrontal cortex, since evidence is accumulating that extracellular dopamine concentration is regulated by noradrenergic terminals, particularly in the frontal areas of the brain. Since no effects on habituation were found, this suggests that neither enhanced noradrenergic nor decreased dopaminergic activity is involved in this process.
Intermittent photic stimulation (IPS) in patients with photosensitive epilepsy (PSE) leads to EEG abnormalities, which include generalized discharges with spike and wave activity. This paper investigates 33 PSE patients, 14 (42%) males and 19 (58%) females. The age range was between 8 and 45 years. After the treatment of the patients with sodium valproate (VPA), the EEG examinations showed that the generalized discharges disappeared, while the occipital spikes persisted. The mechanism of action of VPA was re-evaluated in order to ascertain whether or not the persistent occipital was due to a failure in inhibitory postsynaptic potential (IPSP). It was concluded that the possible causes of VPA's inefficacy in abolishing occipital spikes in PSE was not necessarily due to a failure in IPSP, but rather it could be due to a time-dependent failure of certain cells of the visual system to respond positively to the VPA's modulatory activity, probably involving the ionic channels, neurotransmitters, and the second messenger systems. The relationship between occipital spikes and visual evoked response is discussed. The extent to which metabolic processes and neurotransmitters are involved is also evaluated.
Melanocortin receptor ligands accelerate functional recovery after peripheral nerve crush. It is not known which mechanism is involved or via which melanocortin receptor this effect occurs, albeit indirect evidence favours the melanocortin MC4 receptor. To test whether the melanocortin MC4 receptor is involved in the effects of melanocortins on functional recovery, we used melanocortin compounds that distinguish the melanocortin MC4 receptor from the melanocortin MC1, MC3 and MC5 receptors on basis of selectivity and agonist/antagonist profile. Activation and binding studies indicated that the previously described peptides JK1 (Ac-Nle-Gly-Lys-D-Phe-Arg-Trp-Gly-NH2) and [D-Tyr4]melanotan-II ([D-Tyr4]MTII. Ac-Nle-c[Asp-His-D-Tyr-Arg-Trp-Lys]NH2) are selective for the rat melanocortin MC4 receptor as compared to the rat melanocortin MC3 and MC5 receptors, but are also potent on the melanocortin MC1 receptor. Both peptides did not accelerate sensory recovery in rats with a sciatic nerve crush, whereas the non-selective melanocortin agonist melanotan-II (MTII, Ac-Nle-c[Asp-His-D-Phe-Arg-Trp-Lys]NH2) was effective. The melanocortin MC3/MC4 receptor antagonist SHU9119 (Ac-Nle-c[Asp-His-D-Nal(2)-Arg-Trp-Lys]NH2) also enhanced sensory recovery. This effect was probably not due to interaction with the melanocortin MC4 receptor, since JK46 (Ac-Gly-Lys-His-D-Nal(2)-Arg-Trp-Gly-NH2), a selective melanocortin MC4 receptor antagonist, was ineffective. Taken together, these data suggest that melanocortins do not accelerate sensory recovery via interaction with the melanocortin MC4 receptor. From the known melanocortin receptors, only the involvement of the melanocortin MC5 receptor in acceleration of recovery could not be excluded.
Recombinant 5-hydroxytryptamine 5-HT7 receptors are known to express constitutive, i.e., agonist-independent activity. Nonselective ligands, like methiothepin, ritanserin or clozapine behave as full inverse agonists at 5-HT7 receptors. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the degree of inverse agonist activity of three selective 5-HT7 receptor antagonists ((R)-3,N-dimethyl-N-[1-methyl-3-(4-methyl-piperidin-1-yl)propyl]benzene sulfonamide or SB-258719, R-(+)-1-(toluene-3-sulfonyl)-2-[2-(4-methylpiperidin-1-yl)ethyl]-pyrrolidine or SB-258741 and (R)-3-(2-(2-(4-methylpiperidin-1-yl)ethyl)-pyrrolidine-1-sulfonyl)-phenol or SB-269970) in the same model. cAMP accumulation was measured in intact Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells expressing human recombinant 5-HT7a receptors. In these cells, 5-HT stimulated cAMP levels and a series of ligands antagonized the effect of 5-HT with a 5-HT7 receptor-like profile. SB-258719 had no inverse agonist activity, SB-258741 behaved as a partial inverse agonist and SB-269970 was a quasi-full inverse agonist (as compared to methiothepin). The inverse agonist effect of SB-269970 was antagonized in a concentration-dependent manner by SB-258719. The widespread spectrum of inverse agonist activities shown by these compounds should help assessing the physiological relevance of constitutive 5-HT7 receptor activity in native tissues.
Previous attempts to promote regeneration after spinal cord injury have succeeded in stimulating axonal growth into or around lesion sites but rarely beyond them. We tested whether a combinatorial approach of stimulating the neuronal cell body with cAMP and the injured axon with neurotrophins would propel axonal growth into and beyond sites of spinal cord injury. A preconditioning stimulus to sensory neuronal cell bodies was delivered by injecting cAMP into the L4 dorsal root ganglion, and a postinjury stimulus to the injured axon was administered by injecting neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) within and beyond a cervical spinal cord lesion site grafted with autologous bone marrow stromal cells. One to 3 months later, long-projecting dorsal-column sensory axons regenerated into and beyond the lesion. Regeneration beyond the lesion did not occur after treatment with cAMP or NT-3 alone. Thus, clear axonal regeneration beyond spinal cord injury sites can be achieved by combinatorial approaches that stimulate both the neuronal soma and the axon, representing a major advance in strategies to enhance spinal cord repair.
Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by impairments in reciprocal social interaction, deficits in verbal and nonverbal communication, and a restricted repertoire of activities or interests. We performed a magnetic resonance imaging study to better define the neuropathology of autistic spectrum disorders. Here we report findings on the amygdala and the hippocampal formation. Borders of the amygdala, hippocampus, and cerebrum were defined, and their volumes were measured in male children (7.5-18.5 years of age) in four diagnostic groups: autism with mental retardation, autism without mental retardation, Asperger syndrome, and age-matched typically developing controls. Although there were no differences between groups in terms of total cerebral volume, children with autism (7.5-12.5 years of age) had larger right and left amygdala volumes than control children. There were no differences in amygdala volume between the adolescent groups (12.75-18.5 years of age). Interestingly, the amygdala in typically developing children increases substantially in volume from 7.5 to 18.5 years of age. Thus, the amygdala in children with autism is initially larger, but does not undergo the age-related increase observed in typically developing children. Children with autism, with and without mental retardation, also had a larger right hippocampal volume than typically developing controls, even after controlling for total cerebral volume. Children with autism but without mental retardation also had a larger left hippocampal volume relative to controls. These cross-sectional findings indicate an abnormal program of early amygdala development in autism and an abnormal pattern of hippocampal development that persists through adolescence. The cause of amygdala and hippocampal abnormalities in autism is currently unknown.
Alternative splicing of the P/Q-type channel (Ca(V)2.1) promises customization of the computational repertoire of neurons. Here we report that concerted splicing of its main alpha1A subunit, at both an EF-hand-like domain and the channel C terminus, controls the form of Ca2+-dependent facilitation (CDF), an activity-dependent enhancement of channel opening that is triggered by calmodulin. In recombinant channels, such alternative splicing switches CDF among three modes: (1) completely &quot;ON&quot; and driven by local Ca2+ influx through individual channels, (2) completely &quot;OFF,&quot; and (3) partially OFF but inducible by elevated global Ca2+ influx. Conversion from modes 1 to 3 represents an unprecedented dimension of control. The physiological function of these variants is likely important, because we find that the distribution of EF-hand splice variants is strikingly heterogeneous in the human brain, varying both across regions and during development.
The parietal cortex is a central part of the brain's system for representing numbers and magnitudes. Activity in the parietal cortex might reflect number representation or actions made in response to the numbers.

Subjects mislocalize the position of a target that is flashed while they are making pursuit eye movements. This mislocalization is in the direction of pursuit. However, it is not clear whether it is the movement of the eyes or the movement of the pursuit target that matters. Neither is it clear whether it is the movement after the flash or the movement before the flash that matters. To resolve these issues, we asked subjects to pursue a disk that regularly changed its movement direction. Each change was followed by a change in the direction of gaze movement. Subjects were asked to tap targets that were flashed close to the moment at which the pursuit disk changed direction. We measured the movements of the eyes, head, and index finger. Subjects did not make saccades to the position they tapped but kept pursuing the disk. We compared the direction of the mislocalization with the changes in gaze and in target position during different intervals relative to the flash. We found that the mislocalization is related to the change in gaze after the flash.

The authors previously reported that genetic variation in the gene coding for nicastrin (NCSTN) modified risk for familial early-onset Alzheimer disease (AD) in a Dutch population-based sample. Risk was highest in patients without an APOE epsilon4 allele. Here, they evaluated if NCSTN polymorphisms increased risk of AD in the eastern Finnish population. A significant difference in one haplotype was observed in AD patients without the APOE epsilon4 allele.
Anti-basal ganglia antibodies (ABGA) are associated with movement disorders in children, but have not been assessed in adult onset movement disorders. In a prospective assessment ABGA were positive in 65% of a group of 65 patients with atypical movement disorders, but were very rare in healthy adults and adults with idiopathic dystonia. An autoimmune mechanism may underlie a proportion of cases of atypical movement disorders.

Neuronal systems undergo many significant changes during the course of brain development. To characterize the developmental changes in the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNr) associated with the expression of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs), we used the immunoperoxidase and immunogold methods at the electron microscope level to determine whether the subcellular and subsynaptic patterns of distribution of mGluR1a and mGluR5 differ between young (P14-P18) and adult (&gt;2 months) rats. The SNr of young rats contained a significantly higher density of labeled unmyelinated axons for both receptor subtypes. In addition, mGluR5-immunoreactive glial processes were very abundant in young rats but absent in the adults. On the other hand, the relative proportion of immunoreactive dendrites was the same for both age groups. Analysis of immunogold-labeled rat SNr revealed similar proportions of plasma membrane-bound mGluR1a and mGluR5 in adult (59.8 and 19.4%, respectively) and young (60.6 and 18.4%, respectively) rats. The pattern of subsynaptic localization of mGluR1a also remained the same between young and adults. However, the proportion of extrasynaptic mGluR5 decreased, whereas proportions of gold particles associated with symmetric synapses increased in adults. The results of this study demonstrate significant differences in the expression of group I mGluRs in the SNr of young and adult rats. These findings support a role for group I mGluRs during development and emphasize the importance of using brain tissue from age-matched subjects when attempting to correlate functional data from young rat brain slices with immunocytochemical localization of group I mGluRs.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) contains the predominant circadian pacemaker in mammals. Considerable evidence indicates that VPAC(2) and PAC(1), receptors for vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide (PACAP), play critical roles in maintaining and entraining circadian rhythms. Retinal projections to the rat SCN contain PACAP and terminate mostly in the ventral SCN, the site of VIP neurons. The incidence of VPAC(2) and PAC(1) mRNAs within distinct neuronal populations of the rat SCN has been determined using double-label in situ hybridization. VPAC(2) mRNA was detected in almost all arginine-vasopressin (AVP) neurons of the dorsomedial SCN and in 41% of the VIP neurons; somatostatin (SST) neurons, predominantly in dorsomedial and intermediate regions, showed a decreased incidence (23%). PAC(1) mRNA was present in nearly half of the VIP and SST neurons (45% and 40%, respectively) and in one-third of the AVP neurons (32%). Cells expressing VPAC(2) mRNA also were detected in diencephalic areas that receive VIP-immunoreactive SCN efferents, such as the peri-suprachiasmatic region, lateral subparaventricular zone, parvocellular hypothalamic paraventricular subdivisions, dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus, and anterior thalamic paraventricular and paratenial nuclei. The extensive distribution of PAC(1) mRNA within the SCN suggests that actions of PACAP are not restricted to the predominantly retinorecipient region. The presence of VPAC(2) mRNA in nearly half the VIP neurons, in almost all the AVP neurons, and at sites receiving VIP-immunoreactive SCN efferents suggests that the SCN VIP neurons are coupled and/or autoregulated and also influence the AVP-containing dorsomedial SCN and distal sites via VPAC(2).


Much excitement has surrounded recent breakthroughs in embryonic stem-cell research. Of lower profile, but no less exciting, are the advances in the field of adult stem-cell research, and their implications for cell therapy. Clinical experience from use of adult haemopoietic stem cells in haematology will facilitate and hasten transition from laboratory to clinic--indeed, clinical trials using adult human stem cells are already in progress in some disease states, including myocardial ischaemia. Here, with particular reference to neurology, we review processes that might underlie apparent changes in adult cell phenotype. We discuss implications these processes might have for the development of new therapeutic strategies using adult stem cells.

In a case of Parkinson's disease, the patient was treated with deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (STN-DBS). STN-DBS affected the mental competence of the patient and ethical questions were raised about the decision as to the direction of further treatment. The patient was asked for his opinion on the therapeutic options during a phase of non-stimulation and chose to be stimulated and admitted to a psychiatric hospital because of mental incompetence rather than remaining unstimulated, mentally competent but bedridden. Developments in the neurosciences (including STN-DBS) raise a number of different fundamental (theoretical and philosophical) as well as practical questions. STN-DBS can have various unintended (behavioural) effects. In the case presented, more weight was rightly given to the mental competence of the unstimulated patient, although comments can be made with regard to his decision making, as his choice was made in a phase of serious distress. Attention is paid to the relevance of a so-called self-binding directive. STN-DBS is not morally neutral and the case involves a tragic dilemma: a conflict between irreconcilable duties for the physician. The further development and proliferation of STN-DBS requires caution and moral deliberation. It remains important to search for alternative treatment strategies with less undesirable side effects.
Environmental enrichment promotes structural and functional changes in the brain, including enhanced learning and memory performance in rodents. Transient global cerebral ischemia (15 min) causes specific damage to dorsal hippocampal area CA1 pyramidal cells of the rat concomitantly with cognitive deficits. Thus, we investigated if environmental enrichment can protect rats against the cognitive and neurological consequences of transient ischemia. We evaluated the impairment of learning and memory with three tasks: odour discrimination, object exploration and spatial learning. Contrary to expectation, we found that the enriched environment improved performances for both ischemic and sham rats in odour discrimination and object exploration tasks compared with standard condition housed rats. After exposure to an enriched environment, ischemic rats performed better in the water maze than those in the standard housing conditions. However, exposure to an enriched environment does not protect against actual loss of CA1 pyramidal cells. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels were increased in environmental enrichment animals compared to those housed in standard conditions. We conclude that environmental enrichment has positive effects that are independent of the effects of ischemic brain lesions.
The voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC) provides passage for adenine nucleotides, Ca2+ and other metabolites into and from mitochondria. Here, the intracellular localization and oligomeric organization of VDAC in brain mitochondria and ER are demonstrated. Immunohistochemical staining of VDAC in rat cerebellum showed high labeling of the Purkinje neurons. Immunogold labeling and EM analysis of the cerebellar molecular layer showed specific VDAC immunostaining of the mitochondrial outer membrane, highly enhanced in contact sites between mitochondria or between mitochondria and associated ER. Purified ER membranes contain VDAC, but not other mitochondrial proteins. Chemical cross-linking of isolated mitochondria, ER or purified VDAC demonstrated the existence of VDAC in oligomeric form. Based on the enrichment of VDAC in the junctional face of closely associated mitochondrial and ER membranes and the existence of VDAC oligomers, we propose an involvement of VDAC in specialized intermembrane communication between mitochondria or between ER and mitochondria, serving to complement the tight structural and functional coupling observed between these organelles.
The hippocampal CA1 sector is especially vulnerable to brief forebrain ischemia. Excitotoxicity is widely thought to contribute to this cell death. Accordingly, drugs that presumably counteract excitotoxicity, such as GABAergic agonists, have been repeatedly tested and found to reduce CA1 cell loss. Post-ischemic diazepam reduces CA1 injury. However, diazepam also causes hypothermia, which by itself is neuroprotective. Most studies fail to adequately control for this confound. In this study, we tested whether diazepam reduces injury in temperature controlled gerbils subjected to brief forebrain ischemia. Furthermore, we tested whether diazepam augments hypothermic neuroprotection. All gerbils were implanted with a core temperature telemetry probe and a cannula for the subsequent insertion of a thermocouple probe to measure ischemic brain temperature. Subsequently, they were given a 5-min normothermic ischemic insult. In Experiment 1, two groups of gerbils were given 10 mg/kg doses of diazepam (i.p.) at both 30 and 90 min post-ischemia. Temperature was maintained in one group by heating lamps. Another group was administered saline. Diazepam reduced cell death at 7 days post-ischemia when the drug-induced hypothermia was permitted, but not when it was prevented. In Experiment 2, four groups of ischemic gerbils were treated starting at 12 h post-ischemia with prolonged hypothermia, diazepam and the combination or saline treatment. Hypothermia, but not diazepam, provided partial neuroprotection and diazepam did not augment hypothermic neuroprotection. Thus, neuroprotection with diazepam is solely due to hypothermia. These data do not support the clinical use of diazepam as a neuroprotectant after global ischemia.
Morphometric alterations in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) have been reported in schizophrenia and mood disorders. Parameters affected include glial and neuronal density, neuronal size and cortical thickness. Some data, especially in mood disorders, suggest that the left subgenual ACC is preferentially involved. Qualitative studies show that the ACC cytoarchitecture is heterogeneous, but there are few quantitative data. We performed a quantitative morphometric study of five anatomical levels within the ACC (caudal and rostral subgenual [area 24b sg], rostral and intermediate supragenual [area 24b] and caudal supragenual [area 24b']) in both hemispheres of five normal brains. We measured cortical depth, layer depths, neuronal density, neuronal size, and glial density, using the optical disector and nucleator. Relative to the subgenual ACC, the supragenual ACC was thicker, with a deeper layer V. Supragenual neurons were substantially larger in all layers, and were less densely packed in layers V and VI, than subgenual neurons. Glial density, and the glia to neuron ratio, was higher in supragenual than subgenual ACC. Only minor differences were seen between left and right ACC, between caudal and rostral subgenual ACC, and between the three supragenual levels. These data complement the qualitative descriptions of the heterogeneity of human ACC cytoarchitecture, connections, and functions, especially between supragenual and subgenual regions. Our findings also indicate that care must be taken when selecting ACC tissue to be used for morphometric studies of psychiatric disorders, since the normal anatomical variation is of a similar magnitude as the reported disease-related alterations.



One cause of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is mutation in ubiquitously expressed copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (SOD1), but the mechanism of toxicity to motor neurons is unknown. Multiple disease-causing mutants, but not wild-type SOD1, are now demonstrated to be recruited to mitochondria, but only in affected tissues. This is independent of the copper chaperone for SOD1 and dismutase activity. Highly preferential association with spinal cord mitochondria is seen in human ALS for a mutant SOD1 that accumulates only to trace cytoplasmic levels. Despite variable proportions that are successfully imported, nearly constant amounts of SOD1 mutants and covalently damaged adducts of them accumulate as apparent import intermediates and/or are tightly aggregated or crosslinked onto integral membrane components on the cytoplasmic face of those mitochondria. These findings implicate damage from action of spinal cord-specific factors that recruit mutant SOD1 to spinal mitochondria as the basis for their selective toxicity in ALS.
Upregulation of the transcription factor c-Jun has been correlated with axon regeneration after injury in multiple types of neurons. In this issue of Neuron, Raivich et al. use a nervous system-specific mutant to provide genetic evidence that c-Jun is necessary for efficient axon regeneration.
This study investigated the proliferation and differentiation of adult neural progenitor cells (aNPCs) derived from the striatum and substantia nigra (SN) of parkinsonian rats. We found that aNPCs isolated from the two areas of parkinsonian rats readily formed nestin-enriched neurospheres in vitro and exhibited an ability to differentiate into either neurons or astrocytes. Injection of epidermal growth factor (EGF) and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) into the striatum of parkinsonian rats prior to the harvesting striatal aNPCs significantly increased the neurosphere formation rate and multiple differentiation capacity of these aNPCs when cultured in vitro. These data suggest that striatal and nigral adult NPCs in parkinsonian rats retain the abilities of proliferation and differentiation in vitro. In addition, exogenously applied growth factors could up-regulate the developmental potential of aNPCs. We conclude that our data supports the notion that endogenous cell replacement therapies may be useful for the future treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD).
Phosphorylation of AMPA receptors is a major mechanism for the regulation of receptor function and underlies several forms of synaptic plasticity in the CNS. Although serine and threonine phosphorylation of AMPA receptors has been well studied, the potential role of tyrosine phosphorylation of AMPA receptors has not been investigated. Here, we show that the GluR2 subunit of AMPA receptors is tyrosine phosphorylated in vitro and in vivo by Src family tyrosine kinases on tyrosine 876 near its C terminus. In addition, GluR agonist treatment of cultured cortical neurons increased phosphorylation of tyrosine 876. The association with GluR2-interacting molecules GRIP1/2 was decreased by tyrosine phosphorylation of GluR2, whereas PICK1 interaction was not influenced. Moreover, mutation of tyrosine 876 eliminated AMPA- and NMDA-induced internalization of the GluR2 subunit. These data indicate that tyrosine phosphorylation of tyrosine 876 on the GluR2 C terminus by Src family tyrosine kinases is important for the regulation of AMPA receptor function and may be important for synaptic plasticity.
Brain extracellular space (ECS) constitutes a porous medium in which diffusion is subject to hindrance, described by tortuosity, lambda = (D/D*)1/2, where D is the free diffusion coefficient and D* is the effective diffusion coefficient in brain. Experiments show that lambda is typically 1.6 in normal brain tissue although variations occur in specialized brain regions. In contrast, different theoretical models of cellular assemblies give ambiguous results: they either predict lambda-values similar to experimental data or indicate values of about 1.2. Here we constructed three different ECS geometries involving tens of thousands of cells and performed Monte Carlo simulation of 3-D diffusion. We conclude that the geometrical hindrance in the ECS surrounding uniformly spaced convex cells is independent of the cell shape and only depends on the volume fraction alpha (the ratio of the ECS volume to the whole tissue volume). This dependence can be described by the relation lambda = ((3-alpha)/2)1/2, indicating that the geometrical hindrance in such ECS cannot account for lambda &gt; 1.225. Reasons for the discrepancy between the theoretical and experimental tortuosity values are discussed.

A recent report by Zhao et al. [Zhao, M., Momma, S., Delfani, K., Carlen, M., Cassidy, R. M., Johansson, C. B., Brismar, H., Shupliakov, O., Frisen, J. &amp; Janson, A. M. (2003) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 100, 7925-7930] suggests that dopaminergic neurons, the cell type lost in Parkinson's disease, are continuously generated in the adult substantia nigra pars compacta. Using similar methodological procedures to label dividing cells, we found no evidence of new dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, either in normal or 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned hemi-Parkinsonian rodents, or even after growth factor treatment. Furthermore, we found no evidence of neural stem cells emanating from the cerebroventricular system and migrating to the substantia nigra. We conclude that it is unlikely that dopaminergic neurons are generated in the adult mammalian substantia nigra.
2,5-Dihydropyrazolo[4,3-c]pyridin-3-ones are GABAA receptor benzodiazepine binding site ligands with functional selectivity for the alpha3 subtype over the alpha1 subtype. SAR studies to optimise this functional selectivity are described.
Glutamate transporters regulate the glutamate concentration in the synaptic cleft within the CNS, a regulation required for normal brain function. In several neurological conditions, the amount of glutamate is altered. One reason for the changes in glutamate concentration might be impaired glutamate transporter function. In this study, an in situ hybridisation technique has been used to elucidate changes in mRNA expression of the glutamate transporter, excitatory amino acid carrier 1 (EAAC1), after treatment with the tricyclic antidepressant (TCA) amitriptyline. The results lead to the suggestion that treatment with tricyclic antidepressants leads to changes in the EAAC1 mRNA expression in rat brain suggesting involvement of the glutamate system in the tricyclic treatment of depression.
Changes in Cocaine- and Amphetamine-Regulated Transcript (CART) mRNA levels have been observed in brain as a result of various physiologic stimuli including feeding, drugs of abuse, stress and glucocorticoids, and activators of the cyclic AMP (cAMP) and protein kinase A (PKA) pathway. Accordingly, we are interested in identifying factors involved in CART gene regulation. CATH.a cells, derived from the locus coeruleus (LC), express a 213-bp CART mRNA species that is translated and processed. The promoter activity of three CART-LUC constructs containing 3451, 641, and 102 bp of 5' upstream sequence, respectively, were tested in CATH.a cells. cAMP regulation was detected in the construct containing 641 bp of CART promoter sequence which contains a consensus CRE site. Mutation of the CRE site within -641CART-LUC significantly reduced basal and forskolin-induced promoter activity. Additionally, forskolin-induced transcription was inhibited by a dominant-negative mutant of CRE-binding protein (CREB) in CATH.a cells. Finally, tropin-releasing factor (CRF), an endogenously occurring activator of the cAMP/PKA pathway in CATH.a cells, was shown to increase transcriptional activity that was inhibited by a CRF receptor antagonist and a PKA inhibitor. This study provides evidence that the CRE site in the CART proximal promoter is involved in cAMP/PKA/CREB regulation in cells having a neuronal phenotype. Also, given the evidence for involvement of CREB in reward and reinforcement, these results are compatible with a role for CART in these processes as well.
A rat fibroblast cell line was modified to contain the Drosophila choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) cDNA under the control of a tetracycline-regulated system. Several clonal lines were assessed in vitro and in vivo to establish the optimal clone for gene therapy experiments. The influence of in vitro cell density on ChAT expression was compared to biological activity detected after grafting to the rat brain. While each clone had different ChAT activity patterns, all clones had low activity immediately post-grafting which increased over time, reaching a plateau between 1 and 2 months which was maintained for at least 1 year. The clones expressed a high basal ChAT activity level in vitro that was repressed in a dose- and time-dependent manner with doxycycline (DOX) treatment. In the absence of DOX, high levels of ChAT activity were maintained for at least 2 months in vitro. DOX induced a rapid and strong (200-fold) suppression of ChAT activity within 48 h. A dose-response curve indicated that the fibroblasts were very sensitive to low concentrations of DOX (ED50 12 pg/ml). Removal of DOX led to a derepression of ChAT activity within 2 days. These cells will be useful for ex vivo gene therapy of the cholinergic system.
Capillary electrophoresis with laser-induced fluorescence detection (CE-LIFD) coupled to in vivo microdialysis sampling was used in order to monitor simultaneously a drug and several neurotransmitters in the brain extracellular fluid. Determination of the antiepileptic drug vigabatrin and the amino acid neurotransmitters glutamate (Glu), l-aspartate (l-Asp) and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) was performed on low-concentration samples which were derivatized with naphthalene-2,3-dicarboxaldehyde (NDA) and separated using a pH 9.2 75 mM sodium borate running buffer containing 60 mM sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) and 5mM hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin (HP-beta-CD). Glu, l-Asp and vigabatrin derivatized at a concentration of 1.0 x 10(-9) M, and GABA derivatized at a concentration of 5.0 x 10(-9) M, produced peaks with signal-to-noise ratios of 8:1, 8:1, 4:1 and 5:1, respectively. The nature of the neurotransmitter peaks found in rat brain microdialysates was confirmed by both electrophoretic and pharmacological validations. This method was used for monitoring vigabatrin and amino acid neurotransmitters in microdialysates from the rat striatum during intracerebral infusion of the drug and revealed rapid vigabatrin-induced changes in GABA and Glu levels. This original application of CE-LIFD coupled to microdialysis represents a powerful tool for pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic investigations.
Peripheral myelin protein 22 (PMP22), also known as growth arrest-specific gene 3 (gas3), is a tetraspan membrane protein whose misexpression is associated with demyelinating peripheral neuropathies. Although the function of PMP22 in Schwann cells is unknown, the protein is found at intercellular junctions of various epithelia and endothelia. To begin to elucidate the role of PMP22 at cell junctions, we examined the temporal expression and protein localization during development and maturation of the rat blood-nerve barrier (BNB) and blood-brain barrier (BBB). Developing and adult rat sciatic nerves and brains were coimmunostained for PMP22 and known junctional proteins including zonula occludens-1 (ZO-1), occludin, and claudin-5. Prior to the maturation of the BNB and BBB and detection of the tight junction protein occludin, PMP22 is present at ZO-1 positive endothelial junctions of the sciatic nerve and brain cortex. The subcellular localization of PMP22 in cultured brain endothelia was confirmed by internalization with ZO-1 after EGTA-induced disruption of cell junctions. In choroid epithelia, PMP22 is detected along with occludin and ZO-1 as early as embryonic day 15 (E15). In agreement, PMP22 message is elevated in P1 rat brain microvasculature and choroid epithelia, compared with total cortex. Additionally, neuroepithelial cell junctions in the embryonic rat brain are immunoreactive for PMP22, ZO-1, and beta-catenin but not occludin. Together, these studies identify PMP22 as an early constituent of intercellular junctions in the developing and mature rat BNB and BBB.
Our objective was to assess the anti-inflammatory effects of alpha-tocopherol, gamma-tocopherol, and their metabolites 2,5,7,8-tetramethyl-2-(beta-carboxyethyl)-6-hydroxychroman (alpha-CEHC) and 2,7,8-trimethyl-2-(beta-carboxyethyl)-6-hydroxychroman (gamma-CEHC) in defined cell culture systems. Rat aortic endothelial cells and mouse microglial cultures were treated with tumor necrosis factor TNFalpha or bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and nitrite and prostaglandin E(2) (PGE(2)) were measured. alpha-CEHC suppressed TNFalpha-stimulated nitrite production in both cell types, whereas both CEHC derivatives inhibited LPS-stimulated microglial nitrite efflux. Both alpha-CEHC and gamma-CEHC inhibited microglial PGE(2) production, but neither alpha- nor gamma-tocopherol was effective at inhibiting cytokine-stimulated inflammatory processes. These results show that the anti-inflammatory effects of tocopherols are highly cell type-, stimulus-, and endpoint-dependent.
The entorhinal cortex (EC) and the hippocampus are reciprocally connected. Neurons in the superficial layers of EC project to the hippocampus, whereas deep entorhinal layers receive return connections. In the deep layers of EC, pyramidal neurons in layer V possess apical dendrites that ascend towards the cortical surface through layers IIII and II. These dendrites ramify in layer I. By way of their apical dendrites, such layer-V pyramidal cells may be exposed to input destined for the superficial entorhinal neurons. A specific and dense fiber projection that typically ends in superficial entorhinal layers of the medial EC originates in the presubiculum. To investigate whether apical dendrites of deep entorhinal pyramidal neurons indeed receive input from this projection, we injected the anterograde tracer PHA-L in the presubiculum or we lesioned the presubiculum, and we applied in the same experiments the tracer Neurobiotin trade mark pericellularly in layer V of the medial EC of 17 rats. PHA-L labeled presubiculum axons in the superficial layers apposing apical segments of Neurobiotin labeled layer-V cell dendrites were studied with a confocal fluorescence laserscanning microscope. Axons and dendrites were 3D reconstructed from series of confocal images. In cases in which the presubiculum had been lesioned, material was investigated in the electron microscope. At the confocal fluorescence microscope level we found numerous close contacts, i.e. appositions of boutons on labeled presubiculum fibers with identified dendrites of layer-V neurons. In the electron microscope we observed synapses between degenerating axon terminals and spines on dendrites belonging to layer-V neurons. Hence we conclude that layer-V neurons receive synaptic contacts from presubiculum neurons. These findings indicate that entorhinal layer-V neurons have access to information destined for the superficial layers and eventually the hippocampal formation. At the same time, they have access to the hippocampally processed version of that information.
The p53 tumor suppressor gene is believed to play an important role in neuronal cell death in acute neurological disease and in neurodegeneration. The p53 signaling cascade is complex, and the mechanism by which p53 induces apoptosis is cell type-dependent. Using DNA microarray analysis, we have found a striking induction of the proapoptotic gene, SIVA. SIVA is a proapoptotic protein containing a death domain and interacts with members of the tumor necrosis factor receptor family as well as anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 family proteins. SIVA is induced following direct p53 gene delivery, treatment with a DNA-damaging agent camptothecin, and stroke injury in vivo. SIVA up-regulation is sufficient to initiate the apoptotic cascade in neurons. Through isolation and analysis of the SIVA promoter, we have identified response elements for both p53 and E2F1. Like p53, E2F1 is another tumor suppressor gene involved in the regulation of apoptosis, including neuronal injury models. We have identified E2F consensus sites in the promoter region, whereas p53 recognition sequences were found in intron1. Sequence analysis has shown that these consensus sites are also conserved between mouse and human SIVA genes. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays reveal that both transcription factors are capable of binding to putative consensus sites, and luciferase reporter assays reveal that E2F1 and p53 can activate transcription from the SIVA promoter. Here, we report that the proapoptotic gene, SIVA, which functions in a broad spectrum of cell types, is a direct transcriptional target for both tumor suppressors, p53 and E2F1.
Cellular stress leads to DNA damage and activation of the intrinsic apoptotic pathway in which translocation of mitochondrial cytochrome c to the cytosol plays a critical role. Previous studies have suggested alternative mechanisms responsible for this process. We examined initiation mechanisms of the intrinsic apoptotic pathway using human neuroblastoma and breast cancer cells. Results indicated that translocation of cytochrome c does not require prior activation of caspases but rather depends on activation of specific BCL-2 family members, depending upon the type of death signal. Thus, DNA damage-induced apoptosis requires new protein synthesis, accumulation of p53 tumor suppressor protein, and p53-dependent induction of BOK and NOXA genes, while a role for BAX in this pathway is not essential. In contrast, apoptosis induced by staurosporine does not require protein synthesis but is characterized by translocation of BAX. Based on these findings, we propose a model of the intrinsic apoptotic cascade induced by DNA damage where proapoptotic BOK substitutes for a function of BAX.
In response to endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, cells launch homeostatic and protective responses, but can also activate cell death cascades. A 54 kDa integral ER membrane protein called Herp was identified as a stress-responsive protein in non-neuronal cells. We report that Herp is present in neurons in the developing and adult brain, and that it is regulated in neurons by ER stress; sublethal levels of ER stress increase Herp levels, whereas higher doses decrease Herp levels and induce apoptosis. The decrease in Herp protein levels following a lethal ER stress occurs prior to mitochondrial dysfunction and cell death, and is mediated by caspases which generate a 30-kDa proteolytic Herp fragment. Mutagenesis of the caspase cleavage site in Herp enhances its neuroprotective function during ER stress. While suppression of Herp induction by RNA interference sensitizes neural cells to apoptosis induced by ER stress, overexpression of Herp promotes survival by a mechanism involving stabilization of ER Ca(2+) levels, preservation of mitochondrial function and suppression of caspase 3 activation. ER stress-induced activation of JNK/c-Jun and caspase 12 are reduced by Herp, whereas induction of major ER chaperones is unaffected. Herp prevents ER Ca(2+) overload under conditions of ER stress and agonist-induced ER Ca(2+) release is attenuated by Herp suggesting a role for Herp in regulating neuronal Ca(2+) signaling. By stabilizing ER Ca(2+) homeostasis and mitochondrial functions, Herp serves a neuroprotective function under conditions of ER stress.
One of the major physiological roles of potassium channels in glial cells is to promote &quot;potassium spatial buffering&quot; in the central nervous system, a process necessary to maintain an optimal potassium concentration in the extracellular environment. This process requires the precise distribution of potassium channels accumulated at high density in discrete subdomains of glial cell membranes. To obtain a better understanding of how glial cells selectively target potassium channels to discrete membrane subdomains, we addressed the question of whether the glial inwardly rectifying potassium channel Kir4.1 associates with the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC). Immunoprecipitation experiments revealed that Kir4.1 is associated with the DGC in mouse brain and cultured cortical astrocytes. In vitro immunoprecipitation and pull-down assays demonstrated that Kir4.1 can bind directly to alpha-syntrophin, requiring the presence of the last three amino acids of the channel (SNV), a consensus PDZ domain-binding motif. Furthermore, Kir4.1 failed to associate with the DGC in brains from alpha-syntrophin knockout mice. These results suggest that Kir4.1 is localized in glial cells by its association with the DGC through a PDZ domain-mediated interaction with alpha-syntrophin and suggest an important role for the DGC in central nervous system physiology.
The hippocampus is crucial for spatial memory formation, yet it does not store long-lasting memories. By combining functional brain imaging and region-specific neuronal inactivation in mice, we identified prefrontal and anterior cingulate cortices as critical for storage and retrieval of remote spatial memories [correction]. Imaging of activity-dependent genes also revealed an involvement of parietal and retrosplenial cortices during consolidation of remote memory. Long-term memory storage within some of these neocortical regions was accompanied by structural changes including synaptogenesis and laminar reorganization, concomitant with a functional disengagement of the hippocampus and posterior cingulate cortex [correction]. Thus, consolidation of spatial memory requires a time-dependent hippocampal-cortical dialogue, ultimately enabling widespread cortical networks to mediate effortful recall and use of cortically stored remote memories independently.


We described a patient with progressive non-syndromic hearing loss (NSHL) harboring the A3243G mutation in the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). Muscle biopsy showed scattered ragged-red, cytochrome c oxidase negative fibers, whereas the biochemical analysis of the mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes was normal. Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis showed A3243G mtDNA transition, present at very low in patient's muscle (3%) and in urinary sediments (1%), and not detectable in blood and buccal mucosa. The patient was submitted to a bilateral cochlear implantation with post-operative excellent hearing and communicative outcomes. Our findings indicate that A3243G mutation may be responsible both for SHL and NSHL, may be depending on the levels of mutated mtDNA. Patients with hearing loss due to mtDNA mutations should be considered as good candidates for cochlear implantation.


While there have been significant advances made in our understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms that regulate iron absorption, transport, storage, and utilization, the effect of ageing on these mechanisms and the role of iron in the ageing process is not fully understood. Thus, this review will provide an overview of the iron regulatory mechanisms that may be a factor in the ageing process. Additional reviews in this volume represent an attempt to explore the very latest information on the regulation of iron with a particular emphasis on age-related pathology including mitochondrial function, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, stroke, and cardiovascular disease.
This article represents the proceedings of a symposium at the 2002 RSA Meeting in San Francisco, California, organized and co-chaired by L. Judson Chandler and Richard A. Morrisett. The presentations were (1) PKA regulates chronic ethanol-induced synaptic targeting of NMDA receptors, by L. Judson Chandler; (2) Long-lasting potentiation of GABAergic synapses in dopamine neurons after a single in vivo ethanol exposure, by Antonello Bonci; (3) The DARPP-32 cascade and regulation of the ethanol sensitivity of NMDA receptors in the nucleus accumbens, by Richard A. Morrisett; (4) and The cAMP/PKA signal transduction pathway modulates ethanol consumption and sedative effects of ethanol, by Gary S. Wand.


Upper gastrointestinal symptoms are highly prevalent; usually those consulting have multiple symptoms, confounding management. Here, common clinically relevant management issues are considered based on the best available evidence. Regardless of the presenting symptoms, determine if there are any alarm features; these have a low positive predictive value for malignancy but all patients with them should be referred for prompt upper gastrointestinal endoscopy. Ask about medications; of most importance are the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), both non-selective and COX-2 selective. Try to ascertain if the symptom pattern suggests gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GERD) or not. Dominant heartburn, however, may be of limited value; if the background prevalence of GERD is 25% and the patient complains of dominant heartburn, then the likelihood that such a patient has GERD as identified by 24-h oesophageal pH testing is only just over 50%. If reflux disease is strongly suspected and there are no alarm features, give an empirical trial of a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). Symptoms cannot separate adequately functional from organic dyspepsia. Endoscopy in dyspepsia with no alarm features is more costly than an empirical management approach. H. pylori testing and treatment remains in most settings the preferable initial choice for managing dyspepsia without obvious GERD. However, a PPI trial may offer a similar outcome and may be preferable in low H. pylori prevalence areas; head-to-head management trials in primary care are lacking.
A well established model for the pathophysiology of schizophrenia postulates a role for the NMDA-mediated glutamate transmission. The human gene coding for the 2B subunit of the NMDA receptor (GRIN2B) is considered a candidate based on its selective expression in brain. To evaluate the hypothesis that GRIN2B acts as a major gene in determining susceptibility to schizophrenia, a case-control association study was performed. Five single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were genotyped in 188 Italian patients and 156 control subjects. The association study showed a marginally significant excess of homozygosity for the polymorphism located in the 3'UTR region (P = 0.04). No other difference in genotype and allele frequencies was found in schizophrenics as compared to the control series. The case-control study was also carried out on estimated haplotypes, confirming a trend for association (P = 0.04). These results suggest that GRIN2B variations might be linked with susceptibility to schizophrenia. Replication studies on larger samples are warranted to further test this hypothesis.
Genetic factors play a major role in the etiology of schizophrenia and disturbances of serotonergic pathways have been implicated in this disorder. The aim of the present study was to examine genetic association between schizophrenia and polymorphisms in the 5-HT1Dalpha (TaqI) and 5-HT1Dbeta (T261G and G861C) autoreceptor genes in ninety trios from Portugal. No association or linkage disequilibrium was obtained between schizophrenia and 5-HT1Dalpha and 5-HT1Dbeta autoreceptor genes with both haplotype relative risk (HRR) and transmission disequilibrium test (TDT). Concerning 5-HT1Dbeta autoreceptor gene, also negative results was obtained in the analysis of the haplotypes with transmit. Thus, our data provide no support for the hypothesis that polymorphisms at 5-HT1Dalpha (TaqI) and 5-HT1Dbeta (T261G and G861C) genes contributes to susceptibility to schizophrenia in the Portuguese population.
Collagenous Alzheimer amyloid plaque component (CLAC) is a unique non-Abeta amyloid component of senile plaques (SP) derived from a transmembrane collagen termed CLAC-precursor. Here we characterize the chronological and spatial relationship of CLAC with other features of SP amyloid in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), Down syndrome (DS), and of PSAPP transgenic mice. In AD and DS cerebral cortex, CLAC invariably colocalized with Abeta42 but often lacked Abeta40- or thioflavin S (thioS)-reactivities. Immunoelectron microscopy of CLAC-positive SP showed labeling of fibrils that are more loosely dispersed compared to typical amyloid fibrils in CLAC-negative SP. In DS cerebral cortex, diffuse plaques in young patients were negative for CLAC, whereas a subset of SP became CLAC-positive in patients aged 35 to 50 years, before the appearance of Abeta40. In DS cases over 50 years of age, Abeta40-positive SP dramatically increased, whereas CLAC burden remained at a constant level. In PSAPP transgenic mice, CLAC was positive in the diffuse Abeta deposits surrounding huge-cored plaques. Thus, CLAC and Abeta40 or thioS exhibit mostly separate distribution patterns in SP, suggesting that CLAC is a relatively early component of SP in human brains that may have inhibitory effects against the maturation of SP into beta-sheet-rich amyloid deposits.
The present study sought to determine whether an acute increase in arterial blood pressure (ABP) reduces plasma vasopressin (VP) levels stimulated by ANG II or hyperosmolality. During an intravenous infusion of ANG II (100 ng.kg(-1).min(-1)), attenuation of the ANG II-evoked increase in ABP with diazoxide or minoxidil did not further enhance plasma VP levels in rats. When VP secretion was stimulated by an infusion of hypertonic saline, coinfusion of the alpha-adrenergic agonist phenylephrine (PE) significantly increased ABP but did not reduce plasma VP levels. In fact, plasma VP levels were enhanced. The enhancement of plasma VP levels cannot be explained by a direct stimulatory action of PE, as plasma VP levels of isosmotic rats did not change during a similar infusion of PE. An infusion of endothelin-1 in hyperosmotic rats significantly raised ABP but did not reduce plasma VP levels; rather, VP levels increased as observed with PE. In alpha-chloralose-anesthetized rats infused with hypertonic saline, inflation of an aortic cuff to increase ABP and stimulate arterial baroreceptors did not reduce plasma VP levels. In each experiment, plasma oxytocin levels paralleled plasma VP levels. Collectively, the present findings suggest that an acute increase in ABP does not inhibit VP secretion.



Gestalt views of psychopathology are almost completely ignored in mainstream psychology and psychiatry. However, a review of available evidence indicates a remarkable consistency between these views and current data from experimental psychopathology and cognitive neuroscience. This consistency is especially pronounced in the area of schizophrenia. In addition, there is a convergence of cognitive and neurobiological evidence regarding the validity of early Gestalt views of both normal brain-behavior relationships and disordered ones, as in schizophrenia. This article reviews some contributions of Gestalt psychology regarding schizophrenia and examines these views in light of more recent findings from cognitive psychology, cognitive neuroscience, and experimental psychopathology. We conclude that Gestalt theory is a viable theoretical framework from which to understand schizophrenia. Specifically, it appears that a breakdown of Gestalt organizational processes may characterize both the cognitive and the brain processes in schizophrenia.
High-resolution magnetic resonance (MR) images of the brain of an adult spinner dolphin (Stenella longirostris orientalis) were acquired in the coronal plane at 55 antero-posterior levels. From these scans a computer-generated set of resectioned virtual images in the two remaining orthogonal planes was constructed with the use of the VoxelView and VoxelMath (Vital Images, Inc.) programs. Neuroanatomical structures were labeled in all three planes, providing the first labeled anatomical description of the spinner dolphin brain.
Previous studies have shown significant changes in dopamine and opioid receptors in the basal ganglia following administration of cocaine. Cocaine administration results in a significant increase in the number of opioid receptors in dopamine-enriched brain regions. The aim of this study was to determine if dopamine D2 receptors (D2r) and micro-opioid receptors (microOr) are localized to the same neurons in the dorsolateral striatum. Immunoperoxidase and immunogold-silver labeling combined with electron microscopy was used to examine the ultrastructural localization of both receptors in the dorsolateral striatum. Approximately half of the microOr-labeled somatodendritic processes showed immunolabeling for the D2r. Similarly, about half of the D2r-labeled dendrites and cell bodies showed immunolabeling for the microOr. In conclusion, our results indicate that individual neurons in the rat dorsolateral striatum may be directly modulated by both dopaminergic and opioid ligands. These data also suggest that the molecular mechanism responsible for the up-regulation of microOrs in the caudate and putamen following cocaine exposure may depend, in part, on the co-existence of D2rs and micro-Ors in these cells.
To determine whether intraarticular pretreatment with N-methyl-D-aspartic (NMDA) receptor antagonist ketamine or memantine currently used in humans has prophylactic analgesia in arthritic pain, we examined the effects of their intraarticular injection before carrageenan injection into the knee joint on pain-related behavior and spinal c-Fos expression in rats. Injection of ketamine (0.2 mg and 1 mg) or memantine (0.1 mg, 0.2 mg, and 1 mg) into the knee joint, but not the abdominal cavity, immediately before carrageenan injection (2%, 40 microL) significantly prevented pain-related behavior. The intraarticular injection of ketamine (1 mg) or memantine (0.2 mg) also suppressed c-Fos expression in the laminae I-II and laminae V-VI at the L3-4 spinal level. Subsequent statistical analyses revealed that the degree of the spinal c-Fos expression was correlated with the extent of the pain-related behavior. These results suggest that peripheral administration of NMDA receptor antagonists has prophylactic analgesic effects in arthritic pain, which might be associated with the decrease of central nociceptive signaling. Because ketamine and memantine are currently used in humans and considered clinically safe, they may have therapeutic value in the treatment of joint pain.
Spinal cord stimulation (SCS) may provide pain relief in approximately 60%-70% of well selected patients with pain caused by peripheral nerve injury. We have previously demonstrated that intrathecal (IT) administration of small doses of certain drugs, both in experimental animals and in patients, significantly enhances the pain-relieving effect of SCS. The alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist, clonidine, is extensively used as an adjunct to spinal morphine and is suggested to be particularly effective for neuropathic pain, but its clinical use is limited by side effects such as sedation and hypotension. In this study, we investigated the dose-response characteristics of IT clonidine, and whether a subeffective dose of clonidine could enhance the effect of SCS in nerve-injured rats with tactile hypersensitivity (allodynia). Results showed that clonidine, in doses of 1-20 microg, reduced the hypersensitivity in a dose-dependent manner. In rats in which SCS per se failed to suppress tactile hypersensitivity, the combination of SCS and a subeffective dose of clonidine appeared to be highly synergistic and markedly attenuated the hypersensitivity. These results suggest that small doses of IT clonidine may be combined with SCS in neuropathic pain patients who do not obtain satisfactory relief with SCS alone.

Ephedra extract is used in a number of dietary supplements taken for a variety of purposes including weight loss. Although recent events have led to calls for Ephedra to be removed from the market and the FDA has had over 18,000 adverse event reports, newspaper reports cite only a few instances of clearly associated adverse events associated with Ephedra use. In this communication, we review the literature and present a case report of Ephedra use associated with the onset of psychosis and autonomic hyperactivity after administration of risperidone. We conclude that the behavioral effects of Ephedra are a public health concern.
Focal ischemia followed by reperfusion initiates a harmful P- and E-selectin-mediated recruitment of leukocytes in brain microvasculature. In this study, we tested whether a novel magnetic resonance (MR) contrast agent (Gd-DTPA-sLe(x) A), which is designed to bind to activated endothelium could be detected by MR imaging (MRI) in a focal stroke mouse model. MRIs (9.4T) of the brain were acquired 24 hours after transient middle cerebral artery occlusion. T1 maps were acquired repeatedly before and up to 1.5 hours after the intravenous injection of either Gd-DTPA or Gd-DTPA-sLe(x) A. Analysis of images included a pixel-by-pixel subtraction of T1 maps from the precontrast T1 maps and quantification of T1 within the ischemic area. After injection of Gd-DTPA-sLe(x) A, T1 decreased compared with precontrast levels, and an interhemispheric difference between the pre-post contrast T1 developed within the stroke lesion at a mean time of 52 minutes after injection (p &lt; 0.05). Animals injected with Gd-DTPA did not exhibit changes in T1 signal intensity between regions of the ipsilateral and contralateral hemispheres, indicating that the reductions in T1 observed with Gd-DTPA-sLe(x) A were unrelated to blood-brain barrier breakdown. Fluorescent-labeled sLe(x) A administered intravenously was observed to bind to the endothelium of injured but not control brain. The study suggests that the contrast agent Gd-DTPA-sLe(x) A can be used to visualize early endothelial activation after transient focal ischemia in vivo with MRI.
A defect of the lysosomal enzyme alpha-L-iduronidase (IDUA) interrupts heparan and dermatan sulfate degradation and causes neuropathology in children with severe forms of mucopolysaccharidosis type I (MPSI, Hurler syndrome). Enzyme substitution therapy is beneficial but ineffective on the central nervous system. We could deliver the missing enzyme to virtually the entire brain of MPSI mice through a single injection of gene transfer vectors derived from adenoassociated virus serotype 2 (AAV2) or 5 (AAV5) coding for human IDUA. This result was reproducibly achieved with both vector types in 46 mice and persisted for at least 26 weeks. Success was more frequent, enzyme activity was higher, and corrected areas were broader with AAV5 than with AAV2 vectors. Treatment presumably reversed and certainly prevented the accumulation of GM2 and GM3 gangliosides, which presumably participates to neuropathology. Lysosomal distension, which already was present at the time of treatment, had disappeared from both brain hemispheres and was minimal in the cerebellum in mice analyzed 26 weeks after injection. This study shows that pathology associated with MPSI can be prevented in the entire mouse brain by a single AAV vector injection, providing a preliminary evaluation of the feasibility of gene therapy to stop neuropathology in Hurler syndrome.
The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) resident-94 kDa glucose-regulated protein (GRP94), plays a pivotal role in cell death due to ER stress. In our study expression of GRP94 was increased in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells due to exposure to calcium ionophore A23187. A23187-mediated cell death was associated with activation of the major cysteine proteases, caspase-3 and calpain. Pretreatment with adenovirus-mediated antisense GRP94 (AdGRP94AS) reduced viability of SH-SY5Y cells subjected to A23187 treatment compared with wild type cells or cells with adenovirus-mediated overexpression of GRP94 (AdGRP94S). These results indicated that suppression of GRP94 is associated with accelerated cell death. Moreover, expression of GRP94 suppressed A23187-induced cell death and stabilized calcium homeostasis.


The dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is the second major type of senile, degenerative dementia, after the Alzheimer disease (AD). It is characterized by the presence of cytoplasmic inclusions of alpha-synuclein in the cerebral cortex and in the nuclei of the brain stem. DLB patients frequently have complex visual hallucinations, depressive symptoms, Parkinsonian manifestations and cognitive deficits, showing important associations with the Parkinson disease and the AD. The DLB should be differentiated from atypical Parkinsonisms, but the differential diagnosis often remains difficult and unsafe. Clinical and neuropathological findings, as well as neuroimaging are valuable tools in establishing specific diagnosis of DLB. Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, dopamine-agonists, benzodiazepines of short or medium half-life, and antidepressants may be useful in the treatment of DLB, depending on the dominant symptoms of the given patients.

The dream is tackled sometimes from the neurobiological viewpoint, sometimes from the neuropsychological angle, or from the positions of experimental and psychoanalytical psychology. Interest in dreams started with psychoanalysis in 1900, and 53 years later the discovery of REM sleep by Aserinski and Kleitman, and subsequent psychophysiological findings took the dream into the realm of biology. The dichotomous model of REM and non-REM sleep is described, as a basis for thought-like activity (non-REM sleep) and dreaming (REM sleep). This led to Hobson and McCarley's theory of activation-synthesis, suggesting that the mind while dreaming is simply the brain self-activated in REM sleep. Psychophysiological research has shown that people dream in all phases of sleep, from falling asleep to waking, but that the characteristics of the dreams may differ in the different phases. Bio-imaging studies indicate that during REM sleep there is activation of the pons, the amygdala bilaterally, and the anterior cingulate cortex, and disactivation of the posterior cingulate cortex and the prefrontal cortex. The images suggest there is a neuroanatomical frame within which dreams can be generated and then forgotten. Psychoanalysis studies the dream from a completely different angle. Freud believed it was the expression of hallucinatory satisfaction of repressed desires. Today it is interpreted as the expression of a representation of the transference in the hic et nunc of the session. At the same time it also has symbol-generating functions which provide an outlet by which affective experiences and fantasies and defences stored as parts of an unrepressed unconscious in the implicit memory can be represented in pictorial terms, then thought and rendered verbally. From the psychoanalytical point of view, the dream transcends neurobiological knowledge, and looks like a process of internal activation that is only apparently chaotic, but is actually rich in meanings, arising from the person's affective and emotional history.

In 1877, Westphal described a patient with hypersomnia and episodic muscle weakness. He did not feel that these weakness attacks could simply be explained by &quot;epileptoid&quot; phenomenon. The next year, Fischer described a similar case. By 1880, Glineau decided that patients with these symptoms represented a distinct clinical entity and he called it &quot;narcolepsy&quot;. In 1902, Loewenfeld noted the importance of cataplexy in this disorder, and in 1934 Daniels published an important review on the topic which helped to galvanize interest in further study. In 1957, Yoss and Daly discussed the &quot;clinical tetrad&quot; which included hypersomnia, cataplexy, hypnagogic hallucinations, and sleep paralysis. In 1960, Vogel noted that patients with narcolepsy had early onset of REM sleep on their electroencephalograms. At the First International Symposium on Narcolepsy in 1975, the symptom of disturbed nocturnal sleep was added to the clinical diagnostic criteria for narcolepsy. For many years the etiology and mechanisms of this disease were poorly understood. It was not until the early 1970s when the exciting animal and human research first started to unravel the mysteries of the genetics and physiology of narcolepsy. This research will be discussed below.
The first sections of this paper survey the history and recent developments relevant to the major neurotransmitters and neuromodulators involved in REM sleep control. The last portion of this paper proposes a structural model of cellular interaction that produces the REM sleep cycle, and constitutes a further revision of the reciprocal interaction model This paper proposes seven criteria to define a causal role in REM sleep control for putative neuro-transmitters/modulators. The principal criteria are measurements during behavioral state changes of the extracellular concentrations of the putative substances, and electrophysiological recording of their neuronal source. A cautionary note is that, while pharmacological manipulations are suggestive, they alone do not provide definitive causal evidence. The extensive body of in vivo and in vitro evidence supporting cholinergic promotion of REM sleep via LDT/PPT neuronal activity is surveyed. An interesting question raised by some studies is whether cholinergic influences in rat are less puissant than in cat. At least some of the apparent lesser REM-inducing effect of carbachol in the rat may be due to incomplete control of circadian influences; almost all experiments have been run only in the daytime, inactive period, when REM sleep is more prominent, rather than in the REM-sparse nighttime inactive period. Monoaminergic inhibition of cholinergic neurons, once thought to be the most shaky proposal of the reciprocal interaction model, now enjoys considerable support from both in vivo and in vitro data. However, the observed time course of monoaminergic neurons, their &quot;turning off&quot; discharge activity as REM sleep is approached and entered would seem to be difficult to produce from feedback inhibition, as originally postulated by the reciprocal interaction model. New data suggest the possibility that GABAergic inhibition of Locus Coeruleus and Dorsal Raphe monoaminergic neurons may account for the &quot;REM-off&quot; neurons turning off. However, the source(s) of GABAergic influences suggested by anatomical studies has yet to be definitively identified by electrophysiological recordings of GABAergic neurons that show the requisite inverse time course of activity relative to monoaminergic neurons. New and still preliminary microdialysis data suggest that reticular formation neurons, the effector neurons for REM sleep phenomena, might be disinhibited during REM sleep by decreased GABAergic influence, perhaps stemming from REM-on cholinergic neuronal inhibition of reticular formation GABAergic neurons. Whether the postulated cholinergic inhibition of GABAergic neurons is present is testable with in vitro recordings and double labeling. Taking into account the observed data on neuro-modulators/transmitters, a structural model incorporating interaction of REM-on and REM-off neurons and GABAergic influences is proposed. Finally, with respect to orexin and REM sleep, it is hypothesized that orexinergic activity may be a principal factor controlling REM sleep's absence from the active period in strongly circadian animals such as rat and man.
This paper is dedicated to our mentor, Michel Jouvet who inspired our career and transmitted to us his passion for the study of the mechanisms responsible for paradoxical sleep genesis and also that of its still mysterious functions. We expose in the following the progresses in the knowledge in this field brought during 40 years by Michel Jouvet and his team and more recently by the members of a new CNRS laboratory in which we aim to pursue in the path opened by Michel Jouvet.








The auditory nerve's electrically evoked compound action potential is recorded in deaf patients equipped with the Nucleus 24 cochlear implant using a reverse telemetry system (NRT). Since the threshold of the NRT response (NRT-T) is thought to reflect the psychophysics needed for programming cochlear implants, efforts have been made by specialized management teams to develop its use. This study aimed at developing a valid tool, based on artificial neural networks (ANN) technology, for automatic estimation of NRT-T. The ANN used was a single layer perceptron, trained with 120 NRT traces. Learning traces differed from data used for the validation. A total of 550 NRT traces from 11 cochlear implant subjects were analyzed separately by the system and by a group of physicians with expertise in NRT analysis. Both worked to determine 37 NRT-T values, using the response amplitude growth function (AGF) (linear regression of response amplitudes obtained at decreasing stimulus intensity levels). The validity of the system was assessed by comparing the NRT-T values automatically determined by the system with those determined by the physicians. A strong correlation was found between automatic and physician-obtained NRT-T values (Pearson r correlation coefficient &gt;0.9). ANOVA statistics confirmed that automatic NRT-Ts did not differ from physician-obtained values (F = 0.08999, P = 0.03). Moreover, the average error between NRT-Ts predicted by the system and NRT-Ts measured by the physicians (3.6 stimulation units) did not differ significantly from the average error between NRT-Ts measured by each of the three physicians (4.2 stimulation units). In conclusion, the automatic system developed in this study was found to be as efficient as human experts for fitting the amplitude growth function and estimating NRT-T, with the advantage of considerable time-saving.

Variation in intake of sweet and bitter solutions by inbred strains of laboratory mice has helped identify genes related to taste behaviors; but similar information is not available for golden hamsters (Mesocricetus auratus ), a species used much in taste research. Thus, 6-hour, 1-bottle intake by water-replete hamsters of 7 inbred strains was measured for water and 2 concentrations of sucrose, maltose, D-phenylalanine (D-Phe), and sodium saccharin, which are sweet; and quinine.HCl, L-phenylalanine (L-Phe), caffeine, and sucrose octaacetate (SOA), which are bitter to humans. Difference scores (DIF), calculated as solution intake minus mean baseline water intake (mL) for each animal, were evaluated by analysis of variance. Compared to ACN, CN, APA, APG, and CBN, five strains with similar DIF for all compounds, GN, an ancestral strain of ACNT, and ACNT preferred sucrose, caffeine, and SOA more strongly; ACNT also preferred saccharin and maltose more strongly and rejected quinine more strongly. Narrow sense heritabilities for the 6 compounds for which strain differences were revealed ranged from 0.31 to 0.57. Genetic correlations indicated the strain variations in intake of sucrose, saccharin, SOA, and caffeine were coupled; a statistical association with several possible interpretations. Intakes of the two amino acids, preferred D-Phe and aversive L-Phe, did not reveal strain differences, and heritability ranged from 0.13 to 0.23 for the two optical isomers. Thus, although, compared to mice, genetic variation in laboratory hamsters may be small, genetic differences that influence taste behaviors in existing strains may help identify relevant genes.
Ethanol tolerance, a decrease in drug responsiveness with repeated administrations, is an important diagnostic criterion for alcoholism. Rapid tolerance develops within 8-24 hours of an initial ethanol exposure and shares many similarities with chronic tolerance. The genetic contribution to rapid tolerance to ethanol-induced ataxia was estimated using a panel of inbred strains of mice. Strains differed significantly in the degree of rapid tolerance development, which had a broad-sense heritability estimate of 0.11. Artificial selection was carried out to develop lines of mice that would show High (HRT) and Low (LRT) levels of Rapid Tolerance. Starting with HS/Npt mice, derived from a systematic cross of eight inbred strains, a significant response to selection was seen in replicate 1 by the third selection generation. No difference was found in replicate 2. Heritability estimates after the fourth generation were 0.25 for HRT-1 mice and 0.06 for LRT-1 mice. HRT-1 and LRT-1 mice also differed significantly in chronic tolerance development to four doses of ethanol. These studies provide evidence for a genetic contribution to rapid tolerance and support a genetic link between rapid and chronic tolerance to ethanol's ataxic effects.
Cystathionine gamma-lyase (CSE) is the last key enzyme in the trans-sulphuration pathway for biosynthesis of cysteine from methionine. Cysteine could be provided through diet; however, CSE has been shown to be important for the adequate supply of cysteine to synthesize glutathione, a major intracellular antioxidant. With a view to determining physiological roles of CSE in mice, we report the sequence of a complete mouse CSE cDNA along with its associated genomic structure, generation of specific polyclonal antibodies, and the tissue distribution and developmental expression patterns of CSE in mice. A 1.8 kb full-length cDNA containing an open reading frame of 1197 bp, which encodes a 43.6 kDa protein, was isolated from adult mouse kidney. A 35 kb mouse genomic fragment was obtained by lambda genomic library screening. It contained promoter regions, 12 exons, ranging in size from 53 to 579 bp, spanning over 30 kb, and exon/intron boundaries that were conserved with rat and human CSE. The GC-rich core promoter contained canonical TATA and CAAT motifs, and several transcription factor-binding consensus sequences. The CSE transcript, protein and enzymic activity were detected in liver, kidney, and, at much lower levels, in small intestine and stomach of both rats and mice. In developing mouse liver and kidney, the expression levels of CSE protein and activity gradually increased with age until reaching their peak value at 3 weeks of age, following which the expression levels in liver remained constant, whereas those in kidney decreased significantly. Immunohistochemical analyses revealed predominant CSE expression in hepatocytes and kidney cortical tubuli. These results suggest important physiological roles for CSE in mice.
This study evaluated the effect of hydroxytamoxifen, the major active metabolite of tamoxifen (synthetic, nonsteroidal antiestrogen drug), on the function of brain mitochondria. We observed that only high concentrations of hydroxytamoxifen (60 nmol/mg protein) induced a significant decrease in RCR, while ADP/O ratio remained statistically unchanged. Similarly, only the highest concentration of hydroxytamoxifen (60 nmol/mg protein) affected the phosphorylative capacity of brain mitochondria, characterized by a decrease in the repolarization level and an increase in the repolarization lag phase. We observed that all the concentrations of hydroxytamoxifen tested (7.5, 15 and 30 nmol/mg protein) prevented lipid peroxidation induced by the oxidant pair ADP/Fe(2+). Furthermore, through the analyses of calcium fluxes and mitochondrial transmembrane potential parameters, we observed that hydroxytamoxifen (30 nmol/mg protein) exerted some protection against pore opening, although in a less extension than that promoted by cyclosporin A, the specific inhibitor of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore. However, in the presence of hydroxytamoxifen plus cyclosporin A, the protection observed was significantly higher when compared with that induced by both agents alone. These results support the idea that hydroxytamoxifen protects lipid peroxidation and inhibits the mitochondrial permeability transition pore in brain. Since numerous neurodegenerative diseases are intimately related with mitochondrial dysfunction resulting from lipid peroxidation and induction of mitochondrial permeability transition, among other factors, future therapeutical strategies could be designed taking in account this neuroprotective role of hydroxytamoxifen, which is pharmacologically much more potent and less toxic than its promoter tamoxifen.
The effects of neuropeptides on the brain are a major focus of neuroendocrine research, and little progress has been made in the identification of the target neurons for many neuropeptides. Arginine8-vasotocin (AVT) is a neurohypophyseal peptide present in nonmammalian vertebrates that controls many neural and behavioral functions. Here we describe synthesis and functional characterization of an AVT-Oregon green conjugate 1 (AVT-OG 1) that can be used in vivo to identify AVT target neurons. Application of AVT-OG 1 to the brainstem of an amphibian produces rapid, endosome-like internalization together with typical AVT-like neurophysiological effects. Thus, preparation of AVT-OG 1, which preserves the peptide's neurophysiological effects, is useful as a fluorescent marker for AVT target neurons. Consequently, AVT-OG 1 conjugate will have considerable utility for analyzing the neural actions of AVT in the intact brain.
In brain ischemia, cell destructive necrosis occurs in the core, which in turn links to cell death expansion in the vicinity. Apoptosis, on the other hand, occurs in the surroundings of the core, called the penumbra, several days later. As cells showing apoptosis disappear by microglial phagocytosis in the brain, cell death induced by ischemic stress should eventually be terminated. Thus, the authors propose the hypothesis that the cell death mode switch in the event of brain ischemia is an in vivo self-protective mechanism. The authors attempt to overview the current understanding of the molecular mechanisms of necrosis and apoptosis in relation to the ATP hypothesis, and also introduce novel mechanisms for an in vitro cell death mode switch.
Pediatric psychopharmacology research is undergoing a major expansion consequent to increasing use of psychotropic medications in children and recent legislative incentives to industry. In this rapidly changing context, the interface between publicly and privately funded research needs to be reconsidered to integrate activities and avoid unnecessary duplication of efforts. Once, by default, the almost exclusive domain of public research, child research is now increasingly funded by industry. There are, however, important issues unlikely to be addressed through private funding for which public support is needed, such as direct comparisons between active medications, between pharmacological and psychosocial interventions, or between combined and single treatment modalities; development of effective treatment strategies for patients unresponsive to first-line treatments; development of better research methods to assess efficacy and safety; identification of moderators and mechanisms of treatment response; and impact of treatment on illness course and prognosis. Industry-sponsored research is limited by the restricted access to proprietary databases, which impedes independent analyses and meta-analyses. Translation of basic neuroscience discoveries into treatment applications for children with mental illness is a critical area of inquiry that can benefit from integration of efforts and collaborations among academia, government, and industry.
Juvenile female and male (young) and 16-mo-old male (old) rats inhaled manganese in the form of manganese sulfate (MnSO4) at 0, 0.01, 0.1, and 0.5 mg Mn/m3 or manganese phosphate at 0.1 mg Mn/m3 in exposures of 6 h/d, 5 d/wk for 13 wk. We assessed biochemical end points indicative of oxidative stress in five brain regions: cerebellum, hippocampus, hypothalamus, olfactory bulb, and striatum. Glutamine synthetase (GS) protein levels, metallothionein (MT) and GS mRNA levels, and total glutathione (GSH) levels were determined for all five regions. Although most brain regions in the three groups of animals were unaffected by manganese exposure in terms of GS protein levels, there was significantly increased protein (p&lt;0.05) in the hippocampus and decreased protein in the hypothalamus of young male rats exposed to manganese phosphate as well as in the aged rats exposed to 0.1 mg/m3 MnSO4. Conversely, GS protein was elevated in the olfactory bulb of females exposed to the high dose of MnSO4. Statistically significant decreases (p&lt;0.05) in MT and GS mRNA as a result of manganese exposure were observed in the cerebellum, olfactory bulb, and hippocampus in the young male rats, in the hypothalamus in the young female rats, and in the hippocampus in the senescent males. Total GSH levels significantly (p&lt;0.05) decreased in the olfactory bulb of manganese exposed young male rats and increased in the olfactory bulb of female rats exposed to manganese. Both the aged and young female rats had significantly decreased (p&lt;0.05) GSH in the striatum resulting from manganese inhalation. The old male rats also had depleted GSH levels in the cerebellum and hypothalamus as a result of the 0.1-mg/m3 manganese phosphate exposure. These results demonstrate that age and sex are variables that must be considered when assessing the neurotoxicity of manganese.
Diaryl piperazine acetamides were identified as potent and selective dopamine D(4) receptor agonists. Our strategy is based on an amide bond reversal of an acid sensitive, dopamine D(4) receptor partial agonist, PD 168077. This reversal provided compounds with excellent potency and improved stability. Systematic evaluation of the substitution on the aryl piperazine portion revealed a significant effect on functional activity. The synthesis and biological activity of these new dopamine D(4) agonists is discussed.
A fast and effective method to enrich large number of neural precursors from the ventricular zone of human fetus by magnetic affinity cell sorting (MACS) is reported. After incubation with phycoerythrin (PE)-conjugated anti-CD133 antibodies and anti-PE magnetic beads followed by one cycle of MACS, CD133(+) cells were harvested at 85% purity as confirmed by flow-cytometry and immunocytochemistry. In contrast to CD133(-) cells, these CD133(+) cells initiated primary and secondary neurospheres in culture, and the progeny of sorted cells could be differentiated into both neurons and glia, indicating that these highly enriched cells are capable of self-renewal and multi-lineage potential.
With regard to intensive morphometric changes, morphometry as a method is mainly used for histogenetic studies of brain development in normal and experimental conditions. The aim of our study was to quantitatively analyse morphological parameters of the rat telencephalon during embryonic development. The investigation was carried out on semithin serial sections of rat brain from embryonic days 12 to 15. The volume densities (VV) of the lateral ventricles, the telencephalic neuroepithelium and the surrounding mesenchyme have been analysed stereologically and compared in examined embryonic stages. The neuroepithelial volume density was the smallest (28%) at E13 and the biggest (44%) at E15 (p&lt;0.0005). The mesenchymal volume density was the smallest (32%) at E13 and the biggest (48%) at E14 (p&lt;0.0005). The volume density of lateral ventricles was the biggest (40%) at E13 and the smallest (14%) at E15 (p&lt;0.0005). Neurostereological methods have been making a very valuable contribution to neuroscience over recent years. We have used unbiased stereological counting methods to obtain objective quantitative parameters which show relations between some parts of rat embryonic telencephalon examined during its normal development.
1 Alpha1-adrenoceptors (ARs) play an important functional role in the liver; yet little is known about their cellular location. We identified the subtypes present in wild-type (WT) and alpha1B-AR knockout (KO) mice livers at 3 and 4 months of age, and investigated their distribution in hepatocytes. 2 The fluorescent alpha1-AR antagonist quinazolinyl piperazine borate-dipyrromethene (QAPB) was used to visualise hepatic alpha1-ARs and radioligand binding with [3H]-prazosin was used to quantify the alpha1-AR population. 3 QAPB and [3H]-prazosin bound specifically to hepatic alpha1-ARs with nanomolar affinity. The cellular distribution of alpha1-ARs was similar in WT and alpha1B-AR KO hepatocytes; QAPB binding was distributed diffusely throughout the cell with no binding evident on the plasma membrane. Radioligand binding produced Bmax values as follows: 3-month WT - 76+/-3.3 fmol mg(-1); 4-month WT - 50+/-3.1 fmol mg(-1); 3-month alpha1B-AR KO - 7.4+/-0.73 fmol mg(-1); 4-month alpha1B-AR KO - 30+/-2.0 fmol mg(-1). 4 In 3- and 4-month WT liver, all antagonists acted competitively. RS100329 (alpha1A-selective) and BMY7378 (alpha1D-selective) bound with low affinities, indicating the presence of alpha1B-ARs. In 4-month alpha1B-AR KO liver prazosin produced a biphasic curve, whereas RS100329 and BMY7378 produced monophasic curves of high and low affinity, respectively, indicating the presence of alpha1A-ARs. 5 In conclusion, we have made the novel observation that alpha1-ARs can compensate for one another in the absence of the endogenously expressed receptor; yet there appears to be no subtype-specific subcellular location of alpha1-ARs; the WT livers express alpha1B-ARs, while alpha1B-AR KO livers express alpha1A-ARs. This study provides new insights into both hepatocyte and alpha1-AR biology.
Giant cell arteritis is a common condition that can result in permanent visual loss. It has traditionally been diagnosed by invasive temporal artery biopsy in cases of clinical suspicion. The findings of colour duplex ultrasound have recently been described. We report the use of duplex ultrasound to diagnose temporal arteritis, with clinicopathological correlation, and discuss the possible application of this non-invasive technique to the management of giant cell arteritis.
There is a burgeoning interest in the neural basis of the ability to attribute mental states to others; a capacity referred to as 'theory of mind' (ToM). We examined the effects of lesions of the amygdala which arise at different stages of development on this key aspect of social cognition. Tests of ToM, executive and general neuropsychological function were given to subjects with lesions of the amygdala arising congenitally or in early childhood ('early damage', n = 15), subjects who acquired damage to the amygdala in adulthood ('late damage' n = 11) and matched clinical (n = 14) and healthy comparison groups (n = 38). Subjects with early damage to the amygdala, particularly if the lesion was associated with childhood onset of seizures, were impaired relative to all other groups on more advanced tests of ToM reasoning, such as detecting tactless or ironic comments or interpreting non-literal utterances. These deficits held for subjects with either left or right early amygdala damage and encompassed the understanding of both the beliefs and emotional states of others. In contrast, subjects who acquired damage to the amygdala in adulthood (usually as part of an anterior temporal lobectomy) were not impaired in ToM reasoning relative to both clinical and healthy controls, supporting the position that the amygdala is not part of the neural circuitry mediating the 'on-line' performance of ToM reasoning. In line with theories which claim that ToM is an independent faculty of cognition, we found that the pattern of results held after co-varying for measures of executive function, memory and general intellectual functioning. We discuss the results in the light of recent theories which link early developmental insults to the amygdala with the ToM impairments which are thought to be a core neurocognitive deficit found in disorders such as autism. We conclude that the amygdala may play an important role in the neural systems supporting the normal development of ToM reasoning.

N400 is an event-related brain potential that indexes operations in semantic memory conceptual space, whether elicited by language or some other representation (e.g., drawings). Language models typically propose three stages: lexical access or orthographic- and phonological-level analysis; lexical selection or word-level meaning and associate activation; and lexical integration, sentence- and discourse-level operations. The exact stage that N400 reflects is unknown, although opinion favors lexical integration over lexical selection. Surprisingly, little research has assessed relationships between neuropsychological measures of semantic memory fund of information or verbal working memory capacity and N400. Subjects performed a homograph disambiguation comprehension task with minimal working memory load. Short sentences read: The noun was adjective/verb. The nouns were either homographs or unambiguous. The adjective/verb was disambiguating for the homograph, and congruent or incongruent for the unambiguous noun. The primary noun of interest was the subordinate homograph. Comprehension of the subordinate meaning should correlate with semantic memory stores, reflecting greater knowledge. If N400 primarily reflects lexical access operations, it should also correlate with measures of semantic knowledge. If N400 reflects lexical integration, it should correlate with measures of working memory capacity. Comprehension errors were associated with semantic memory stores, but not working memory capacity. N400 was related to working memory capacity, but not semantic knowledge, suggesting that N400 primarily reflects late-stage working memory operations. N400 to subordinate disambiguating words was larger with greater working memory capacity, and thus may index the absolute capacity of working memory rather than difficulty in contextual integration.
A key factor influencing reorganization of function in damaged neural networks of the adult brain is stimulation. How to stimulate motor areas of patients with paralyses is a formidable challenge. One possibility is to use internal movement simulations, or motor imagery, as an alternative to conventional therapeutic interventions that require voluntary limb movements. Before this alternative can be entertained, two preliminary issues must be resolved. First, do internal movement simulations involve the same neural circuits as comparable overt actions? Second, are motor-impaired populations capable of imagining movements they can no longer perform? Here, I show that under specific conditions, answers to these questions are affirmative. Further, I discuss preliminary evidence that internally simulating movements may induce functional reorganization of the contralesional hand representation of a chronic, densely hemiplegic, cerebral vascular accident (CVA) patient.
The Iowa Gambling Task (IGT) has been widely used in the assessment of neurological patients with frontal lesions. Emphasis has been placed on the complexity of the task (i.e., four decks of varying contingency pattern) with the suggestion that the participant must use emotion-based learning to deal with a complex decision-making process. The present study used a single deck card game (the Bangor Gambling Task, BGT), matched in many respects with the Iowa Gambling Task, in which the contingencies varied over time (gradually becoming worse for the participant) rather than across deck (as in the IGT). Forty participants performed both tasks. Performance on the tasks showed many similarities, with participants showing a comparable pattern of incremental learning on both tasks, reaching an analogous final level of performance. More importantly, there was a high correlation (r(2) = .93) in performance between the two tasks, the most salient feature of which was that virtually every participant who fell below categorisation of impaired IGT performance, also did very poorly on the BGT. These findings bear on the question of whether arguments about the 'complexity' of the Iowa Gambling Task necessarily explain why it appears to require emotion-based learning. The Bangor Gambling Task might also be a useful tool for clinical neuropsychologists, in the assessment of patients with executive dysfunction-given that the task is easier and quicker to administer than the Iowa Gambling Task, but appears to share the same performance features.
Verb production is notoriously difficult for individuals with Broca's aphasia, both at the word and at the sentence level. An intriguing question is at which level in the speech production these problems arise. The aim of the present study is to identify the functional locus of the impairment that results in verb production deficits in Broca's aphasia. Levelt's (1989) model is used as a theoretical framework for this study. Two experiments have been conducted, one on verb movement and one on verbs with alternating transitivity. The results suggest that the functional impairment in Broca's aphasia should be located in Levelt's &quot;grammatical encoder.&quot;
Hydrocephalus is a progressive brain disorder characterized by abnormalities in the flow of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and ventricular dilatation that leads to cerebral atrophy, and if left untreated, can be fatal. Genetic mutations, congenital malformations, infectious diseases, intracerebral hemorrhages and tumors are common conditions resulting in hydrocephalus. Although the causes of obstructive hydrocephalus are better understood, the mechanisms resulting in chronic, progressive communicating congenital and acquired hydrocephalus are less well understood. In this regard, recent studies in transgenic (tg) mice suggest that increased expression of cytokines such as TGF-beta1 might play an important role by disrupting the vascular extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling, promoting hemorrhages, and altering the reabsorption of CSF. In this context, the main objective of this manuscript is to provide an overview on the cellular and molecular mechanisms of hydrocephalus based on studies derived from tg and experimental animal models.
Research efforts in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) have not yet provided a comprehensive explanation of the disease pathogenesis, which is emerging as a complex interaction between multiple factors. Gene expression studies traditionally based on single mRNA specie analysis have recently progressed to allow entire transcriptional profiles of affected tissues to be obtained through array-based methods. This experimental approach has significantly improved our understanding of the molecular changes occurring in ALS, although its limitations in the detection of low-abundance transcripts in tissues with a high level of complexity are becoming increasingly recognized. In this paper, experimental findings based on an expression study in post-mortem spinal cord from sporadic ALS individuals will be discussed in light of recently published data using array analysis in an animal model of the disease. Previous expression data obtained using conventional techniques are also compared. Through the analysis of the information arising from ALS post-mortem and animal model tissues studies, we have identified a pattern of molecular events in which factors implicated in the immune response, cytoprotection and growth-differentiation are differentially regulated in a time-dependent way from early to advanced stages of disease progression.
Molecular biology has recently contributed significantly to the recognition of selenium (Se)2 and Se-dependent enzymes as modulators of brain function. Increased oxidative stress has been proposed as a pathomechanism in neurodegenerative diseases including, among others, Parkinson's disease, stroke, and epilepsy. Glutathione peroxidases (GPx), thioredoxin reductases, and one methionine-sulfoxide-reductase are selenium-dependent enzymes involved in antioxidant defense and intracellular redox regulation and modulation. Selenium depletion in animals is associated with decreased activities of Se-dependent enzymes and leads to enhanced cell loss in models of neurodegenerative disease. Genetic inactivation of cellular GPx increases the sensitivity towards neurotoxins and brain ischemia. Conversely, increased GPx activity as a result of increased Se supply or overexpression ameliorates the outcome in the same models of disease. Genetic inactivation of selenoprotein P leads to a marked reduction of brain Se content, which has not been achieved by dietary Se depletion, and to a movement disorder and spontaneous seizures. Here we review the role of Se for the brain under physiological as well as pathophysiological conditions and highlight recent findings which open new vistas on an old essential trace element.
Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded in cross-modal word fragment priming (CMWP) to address the function of pitch for the identification of spoken words. In CMWP fragments of spoken words (e.g., re taken from Regal [Engl. shelves]) are immediately followed by visual targets. Together with reduced reaction times (RTs), an ERP deflection named P350 has been found to be reduced for targets, which match the primes (e.g., in the prime-target pair re-REGAL) as compared to unrelated targets (e.g., re-WIRBEL [Engl. burble]). The P350 has been related to facilitated lexical identification [Friedrich, Kotz, Friederici and Gunter (in press), ERPs reflect lexical identification in word fragment priming, JOCN]. In the present study, we presented syllable primes with different pitch contours. One version of each prime bore a stressed pitch contour (e.g., re_1), the other an unstressed pitch contour (e.g., re_2). Primes were combined with targets being either stressed on the first syllable (e.g., REgel [Engl. rule]) or on the second syllable (e.g., reGAL [Engl. shelves]). We found a reduced amplitude of the P350 and slightly faster reactions for targets with a stress pattern that matched the pitch of the primes (e.g., re_1-REgel) as compared to targets with a stress pattern that did not match the pitch of the primes (e.g., re_1-reGAL). The present study replicates the P350 effect with different material, and indicates that pitch is used for lexical identification in spoken word recognition.
We used fMRI to study the brain processes involved in the executive control of behavior. The Sustained Attention to Response Task (SART), which allows unpredictable and predictable NOGO events to be contrasted, was imaged using a mixed (block and event-related) fMRI design to examine tonic and phasic processes involved in response inhibition, error detection, conflict monitoring and sustained attention. A network of regions, including right ventral prefrontal cortex (PFC), left dorsolateral PFC (DLPFC) and right inferior parietal cortex, was activated for successful unpredictable inhibitions, while rostral anterior cingulate was implicated in error processing and the pre-SMA in conflict monitoring. Furthermore, the pattern of correlations between left dorsolateral PFC, implicated in task-set maintenance, and the pre-SMA were indicative of a tight coupling between prefrontally mediated control and conflict levels monitored more posteriorly. The results reveal that the executive control of behavior can be separated into distinct functions performed by discrete cortical regions.
Cognitive-affective, defensive, and neurobiological aspects of victim-victimizer relational dynamics are illustrated. Observations of a 26-year-old mother and her 9-year-old son during a semistructured play task and projective and objective assessment data provide the sources of inference regarding how the parent and child's thematic structures are relationally expressed, maintain their psychopathology, and foster a victim-victimizer interactional cycle. By way of complementary interpersonal, psychological, and neurobiological processes, a victim-victimizer relational dynamic is maintained and intergenerationally transmitted.

We obtained clear and reproducible MR fluoroscopic images and temperature maps for MR image-guided microwave ablation of liver tumors under general anesthesia without suspending the artificial ventilation. Respiratory information was directly obtained from air-way pressure without a sensor on the chest wall. The trigger signal started scanning of one whole image with a spoiled gradient echo sequence. The delay time before the start of scanning was adjusted to acquire the data corresponding to the k-space center at the maximal expiratory phase. The triggered images were apparently clearer than the nontriggered ones and the location of the liver was consistent, which made targeting of the tumor easy. MR temperature images, which were highly susceptible to the movement of the liver, during microwave ablation using a proton resonance frequency method, could be obtained without suspending the artificial ventilation. Respiratory triggering technique was found to be useful for MR fluoroscopic images and MR temperature monitoring in MR-guided microwave ablation of liver tumors under general anesthesia.
Intra-arterial thrombolysis is increasingly being used in the treatment of acute ischemic stroke with a failure rate of recanalization as high as 66%. We describe a case of acute ischemic stroke secondary to occlusion of the middle cerebral artery that failed intra-arterial thrombolytic therapy but responded to rescue balloon angioplasty.
In smooth muscle, active Ca(2+) uptake into regions of sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) which are closely apposed to the sarcolemma has been proposed to substantially limit the increase in the cytoplasmic Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](c)) following Ca(2+) influx, i.e. the 'superficial buffer barrier hypothesis'. The present study has re-examined this proposal. The results suggest that the SR close to the sarcolemma acts as a passive barrier to Ca(2+) influx limiting [Ca(2+)](c) changes; for this, SR Ca(2+) pump activity is not required. In single voltage-clamped colonic myocytes, sustained opening of the ryanodine receptor (RyR) (and depletion of the SR) using ryanodine increased the amplitude of depolarisation-evoked Ca(2+) transients and accelerated the rate of [Ca(2+)](c) decline following depolarisation. These results could be explained by a reduction in the Ca(2+) buffer power of the cytosol taking place when RyR are opened (i.e. the SR is 'leaky'). Indeed, determination of the Ca(2+) buffer power confirmed it was reduced by approximately 40%. Inhibition of the SR Ca(2+) pump (with thapsigargin) also depleted the SR of Ca(2+) but did not reduce the Ca(2+) buffer power or increase depolarisation-evoked Ca(2+) transients and slowed (rather than accelerated) Ca(2+) removal. However, thapsigargin prevented the ryanodine-induced increase in [Ca(2+)](c) decline following depolarisation. Together, these results suggest that when the SR was rendered 'leaky' (a) more of the Ca(2+) entering the cell reached the bulk cytoplasm and (b) Ca(2+) was removed more quickly at the end of cell activation. Under physiological circumstances in the absence of blocking drugs, it is proposed that the SR limits the [Ca(2+)](c) increase following influx without the need for active Ca(2+) uptake. The SR and sarcolemma may form a passive physical barrier to Ca(2+) influx, a Ca(2+) trap, which limits the [Ca(2+)](c) rise occurring during depolarisation by about 50% and from which the ion only slowly escapes into the main part of the cytoplasm.

The mechanism by which G(q)-coupled receptors stimulate the c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) activity has not been fully delineated. Here, we showed that stimulation of endogenous G(q)-coupled receptors in human hepatocarcinoma HepG2 cells resulted in an Src family kinase- and Ca(2+)-dependent JNK activation. Cos-7 cells transfected with HA-tagged JNK and various G(q)-coupled receptors also exhibited similar characteristics and provided further evidence for the involvement of Gbetagamma, an upstream intermediate for Src family kinases. The Ca(2+) and Gbetagamma signals operate in a high degree of independence. Transient expression of Gbetagamma subunits and elevation of cytoplasmic Ca(2+) level by thapsigargin activated JNK in a synergistic fashion. JNK activities triggered by G(q)-coupled receptors, Gbetagamma and thapsigargin were all suppressed by dominant negative (DN) mutants of Son of sevenless (Sos) and Rac. We propose that the co-operative effect between Gbetagamma-mediated signaling and the increased intracellular Ca(2+) level represents a robust mechanism for the stimulation of JNK by G(q)-coupled receptors.
Transforming growth factor (TGF) beta1 regulates cell migration of non-neural cells. Hence, two hypotheses were tested: (i) that TGFbeta1 affects cell migration and the expression of associated adhesion proteins in developing cortex; and (ii) that these effects are antagonized by ethanol. The effects of TGFbeta1 (2.5-40 ng/ml) and ethanol (400 mg/dl) on cell migration were examined in organotypic cultures from fetal rat brains. Migration was determined by tracing the movement of cells pulse-labeled with bromodeoxyuridine. Cell migration was altered by TGFbeta1 in a concentration-dependent manner: at low concentrations, cell migration was promoted whereas at high concentrations TGFbeta1 impeded migration. Ethanol treatment alone reduced the rate of migration. Interestingly, the rate of cell migration in slices treated with both TGFbeta1 and ethanol was the same as that in untreated cultures. The expression of cell adhesion proteins (nCAM, integrin alpha3, alphav and beta1) was differentially effected by TGFbeta1 and/or ethanol. TGFbeta1 increased the expression of these adhesion proteins in a progressive, concentration-dependent manner. Likewise, ethanol also increased adhesion protein expression, however, combined TGFbeta1 and ethanol treatment reduced expression. Collectively, the data show that TGFbeta1 alters cell migration in the developing cortex and that the TGFbeta1 system is a target of ethanol toxicity.
Monosodium glutamate (MSG) has a multifaceted, unusual taste to humans. Rats and other rodents also detect a complex taste to MSG. Responses of the chorda tympani nerve (CT) to glutamate applied to the front of the tongue were recorded in 13 anesthetized rats. Whole-nerve responses to 30 mM, 100 mM and 300 mM MSG mixed with 300 mM sucrose were recorded before and after adding 30 micro M amiloride to the rinse and stimulus solutions. Responses of CT single fibers were also recorded. Predictions from models of whole-nerve responses to binary mixtures were compared to the observed data. Results indicated that MSG-elicited CT responses have multiple sources, even in an amiloride-inhibited environment in rats. Those sources include responses of sucrose-sensitive CT neural units, which may provide the substrate for a sucrose-glutamate perceptual similarity, and responses of sucrose-insensitive CT neural units, which may respond synergistically to MSG-sucrose mixtures.

Recent years have witnessed a growing interest in learning how colour vision has evolved. This trend has been fuelled by an enhanced understanding of the nature and extent of colour vision among contemporary species, by a deeper understanding of the paleontological record and by the application of new tools from molecular biology. This review provides an assessment of the progress in understanding the evolution of vertebrate colour vision. In so doing, we offer accounts of the evolution of three classes of mechanism important for colour vision--photopigment opsins, oil droplets and retinal organisation--and then examine details of how colour vision has evolved among mammals and, more specifically, among primates.


Working in the 1660s, William Croone wrote on the nature of connections between nerve and muscle. A previously unknown copy of his essay, wrongly attributed to Thomas Willis, has recently come to light. Croone left the challenges of clinical neurology to his successors. The story of multiple sclerosis begins early in the nineteenth century. Despite much information on the aetiology and pathogenesis, the origins of that disease remain obscure. Here, the hypothesis is advanced--based on the epidemiology, clinical neurology, immunology and genetics of demyelinating disease, linked to European history and population genetics--that multiple sclerosis evolved from a related disorder, neuromyelitis optica (or Devic's disease). Genetic drift and stratification altered the immune response to a common pathogen and changed the disease phenotype. Against this background, the sustained epidemic of multiple sclerosis arose when cultural changes led to a subtle but crucial alteration in the age at which genetically vulnerable individuals are exposed to Epstein Barr infection.

Cholinesterase (ChE) inhibitors improve or stabilize cognitive impairment in patients with Alzheimer disease (AD). However, the regional metabolic and perfusion correlates of treatment with ChE inhibitors are not fully known. Twenty-four patients with mild to moderate AD were evaluated with Tc-ethyl cysteinate dimer (ECD) single-photon-emission CT scanning (SPECT), before and after 4.3 +/- 1.1 months of treatment with ChE inhibitors (donepezil, rivastigmine). Clinical evaluations included the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) as well as the Neuropsychiatric Inventory (NPI). Inclusion criterion was a clear favorable response to therapy with ChE inhibitors (MMSE improvement of at least 2 points; total NPI improvement of at least 4 points). SPECT data were analyzed by Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM 99, Wellcome, Department of Cognitive Neurology, London, UK). SPM analysis showed a significant increase (P &lt; 0.01) of regional cerebral perfusion (rCBF) after short-term ChE inhibitor therapy with respect to baseline in the right anterior cingulate, the dorsolateral prefrontal, and the temporoparietal areas bilaterally. These data suggest that cognitive or behavioral benefits after ChE inhibitor therapy are related to a clear increase of rCBF in crucial areas specifically involved in the attentional and limbic networks.





ABT-089 [2-methyl-3-(2-(S)-pyrrolidinylmethoxy)pyridine dihydrochloride salt] is a selective neuronal nicotinic receptor (NNR) modulator with cognitive enhancing properties in animal models of cognitive functioning. Amongst NNR subtypes, ABT-089 shows selectivity for the cytisine binding site on the alpha4beta2 receptor subtype as compared to the alpha-bungarotoxin (alpha-BgT) binding sites on the alpha7 and alpha1beta1deltagamma receptor subtypes. In functional in vitro electrophysiological and cation flux assays, ABT-089 displays differential activity including agonism, partial agonism and antagonism depending upon the NNR subtype and assay. ABT-089 is as potent and efficacious as (-)-nicotine at evoking acetylcholine (ACh) release from hippocampal synaptosomes. Furthermore, ABT-089 is neuroprotective against excitotoxic glutamate insults, with even greater potency seen after chronic treatment. Similarly, ABT-089 is effective in models of cognitive functioning, including enhancement of baseline functioning as well as improvement of impaired cognitive functioning seen following septal lesioning and natural aging. In neuroprotective assays the compound is most potent by chronic administration. In stark contrast to the positive effects in the cognitive models, ABT-089 shows little propensity to induce adverse effects such as ataxia, hypothermia, seizures, cardiovascular or gastrointestinal side effects. Together these data suggest that ABT-089 is a NNR modulator with the potential for treating cognitive disorders with markedly limited adverse cardiovascular and gastrointestinal side effects.
Eating disorders have been viewed as psychiatric illnesses that are strongly influenced by societal pressures towards thinness and attractiveness. Although the environmental context of these disorders must not be neglected, recent research in the area of genetic epidemiology suggests a substantial influence of genetic factors on liability to eating disorders. This review presents a synthesis of current knowledge about genetic factors implicated in the etiology of eating disorders.
A paradigm was designed to study how infants identify live faces. Eight- to 21-week-old infants were seated comfortably and were presented an adult female, dressed in a white laboratory coat and a white turtle neck sweater, until habituation ensued. The adult then left the room. One minute later either she or an identically garbed confederate returned. Looking time did not increase above habituation levels when the original experimenter returned, but increased substantially when the confederate entered the room. Furthermore, internal features alone could serve as the basis of face identity. Looking times of infants who had habituated to experimenters with masked outer features of hair, ears and neck also markedly increased when a second identically dressed experimenter returned. Identity in this instance could only be based on internal facial characteristics. A second study assessed the contributions of internal and external facial features to identity. Infants were habituated to an experimenter in a short wig. One minute later they saw her again, either in the same short wig or in a long one. Alternatively, they saw a second experimenter wearing either the short wig or the long one. Infants looked longer only to the stranger wearing the long wig. Very brief looking times occurred to the familiar adult, regardless of wig, and to the stranger wearing the familiar wig. This paradigm provides an approach to discover rules used by infants of different ages to process and identify adult faces and to establish the bases of face preference.
