A 58-year-old Chamorro female patient, who died in 1993, was examined clinicopathologically. At the age of 51, she suffered from hemiparkinsonism, then bradykinesia, rigidity without tremor, and dementia. Extrapyramidal symptoms developed, and at the age of 57, vertical gaze palsy was noted. The clinical diagnosis was parkinsonism-dementia complex (PDC) with vertical gaze palsy. The brain showed atrophy in the frontal and temporal lobes, and the atrophy was accentuated in the dentate gyrus, Ammon's horn and parahippocampal gyrus. The basal ganglia, thalamus and midbrain were moderately atrophic. The substantia nigra and locus ceruleus were completely depigmented. Numerous neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) were seen in the subiculum and amygdaloid nucleus. Many NFTs were evident in the parahippocampal gyrus, lateral occipitotemporal gyrus, insula, Sommer sector, basal nucleus of Meynert, lateral nucleus of the thalamus, subthalamic nucleus and brain stem, and several were observed in the globus pallidus and hypothalamus. The Sommer sector, substantia nigra, locus ceruleus and basal nucleus of Meynert showed severe loss of neurons, and a moderate loss of neurons was exhibited by the globus pallidus. These findings were apparently consistent with those associated with PDC. However, in this patient, severe neuronal loss was seen in the subthalamic nucleus and lateral nucleus of the thalamus, and grumose degeneration, which has not previously been reported in PDC, was seen in the dentate nucleus. In addition, many tufted astrocytes, which have been reported to occur in progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and postencephalitic parkinsonism, but scarcely observed in PDC, were present. Furthermore, astrocytic plaques, which have been considered as a specific finding of corticobasal degeneration (CBD), were observed in the cerebral cortex. On the other hand, granular hazy astrocytic inclusions, previously reported to occur in PDC, were not seen. Chromatolytic neurons were not observed. The question thus arises as to whether it is appropriate to consider this patient as having suffered from a combination of PDC, PSP and CBD. From the view points of absence of granular hazy astrocytic inclusions and chromatolytic neurons, and of tufted astrocytes in the neostriatum, it is conceivable that this patient is a case of a new disease entity.
We examined the mechanism of cerebellar degeneration in brains obtained at autopsy from six cases of hereditary dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA) and six cases of Machado-Joseph disease (MJD), using terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated in situ nick end labeling (TUNEL) and immunohistochemistry for apoptosis-related proteins, neurotrophin receptors and glutamate transporters. In three subjects with DRPLA, who developed dementia and cerebellar ataxia at over 50 years of age, the number of Purkinje cells was mildly reduced, TUNEL-positive cells were observed in the molecular layer of the cerebellar cortex, and immunoreactivities for calbindin D28K and excitatory amino acid transporter-1 (EAAT1) were altered in the molecular layer. In addition, all cases of DRPLA showed a reduction of immunoreactivity for EAAT1 in the dentate nucleus. In MJD, augmentation of Bcl-x expression by the Purkinje cells, and increases in Trk B- and GFAP-immunopositive glial cells in the granular layer were observed in half of the cases, whereas immunoreactivity for EAAT-1 was preserved both in the cerebellar cortex and dentate nucleus. One case of MJD showed TUNEL-positive granular cells in the cerebellar cortex. Age-matched control subjects did not show TUNEL-positive cells or immunohistochemical changes in the cerebellum. There were neither TUNEL-positive cells nor alteration of the in situ expression of apoptosis-related proteins in the dentate nucleus in either variant of hereditary spinocerebellar degeneration, although both exhibited grumose degeneration in the dentate nucleus. These findings indicate that latent degeneration in the cerebellar cortex may occur in DRPLA and MJD, in addition to the dentate change, which is the cardinal feature in the neuropathology of these two diseases. The lesion of Purkinje cells and their processes in the molecular layer associated with altered glutamate transport may be important in DRPLA, while the significance of the abnormalities observed in some MJD cases, which might be related to apoptotic mechanism, remains unclear.
The hypothesis has been raised that a dysfunction of the longitudinal oesophageal muscle is the common denominator for pharyngeal and oesophageal dysphagia in patients with hiatal hernia, and that contraction of the longitudinal muscle is a contributing factor for the opening of the upper oesophageal sphincter and for the stiffening of the oesophageal wall when swallowing. Different studies were used to test the implications of this hypothesis. It was concluded that dysfunction of the longitudinal oesophageal muscle, caused by slipping of the distal end through the hiatal canal, can explain oesophageal dysphagia and inadequate opening of the upper oesophageal sphincter.
It is well accepted that dopamine receptors play an important role in the regulation of cardiovascular and kidney function. Most of the knowledge on the renal actions of dopamine has been accumulated focussing on the prototypes of the two known dopamine receptor subfamilies, i.e. D1 and D2. The dopamine D3 receptor is a member of the D2-like subfamily and has been intensively studied in the neurosciences. Recently, the peripheral actions of this receptor subtype have also raised considerable interest as well because its effects on kidney function appear to be different from that of the other dopamine receptors. This short overview will summarize the data reported and add new results on the role of D3 receptors in the regulation of renal function as well as their potential pathophysiological implications.

The selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) have obtained global attention but have not demonstrated superior efficacy in major depression compared with older tricyclic antidepressants. From a pharmacological viewpoint the noradrenergic system in the brain appears to have a central role in neurotransmitter organization. The importance of noradrenaline in depression is supported by its association with clinical parameters such as vigilance and drive. Reboxetine is a selective noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor--the first in its class to be marketed. In both preclinical and clinical studies reboxetine has been found to be an effective and safe antidepressant. Furthermore, reboxetine restores a patients' social functioning, producing a better quality of remission than fluoxetine.
Psychiatry obtains benefits from integrating the findings of neurobiology with the knowledge of depth psychology. In this paper, relevant recent research in neuroscience is reviewed from the perspective of psychoanalytic theory. Psychoanalytic experience and hypotheses have stimulated numerous experiments and research projects in neurobiology. Neurobiological findings have brought forward the neurophysiological substrate of clinical phenomena described by psychoanalysts, assisting in the specification of some theoretical notions, and making us modify others that were considered as already established. From a neurobiological viewpoint, some studies considered pertinent are commented upon on associations, apperception and unconscious perception, memory, and hemispheric specialisation and its psychological corollary.
The mechanism responsible for peripheral nerve dysfunction in chronic alcoholism has not been fully elucidated either in terms of its relationship to the quantity of alcohol consumed or to nutritional status. As part of a series of studies to address these issues, the effects of moderate drinking (60-90 g ethanol per day) or heavy drinking (&gt; 100 g ethanol per day) on peripheral nervous function and thiamine status was measured in 73 patients admitted to a detoxification unit. Electromyographic evaluation revealed significant reductions in median and ulnar sensory and motor nerve conduction velocities in both moderate drinkers (n = 30) and heavy drinkers (n = 43) compared to age-matched controls. Twelve moderate drinkers and 25 heavy drinkers manifested clinical neurological signs of peripheral neuropathy. Thiamine deficiency, as revealed by erythrocyte transketolase activation assay, was detected in two moderate drinkers and seven heavy drinkers but was not significantly correlated with electromyographic alterations with the exception of ulnar nerves. These findings provide evidence for significant early peripheral nerve dysfunction in moderate drinkers and a possible contributory role of thiamine deficiency to the ulnar nerve conduction deficits. Whether deficits in other water-soluble vitamins or a direct neurotoxic effect of ethanol are implicated in alcoholic peripheral neuropathy awaits further studies.













Using two MR scanners, we evaluated the intraobserver, interobserver, image-reimage, and interimager variabilities in the assessment of magnetization transfer ratio (MTR) histograms obtained monthly on four occasions from five healthy volunteers. With multiple observers, the mean coefficients of variations ranged from 2.2% to 8.2% for &quot;pure&quot; image-reimage variability, from 1.2% to 4.9% for interobserver variability, and from 2.1% to 4.9% for image-reimage variability. The mean intraobserver coefficients of variations were always lower than 1%. The mean coefficients of variations ranged from 10.2% to 14.6% for pure interimager variability and from 8.6% to 14.3% for interimager variability with multiple observers. Interimager variability accounted for 96.0% of the overall variability of average MTR, for 96.7% of peak location, and for 41.1% of the peak height. The use of different MR scanners is the main source of variability when obtaining MTR histograms.



Animal models are important tools in the study of psychiatric disorders, including alcoholism, because they allow the use of research methods that cannot be used for ethical reasons in humans. Consequently, scientists have developed numerous approaches to evaluate the validity and reliability of animal models for studying human behavior and human disorders. Researchers have developed animal models of schizophrenia, fear and anxiety, depression, and alcoholism, all of which are being used to study the relationship between alcoholism and co-occurring psychiatric disorders. These models may help researchers and clinicians determine how best to treat patients with alcoholism and co-occurring psychiatric disorders.
Alcohol's positive and negative motivational effects are believed to be important influences on alcohol-seeking behavior and, therefore, key factors among the many and varied causes of alcohol abuse and dependence. Alcohol's positive effects, such as enhanced mood, and negative effects, such as hangover, are considered important factors in motivating drinkers to increase or decrease their drinking. Scientists have developed a variety of animal behavioral models to study alcohol's motivational effects. These models include &quot;self-administration models,&quot; in which the animal controls the exposure to alcohol, and &quot;conditioning models,&quot; in which the researcher controls the animal's exposure to alcohol. Such models have been used to study the influence of genetic differences on sensitivity to alcohol's positive and negative motivational effects, the brain mechanisms underlying alcohol's motivational effects, as well as relapse and craving.

The emergence of drugs that may slow progression of Alzheimer disease, if administered early during its course, has necessitated early diagnosis of the disease itself. Among the functional imaging methods that could assist in early diagnosis, positron emission tomography has an important role in providing quantitative measures of various aspects of brain function affected by the disease. Positron emission tomography studies in patients with Alzheimer disease have revealed a typical pattern of metabolic deficits in the temporal and parietal lobes. Additionally, converging evidence from numerous studies indicates that a similar pattern of deficits can be observed in nondemented subjects who are at risk of developing the disease, such as those with recognized genetic traits such as familial Alzheimer disease with mutations in chromosomes 21 and 14, Down syndrome, subjects with the epsilon4 allele of the apolipoprotein E gene, and individuals with mild cognitive impairment. These findings might have implications for the selection of patients for clinical trials, defining the outcome measures and evaluation of treatment efficacy and responder characteristics, but should be confirmed by prospective studies comprising larger samples and include clinicopathologic correlations.
Considerable clinical and experimental data have shown that cerebral perfusion is progressively decreased during increased aging and that this decrease in brain blood flow is significantly greater in Alzheimer disease (AD). The authors propose that advanced aging with a comorbid condition, such as a vascular risk factor, which further decreases cerebral perfusion, promotes a critically attained threshold of cerebral hypoperfusion (CATCH). With time, CATCH induces brain capillary degeneration and suboptimal delivery of energy substrates to neuronal tissue. Because glucose is the main fuel of brain cells, its impaired delivery, with the deficient delivery of oxygen, compromises neuronal stability because the supply for aerobic glycolysis fails to meet brain tissue demand. The outcome of CATCH is a metabolic cascade that involves, among other things, mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, decreased adenosine triphosphate production, abnormal protein synthesis, cell ionic pump deficiency, signal transduction defects, and neurotransmission failure. These events contribute to the progressive cognitive decline characteristic of patients with AD, as well as regional anatomic pathology, consisting of synaptic loss, senile plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, tissue atrophy, and neurodegeneration. CATCH identifies the clinical heterogeneic pattern that characterizes AD because it provides compelling evidence that any of a multitude of different etiopathophysiologic vascular risk factors, in the presence of advanced aging, can lead to AD. The evidence in support of CATCH as the pathogenic trigger of AD is crystallized in this review.
Amyloid precursor protein generates the beta-amyloid peptide and is a member of a multigene family that contains at least two other gene products, known as amyloid precursor-like proteins. Heme oxygenase is an enzyme whose products are antioxidant and neuroprotective. The authors report that amyloid precursor protein and amyloid precursor-like protein bind to heme oxygenase to inhibit its enzymatic activity. Our findings suggest that decreased neuroprotection caused by amyloid precursor protein-heme oxygenase interactions influences neurotoxicity in Alzheimer disease.
In Alzheimer disease brains, the amyloid plaques are closely associated with a locally induced, nonimmune-mediated, chronic inflammatory response without any apparent influx of leukocytes from the blood. The present findings indicate that in cerebral A beta diseases (Alzheimer disease, Down syndrome, hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis-Dutch type), the clinical symptoms are determined to a great extent by the site of inflammatory response. It was found that the formation of the amyloid-microglia complex seems to be a relatively early pathogenic event that precedes the process of severe destruction of the neuropil. The idea that inflammation is implicated in Alzheimer pathology has received support from the epidemiologic studies indicating that the use of anti-inflammatory drugs can prevent or retard the Alzheimer disease process. In this contribution, we review the relationship between inflammation and clinical manifestation and the opportunities for anti-inflammatory treatments in Alzheimer disease.
Millions of people are affected by Alzheimer disease. As longevity increases, so will the number of patients with dementia. This has led to an intense search for successful treatment strategies. One area of interest is neurotrophic factors. Brain development and neuronal maintenance, as well as protective efforts, are mediated by a large number of different neurotrophic factors acting on specific receptors. In neurodegenerative disorders, there may be a possibility of rescuing degenerating neurons and stimulating terminal outgrowth with use of neurotrophic factors. The first neurotrophic factor discovered was nerve growth factor (NGF). A wealth of animal studies have shown that cholinergic neurons are NGF sensitive and NGF dependent, which is especially interesting in cognitive disorders, in which central cholinergic projections are important for cognitive function. In Alzheimer disease, cholinergic neurons have been shown to degenerate. This suggests that NGF may be used to pharmacologically counteract cholinergic degeneration and/or induce terminal sprouting in Alzheimer disease. Data from animal studies, as well as from the author's recent clinical trial, in which NGF was infused to the lateral ventricle in patients with Alzheimer disease, will be presented. Effects of NGF on cognition, as well as issues regarding dosage, side effects, and alternative ways of administering NGF, will be discussed.
The role of the phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase pathway in the hyperphosphorylation of tau protein was investigated in cultured cells. Human kidney 293T-cells were cotransfected with tau and glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) genes or tau and protein kinase B genes. The phosphorylation of tau protein was increased by cotransfection with GSK-3; however, it was decreased by cotransfection with protein kinase B. Human neuroblastoma SY5Y cells were treated with wortmannin, an inhibitor of phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase, and only transient (after 1 hour) activation of GSK-3 and hyperphosphorylation of tau protein were observed. However, continuous inactivation of protein kinase B was observed, suggesting the involvement of protein kinases other than protein kinase B in the phosphorylation and inactivation of GSK-3 after 3 hours. In cells treated with wortmannin, protein kinase C delta fragments were observed, and the protein kinase C activity increased after 3 hours, whereas treatment of cells with z-DEVD-fmk, an inhibitor of caspase-3, inhibited fragmentation of protein kinase C delta and induced continuous activation of GSK-3. It is suggested that fragmentation of protein kinase C delta during the process of apoptosis results in the phosphorylation and the inactivation of GSK-3. Those data suggest that, in Alzheimer disease, more complicated mechanisms are involved in the process of phosphorylation of tau protein predominantly regulated by P13K pathway.
This search for the deep psychobiological foundations of hypnosis begins with a review of some of the paradoxes of historical hypnosis and the impasse of current theory. It is proposed that further progress requires a deeper investigation of how psychosocial cues can modulate the mechanisms of healing at the CNS, autonomic, neuroendocrine and cellular-genetic levels. The dynamics of hypnotic communication and healing from the cognitive-behavior level to the cellular-genetic are outlined in four stages: (1) Information transduction between the experiences of consciousness and the limbic-hypothalamic-pituitary system; (2) The psychosomatic network of messenger molecules and their receptors; (3) The immediate early gene protein cascade; and (4) State dependent memory, learning and behavior. Neuroscience research is outlined for its contributions to a mathematical model of how a psychobiological approach to the therapeutic applications of hypnosis and the placebo response could facilitate neurogenesis in the human hippocampus and healing at the cellular-genetic-protein level throughout the body. A series of ten hypotheses is proposed as a guide for theory and research in therapeutic hypnosis utilizing DNA chip technology in the new millennium.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the deposition of senile plaques (SPs) and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) in vulnerable brain regions. SPs are composed of aggregated beta-amyloid (Abeta) 40/42(43) peptides. Evidence implicates a central role for Abeta in the pathophysiology of AD. Mutations in betaAPP and presenilin 1 (PS1) lead to elevated secretion of Abeta, especially the more amyloidogenic Abeta42. Immunohistochemical studies have also emphasized the importance of Abeta42 in initiating plaque pathology. Cell biological studies have demonstrated that Abeta is generated intracellularly. Recently, endogenous Abeta42 staining was demonstrated within cultured neurons by confocal immunofluorescence microscopy and within neurons of PS1 mutant transgenic mice. A central question about the role of Abeta in disease concerns whether extracellular Abeta deposition or intracellular Abeta accumulation initiates the disease process. Here we report that human neurons in AD-vulnerable brain regions specifically accumulate gamma-cleaved Abeta42 and suggest that this intraneuronal Abeta42 immunoreactivity appears to precede both NFT and Abeta plaque deposition. This study suggests that intracellular Abeta42 accumulation is an early event in neuronal dysfunction and that preventing intraneuronal Abeta42 aggregation may be an important therapeutic direction for the treatment of AD.
Previous work from our laboratory has demonstrated that the very low-frequency (VLF: 0-0.25 Hz) and low-frequency (LF: 0.25-0.8 Hz) power of arterial pressure variability (APV) are related to vasomotor reactivity in response to control signals from the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) via the sympathetic system in the rat. The present study evaluated the differences in the dynamic property of central vasomotor control between spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY). Experiments were carried out in 10- to 12-wk-old rats that were anesthetized with continuous infusion of pentobarbital sodium, paralyzed with pancuronium, and maintained on mechanical ventilation. We found that SHR exhibited significantly higher arterial pressure (AP), heart rate (HR), and VLF, LF, and high-frequency (0.8-2.4 Hz) power of APV than WKY under resting state. Broad-band electrical stimulation of the RVLM elicited parallel APV in the VLF and LF ranges in both rat strains. The evoked APV and transfer magnitude of the APV to stimulus spike rate variability (RVLM-AP magnitude) were significantly higher in SHR, especially in the LF range. The response frequency of central vasomotor control, represented by the high-cut frequency of RVLM-AP magnitude, was also extended in SHR. The disparity in RVLM-AP transfer magnitude between SHR and WKY became virtually absent after combined alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor blockade by phentolamine and propranolol. These results suggest that the dynamic control of RVLM on AP reactivity is enhanced in SHR, in which the adrenergic system may play a major role.
Arterial hypotension and hypovolemia are known to stimulate neurohypophysial secretion of oxytocin (OT) in rats, although the physiological function of OT under these circumstances is uncertain. We now report that OT infused intravenously into conscious rats at 125 ng x kg(-1) x h(-1), a dose selected to mimic plasma OT levels during hypotension or hypovolemia, increased plasma renin concentration and plasma renin activity by twofold. This effect was prevented by systemic pretreatment with an OT receptor antagonist [[1-(3-mercaptopropionic acid)-2-O-ethyl-D-Tyr-Thr(4)-Orn(8)]-OT]. The OT antagonist did not block renin secretion induced by systemic injection of the beta-adrenergic receptor agonist isoproterenol, indicating that the OT antagonist does not interfere nonselectively with renin release. Pretreatment of rats with the beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist nadolol also prevented OT-induced renin secretion. Similarly, nadolol injected during infusion of OT markedly reduced the elevated plasma renin levels. These observations raise the possibility that pituitary OT secretion during hypotension or hypovolemia in rats may serve to support blood pressure by enhancing activation of the renin-angiotensin system via a beta-adrenergic receptor-dependent mechanism.
Rats maintained on low-fat (LF) or high-fat (HF) diets were fitted with gastric cannulas and duodenal catheters. Intraperitoneal injection of 0.250-2.0 microg/kg cholecystokinin (CCK) significantly inhibited gastric emptying of a 5-ml NaCl load in LF rats by 26.2-55. 1% compared with emptying after vehicle injection. By contrast, CCK-induced inhibition of gastric emptying was significantly less in HF rats given the same CCK doses (10.0-31.7% inhibition over the same CCK dose range). A 20-min intraduodenal infusion of oleate (0.03 or 0.06 kcal/ml) also resulted in significant inhibition of gastric emptying in LF rats (24 and 89%, respectively). Oleate-induced inhibition of gastric emptying was significantly attenuated in rats maintained on the HF diet (2 and 56%, respectively). Unlike CCK injections or oleate infusion, intraduodenal maltotriose infusion inhibited gastric emptying to a similar degree in LF and HF rats (77 and 78%, respectively). These results indicate that feeding HF diets diminishes the enterogastric inhibition of gastric emptying by intestinal oleate and diminishes the ability of CCK to inhibit gastric emptying.

Few articles on neuroimaging techniques in the study of central and peripheral olfactory pathways are present in the literature. By Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT), cortical perfusion increment after sensorial stimulation can be evaluated objectively. In the present research, 10 healthy adults underwent SPECT by CER.TO.96 cerebral tomograph, before and after olfactory stimulation with lavender-water. A variable degree of cortical activation was detected in all patients. Gyrus rectus (+24.5%), orbito-frontal cortex (right +26.6%, left +25.6%), and superior temporal (right +9.9%, left +5.5%) cortical areas were always activated. A slight perfusion increase was present in middle temporal (right +3.2%, left +2.1%) and parieto-occipital (right +0.4%, left +2%) regions. Five patients affected by posttraumatic anosmia were also investigated: they showed a perfusion increment markedly inferior to 0.5% in every olfactory area. SPECT is a rather diffused, easily performed technique which yields objective semi-quantitative information on brain perfusion. Hence, it can be regarded as a promising contribution in the fields of smell neurophysiology, clinical olfactometry, and medicolegal queries.
This is a brief history of the birth of Neuroscience as an independent branch of knowledge. The importance of Cajal's contribution to the structuralization of modern Neuroscience is described. Outstanding contributions to Neuroscience of the last century, particularly the Decade of the Brain, are summarized. The reason for the huge increase and interest in neuroscientific studies are given. Finally, I emphasize the challenge that multidisciplinary study and interinstitutional collaboration pose to advancing our knowledge of the human brain. The second part of the talk demonstrated the validity of Cajal's work in modern Neuroscience insisting on three aspects: 1) the microscopic study of the Mammalian central nervous system, 2) the neurogenesis and development of the nervous system and 3) the degeneration, regeneration and plasticity of the central nervous system. I conclude that Cajal's timeliness is reflected by the fact that there are few problems in modern Neuroscience which Cajal did not address at one time or other.
The topography and localization of motoneurons innervating the six extraocular muscles in the chameleon (Chamaeleo chameleon) was studied following HRP injection in each of these individual muscles. Four muscles were innervated ipsilaterally: medial rectus, inferior rectus, inferior oblique and lateral rectus. The medial rectus muscle was innervated by the dorsomedial part of the oculomotor nucleus. The innervation to the inferior rectus muscle arose from the lateral part of the intermediate oculomotor subnucleus, which extended to the lateral part of the dorsal subdivision. The lateral rectus muscle was innervated by the abducens nucleus, which was composed by two subgroups of labeled cells, respectively observed in the principal and accessory abducens subnuclei, whereas efferents to the inferior oblique muscle originated from both the ventral and intermediate oculomotor subnuclei. The contralateral pattern consisted of motoneurons innervating the superior rectus and the superior oblique that were located respectively in the caudal portion of the ventral oculomotor nucleus and in the trochlear nucleus. These results confirmed data reported in most vertebrate species, and were discussed from a comparative and functional point of view.
Numerous studies have sought to delineate the impact of neuroendocrine function on overall immune responsiveness. Using various murine models, we and others have previously shown that both adrenal-dependent and adrenal-independent mechanisms regulate components of the primary and memory cellular immune responses to herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) infection. We have extended these studies by determining the impact of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced peripheral sympathetic denervation on these responses. C57BL/6 mice treated with 6-OHDA (200 mg/kg) were inhibited in their ability to generate primary, HSV-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) in response to HSV infection. Sympathectomy also suppressed the activation and function of HSV-specific memory CTL (CTLm). In addition, administration of 6-OHDA resulted in a transient but substantial increase in levels of circulating corticosterone and hypothalamic Fos expression. Together, these findings suggest that peripheral sympathetic denervation may modulate immune function via activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis.
In 1987 in Dubrovnik, Yugoslavia, N.H. Spector named a new discipline: Neuroimmunomodulation. R. Ader called this new discipline psychoneuroimmunomodulation when the major emphysis was on its behavioral aspects. Neuroimmunomodulation (NIM) is devoted to the study of the interactions at different morphologic and functional levels among the immune, nervous, and endocrine systems. In fact, this science is the modern manifestation of an old science: in the words of B.D. Jankovic (1987), &quot;Neuroimmunomodulation is a modern reflection in neurosciences and immunosciences of the ideas and experience of philosophers and ingenious observers of ancient Egypt, Greece, China, India, and other civilizations that the mind is involved in the defense against diseases.&quot; Twelve years ago NIM was regarded by many conventional scientists almost as a form of witchcraft. Today it may be the fastest growing area of biomedical science research in the world. Important clinical applications will not be far behind. NIM research has also progressed in the field of oncology research. Topics such as treatment of hormone-dependent cancer with analogues of hypothalamic hormones, the role of opioids and T cells in cancer, stress-cancer-immune connections, the anticancer role of melatonin and cytokines, immunotherapy of cancer, and the role of psychotherapy in cancer patients represent some lines of research that have been or are being investigated by scientists. Some areas remain to be thoroughly investigated such as the influence of physical exercise (sports), music (classical or modern), and/or relaxation techniques (e.g. yoga) on the development of human cancer. This paper reviews the role of NIM in oncology and provides some perspectives for further research and development of clinical applications.
Nerve fibers project into the bone marrow and terminate in association with stromal cells. Nerve terminals are also associated with antigen-processing and -presenting cells throughout the body and have been shown to be important in leukocyte trafficking and wound healing as well as hemopoiesis. Here we show that neuropeptide input to the bone marrow is vital to normal granulopoiesis and that deletion of the neuropeptides, substance P, and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), with the neurotoxin, capsaicin, abrogates normal blood cell production. Norepinephrine, neurokinins a and 2, and vasoactive intestinal peptide all have inhibitory effects on in vitro CFU-GM colony formation. Substance P, neurokinin 1, nerve growth factor, and CGRP have stimulatory effects on CFU-GM. Furthermore, in vitro experiments show that, apart from CGRP, all the neuroactive substances we tested operate through effects on accessory cells, stimulating the release of regulatory molecules that have a direct effect on purified CFU-GM.
Field studies indicate that immune function is compromised and the prevalence of many diseases are elevated during winter when energetic stressors are extensive. Presumably, individuals would enjoy a survival advantage if seasonally recurring stressors could be anticipated and countered by shunting energy reserves to bolster immune function. The primary environmental cue that permits physiological anticipation of season is daily photoperiod, a cue that is mediated by melatonin. However, other environmental factors, including low food availability and ambient temperatures, may interact with photoperiod to affect immune function and disease processes. This paper will review laboratory studies that consistently report enhanced immune function in short day lengths. Prolonged melatonin treatment mimics short days, and both in vitro and in vivo melatonin treatment enhances various aspects of immune function, especially cell-mediated immune function, in nontropical rodents. Reproductive responsiveness to melatonin appears to affect immune function. In sum, melatonin may be part of an integrative system to coordinate reproductive, immunologic, and other physiological processes to cope successfully with energetic stressors during winter.
Catecholamines are known to exert a powerful impact on the immune system by downregulation of proliferation and differentiation, and induction of apoptosis. However, the mechanism for this regulatory route is still unclear. Therefore well established human monocytic cell-lines and nontransformed human monocytes, obtained from peripheral blood, were incubated with an optimal concentration of LPS and varying concentrations of the catecholamine dopamine. The proliferative response to LPS was determined by [3H]thymidine incorporation, and a significant suppressive effect by dopamine was obtained. LPS-induced binding of NF-kappa B to DNA, determined by electrophoretic mobility shift assay, was inhibited by extrinsic dopamine, leading to a decreased proliferation and cytokine expression. In contrast, the intracellular ceramide concentration was not affected by incubation of peripheral blood lymphocytes with dopamine. Our findings suggest that the NF-kappa B-I-kappa B transcription machinery may well be involved in the catecholaminergic regulation of the immune system, while the ceramide-SAPK/JNK cascade appears not to play a significant role in this suppression.
Neurodegenerative processes in Alzheimer's disease (AD) are thought to be driven, in part, by the deposition of amyloid beta (A beta), a 39-43-aminoacid peptide product resulting from an alternative cleavage of amyloid precursor protein (APP). In addition to its neurotoxic properties, A beta may influence neuropathology by stimulating glial cell cytokine and acute phase protein secretion in affected areas of the brain (e.g., cortex, hippocampus). Using an in vitro human astrocyte model (U-373 MG astrocytoma cells), the effects of A beta treatment on acute phase protein (APP and alpha-1-antichymotrypsin [alpha 1-ACT]) and interleukin-8 (IL-8) were examined. U-373 MG cells secreted increased levels of alpha 1-ACT and neurotrophic/neuroprotective alpha-cleaved APP (alpha APP) after exposure to interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta) for 24 hours. A beta treatment resulted in a similar, but modest increase in alpha 1-ACT secretion, a two- to threefold stimulation of IL-8 production, and, conversely, a profound reduction in the levels of secreted alpha APPs. A beta inhibited alpha APP secretion by U-373 MG cells in a concentration- and conformation-dependent manner. Moreover, the reduction in alpha APP secretion was accompanied by an increase in cell-associated APP. Another proinflammatory amyloidogenic peptide, human amylin, similarly affected APP processing in U-373 astrocytoma cells. These data suggest that A beta may contribute to Alzheimer's-associated neuropathology by lowering the production of neuroprotective/neurotrophic alpha APPs. Moreover, the concomitant increase in cell-associated APP may provide increased substrate for the generation of amyloidogenic peptides within astrocytes.

Synaptic damage is an early event common to neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and is the best correlate to the cognitive impairment found in these patients. Recent studies have shown that several of the molecules involved in neurodegenerative disorders are in fact synaptic proteins with amyloidogenic potential (SPWAP). Here we propose a unified theory to explain the neurodegenerative process in AD based on the idea that abnormal folding and/or aggregation of these molecules leads to cell death. The most important predictions of this hypothesis are that: (1) there are other yet unknown SPWAP that might be involved in AD, and their identity can be predicted by defining what makes a protein amyloidogenic; (2) there are endogenous anti-amyloidogenic molecules that regulate the aggregation state of SPWAP; and (3) there might be forms of the disease associated with decreased production of endogenous anti-amyloidogenic molecules or with unbalance of pro- versus anti-amyloidogenic factors.
There is a large body of evidence showing both metabolic defects and oxidative damage in Alzheimer's disease. Studies of cybrid cell lines show reduced cytochrome oxidase. There is also substantial evidence for a defect in alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase. It is therefore possible that therapeutic strategies to improve brain metabolism or ameliorate oxidative damage might be useful in treating Alzheimer's disease.
The ultimate goal of Alzheimer's disease (AD) research is to prevent the onset of the neurodegenerative process and thereby allow successful aging without cognitive decline. Herein I argue that a simple and effective preventative approach for AD may be in hand. AD is a disorder associated with the aging process and is, accordingly, characterized by cellular and molecular changes that occur in age-related diseases in other organ systems. Such changes include increased levels of oxidative stress, perturbed energy metabolism, and accumulation of insoluble (oxidatively modified) proteins (prominent among which are amyloid beta-peptide and tau). The risk of several other prominent age-related disorders, including cardiovascular disease, cancer, and diabetes, is known to be influenced by the level of food intake--high food intake increases risk, and low food intake reduces risk. An overwhelming body of data from studies of rodents and monkeys has documented the profound beneficial effects of dietary restriction (DR) in extending life span and reducing the incidence of age-related diseases. Reduced levels of cellular oxidative stress and enhancement of energy homeostasis contribute to the beneficial effects of DR. Recent findings suggest that DR may enhance resistance of neurons in the brain to metabolic, excitotoxic, and oxidative insults relevant to the pathogenesis of AD and other neurodegenerative disorders. While further studies will be required to establish the extent to which DR will reduce the incidence of AD, it would seem prudent (based on existing data) to recommend DR as widely applicable preventative approach for age-related disorders including neurodegenerative disorders.
After nearly a century of inquiry, the cause of Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains to be found. In this review, basic and clinical evidence is presented that assembles and hypothetically explains most of the key pathologic events associated with the development of AD. These pathologic events are triggered in AD by impaired cerebral perfusion originating in the microvasculature that affects the optimal delivery of glucose and oxygen and results in an energy metabolic breakdown of brain cell biosynthetic and synaptic pathways. We propose that two factors must be present before cognitive dysfunction and neurodegeneration is expressed in the AD brain: (1) advanced aging, (2) presence of a condition that lowers cerebral perfusion, such as a vascular risk factor. The first factor introduces a normal but potentially menacing process that lowers cerebral blood flow in proportion to increased aging, while the second factor adds a crucial burden that further lowers brain perfusion and places vulnerable neurons in a state of metabolic compromise leading to a death pathway. These two factors will lead to a critically attained threshold of cerebral hypoperfusion (CATCH). CATCH is a self-sustaining and progressive circulatory insufficiency that will destabilize neurons, synapses, neurotransmission, and cognitive function, creating in its wake a neurodegenerative process characterized by the formation of senile plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, amyloid angiopathy, and, in some cases, Lewy bodies. Since any of a considerable number of vessel-related conditions must be present in the aging individual for cognition to be affected, CATCH supports the heterogeneic disease profile assumed to be characteristic of the AD syndrome. A brief discussion of target therapy based on the proposed pathogenesis of AD is also reviewed.
The intestinal crypt cell secretes chloride into the lumen, resulting in accumulation of fluid that normally thins out mucus or, at higher secretory rates, flushes out the contents. The regulation of chloride secretion occurs by neural reflex pathways within the enteric nervous system. Mechanical stimulation releases 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) from enterochromaffin cells with subsequent activation of intrinsic primary afferents that carry electrical signals to submucosal ganglia. After processing, interneurons activate cholinergic and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) secretomotor neurons. Acetylcholine and VIP bind to epithelial receptors and stimulate sodium chloride and fluid secretion. Reflex-evoked secretory rates can be modulated by a variety of mediators at the level of the enterochromaffin cells, neurons within the reflex pathway, or epithelial cells. Understanding the complex regulatory mechanisms for chloride secretion is likely to provide mechanistic insights into constipation and diarrhea.
Presenilin-2 (PS2) is a gene of unknown function linked with some forms of familial Alzheimer's disease. To investigate the biological role of PS2 in neurons, we overexpressed PS2 in primary cortical neurons using recombinant adenoviral vectors. Western blot and immunohistochemical analyses showed enhanced expression of PS2 proteins in infected neurons after infection of recombinant adenoviruses containing the human wild-type or mutant PS2 gene. Neuronal survival was decreased by approximately 30% in cultures infected with adenovirus expressing either wild-type or mutant PS2, as compared with those infected with adenovirus expressing the LacZ gene. Fragmented nuclei were frequently observed in dying neurons. These data suggest that apoptotic death of cultured cortical neurons is enhanced by PS2 overexpression.





Cocaine abuse is a significant problem not only in the general population but also among pregnant women. Since cocaine readily crosses the placenta and is metabolized slowly in fetuses, they can be exposed to significant levels of cocaine for long periods. In humans the most common consequences of cocaine abuse during pregnancy include premature birth, lower birth weight, respiratory distress, bowel infarctions, cerebral infarctions, reduced head circumference, and increased risk of seizures. Behaviorally these newborns show an increased degree of &quot;tremulousness,&quot; crying and irritability, and are over-reactive to environmental stimuli. Within a month these behaviors have recovered dramatically, but not to normal levels. Thus while there are a number of abnormalities associated with cocaine-exposed neonates, they are not imminently debilitating or life-threatening. However, the long-term consequences of this prenatal cocaine exposure remain to be elucidated. We have examined a rat model for neurochemical, neuroanatomical and behavioral changes resulting from prenatal cocaine exposure. Since cocaine is known to act by blocking the inactivation of the neurotransmitters dopamine, serotonin and norepinephrine, our studies have focused on brain dopamine (DA) and serotonin (5-HT) pathways. In this model system we have found neurochemical changes that are present at birth and that return to normal as the rat ages--similar to the recovery observed in infants. However, there are other neurochemical, anatomical and behavioral changes that persist after birth which may provide insights into the long-term consequences. It is hoped that by understanding the changes occurring in this rat model we will be better prepared to devise pharmacological interventions to circumvent the secondary consequences of prenatal cocaine exposure. These consequences might include increased susceptibility to drug addiction, seizures, depression, schizophrenia, Parkinson's disease, etc.
Ibogaine, one of several alkaloids found in the root bark of the African shrub Tabernanthe iboga, has been claimed to be effective in treating multiple forms of drug abuse. Problems associated with side effects of ibogaine have spawned a search for more effective and safer structural derivatives. 18-Methoxycoronaridine (18-MC), a novel iboga alkaloid congener, appears to have substantial potential for broad use as an anti-addictive therapy. Like ibogaine (40 mg/kg), 18-MC (40 mg/kg) decreases the intravenous self-administration of morphine and cocaine and the oral self-administration of ethanol and nicotine in rats; unlike ibogaine, 18-MC does not affect responding for a non-drug reinforcer (water). Ibogaine and 18-MC appear to reduce the reinforcing efficacies, rather than the potencies, of drugs of abuse. Both ibogaine and 18-MC decreases extracellular levels of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens while only ibogaine increases serotonin levels in this brain region. Both ibogaine and 18-MC block morphine-induced and nicotine-induced dopamine release in the accumbens; only ibogaine enhances cocaine-induced increases in dopamine levels. Ibogaine produces whole body tremors and, at high doses (at least 100 mg/kg), cerebellar damage; 18-MC does not produce these effects. Ibogaine, but not 18-MC, causes bradycardia at high doses. Ibogaine and its metabolite noribogaine have low microM affinities for kappa and mu opioid receptors, NMDA receptors, 5HT-3 receptors, sigma-2 sites, sodium channels and the serotonin transporter. 18-MC has low microM affinities at all three opioid receptors and at 5HT-3 receptors but much lower or no affinities for NMDA and sigma-2 receptors, sodium channels, and the 5HT transporter. Both 18-MC and ibogaine are sequestered in fat and, like ibogaine, 18-MC probably has an active metabolite. 18-MC also has (+) and (-) enantiomers, both of which are active. Considered together, all of the data indicate that 18-MC should be safer than ibogaine and at least as efficacious as an anti-addictive medication.
Burimamide, a histamine (HA) derivative with both H2- and H3-blocking properties, induces antinociception when injected into the rodent CNS. Several related compounds share this property, and structure-activity studies have shown that this new class of analgesics is distinct from known HA antagonists. The prototype, named improgan, shows a preclinical profile of a highly effective analgesic, with activity against thermal, mechanical and inflammatory nociception after doses that do not alter motor balance or locomotor activity. Improgen analgesia is not blocked by opioid antagonists and is observed in opioid receptor knock-out mice. Unlike morphine, improgan does not induce tolerance after daily dosing. Extensive in vitro pharmacology studies have excluded known histaminergic, opioid, serotonergic, GABAergic and adrenergic receptor mechanisms, as well as 50 other sites of action. The improgan-like analgesic activity of some HA congeners suggests an analgesic action on a novel HA receptor, but further studies are required to substantiate this. Studies in progress are characterizing the sites and mechanisms of action of improgan, and developing brain-penetrating derivatives that could be useful for clinical pain.
Huntington's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disease caused by an abnormally expanded (&gt;36) CAG repeat within the ITI5 gene encoding a widely expressed 349-kd protein, huntingtin. The medium spiny neurons of the caudate preferentially degenerate in Huntington's disease, with the presence of neuronal intranuclear inclusions. Excitotoxicity is thought to be important in the pathogenesis of Huntington's disease; the recently described mitochondrial respiratory chain and aconitase defects in Huntington's disease brain are consistent with this hypothesis. A transgenic mouse model (R6/2) of Huntington's disease develops a movement disorder, muscle wasting, and premature death at about 14 to 16 weeks. Selective neuronal death in these mice is not seen until 14 weeks. Biochemical analysis of R6/2 mouse brain at 12 weeks demonstrated a significant reduction in aconitase and mitochondrial complex IV activities in the striatum and a decrease in complex IV activity in the cerebral cortex. Increased immunostaining for inducible nitric oxide synthase and nitrotyrosine was seen in the transgenic mouse model but not control mouse brains. These results extend the parallels between Huntington's disease and the transgenic mouse model to biochemical events and suggest complex IV deficiency and elevated nitric oxide and superoxide radical generation precede neuronal death in the R6/2 mouse and contribute to pathogenesis.
The reasons underlying our fear of the use of toxins as new weapons different from chemical agents are discussed together with the conditions required for their use on the battlefield. The undeniable scientific contribution of toxins as pharmacological tools for the study of neurosciences and disease genesis and their prophylaxis is emphasized. In conclusion, the threat for mankind constituted by proliferation of this novel class of agents is stressed.
Endoscopic techniques are now an accepted part of the surgical armamentarium and are used routinely in a number of aesthetic and reconstructive procedures. Endoscopic techniques are now being used commonly by plastic surgeons in forehead and face lifts. In both craniofacial surgery and in neurosurgery, the application of endoscopy potentially allows the surgical team to perform wide dissection of the dura mater in a minimally invasive fashion, thereby potentially reducing the risk of dural and brain injury. Also reduced by this surgical approach is potential injury to the major venous structures, such as the sagittal sinus, along with overall reduced bleeding. After an extensive laboratory study of 10 cadaveric dissections, the authors have refined a new endoscopic technique for completing an endoscopic intracranial craniofacial osteotomy. This study was conducted in the Department of Pathology at the University of Brno (Czech Republic), and was performed as a cooperative multicenter project between the University of Palermo, the Albert Einstein College of Medicine/ Montefiore Medical Center, the Hospital Infantil de Mexico, &quot;Federico Gomez,&quot; and the Medtronic Midas Rex Institute, (Fort Worth, TX). During this cadaveric anatomic study and using small trephinations and skin incisions the authors were able to develop several different craniofacial and endoscopic monobloc procedures. To accomplish intracranial and facial osteotomies, a new malleable high-speed drill was designed for use in the endoscopic craniofacial approach. Using these newly developed cadaveric techniques and instrumentation, the authors performed two intracranial craniofacial procedures on children with congenital craniofacial anomalies. There would appear to be several significant advantages for the craniofacial patient as result of these new techniques: reduced surgical trauma, operative bleeding, surgical time, and hospitalization, along with a reduced risk of infection. It became quickly apparent, as a result of these cadaveric studies, that the learning curve for this endoscopic procedure is quite steep. Tutino M, Chico F, Tutino M, Goodrich JT, Ortiz Monasterio F. Endoscopic intracranial craniofacial and monobloc osteotomies with the aid of a malleable high-speed pneumatic drill: a cadaveric and clinical study.
In the short time since its introduction, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has rapidly evolved to become an indispensable tool for clinical diagnosis and biomedical research. Recently, this methodology has been successfully used for the acquisition of functional, physiological, and biochemical information in intact systems, particularly in the human body. The ability to map areas of altered neuronal activity in the brain, often referred to as functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), is probably one of the most significant recent achievements that rely on this methodology. This development has permitted the examination of functional specialization in human and animal brains with unprecedented spatial resolution, as demonstrated by mapping at the level of orientation and ocular dominance columns in the visual cortex. These functional imaging studies are complemented by the ability to study neurochemistry using magnetic resonance spectroscopy, allowing the determination of metabolic processes that support neurotransmission and neurotransmission rates themselves.
Courtship is a complex behavior in Drosophila that recruits a wide range of genes for its realization, including those concerning sex determination, ion channels, and circadian rhythms. Results from different experimental approaches-behavioral and genetic comparisons between species, analysis of mutants and mosaics, and identification of specific sensory stimuli-sketch the outlines of a set of pleiotropic genes acting on a distributed system in the brain to produce the species-specific sequence of responses and actions.
First recognized as a major determinant in lipoprotein metabolism and cardiovascular disease, apolipoprotein (apo) E has emerged as an important molecule in several biological processes not directly related to its lipid transport function, including Alzheimer's disease and cognitive function, immunoregulation, and possibly even infectious diseases. ApoE is a polymorphic protein arising from three alleles at a single gene locus. The three major isoforms, apoE4, apoE3, and apoE2, differ from one another only by single amino acid substitutions, yet these changes have profound functional consequences at both the cellular and molecular levels. ApoE3 seems to be the normal isoform in all known functions, while apoE4 and apoE2 can each be dysfunctional. Isoform (allele)-specific effects include the association of apoE2 with the genetic disorder type III hyperlipoproteinemia and with both increased and decreased risk for atherosclerosis and the association of apoE4 with increased risk for both atherosclerosis and Alzheimer's disease, impaired cognitive function, and reduced neurite outgrowth; isoform-specific differences in cellular signaling events may also exist. Functional differences in the apoE isoforms that affect (or did affect) survival before the reproductive years probably account, at least in part, for the allele frequencies of the present day.
The primate retina is an exciting focus in neuroscience, where recent data from molecular genetics, adaptive optics, anatomy, and physiology, together with measures of human visual performance, are converging to provide new insights into the retinal origins of color vision. Trichromatic color vision begins when the image is sampled by short- (S), middle- (M) and long- (L) wavelength-sensitive cone photoreceptors. Diverse retinal cell types combine the cone signals to create separate luminance, red-green, and blue-yellow pathways. Each pathway is associated with distinctive retinal architectures. Thus a blue-yellow pathway originates in a bistratified ganglion cell type and associated interneurons that combine excitation from S cones and inhibition from L and M cones. By contrast, a red-green pathway, in which signals from L and M cones are opposed, is associated with the specialized anatomy of the primate fovea, in which the &quot;midget&quot; ganglion cells receive dominant excitatory input from a single L or M cone.
Changing the strength of connections between neurons is widely assumed to be the mechanism by which memory traces are encoded and stored in the central nervous system. In its most general form, the synaptic plasticity and memory hypothesis states that &quot;activity-dependent synaptic plasticity is induced at appropriate synapses during memory formation and is both necessary and sufficient for the information storage underlying the type of memory mediated by the brain area in which that plasticity is observed.&quot; We outline a set of criteria by which this hypothesis can be judged and describe a range of experimental strategies used to investigate it. We review both classical and newly discovered properties of synaptic plasticity and stress the importance of the neural architecture and synaptic learning rules of the network in which it is embedded. The greater part of the article focuses on types of memory mediated by the hippocampus, amygdala, and cortex. We conclude that a wealth of data supports the notion that synaptic plasticity is necessary for learning and memory, but that little data currently supports the notion of sufficiency.
The principle function of the central nervous system is to represent and transform information and thereby mediate appropriate decisions and behaviors. The cerebral cortex is one of the primary seats of the internal representations maintained and used in perception, memory, decision making, motor control, and subjective experience, but the basic coding scheme by which this information is carried and transformed by neurons is not yet fully understood. This article defines and reviews how information is represented in the firing rates and temporal patterns of populations of cortical neurons, with a particular emphasis on how this information mediates behavior and experience.
Two fundamental aspects of frequency analysis shape the functional organization of primary auditory cortex. For one, the decomposition of complex sounds into different frequency components is reflected in the tonotopic organization of auditory cortical fields. Second, recent findings suggest that this decomposition is carried out in parallel for a wide range of frequency resolutions by neurons with frequency receptive fields of different sizes (bandwidths). A systematic representation of the range of frequency resolution and, equivalently, spectral integration shapes the functional organization of the iso-frequency domain. Distinct subregions, or &quot;modules,&quot; along the iso-frequency domain can be demonstrated with various measures of spectral integration, including pure-tone tuning curves, noise masking, and electrical cochlear stimulation. This modularity in the representation of spectral integration is expressed by intrinsic cortical connections. This organization has implications for our understanding of psychophysical spectral integration measures such as the critical band and general cortical coding strategies.
One fundamental function of primary motor cortex (MI) is to control voluntary movements. Recent evidence suggests that this role emerges from distributed networks rather than discrete representations and that in adult mammals these networks are capable of modification. Neuronal recordings and activation patterns revealed with neuroimaging methods have shown considerable plasticity of MI representations and cell properties following pathological or traumatic changes and in relation to everyday experience, including motor-skill learning and cognitive motor actions. The intrinsic horizontal neuronal connections in MI are a strong candidate substrate for map reorganization: They interconnect large regions of MI, they show activity-dependent plasticity, and they modify in association with skill learning. These findings suggest that MI cortex is not simply a static motor control structure. It also contains a dynamic substrate that participates in motor learning and possibly in cognitive events as well.
One of the most significant developments in biology in the past half century was the emergence, in the late 1950s and early 1960s, of neuroscience as a distinct discipline. We review here factors that led to the convergence into a common discipline of the traditional fields of neurophysiology, neuroanatomy, neurochemistry, and behavior, and we emphasize the seminal roles played by David McKenzie Rioch, Francis O Schmitt, and especially Stephen W Kuffler in creating neuroscience as we now know it. The application of the techniques of molecular and cellular biology to the study of the nervous system has greatly accelerated our understanding of the mechanisms involved in neuronal signaling, neural development, and the function of the major sensory and motor systems of the brain. The elucidation of the underlying causes of most neurological and psychiatric disorders has proved to be more difficult; but striking progress is now being made in determining the genetic basis of such disorders as Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, and a number of ion channel and mitochondrial disorders, and a significant start has been made in identifying genetic factors in the etiology of such disorders as manic depressive illness and schizophrenia. These developments presage the emergence in the coming decades of a new nosology, certainly in neurology and perhaps also in psychiatry, based not on symptomatology but on the dysfunction of specific genes, molecules, neuronal organelles and particular neural systems.
The field of neuroscience has, after a long period of looking the other way, again embraced emotion as an important research area. Much of the progress has come from studies of fear, and especially fear conditioning. This work has pinpointed the amygdala as an important component of the system involved in the acquisition, storage, and expression of fear memory and has elucidated in detail how stimuli enter, travel through, and exit the amygdala. Some progress has also been made in understanding the cellular and molecular mechanisms that underlie fear conditioning, and recent studies have also shown that the findings from experimental animals apply to the human brain. It is important to remember why this work on emotion succeeded where past efforts failed. It focused on a psychologically well-defined aspect of emotion, avoided vague and poorly defined concepts such as &quot;affect,&quot; &quot;hedonic tone,&quot; or &quot;emotional feelings,&quot; and used a simple and straightforward experimental approach. With so much research being done in this area today, it is important that the mistakes of the past not be made again. It is also time to expand from this foundation into broader aspects of mind and behavior.
A neurochemically distinct population of koniocellular (K) neurons makes up a third functional channel in primate lateral geniculate nucleus. As part of a general pattern, K neurons form robust layers through the full representation of the visual hemifield. Similar in physiology and connectivity to W cells in cat lateral geniculate nucleus, K cells form three pairs of layers in macaques. The middle pair relays input from short-wavelength cones to the cytochrome-oxidase blobs of primay visual cortex (V1), the dorsal-most pair relays low-acuity visual information to layer I of V1, and the ventral-most pair appears closely tied to the function of the superior colliculus. Throughout each K layer are neurons that innervate extrastriate cortex and that are likely to sustain some visual behaviors in the absence of V1. These data show that several pathways exist from retina to V1 that are likely to process different aspects of the visual scene along lines that may remain parallel well into V1.
After manipulations of the periphery that reduce or enhance input to the somatosensory cortex, affected parts of the body representation will contract or expand, often over many millimeters. Various mechanisms, including divergence of preexisting connections, expression of latent synapses, and sprouting of new synapses, have been proposed to explain such phenomena, which probably underlie altered sensory experiences associated with limb amputation and peripheral nerve injury in humans. Putative cortical mechanisms have received the greatest emphasis but there is increasing evidence for substantial reorganization in subcortical structures, including the brainstem and thalamus, that may be of sufficient extent to account for or play a large part in representational plasticity in somatosensory cortex. Recent studies show that divergence of ascending connections is considerable and sufficient to ensure that small alterations in map topography at brainstem and thalamic levels will be amplified in the projection to the cortex. In the long term, slow, deafferentation-dependent transneuronal atrophy at brainstem, thalamic, and even cortical levels are operational in promoting reorganizational changes, and the extent to which surviving connections can maintain a map is a key to understanding differences between central and peripheral deafferentation.
Most neurons have elaborate dendrites as well as an axon emanating from the cell body that form synaptic connections with one or many target cells, which may be located a considerable distance from the cell body. Such complex and impressive morphologies allow some types of neurons to integrate inputs from one to many thousands of pre-synaptic partners and to rapidly propagate electrical signals, often over long distances, to post-synaptic target cells. Much slower, non-electrical signals also propagate from dendrites and distal axons to neuronal nuclei that influence survival, growth, and plasticity. The distances between distal dendrites and/or distal axons and cell bodies of neurons can be hundreds of microns to more than one meter. This long-range biochemical signal propagation from distal dendrites and distal axons to neuronal nuclei is entirely unique to neurons. This review is focused on excitatory neurotransmitter signaling from dendritic synapses to neuronal nuclei as well as on retrograde growth factor signaling from distal axons to neuronal nuclei.
As child morbidity and mortality declined during the twentieth century, a corresponding increase occurred in the relevance of child psychological well-being to public health. Evidence of this trend is the proliferation of programs intended to ameliorate conditions that place children in jeopardy of poor developmental outcome. Most recently, neurobiologic information on brain function and structure has been used to promote strategies for optimizing child development. This review will evaluate the current state of knowledge relating early child development to brain research and illustrate the potential misuse of this information. It will also suggest the following: (a) the extrapolation of neuroscience results to early academic and social enrichment programs obscures the magnitude of potential effects of these programs relative to the vast burden of risk imposed by poverty, and (b) an emphasis on intellectual functioning misses the most compelling evidence on the role of the early social environment in mediating establishment of neural networks that regulate a child's response to stress and capacity for self-control.
We present a factor analytic study of the Conners Rating Scales for parents and teachers in this article. A comparison is established with the original factor analytic studies (Conners, 1979a, 1979b) and the results obtained by Farr-Riba and Narbona (1997), using a Spanish sample. Five hundred and forty children, ages 4 to 17, were randomly selected in Manizales, Colombia. The shortened Spanish version of the Conners Parents Rating Scale (CPRS; Conners, 1979a) and the Conners Teacher Rating Scale (CTRS; Conners, 1979b) were used. Parsimonious factor analyses for both scales were developed. Three stable factors were found in the CPRS: hyperactivity, somatic symptoms, and inattention. Twenty-two out of 48 items were significantly saturated by these 3 factors. In the CTRS, 4 different factors were found that accounted for 63.5% of the total variance: uncontrolled temperament, inattention, hyperactivity, and difficulties in social relationships. Twenty out of 28 items were significantly saturated by these 3 factors. Factor structure was closer to the Spanish Farr-Riba and Narbona report than to the original findings. We concluded that the CPRS and the CTRS Spanish versions, when used by Colombian children and adolescents, do not seem to evaluate exactly the same underlying behavioral dimensions. We propose selecting only 22 items of the CPRS and 20 items of the CTRS (brief versions) for further epidemiological and clinical use.
Cytochrome P4502E (P4502E), the major ethanol-inducible P450 metabolizes ethanol to acetaldehyde and bioactivates procarcinogens to ultimate carcinogens. Metabolism of ethanol to acetaldehyde in the brain could be deleterious since it can react with cytoskeletal proteins, forming adducts. In the present study, rats were administered ethanol chronically to evaluate its effect on chlorzoxazone hydroxylation in rat brain regions. Chlorzoxazone hydroxylation in brains from the treated rats was induced in hippocampus and cortex, downregulated in brainstem, and unchanged in cerebellum, striatum, and thalamus. The presence of functionally active P4502E was also seen in human brain regions obtained at autopsy from traffic accident victims. Northern blot analysis of rat and human brain poly(A)(+) RNA hybridized with cDNA to rat CYP2E1 revealed the constitutive presence of a corresponding transcript in rat and human brain. Localization of CYP2E by fluorescence in situ hybridization demonstrated the constitutive expression of CYP2E preferentially in the neuronal cells in rat and human brain. CYP2E expression was seen in neurons within the cerebral cortex, Purkinje and granule cell layers of cerebellum, granule cell layer of dentate gyrus, and pyramidal neurons of CA1, CA2, and CA3 subfields of hippocampus in both rat and human brain. The present studies demonstrate constitutive expression of P4502E1 in brain, its differential induction in rat brain regions by chronic ethanol treatment, and its topographic distribution in rat and human brain.

Psychiatry enters the new millennium poised to answer many of its central questions. Given the complexity of the human brain and its interactions with our world, these questions are among the most difficult ever addressed by human science. How is the human brain built? How does it change over the life span? What are the precise genetic and environmental risk factors for mental illnesses? What are the pathophysiologic processes that produce the symptoms and disabilities? How do our treatments, including psychotherapy, work? What objective markers can we discover to monitor the progression of the pathogenic processes and the effects of treatment? How will we discover preventive measures and cures that will be effective in diverse populations and settings? Parallel to the pursuit of its public health agenda, psychiatry will grow closer to neuroscience, behavioral science, and neurology. In so doing, those who practice these disciplines will be better positioned to ask meaningful questions about the relationship among mind, brain, and behavior, and to finally overcome the pervasive Cartesianism that continues to incubate stigma and ignorance about mental illness.

One of the strongest predictors for HIV-1-associated dementia is the presence of monocytic infiltration in perivascular areas of the brain. Therefore, macrophages have been suggested to play a major role in the development of this disease. This review focuses on possible mechanisms through which the macrophage may enhance disease progression by mediating neuronal damage.
Recent studies identified an adaptive &quot;Podokinetic&quot; (PK) sensory motor system involved in sensing and controlling spatial orientation during locomotion, by referencing body orientation to the space-stable stance foot. This paper investigates the interaction of vestibular and PK systems by asking blindfolded subjects to 'step-in-place' (i.e. without turning) after exposing them to a unidirectional post-rotational vestibular stimulus. Six of the nine subjects consistently began by vigorously propelling themselves round in the direction of preceding turntable rotation, but notably without any sensation of turning. In all these subjects the speed of this PK-induced rotation progressively declined to zero over about the next 30 sec and then reversed direction with increasing speed for about 50 sec. Thereafter the speed of rotation declined slowly to zero over the next 4 to 5 minutes. Since the PK-generated body rotation presumably feeds back into the vestibular-PK drive, we formulated a closed loop model of the combined system to investigate the complex nature of the behavioral response. The simulated response of this model closely resembled the experimental data, suggesting that there is indeed a functionally closed loop operating between the vestibular and podokinetic systems in natural life.
To examine otolith-governed ocular torsion in hyper- and hypogravity, eight subjects, including two astronauts, underwent parabolic flight while seated upright with head fixed. A mask fitted with two video cameras provided synchronized images of both eyes at a rate of 25/sec during 15 parabolas, the individual parabolas separated by a few minutes of level 1 G flight. Three main findings emerged: 1) After the first parabola, most subjects showed differential torsional offset of the two eyes in the 1 G portions between parabolas, compared to the conjugate baseline position of the eyes prior to the first parabola. 2) Changes in binocular torsion in the 0 G and 1.8 G portions of parabolic flight revealed in most subjects systematic reversal of direction. The reversal was consistent within, but not across subjects. 3) Disconjugacy defined as the moment-to-moment difference in the movements of the two eyes, and evaluated without the contribution of the differential offset, found two subjects with relatively high disconjugacy scores, and the remaining six with low scores. On the basis of prior studies (9, 20), we would predict the first two would be subject to SMS, the remainder not. The two astronauts, who did not have SMS on their space missions, fell into the low scoring group. We propose that the disconjugacies may be due to intrinsic asymmetries in the otolith receptors on the two sides of the head, which appear to be independently linked to the extraocular muscles of the two eyes, a phenomenon masked in normal 1 G states by adaptation. The apparently independent control of the two sides cannot be detected by the simpler and more common monocular studies.
Many secondary vestibular neurons are sensitive to head on trunk rotation during reflex-induced and voluntary head movements. During passive whole body rotation the interaction of head on trunk signals related to the vestibulo-collic reflex with vestibular signals increases the rotational gain of many secondary vestibular neurons, including many that project to the spinal cord. In some units, the sensitivity to head on trunk and vestibular input is matched and the resulting interaction produces an output that is related to the trunk velocity in space. In other units the head on trunk inputs are stronger and the resulting interaction produces an output that is larger during the reflex. During voluntary head movements, inputs related to head on trunk movement combine destructively with vestibular signals, and often cancel the sensory reafferent consequences of self-generated movements. Cancellation of sensory vestibular signals was observed in all of the antidromically identified secondary vestibulospinal units, even though many of these units were not significantly affected by reflexive head on trunk movements. The results imply that the inputs to vestibular neurons related to head on trunk rotation during reflexive and voluntary movements arise from different sources. We suggest that the relative strength of reflexive head on trunk input to different vestibular neurons might reflect the different functional roles they have in controlling the posture of the neck and body.



Presented are results of testing the method of adaptive biocontrol during preflight training of cosmonauts. Within the MIR-25 crew, a high level of controllability of the autonomous reactions was characteristic of Flight Commanders MIR-23 and MIR-25 and flight Engineer MIR-23, while Flight Engineer MIR-25 displayed a weak intricate dependence of these reactions on the depth of relaxation or strain.
Inactivation of neurons in the midbrain raphe region produces increases in locomotor activity, and it appears that they function to suppress locomotion. Inactivation of neurons there also produces hippocampal slow wave (theta) activity and it appears that they also function to inhibit rhythmic activity in the hippocampus. We determined whether the degree of association between the two effects was consistent with the operation of a single mechanism. Stimulation electrodes were implanted into locomotor sites of the hypothalamus of 34 urethane-anesthetized rats. Hindlimb stepping was elicited by 5.12-s trains of perifornical electrical stimulation presented once per minute. Hippocampal theta activity was recorded across the CA1 layer of the dorsal hippocampus. GABA injections were used to locate raphe sites at which neuronal inactivation influenced stepping and hippocampal activity. A glass pipette (80-microm tip) was inserted into the midbrain, and injections of GABA (50-100 mg/0.1-0.2 microl) were made in 70 sites in the midbrain. Injections at 34 sites facilitated stimulation-elicited stepping, and at 17 sites, they also produced intertrial stepping. Facilitating injections, but not ineffective or suppressive injections, increased the mean peak frequency of hippocampal activity, and increased power in the 4-5 Hz band during the period that preceded the stimulation trains, but did not change the 5-6 Hz activity produced during the stimulation trains. Priming locomotor stimulation which also facilitated stepping produced generally similar increases in pre-stimulation peak frequency and 4-Hz power. The magnitudes of the increases in stepping and 4-Hz power were uncorrelated. The increase in 4-Hz power appeared earlier than the increase in stepping in 18 of 34 cases, and later in 11 cases; no increases in 4-Hz power were apparent in five cases. The results indicate that pre-locomotor 4-Hz hippocampal activity in the urethane-anesthetized rat is loosely coupled with facilitated locomotor initiation. Neurons in the midbrain raphe region appear to suppress both processes, but the low degree of association between the magnitudes and onset times of increases in stepping and hippocampal 4-Hz power indicate the operation of multiple mechanisms.
The present study examined the effect of fornix lesions on freezing behavior elicited by contextual and phasic conditioned stimuli. Male mice of the C57Bl/6 strain received electrolytic lesions of the fornix. Ten days following the lesion, they were submitted to acquisition of one-trial classical fear conditioning involving the pairing of an auditory conditioned stimulus (CS) with a footshock unconditioned stimuli (US). Analysis of conditioned fear responses showed that fornix lesions enhanced the freezing response elicited by exposure to the conditioning chamber 24 h after a single tone-shock pairing. In contrast, the two groups did not differ on their fear responses during the auditory cue test. Analysis of the time-course of freezing behavior during re-exposure to the conditioning chamber suggests, however, that the observed fornix lesion-induced facilitation of freezing to the conditioning chamber is more likely due to a facilitation of the processing of a simple (unimodal) rather than polymodal (contextual) CS-US association.

This review describes the principles of microphysiometry and how they can be applied, using the Cytosensor, to the investigation of the signal transduction mechanisms activated by both G-protein and non-G-protein coupled hormone and neuropeptide receptors. The use of the Cytosensor to study desensitisation and cross-talk is also discussed, as are the benefits and limitations of this technique.
The gene for enkephalin is expressed only in specific subsets of neurons in the mammalian central nervous system (CNS), whereas the large majority of neurons do not express the gene. This restricted expression is the result of a developmental process during which some of the multipotent neural progenitors express the gene for enkephalin and thereby become enkephalinergic neurons. The regulation of this process is not well understood. We have used a novel approach to identify DNA-protein interactions that regulate the developmental expression of the gene for enkephalin. We have identified four novel DNA regulatory sites and their binding proteins that are expressed in the developing mammalian CNS. These protein-DNA interactions regulate DNA and nuclear structures through DNA bending, DNA sliding, chromatin remodelling and far-distant DNA interactions. The concerted and co-ordinated interactions of these four DNA elements and their binding proteins contribute to the guiding of multipotent neural progenitors into enkephalinergic neurons. The provided examples suggest an important role for architectural transcriptional regulation during CNS development.
Breathing is generated by a neuronal network located within the caudal brainstem. One area of particular significance for respiratory rhythm generation is the pre-Btzinger (preBotC) complex in the ventrolateral medulla. An important step towards understanding the cellular and network basis by which neurons within this region generate the respiratory rhythm was made in a recent study by Koshiya and Smith.(1) Using simultaneous image analysis and electrophysiological techniques these authors identified a discrete population of synaptically-coupled pacemaker neurons within the preBotC. They postulated that these neurons constitute the minimal essential network component (kernel) for generating the respiratory rhythm. BioEssays 22:6-9, 2000.
Selective learning has been observed in Pavlovian conditioning in animals and in judgements of event contingencies in humans. This analogy led to the suggestion that the formation of associations underlies both types of learning. An alternative theory proposes that both tasks involve the computation of event contingencies as prescribed by probability theory. Error-driven models of learning incorporate trial-by-trial error-correction mechanisms during training whereas probabilistic models view learning merely as the storage of frequency information for later use during judgement of event contingencies. Competitive interaction between cues was observed in a contingency judgement task. Event-related brain potentials (ERPs) provided evidence for brain events related to the discrepancy between actual and expected outcomes during training thus supporting error-driven accounts of selective learning.
REsin Activation/Capture APproach or REACAP Technology, a novel approach to the synthesis of compound libraries, capitalizes on the formation and retention of a resin-bound reactive intermediate, which can be subsequently transformed into a stable, covalently attached molecule. Any unreacted &quot;reactive intermediate&quot; is quenched and removed from the resin upon work-up, leaving only the desired product on the solid support. In contrast to more traditional solid-supported chemistry that must address issues such as resin-loading, capping of unreactive functionalized moieties, and reaction yields, REACAP offers an attractive alternative with the focus more on the purity of the released products and less on yield. In an endeavor to generate truly non-peptide leads, we describe herein the synthesis of N-acyl-2-substituted-dihydro-4-pyridones, dihydro-4-pyridones, 4-ketopiperidines, tetrahydropyridines, and 2-acyl-3,7,8-substituted-5-oxo-2-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane and triaza analogs using REACAP Technology.
Noradrenaline- and peptide-containing nerve fibres project into the bone marrow and terminate in association with stromal cells and within the parenchyma. Peptidergic nerve terminals are also associated with antigen-processing and -presenting cells throughout the body and have been shown to be important in leucocyte trafficking and wound healing, as well as haemopoiesis. Here, we tested the in vivo effects of deleting the peripheral neuropeptide network on haemopoiesis and also investigated whether the target cell population for these substances was myeloid progenitor cells (colony-forming unit-granulocyte/macrophage, CFU-GM). Deletion of the neuropeptides, substance P (SP) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) by capsaicin abrogates normal blood cell production. These neuropeptides produced significant stimulation of colony formation from unfractionated bone marrow and elicited production of soluble factors capable of stimulating highly enriched CFU-GM. CGRP also had a direct stimulatory effect on highly enriched CFU-GM. Noradrenaline elicited factors that inhibited colony formation and had no direct effect on CFU-GM. We conclude that the neuropeptides form the positive arm of a neural control system and that noradrenaline acts as a negative regulator.
1. We investigated how manipulations of the degree of activation of adenosine A(1) and A(2A) receptors influences the action of the neuropeptide, calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) on synaptic transmission in hippocampal slices. Field excitatory post-synaptic potentials (EPSPs) from the CA1 area were recorded. 2. When applied alone, CGRP (1 - 30 nM) was without effect on field EPSPs. However, CGRP (10 - 30 nM) significantly increased the field EPSP slope when applied to hippocampal slices in the presence of the A(1) receptor antagonist, 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopenthyl xanthine (DPCPX, 10 nM), or in the presence of the A(2A) adenosine receptor agonist CGS 21680 (10 nM). 3. The A(2A) receptor antagonist, ZM 241385 (10 nM) as well as adenosine deaminase (ADA, 2 U ml(-1)), prevented the enhancement of field EPSP slope caused by CGRP (30 nM) in the presence of DPCPX (10 nM), suggesting that this effect of CGRP requires the concomitant activation of A(2A) adenosine receptors by endogenous adenosine. 4. The protein kinase-A inhibitors, N-(2-guanidinoethyl)-5-isoquinolinesulfonamide (HA-1004, 10 microM) and adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphorothioate, Rp-isomer (Rp-cAMPS, 50 microM), as well as the inhibitor of ATP-sensitive potassium (K(ATP)) channels, glibenclamide (30 microM), prevented the facilitation of synaptic transmission caused by CGRP (30 nM) in the presence of DPCPX (10 nM), suggesting that this effect of CGRP involves both K(ATP) channels and protein kinase-A. 5. It is concluded that the ability of CGRP to facilitate synaptic transmission in the CA1 area of the hippocampus is under tight control by adenosine, with tonic A(1) receptor activation by endogenous adenosine 'braking' the action of CGRP, and the A(2A) receptors triggering this action.
In capsaicin-pretreated mice, the nociceptive responses induced by intrathecally (i.t.) administered substance P (SP) were enhanced by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-type receptor antagonists, dizocilpine (MK801) and D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate (D-AP5) in a dose-dependent manner. Similar enhancement of SP-induced nociception was also observed in mice lacking the NMDA-type glutamate receptor NR2A/epsilon(1) subunit gene (GluRepsilon(1)(-/-) mice). On the other hand, GluRepsilon(1)(-/-) mice showed a marked enhancement of the peripheral nociceptive responses induced by intraplantar (i.pl.) injection of SP and bradykinin (BK). As the nociceptive responses to SP and BK (i.pl.) were both antagonized by CP-99994, an neurokinin(1) (NK(1)) antagonist (i.t.), these results suggest that GluRepsilon(1) receptor may play an inhibitory role in the downstream mechanisms of primary nociceptive SP neurones, possibly through activation of unidentified inhibitory neurones.
The endogenous cannabinoid anandamide was identified as an agonist for the recombinant human VR1 (hVR1) by screening a large array of bioactive substances using a FLIPR-based calcium assay. Further electrophysiological studies showed that anandamide (10 or 100 microM) and capsaicin (1 microM) produced similar inward currents in hVR1 transfected, but not in parental, HEK293 cells. These currents were abolished by capsazepine (1 microM). In the FLIPR anandamide and capsaicin were full agonists at hVR1, with pEC(50) values of 5. 94+/-0.06 (n=5) and 7.13+/-0.11 (n=8) respectively. The response to anandamide was inhibited by capsazepine (pK(B) of 7.40+/-0.02, n=6), but not by the cannabinoid receptor antagonists AM630 or AM281. Furthermore, pretreatment with capsaicin desensitized the anandamide-induced calcium response and vice versa. In conclusion, this study has demonstrated for the first time that anandamide acts as a full agonist at the human VR1.
The effect of NMDA on the motility of the rat portal vein was studied in an isolated preparation. NMDA induced a concentration-dependent (10(-7) - 10(-4) M) increase of the contraction frequency (maximum increase, 148+/-6% of control at NMDA 10(-4) M). The NMDA-induced excitatory response was prevented by the competitive NMDA receptor antagonists (+/-)-2-Amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (AP-5, 5x10(-4) M) or (RS)-3-(2-carboxypiperazine-4-yl) propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP, 10(-4) M). Tetrodotoxin (TTX, 10(-6) M) or atropine (10(-4) M) abolished the NMDA-induced increase of the portal vein motility and reversed the excitatory effect to a concentration-dependent inhibition (maximum inhibition, 52+/-8 and 29+/-7% of controls, respectively, at NMDA 10(-3) M). Removal of the endothelium abolished the NMDA-induced inhibitory response. Sodium nitroprusside concentration-dependently (10(-7) - 10(-5) M) inhibited the portal vein motility, while L-N(G)-nitro-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 10(-4) M) reversed the inhibitory effect of NMDA (in the presence of TTX), restoring the portal vein spontaneous activity to control values. These results show that NMDA modulates the portal vein motility in a biphasic manner: via indirect activation, through prejunctional NMDA receptors presumably located on intrinsic excitatory neuronal afferences, or via direct inhibition, through endothelial NMDA receptors activating the nitric oxide pathway. Overall these findings support the hypothesis of the existence of a peripheral glutamatergic innervation modulating the contractile activity of the rat portal vein. British Journal of Pharmacology (2000) 129, 156 - 162

Decisions about feeding are amongst the most difficult to face those managing stroke patients. About a fifth of patients with acute stroke are malnourished on admission to hospital. Moreover, patients' nutritional status often deteriorates thereafter because of increased metabolic demands which cannot be met due to feeding difficulties. Poor nutritional intake may result from: (i) reduced conscious level; (ii) an unsafe swallow (iii) arm or facial weakness; (iv) poor mobility; or (v) ill fitting dentures. Malnutrition is associated with poorer survival and functional outcomes, although these associations may not be causal. Patients often receive support with oral supplements or enteral tube feeding via nasogastric or percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy. Although these probably improve nutritional parameters, it is unclear whether they improve patients' outcomes. Also the optimal timing, type and method of enteral feeding is uncertain. Large randomised trials are now in progress to identify the optimum feeding policies for stroke patients.
Transcranial Doppler ultrasound allows measurements of blood flow velocity to be made from the basal intracerebral vessels. The major advantages of transcranial Doppler ultrasound are that it is non-invasive, relatively cheap, can be performed with portable machines, allows monitoring for prolonged periods, and has a high temporal resolution making it ideal for studying dynamic cerebrovascular responses. In addition it has recently been demonstrated that it can be used to detect circulating cerebral emboli; these cannot be detected by any other currently available imaging modality.
One of the hallmarks of the human demyelinating disease multiple sclerosis is the inability to compensate adequately for the loss of myelin and of oligodendrocytes, the myelin-forming cells of the CNS. Oligodendrocyte precursor cells, a potential source of oligodendrocytes, have been identified in lesions of chronic multiple sclerosis, but it is not known whether they develop into new, fully differentiated oligodendrocytes, capable of remyelination. Sections of post-mortem multiple sclerosis tissue were therefore immunolabelled with antibodies to galactocerebroside (GalC), the first oligodendrocyte-specific molecule to be expressed by differentiating oligodendrocyte precursor cells, and myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG), a marker for mature oligodendrocytes. In total, 23 lesions from 15 subjects with chronic progressive multiple sclerosis were analysed. The immunolabelling revealed that chronic multiple sclerosis lesions contain only small numbers of immature, process-bearing, GalC-positive oligodendrocytes (0-2 cells/mm(2) in 10 micrometer thick sections); they had a relatively large, pale nucleus (maximum diameter: 9.9 +/- 0.9 micrometer). Although they appeared to make contact with surrounding demyelinated axons, most immature oligodendrocytes appeared not to be engaged in myelination. These findings suggest that oligodendrocyte differentiation of precursor cells is a rare event in chronic multiple sclerosis, which is consistent with the general failure of myelin repair during the later stages of this disease. The lesions in the collection, in particular those with recent demyelinating activity, contained another distinct population of oligodendrocytes. It consisted of small, round cells with a small, dense nucleus (maximum diameter: 6.8 +/- 0.8 micrometer) that expressed both GalC and MOG but lacked processes, suggesting that these cells were mature oligodendrocytes that had survived the loss of their myelin sheaths, i.e. they were demyelinated oligodendrocytes. In the most recent lesions in the collection, the demyelinated oligodendrocytes were found in large numbers throughout the centre of the lesion (up to 700 cells/mm(2)), while in the older lesions they were found only at the edges. Moreover, when the borders of these older lesions still contained numerous macrophages, they tended to contain more demyelinated oligodendrocytes than those lacking macrophages. These findings suggest that mature, demyelinated oligodendrocytes gradually disappear from lesion areas with increasing age of the lesion. The present study thus suggests that the failure of myelin repair in at least some cases of chronic multiple sclerosis is due to (i) the loss of demyelinated oligodendrocytes from lesion areas and (ii) the failure of the oligodendrocyte precursor population to expand and generate new oligodendrocytes. Gaining further insight into these processes may prove crucial for the development of remyelination promoting strategies.
From studies of subhuman primates it has been assumed that functional corticospinal innervation occurs post-natally in man. We report a post-mortem morphological study of human spinal cord, and neurophysiological and behavioural studies in preterm and term neonates and infants. From morphological studies it was demonstrated that corticospinal axons reach the lower cervical spinal cord by 24 weeks post-conceptional age (PCA) at the latest. Following a waiting period of up to a few weeks, it appears they progressively innervate the grey matter such that there is extensive innervation of spinal neurons, including motor neurons, prior to birth. Functional monosynaptic corticomotoneuronal projections were demonstrated neurophysiologically from term, but are also likely to be present from as early as 26 weeks PCA. At term, direct corticospinal projections to Group Ia inhibitory interneurons were also confirmed. Independent finger movements developed much later, between 6 and 12 months post-natally. These data do not support the proposal that in man, establishment of functional corticomotoneuronal projections occurs immediately prior to and provides the capacity for the expression of fine finger movement control. We propose instead that such early corticospinal innervation occurs to permit cortical involvement in activity dependent maturation of spinal motor centres during a critical period of perinatal development. Spastic cerebral palsy from perinatal damage to the corticospinal pathway secondarily involves disrupted development of spinal motor centres. Corticospinal axons retain a high degree of plasticity during axon growth and synaptic development. The possibility therefore exists to promote regeneration of disrupted corticospinal projections during the perinatal period with the double benefit of restoring corticospinal connectivity and normal development of spinal motor centres.
Hippocampal sclerosis (HS) is a common derangement in many patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. As a result of neuronal cell loss in the hilar region of the hippocampus, it is proposed that mossy fibres sprout and re-innervate new regions of the dentate gyrus. This sprouting may cause recurrent excitation that may lead to the generation of seizures. Here, we determined neuronal density, and synaptophysin and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) immunoreactivity in hippocampal specimens from patients with pharmaco-resistant temporal lobe epilepsy. Patients were classified into two groups: those with severe and those with no HS. Non-epileptic autopsy tissue served as controls. Mossy fibre sprouting was investigated in these two groups of epilepsy patients using Timm's staining and an immunohistochemical staining of the presynaptic growth-associated protein B-50 (also known as GAP-43, neuromodulin, F1). B-50 immunoreactivity in the different sub-areas of the hippocampus was quantified by image analysis. Our results show the following: (i) in both groups of temporal lobe epilepsy patients, there was a significant loss in cell number in all major hippocampal sub-areas compared with autopsy control tissue; (ii) in HS patients, when compared with non-HS patients, there was a further decline in the number of principal cells in all hippocampal sub-areas analysed, which was associated with an increase in GFAP immunoreactivity; (iii) the decline in cell density was accompanied by a reduced number of synaptic terminals; (iv) in the HS group, there were sprouted mossy fibres in the supragranular layer (SGL) of the dentate gyrus; (v) there was an increase in synaptophysin immunostaining in the SGL indicating that functionally active nerve terminals were formed; and (vi) B-50 immunoreactivity was also increased in the SGL in the HS group compared with the non-HS and control groups. These data showed that all temporal lobe epilepsy hippocampi investigated had severe neuronal cell loss which was most dramatic in the HS group, where it was accompanied by a severe loss of synapses. In the HS group, mossy fibre sprouting into the SGL was found. The increase in B-50 immunoreactivity in the SGL indicated that there was still active sprouting. This sprouting was accompanied by an increased density of synapses, indicating that mossy fibre terminals are not only anatomically present, but probably also functional. Thus, functional glutamatergic mossy fibre terminals are in the right position to synapse on to the dendrites of granule cells and thus may contribute to the onset of seizures.













When a switch between two tasks has to be carried out, performance is slower than in trials where the same task is performed repeatedly. This finding has been attributed to time-consuming control processes required for task switching. Previous results of other paradigms investigating cognitive control processes suggested that prefrontal cortex is involved in executive control. We used event-related fMRI to investigate prefrontal cortex involvement in task switching. Regions in the lateral prefrontal and premotor cortex bilaterally, the anterior insula bilaterally, the left intraparietal sulcus, the SMA/pre-SMA region and the cuneus/precuneus were activated by the task repetition condition and showed additional activation in the task switch condition. This confirmed the hypothesis that lateral prefrontal cortex is involved in task switching. However, the results also showed that this region is neither the only region involved in task switching nor a region specifically involved in task switching.
The present study investigates the sensitivity of distinct brain regions to the syntactic processing of running speech. Experimental conditions varied the grammaticality of sentence types (correct vs. incorrect). Moreover, two different groups of subjects listened to the same sentence material, but followed two different task instructions. All participants were asked to listen to the auditory stimuli and to perform in a grammaticality judgment-task, whereas only half of the subjects were instructed to additionally repair incorrect sentences covertly. Significantly increased brain responses occurred in several left temporal areas as a function of sentences' grammaticality, particularly, in the 'pure' judgment-group. Spatial extent as well as the strength of focal brain activation changed as a function of grammaticality and task demand. A generally enhanced pattern of local blood supply to the right peri-sylvian cortex could be observed when individuals additionally realized the repair-task. In particular, the right inferior frontal gyrus (pars opercularis and pars triangularis) and the right temporal transverse gyrus (Heschl's gyrus) were more strongly affected by the repair-task demand. In contrast, an anterior portion of the superior temporal gyrus (planum polare) displayed increased activation bilaterally. Although left hemisphere activation varied clearly as a function of a sentence's grammaticality, the present findings demonstrate an involvement of the right peri-sylvian cortex, in particular, when task demands explicitly require an on-line repair. The results as a whole suggest a reconsideration of the notion that auditory language comprehension is restricted to the left hemisphere. The underlying mechanisms and the respective roles of both the left and the right hemisphere during speech processing are discussed.
Helmholtz is one of the most brilliant physiologists of the 19th century. His experimental research was respectful for strict empiricism and physical laws, but he admitted that a physiological theory of perception was only possible in the frame of a psychological approach, irreductible to physiology. He is considered as a precursor of the Neurosciences.
Arthur Van Gehuchten (1861-1914), Belgian anatomist and neurologist, professor at the Universit catholique de Louvain, was an enthusiastic user of photography and a pioneer of medical cinematography. He used these techniques widely in order to illustrate his lectures, papers and his neurological textbook. His films and photographic plates are at the present time being studied and restored. The nitrate films are the oldest belgian films surviving. Neuroscientists have played a major role in the development of medical photography and cinematography and in the use of these techniques for clinical, research or didactic purposes.
Many of the comfortable and relatively simple models of the nature of mental disorders, their causes and their neural substrates now appear quite frayed. Gone is the idea that symptom clusters, course of illness, family history and treatment response would coalesce in a simple way to yield valid diagnoses. Also too simple was the concept, born of early pharmacological successes, that abnormal levels of one or more neurotransmitters would satisfactorily explain the pathogenesis of depression or schizophrenia. Gone is the notion that there is a single gene that causes any mental disorder or determines any behavioural variant. The concept of the causative gene has been replaced by that of genetic complexity, in which multiple genes act in concert with non-genetic factors to produce a risk of mental disorder. Discoveries in genetics and neuroscience can be expected to lead to better models that provide improved representation of the complexity of the brain and behaviour and the development of both. There are likely to be profound implications for clinical practice. The complex genetics of risk should reinvigorate research on the epidemiology and classification of mental disorders and explain the complex patterns of disease transmission within families. Knowledge of the timing of the expression of risk genes during brain development and of their function should not only contribute to an understanding of gene action and the pathophysiology of disease but should also help to direct the search for modifiable environmental risk factors that convert risk into illness. The function of risk genes can only become comprehensible in the context of advances at the molecular, cellular and systems levels in neuroscience and the behavioural sciences. Genetics should yield new therapies aimed not just at symptoms but also at pathogenic processes, thus permitting the targeting of specific therapies to individual patients.


Using immunohistochemistry techniques, we have examined the female reproductive organs of the rat in late pro-oestrus/early oestrus for the presence of purine nucleotide P2X1-7 receptors. In contrast to the male genital organs and the urinary tract, P2X1 receptors were present weakly, if at all, on smooth muscle membranes, except in blood vessels, whereas P2X2 immunoreactivity in smooth muscle was present in ovary and uterus as well as in blood vessels. Neither P2X1 nor P2X2 receptors were present in fallopian tubes. P2X5 receptors were seen in the differentiating cell layers of the stratified squamous vaginal epithelium and also in the very early stages of ovarian follicular development; P2X6 receptors were present in secondary follicles. P2X7 receptors, markers for programmed cell death, were present in the keratinised vaginal epithelium and also in the exfoliating superficial endometrial cells. The possible biological significance of these signalling molecules in the female reproductive tract is discussed.
A large proportion of grafted striatal neurons die, and mechanisms by which they succumb may involve excitotoxicity and oxidative stress. We investigated the effects of pretreatment of the graft tissue with the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist (+)dizocilpine hydrogen maleate (MK-801) and lipid peroxidation inhibitor lazaroid U-83836E on the survival of transplanted striatal neurons. Neither compound increased the survival of grafts, suggesting that NMDA-related excitotoxicity or oxidative stress may not be primary mediators of cell death in striatal grafts.
It is important that physicians practise evidence-based medicine. Clinical experience is important, but there are a number of reasons why clinical experience can lead to the impression that ineffective treatments are effective. There are major educational and research challenges which must be met before clinicians can practice evidence-based migraine therapy more extensively than at present. Treating physicians will need to learn more about the principles of evidence-based medicine. Researchers will need to produce more and better clinical trials that address important clinical questions. The results of these trials will need to be reported clearly, and we need to improve the efficiency with which these results can be accessed. It is important that the pharmaceutical industry, clinicians, and academic health centres work together to meet these challenges.

In monkey dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (PFC), long-distance, horizontally oriented intrinsic axon collaterals interconnect clusters of pyramidal neurons in the supragranular layers. In order to study the electrophysiological responses mediated by these long-distance projections, an in vitro slice preparation of monkey PFC was used to obtain whole-cell patch clamp recordings from layer 3 pyramidal neurons. Using in vivo tracer injections, we found that long-distance projections were well preserved in PFC slices cut in the coronal plane. Postsynaptic currents were evoked by low-intensity electrical extracellular stimulation applied successively to 20-30 discrete sites located up to 2200 micron lateral to the recorded cell. Several criteria were applied to discriminate between mono- and polysynaptic responses. Long-distance monosynaptic connections were mediated by fibers with relatively slow conduction velocity (0.14 m/s). Excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) evoked by stimulation of short- or long-distance horizontal connections did not differ in kinetic properties. The majority (77%) of the 35 layer 3 PFC neurons studied were monosynaptic targets of long-distance connections. EPSCs mediated by long-distance connections had amplitudes that were similar or even larger than short-distance EPSCs, suggesting that excitatory input provided by the former was relatively robust. For most neurons (87.5%) in which a full complement of monosynaptic EPSCs was evoked by multisite stimulation, the EPSC amplitude as a function of stimulation distance from the recorded cells exhibited statistically significant peaks. The spacing between peaks was similar to the spacing between interconnected clusters of neurons observed in previous anatomical studies. The results show that long-distance excitatory connections constitute a significant intrinsic pathway of synaptic communication in layer 3 of monkey PFC.
To elucidate the functions of nonprimary motor cortical (nPMC) areas whose afferents synapse onto output neurons of the primary motor cortex (PMC), we examined the responses of pyramidal tract neurons (PTNs) and non-PTNs (nPTNs) to electrical stimulation in the three nPMCs, the supplementary motor area (SMA) and the dorsal and ventral divisions of the premotor cortex (PMd and PMv), with extracellular unit recording in alert monkeys. Typical responses of PTNs to nPMC stimulation were early orthodromic excitatory responses followed by inhibitory responses. Among 27 PTNs tested by constructing peri-stimulus time histograms, 19 (70.4%) showed inhibitory responses to stimulation in all of the nPMC areas. In contrast, 5/33 PTNs (15.2%) and 10/72 nPTNs (13.9%) showed excitatory responses to stimulation in all of the nPMCs. The inhibitory responses of PTNs were mediated by inhibitory interneurons, some of which may correspond to nPTNs in the superficial layers of the PMC. These interneurons probably possess widely extended axons and nonspecifically inhibit multiple PTNs in layer V. The excitatory and inhibitory influences, and the patterns of convergence of inputs from the nPMCs onto the PTNs, are important to understand motor control by the nPMC-PMC-spinal cord pathway.
The redistribution of neuronal activity across rat barrel cortex following an alteration in whisker usage has been investigated. In adult rats, two mystacial vibrissae - D(2) and one neighbor, D(1) or D(3) - were left intact while all other vibrissae on that side of the snout were clipped. Neurons in contralateral barrel cortex were sampled with a microelectrode array 3.5 days later. Stimulation of clipped vibrissae produced a narrow spatial distribution of cortical activity, whereas stimulation of intact vibrissae produced a widened spatial distribution. Simultaneous recordings from multiple cortical barrel-columns suggest that changes in the effective connectivity between barrel-columns may partially account for this redistribution of sensory responses. Evidence is also presented for a second mechanism, a release from inhibition in sensory-deprived cortical areas. A model is therefore proposed where these two mechanisms operate together to regulate the cortical distribution of evoked activity.
Functional neuroimaging, psychophysical and electrophysiological investigations were performed in a patient with non-decussating retinal-fugal fibre syndrome, an inborn achiasmatic state in which the retinal projections of each eye map entirely to the ipsilateral primary visual cortex. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies showed that for monocularly presented simple visual stimuli, only the ipsilateral striate cortex was activated. Within each hemisphere's striate cortex, the representation of the two hemifields overlapped extensively. Despite this gross miswiring, visual functions that require precise geometrical information (such as vernier acuity) were normal, and there was no evidence for the confounding of visual information between the overlapping ipsi-lateral and contralateral representations. Contrast sensitivity and velocity judgments were abnormal, but their dependence on the orientation and velocity of the targets suggests that this deficit was due to ocular instabilities, rather than the miswiring per se. There were no asymmetries in performance observed in visual search, visual naming or illusory contour perception. fMRI analysis of the latter two tasks under monocular viewing conditions indicated extensive bilateral activation of striate and prestriate areas. Thus, the remarkably normal visual behavior achieved by this patient is a result of both the plasticity of visual pathways, and efficient transfer of information between the hemispheres.





The fact that many patients with chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) have an infectious like sudden onset to their illness has led to the hypothesis that CFS is a medical illness. If CFS were, on the other hand, a psychiatric disorder related to symptom amplification, one would expect illness onset to occur randomly over the calendar year. This study tested that hypothesis with 69 CFS patients whose illness was on the more severe side of the illness spectrum; all patients reported sudden illness onset with the full syndrome of sore throat, fatigue/malaise, and diffuse achiness developing over no longer than a 2-day period. Date of illness onset was distinctly nonrandom. It peaked from November through January and was at its lowest from April through May. These data support the hypothesis that an infectious illness can trigger the onset of CFS.
Two issues concerning sensorimotor EEG operant conditioning, or biofeedback, as a therapeutic modality for the treatment of seizure disorders are the focus of this review. The first relates to the question of whether relevant physiological changes are associated with this procedure. This question is addressed through review of an extensive neurophysiological literature that is likely unfamiliar to many clinicians but that documents both immediate and sustained functional changes that are consistent with elevation of seizure thresholds. The second focuses on the clinical efficacy of this method and whether it should carry the designation of &quot;experimental&quot;. This designation is challenged through an assessment of over 25 years of peer-reviewed research demonstrating impressive EEG and clinical results achieved with the most difficult subset of seizure patients.
Contrary to the belief that schizophrenic patients will be unable to learn self control of electrocortical activity due to attentional and motivational deficits, the two studies which have investigated this, both involving operant conditioning of slow cortical potentials, have demonstrated that self regulation can take place. This was particularly true of a study of interhemispheric control. Learning difficulties were found to be more to do with sustaining motivation towards the end of sessions or training programs, rather than in initial learning. Schizotypical features in the normal population have in the case of anhedonia been associated with slower learning, while withdrawn introversion has been associated with faster learning. In view of the affirmative evidence and advances in understanding the functional significance of electroencephalographic (EEG) rhythms, the undertaking of therepeutic regimens with electrocortical operant conditioning is warranted in the schizophrenia spectrum.
1. Shifts in behavioural state are controlled by reciprocal changes in discharge of cholinergic and aminergic groups of brain-stem/pontine neurons. During rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, cholinergic neurons are most active and aminergic neurons are least active. 2. Significant changes occur in the central control of breathing during REM sleep; respiration rate increases in frequency and variability, brain-stem respiratory neuron discharge is generally enhanced and the outputs of some respiratory motor neuron pools are depressed. 3. Hypoglossal motor neurons (HM) control tongue movement and their depression during REM sleep has been implicated in obstructive sleep apnoea. The cellular basis of HM depression has been investigated in vitro and may be due to enhanced activation of cholinergic receptors or decreased activation of aminergic receptors. 4. In vitro preparations that show respiratory rhythmogenesis possess advantages for the investigation of the neurochemical basis of state-dependent changes in respiration. Cholinergic changes in respiratory modulation of HM recorded in rhythmic brain-stem slices from mice depend on the site of activation of cholinergic receptors.
1. A common 'stroke model', the rat middle cerebral artery occlusion preparation, was used to compare photocoagulation with mechanical occlusion. 2. Areas of cerebral infarction and of vascular leakage were compared using these two methods. The general pattern of damage was similar, with central infarcted areas surrounded by larger vascular leakage areas. 3. The two models differed in the extent of their vascular leakage areas and in their response to the cerebroprotective agent flunarizine. 4. We conclude that the two models are not equivalent, probably because they do not damage the vascular endothelium to the same degree.
Clinical, histological, immunohistochemical and ultrastructural features of 5 cases of inclusion body myositis -4 sporadic (s-IBM) and one hereditary (h-IBM) form are described. These patients (3 men, 2 women) had chronic progressive weakness of varying severity in all 4 extremities with sparing of cranial muscles. Elevation of CPK was noted in 2 patients. Electromyography revealed features of myopathy in 4 and additional neurogenic changes in 2 subjects. Clinical diagnosis was often other than inclusion body myositis. Presence of characteristic eosinophilic inclusions within the vacuoles established the diagnosis. The inclusions were congophilic and showed positivity to ubiquitin, beta-amyloid and SMI-31 in the sporadic cases while congophila was absent in the hereditary form. Immunostaining to hyperphosphorylated-tau was negative in both s-IBM and h-IBM. Membraneous whorls were observed at ultrastructural level. None of the patients improved with steroids and trial with other immunosuppressants was unsuccessful.
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of gabapentin in the treatment of muscle cramps, we engaged an open-label trial with a group of 30 patients with frequent (&gt; 5 cramps/week), stable, long-lasting cramps, associated with different diseases. Gabapentin was effective in reducing the frequency and severity of muscle cramps and associated sleep disturbances (clinical outcome measures) within the first 2 weeks of medication at 600 mg/d. At the 1 month control (mean dosage, 825 +/- 35 mg), almost every patient had responded to treatment and two thirds experienced a total remission of symptoms. After 3 months of therapy (mean dosage, 892 +/- 180 mg), cramps disappeared in 100% of patients and this benefit persisted as long as 6 months. Additionally, we evaluated in 10 patients the Cramps Threshold Frequency (CTF) (neurophysiological outcome measure) before and during gabapentin treatment. Gabapentin significantly increased the CTF, returning it to normal values. With the limitation of an open-label methodology, our clinical and neurophysiologic experience suggests that a gabapentin dose of 600-1200 mg/d would be helpful in the treatment of muscular cramps.
Patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) in long-term levodopa therapy often complain of worsening of motor symptoms in the afternoon and evening. The pathophysiology of this phenomenon is not known. We evaluated the motor response to repeated doses of levodopa during a 12-hour period in 52 parkinsonian patients (19 de novo, 20 stable, and 13 wearing-off). On the day of the study, all patients received standard doses of levodopa/carbidopa at 8:00 a.m., 12:00 noon, and 4:00 p.m. Motor measurements such as tapping test, walking time, and tremor score, and blood samples for levodopa and 3-O-methyldopa (3OMD) plasma analysis, were performed hourly. Mean motor scores and pharmacokinetic data, evaluated for a period of 3 hours after each levodopa dose, were compared. In de novo patients, we did not observe diurnal changes in motor score, whereas a progressive daytime worsening was visible in stable and wearing-off patients. No significant difference in levodopa pharmacokinetics after each levodopa dose was observed within each patient group, whereas 3OMD plasma levels significant increased with repeated levodopa administrations. However, no significant correlation between motor scores and 3OMD plasma levels was observed, suggesting that the diminishing motor response to afternoon and evening doses of levodopa in patients in long-term levodopa therapy does not relate to the pharmacokinetics of the drug. It is possible that this phenomenon may be an expression of the occurrence of tolerance to repeated doses of levodopa.


This is the first monograph devoted to the history of chronic pain. A novel methodology is used. Examining responses to a problem that remained stable over time anchors a survey of shifting terms and theories and leaves the historical invariance of the clinical syndrome open to textual research. Writings by medical authors from a wide range of professional backgrounds are examined including surgeons, physicians, psychiatrists, neurophysiologists, neurologists and psychoanalysts. Early responses to the problem of chronic pain without structural lesion were the appearance of neuralgia, a neuro-anatomical rewriting of traditional sympathies, extension of the concept of lesion to embrace disturbance of function and appeals to cenesthesis. Later in the century distinctions were drawn between hysterical and neuralgic pain, and between ideogenic, psychogenic and neurogenic pain. Some argued for the physiological equivalence of chronic pain and melancholia, while pain was central to Freud's original notion of conversion. This evidence of continuous discussion of lesionless pain throughout the century challenges the orthodox historical view that the rise of neuroscience meant such pain was simply dismissed as imaginary. The historical invariance of a syndrome of chronic pain without lesion speaks against histories of lesionless syndromes premised on social constructionism. The historical findings are relevant to contemporary debates about the nosology and nature of chronic pain.











A review of the literature investigating the neural origins of detection behavior in humans reveals two event-related potential components, P3a and P3b, each with a distinct neural organization and cognitive function.The P3a is involved in automatic novelty detection and characterized by a more anterior cortical distribution, whereas the P3b is concerned with volitional target detection and has a more posterior cortical distribution. Intracranial investigation, studies with patients with focal brain lesions, and functional neuroimaging (fMRI) studies converge with scalp-recorded event-related potential (ERP) data in suggesting that a widespread cortical network gives rise to both automatic and controlled detection behavior. The main regions consistently attributed to generating detection-related brain activation include the temporal-parietal junction, medial temporal complex, and the lateral prefrontal cortex. The extant human and animal literature addressing the neural networks, neuropharmacological underpinnings, and behavioral significance of the P300 potential will be reviewed.
The purpose of this review is to discuss molecular factors influencing nerve growth to teeth. The establishment of a sensory pulpal innervation occurs concurrently with tooth development. Epithelial/mesenchymal interactions initiate the tooth primordium and change it into a complex organ. The initial events seem to be controlled by the epithelium, and subsequently, the mesenchyme acquires odontogenic properties. As yet, no single initiating epithelial or mesenchymal factor has been identified. Axons reach the jaws before tooth formation and form terminals near odontogenic sites. In some species, local axons have an initiating function in odontogenesis, but it is not known if this is also the case with mammals. In diphyodont mammals, the primary dentition is replaced by a permanent dentition, which involves a profound remodeling of terminal pulpal axons. The molecular signals underlying this remodeling remain unknown. Due to the senescent deterioration of the dentition, the target area of tooth nerves shrinks with age, and these nerves show marked pathological-like changes. Nerve growth factor and possibly also brain-derived neurotrophic factor seem to be important in the formation of a sensory pulpal innervation. Neurotrophin-3 and -4/5 are probably not involved. In addition, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, but not neurturin, seems to be involved in the control of pulpal axon growth. A variety of other growth factors may also influence developing tooth nerves. Many major extracellular matrix molecules, which can influence growing axons, are present in developing teeth. It is likely that these molecules influence the growing pulpal axons.
Colon carcinogenesis is a multistep process that involves deletions, mutations, and changes in expression of genes that regulate growth, differentiation, and apoptosis. Hyperproliferation can initiate dysplastic growth, resulting in accumulation of genetic defects and progression of colon cancer. Although genetic instability, because of inheritance of specific genetic defects, plays a dominant role in familial cancers, in the majority of sporadic cancers hyperproliferation is likely to play a permissive role in initiation and progression of the disease. Thus factors that regulate growth, differentiation, and apoptosis are likely to play an important role in colon carcinogenesis. Autocrine gastrins, insulin-like growth factor-II, transforming growth factor-alpha, and endocrine gastrins have been implicated in the tumorigenic potential of colon cancer cells. In this article we focus on the role of endocrine and autocrine gastrins in colon cancer and review recent advances that suggest a role of processing intermediates of gastrin in colon carcinogenesis.
Visceral pain is of great concern to the medical community because it remains particularly resistant to current clinical treatments. A serendipitous and initially unexplainable clinical finding that a punctate midline dorsal column lesion is effective in eliminating visceral pain, however, has initiated a resurgence of interest in the study of the basic mechanisms of visceral nociception. Clinical and anatomic findings have determined that visceral pain either of thoracic or pelvic origin can be relieved by carefully placed lesions directed at the lateral edge or the medial edge of the gracile fasciculus, respectively. Studies are demonstrating that visceral pain is quite unique from cutaneous pain.
Proper cell division requires that the cell be able to form a bipolar spindle during mitosis. To achieve this, the centrosome must be replicated accurately during interphase. Our understanding of the mechanisms that allow centrosome doubling to be coordinated with other cell cycle progression processes is advancing at a rapid pace. Several different experimental systems have been developed that are allowing detailed studies of centrosome replication. For example, the identification of mutants in yeast that are unable to duplicate the SPB accurately during interphase has provided important insights concerning centrosome duplication. In addition, intact embryonic cells and extracts prepared from unfertilized eggs are powerful tools for investigating the molecular regulation of centrosome doubling during the cell cycle. Many of the observations from these embryonic systems are directly applicable to understanding centrosome doubling in somatic cells. Finally, transgenic mouse models and cultured mammalian cell systems have been developed for analyzing the regulation of centrosome doubling in cells with more complex cell cycles. As our knowledge of the cell cycle advances, particularly our understanding of the intricate series of events that must occur for somatic cells to traverse G1 phase, it should be possible to use the systems that have been developed to determine how the replication of the centrosome is coordinated with other cell cycle progression processes. The next few years should see rapid advances in our understanding of this critical cell biological process.
There are currently no treatments available (beyond optimal control of hyperglycemia) that arrest or reverse progressive diabetic polyneuropathy. Consultation with a diabetologist is indicated for patients with poorly controlled disease and polyneuropathy. Immunotherapy for diabetic lumbosacral plexopathy has been advocated but is not supported to date by class 1 clinical trial evidence. Pharmacologic treatment for painful neuropathy may include topical anesthetics, capsaicin cream, anticonvulsants, tricyclic antidepressants, mexiletine, and opioids. Gabapentin, a newer anticonvulsant, has an attractive side-effect profile (a consideration in older patients) and has fewer interactions with other drugs. Amitriptyline may cause excessive sedation, postural hypotension, constipation, and urinary retention, but low evening doses (10 to 25 mg), slowly titrated upward, may offer relief from nocturnal pain. Opioids should not be withheld from patients with severe pain or with intolerance of or contraindications to other agents. A single physician should supervise their use.
We evaluated remote autobiographical memory impairment in 25 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 25 sex-, age- and education-matched healthy subjects by using a newly developed, highly effective assessment tool for remote memory, the Family Line Test (FLT). The FLT yields a total score, scores for 3 lifetime periods and the duration of remote memory impairment. In the patients with AD, the total score was significantly lower and the duration of remote memory impairment was significantly longer than in the healthy controls. A prominent temporal gradient in remote memory impairment was documented in the patients with AD. The total FLT score and duration of remote memory impairment correlated with recent memory and general cognitive dysfunctions.
Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is a noninvasive means of brain stimulation with a broad range of basic neuroscience and potential future clinical applications. Recent animal studies have shed some light on the mechanisms of action of rTMS, and broadened our understanding of how this intervention affects brain functioning acutely and chronically. Differences in the physical properties of magnetic and electrical stimulation result in marked disparities in the amount and distribution of electrical current induced in the brain; nevertheless, rTMS shares many of the behavioral and biochemical actions of electroconvulsive shock (ECS) and other antidepressant treatments. rTMS reduces immobility in the Porsolt swim task and enhances apomorphine-induced stereotypy, as does ECS. Although rTMS can induce a seizure when given at high enough doses, most studies have found subconvulsive levels of rTMS to be anticonvulsant. rTMS acutely modulates dopamine and serotonin content and turnover rates. Chronic rTMS modulates cortical beta-adrenergic receptors, reduces frontal cortex 5-HT2 receptors, increases 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptors in frontal cortex and cingulate, and increases N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in the ventromedial hypothalamus, basolateral amygdala, and parietal cortex. More work will be needed to clarify and explore the mechanism behind the early suggestions that rTMS may exert long-term-potentiation-like or long-term-depression-like action on hippocampal activity. Finally, rTMS is emerging as yet another intervention, like ECS and other antidepressants, that can regulate gene expression and may have an impact on neuronal viability and synaptic plasticity.
In Drosophila, the fish-hook (fish) gene encodes a Sox protein essential for embryonic segmentation and nervous system organization. In this study we examined potential functional roles of fish in postembryonic developmental processes, including those involved in adult appendage development. We show here that Fish protein is expressed in discrete patterns in the larval eye-antennal and leg imaginal discs, the central nervous system, the hindgut, and salivary glands. Genetic mosaic studies indicated that fish function is required for the growth or survival of imaginal cells, and the expression of engrailed and wingless. Ectopic expression of Fish protein resulted in severe disruption of adult structures; legs and antennae were truncated and eye formation was suppressed. These morphological defects were correlated with altered expression patterns of the wingless, decapentaplegic, and bric-a-brac genes. Finally, analysis of truncated versions of Fish protein indicated that the HMG domain was sufficient for Fish nuclear localization and that removal of the transcriptional activation domain did not eliminate Fish function. While Sox proteins have been shown to be important for eye and limb formation in vertebrates, these data provide the first evidence for Sox protein functions in appendage development in invertebrates.
Adolescent development and pattern of recovery are described for a 15-year-old boy who sustained extensive right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex damage at age 7 from rupture and surgical treatment of a deep arteriovenous malformation. Follow-up evaluations at 4 years and most recently 8 years after illness have shown clear improvement in social-behavioral and almost all cognitive areas initially assessed. He demonstrated resolution of left hemispatial neglect and other visuospatial impairments in working memory, design fluency, and planning and organization. However, at the 8-year follow-up interval, an acquired form of attention deficit disorder remains evident. We hypothesized that this is the likely cause of comparatively lower scores in general intelligence, verbal learning and memory, discourse, and processing speed, that at the 4-year follow-up interval. New measures of emotional face and voice recognition showed only minor difficulties, principally in identifying vocal disgust and fear. Social and psychological maturation has continued to improve, with no evidence of developmental arrest or pervasive social impairment, although the individual is confused at times by complexities and nuances of social interaction. The pattern of findings 8 years after early right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex damage suggests remarkable recovery of primary visuospatial and social impairments, but lingering and somewhat worsening performance deficits which may be due to attentional difficulties and impulsive responding. Treatment of the attentional difficulties is currently being investigated.
It has been known for over 100 years that frontal lobe injury in children is often associated with considerably more functional recovery than after similar injury in adulthood. Systematic study of frontal cortical injury in laboratory animals has shown that this recovery is tightly tied to developmental age: There is a brief window of time during cortical development during which the brain is able to compensate. Simply being young is not sufficient because injury prior to this critical period leads to miserable behavioral outcomes. For humans, the least favorable time for cortical injury is likely at the end of the gestational period, perhaps including the 1st month or so of life whereas the most favorable time is around 1 to 2 years of age. In addition to age, the extent of behavioral recovery is influenced by age at assessment, the nature of the behavioral assessment, sex, and lesion size. Anatomical studies have shown that functional recovery following early cortical injury is correlated with a reorganization of remaining cortical circuitry, including increased dendritic arborization and increased spine density. Recovery, and the compensatory anatomical changes, can also be potentiated by application of different treatments including behavioral therapy, trophic factors, and neuromodulators. Finally, there is preliminary evidence in laboratory animals to suggest that it may be possible to induce neural regeneration in the injured brain and that the regenerated brain functions to support functional recovery.
Metacognition is one of the cognitive processes included under the general term executive functions. The executive functions are widely held to be under the control of the prefrontal cortex, an area often damaged after severe traumatic brain injury (TBI). We examined the metacognitive processing of a group of 9 children with TBI, and a group of 9 healthy, age-matched control children. Children with TBI showed significant impairments in their accuracy of prediction of the ease with which an item would be learned and their ability to predict recall of an item after a 2-hr delay. No significant differences in recall performance between the TBI and control groups were exhibited. The results are interpreted as suggesting an impairment in metacognitive processing resulting from frontal lobe damage after TBI in children. Additional research is necessary to confirm the relation of frontal lobe pathology and severity of injury to metacognitive impairments.
Personality changes in 7 participants with bilateral ventromedial prefrontal lesions (PF-BVM), 14 participants with prefrontal lesions but not bilateral ventromedial involvement (PF-NBVM), and 36 with nonprefrontal lesions (NPF) were investigated with the Iowa Rating Scales of Personality Change. Informants rated 30 specific characteristics for degree of disturbance and change from premorbid personality. PF-BVM participants showed a higher rate of acquired disturbances than NPF participants in blunted emotional experience, apathy, low emotional expressiveness, inappropriate affect, poor frustration tolerance, irritability, lability, indecisiveness, poor judgment, social inappropriateness, lack of planning, lack of initiation and persistence, and lack of insight. Differences between the PF-BVM and PF-NBVM groups were significant for several of these characteristics. All 7 PF-BVM participants developed a syndrome, including general dampening of emotional experience; poorly modulated emotional reactions; defective decision making, especially in the social realm; impaired goal-directed behavior; and striking lack of insight. Similarities between this syndrome of &quot;acquired sociopathy&quot; and developmental psychopathy in characteristic personality disturbances and psychophysiological abnormalities suggest that diminished emotionality, impaired decision making, and psychosocial dysfunction may be related to ventromedial prefrontal dysfunction in both groups.
Frontal lobe dysfunction is often invoked as a contributing factor in developmental disorders characterized by chronic maladaptive behavior, but interpretation of relevant neuropsychological findings has been hampered by the limited information available regarding the consequences of focal prefrontal damage early in life. We describe here the long-term behavioral and cognitive sequelae of damage to prefrontal cortex in two young adult patients who had sustained their brain damage prior to 16 months of age. In the context of normal neurological examinations, both cases had remarkable histories of impaired decision making, behavioral dyscontrol, social defects, and abnormal emotion. Performances were primarily normal on a broad range of neuropsychological measures (intellect, memory, language, academic achievement, visual perception, and visuoconstruction), but selective impairments of executive function were evident. Early dysfunction in the prefrontal region may result in severe and chronic social maladjustment despite largely normal cognitive abilities. These findings can help inform neuropsychological evaluation of patients with possible prefrontal dysfunction in the setting of developmental disabilities or early brain trauma.
The effects of brain injury acquired early in life on the development of cognition and behavior are not well understood. Deciphering these effects and modeling their neurodevelopmental trajectories are major concerns for clinicians and scientists. Historically, a prevailing notion has been that early-onset brain damage has a more favorable prognosis than does brain damage acquired in adulthood. However, there is growing evidence suggesting that early-onset damage to prefrontal brain structures may have devastating consequences on the emergence of adaptive behavior throughout development. Particularly prominent are disorders of personality, social behavior, and executive functions such as planning and decision making. This special issue presents a series of new empirical studies that address these issues in depth, from several different perspectives, and in both human and animal participants. The findings promise to shed further light on both the neurobiology of development, and diverse neurodevelopmental disorders. Such advances may also enhance clinical diagnosis and facilitate the design of more effective interventions to help reduce the tremendous burden that neurodevelopmental disorders place on personal well-being, family structure, educational systems, and social resources.
PKA phosphorylations of tau may be an early event in the development of neurofibrillary pathology in Alzheimer's disease. Serines 214 and 409 of tau are highly phosphorylated in PHF-tau, but are not phosphorylated to any significant extent in normal adult human brain; both of these sites are phosphorylated in human fetal tissue. To further study this phenomenon, a developmental characterization of these phosphorylation sites relative to PKA, cAMP-dependent response binding element (CREB) and phosphorylated CREB was performed using samples from mouse brain. Immunoblot analysis using antibodies specific for phospho-serine 214 (CP-3) and phospho-serine 409 (PG-5) revealed a marked decrease in phosphorylation occurring at each of these sites between postnatal day 11 (P11) and P20. Immunoblots with TG-5, a pan-tau antibody, revealed uniform expression of tau during postnatal development, as well as a switch in isoform composition that is evident between P7 and P11. This switch in isoform composition just precedes the change in the extent of phosphorylation at serines 214 and 409, and occurs at a time when PKA phosphorylation of CREB is increasing.
The influence of neonatal administration of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) on the maturation of GABA(A) receptors in the frontal cortex and hippocampus was studied using 5- to 40-day-old rats. In situ hybridization with antisense oligonucleotide probes was performed for alpha(1), alpha(2), alpha(5), beta(2), beta(3) and gamma(2) subunit mRNAs of the GABA(A) receptor. We demonstrated that neonatal treatment with 6-OHDA temporarily delays the postnatal transcription of the alpha(1) and gamma(2) subunits in the rat prefrontal cortex, as assessed by in situ hybridization histochemistry. The effect was selective for these subunits (the alpha(2), alpha(5), beta(2), and beta(3) subunit mRNAs remained unchanged) and for this region (the mRNA levels in the hippocampus were not changed). The reduction in mRNA levels at early postnatal stages (postnatal day 5, PD5, and PD10) also affected the subunit protein levels, as shown by immunohistochemistry for the alpha(1) subunit, and the formation of GABA(A) receptor-associated picrotoxinin-insensitive TBPS binding sites, as shown by autoradiography. Our findings indicate that without a noradrenergic influence, the maturation of GABAergic interneurons in the frontal cortex is transiently delayed (from PD5 to PD40). However, it is possible that this transient reduction of the expression of certain GABA subunits - caused by depletion of noradrenergic innervation - cannot cause a lasting alteration to the GABAergic function in the prefrontal cortex.
Our previous studies of H218, a sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) receptor and a member of the G-protein-coupled receptor superfamily, suggest that it may participate in mammalian nervous system development. Thus, brain levels of H218 mRNA are higher during early neurogenesis than postnatally. In addition, embryonic H218 immunoreactivity is preferentially localized in young neuronal cell bodies during their early stages of differentiation and in axons during their extension. This report describes the morphological effects of reducing native H218 levels in PC12 cells. Western blot analyses demonstrated that PC12 cells stably transfected with an expression vector carrying an antisense-oriented H218 cDNA contain less H218 protein than vector-transfected control cells. When differentiated with growth factors, the antisense-H218 cells display more neurite production and form less cell-cell contacts than the control cells. Therefore, these data, along with our previous H218 expression studies and a recent, independent study of H218 overexpression, support the possibility that H218 contributes to developmental processes regulating neuronal interaction and axon growth. The data are also consistent with reports that H218 is a S1P receptor, that S1P is present in serum, like that used in our PC12 cell cultures, and that it causes PC12 cell neurite retraction. Finally, and in agreement with a S1P receptor role for H218, we find that the antisense-H218 cells display less S1P-induced neurite retraction than control cells.
The GLUT4 glucose transporter is primarily expressed in skeletal muscle, heart and adipose tissue, where its expression is postnatal, coincident with the acquisition of insulin-regulated glucose transport. In muscle, contraction also regulates GLUT4 activity in the postnatal animal. Here we demonstrate that GLUT4 is expressed in the developing mouse embryo with specific tissue and spatiotemporal patterns. From embryonic day 9 (E9; E1 = day of copulation plug) to postnatal day 70 (P70), mice were analyzed for GLUT4 mRNA and protein expression by in situ hybridization, immunohistochemistry and immunoblot. Specificity was confirmed with sense riboprobe hybridization and peptide competition, respectively. At E9, GLUT4 was detected in the cranial neural folds in the outer (mantle) layer of the neuroepithelium. At E10, expression was present throughout the developing heart and was prominent in the endocardial cushions through E12. At E10-12, GLUT4 was also prominent in craniofacial mesenchyme. GLUT4 expression in cartilage and bone was evident at E12 and was maintained throughout early postnatal life. GLUT4 was apparent throughout embryonic development in the ventricular epithelium, choroid plexus and in the developing cerebellum. At birth, cardiac expression was reduced and GLUT4 was most evident in cartilage, bone and specific brain regions. In the latter, GLUT4 expression was most evident in the cerebellum, specifically in the external granular layer through P7 and in the internal granular layer thereafter. Maximal GLUT4 protein levels in the cerebellum were measured between P14 and P21 and were reduced in the adult brain. These findings suggest that GLUT4-mediated glucose transport may play important roles during development of the brain and nonneuronal tissues in the mouse embryo.
In situ detection of neural progenitor cells including stem-like cells is essential for studying the basic mechanisms of the generation of cellular diversity in the CNS, upon which therapeutic treatments for CNS injuries, degenerative diseases, and brain tumors may be based. We have generated rat monoclonal antibodies (Mab 14H1 and 14B8) that recognize an RNA-binding protein Musashi1, but not a Musashi1-related protein, Musashi2. The amino acid sequences at the epitope sites of these anti-Musashi1 Mabs are remarkably conserved among the human, mouse, and Xenopus proteins. Spatiotemporal patterns of Musashi1 immunoreactivity in the developing and/or adult CNS tissues of frogs, birds, rodents, and humans indicated that our anti-Musashi1 Mabs reacted with undifferentiated, proliferative cells in the CNS of all the vertebrates tested. Double or triple immunostaining of embryonic mouse brain cells in monolayer cultures demonstrated strong Musashi1 expression in Nestin(+)/RC2(+) cells. The relative number of Musashi1(+)/Nestin(+)/RC2(+) cells increased fivefold when embryonic forebrain cells were cultured to form 'neurospheres' in which stem-like cells are known to be enriched through their self-renewing mode of growth. Nestin(+)/RC2(-) cells, which included Talpha1-GFP(+) neuronal progenitor cells and GLAST(+) astroglial precursor cells, were also Musashi1(+), as were GFAP(+) astrocytes. Young neurons showed a trace of Musashi1 expression. Cells committed to the oligodendroglial lineage were Musashi(-). Musashi1 was localized to the perikarya of CNS stem-like cells and non-oligodendroglial progenitor cells without shifting to cell processes or endfeet, and is therefore advantageous for identifying each cell and counting cells in situ.
During development, the output of the subventricular zone (SZ) becomes increasingly restricted, yet it still harbors multipotential progenitors. The output of the SZ could be gated by selectively eliminating inappropriately specified progenitors. Using in situ end-labeling (ISEL) to identify apoptotic cells, nearly 60% of the ISEL(+) cells in the juvenile forebrain were localized to the SZ. Of these dying cells, at least 9% could be identified as neurons, 4% as astrocytes, and 12% as oligodendrocytes. The remainder were negative for the stem cell marker nestin, as well as other markers evaluated. To test the hypothesis that committed progenitors were under selective pressures, neural stem/progenitor cells were allowed to differentiate in vitro in the presence or absence of the caspase 3 inhibitor z-DEVD-fmk. DEVD increased neuronal production 10-fold over control cultures. By contrast, the development of astrocytes and oligodendrocytes was not affected. Altogether, these data support the hypothesis that selective forces within the postnatal rat forebrain control the types of precursors that emerge from the germinal matrix. Furthermore, they suggest that different mechanisms control neuronal versus glial cell numbers.
Two S-phase markers for in vivo studies of cell proliferation in the developing central nervous system, tritiated thymidine ((3)H-TdR) and bromodeoxyuridine (BUdR), were compared using double-labeling techniques in the developing mouse cortex at embryonic day 14 (E14). The labeling efficiencies and detectability of the two tracers were approximately equivalent, and there was no evidence of significant tracer interactions that depend on order of administration. For both tracers, the loading time needed to label an S-phase cell to detectability is estimated at &lt;0.2 h shortly after the injection of the label, but, as the concentration of the label falls, it increases to approximately 0.65 h after about 30 min. Thereafter, cells that enter the S-phase continue to become detectably labeled for approximately 5-6 h. The approximate equivalence of these two tracers was exploited to observe directly the numbers and positions of nuclei entering (labeled with the second tracer only) and leaving (labeled with the first tracer only) the S-phase. As expected, the numbers of nuclei entering and leaving the S-phase both increased as the interval between the two injections lengthened. Also, nuclei leaving the S-phase rapidly move towards the ventricular surface during G2, but, unexpectedly, the distribution of the entering nuclei does not differ significantly from the distribution of the nuclei in the S-phase. This indicates that: (1) the extent and rate of abventricular nuclear movement during G1 is variable, such that not all nuclei traverse the entire width of the ventricular zone, and (2) interkinetic nuclear movements are minimal during S-phase.
The uneven profile of performance on standard assessments of intelligence and the high incidence of savant skills have prompted interest in the nature of intelligence in autism. The present paper reports the first group study of speed of processing in children with autism (IQ 1 SD below average) using an inspection time task. The children with autism showed inspection times as fast as an age-matched group of young normally developing children (IQ 1 SD above average). They were also significantly faster than mentally handicapped children without autism of the same age, even when these groups were pairwise matched on Wechsler IQ. To the extent that IT tasks tap individual differences in basic processing efficiency, children with autism in this study appear to have preserved information processing capacity despite poor measured IQ. These findings have implications for the role of general and specific cognitive systems in knowledge and skill acquisition: far from showing that children with autism are unimpaired, we suggest that our data may demonstrate the vital role of social insight in the development of manifest &quot;intelligence.&quot;

Postsynaptic alpha-2-receptor function, as assessed by growth hormone (GH) response to clonidine (CLON), has been shown to be downregulated in patients investigated in acute but also in late withdrawal after heavy alcohol intake. The results are however sometimes conflicting. The question whether this changed receptor function is a trait or state marker is not fully investigated so far. A total of seven male patients with alcohol dependence according to DSM-IV were assessed for the postsynaptic alpha-2-receptor function with the CLON/GH test (2.0 microg/kg body weight; i.v.) starting immediately after a period of heavy drinking. Neuroendocrine tests were repeated after 7 days, 2 and 6 months. A total of six healthy males were used as controls. The maximum GH responses to CLON were significantly lower on all four test occasions in the patient group as compared to the controls. Furthermore, in the patient group all neuroendocrine test results showed blunted GH responses to CLON. Thus, patients with downregulated alpha-2-receptor function during acute withdrawal after heavy alcohol intake showed similar subsensitive receptor function abnormality after a prolonged period of abstinence. The findings in this study indicate that alcohol dependent individuals have a persistent subsensitive alpha-2-adrenoceptor function which may constitute a trait factor for alcohol dependence.
With pressure on pharmaceutical companies to reduce time-to-market and improve the success rate of new drug candidates, higher-throughput pharmacokinetic (HTPK) support has become an integral part of many drug discovery programmes. This report details the amalgamation of robotics, new sample preparation technologies and highly sensitive and selective mass spectrometric detection systems to deliver the promise of HTPK. A historical perspective on automated bioanalysis with the current approaches and future prospects for the discipline are described.



Pharmacologic and immunologic evidence suggests that nitric oxide-coupled mu-subtype opiate receptors are expressed in human vascular endothelium. In this study, we present molecular evidence of mu opiate receptor expression. Using primers derived from the human neuronal mu1 opiate receptor, we used RT-PCR to detect expression of mu transcripts from human endothelia. Sequence analysis of the RT-PCR products revealed 100% identity with the neuronal human mu1 receptor. We further show that pretreatment of human internal thoracic artery and cardiac atrial endothelium with the proinflammatory cytokines interleukin-1-alpha and -beta led to a significant increase in both the expression of the mu transcript and in morphine-stimulated nitric oxide release measured amperometrically. Taken together, these studies provide molecular evidence that mu-type opiate receptors are expressed in human vascular endothelia and that their expression can be upregulated by proinflammatory cytokines.






Whilst most laboratory smooth pursuit tasks are performed in the dark, in everyday life pursuit commonly occurs over a structured background. This background provides a powerful stimulus to the optokinetic reflex (OKR), inducing a background &quot;drag&quot; on pursuit eye movements. An inability to inhibit the influence of the OKR may be a contributing factor to the dysfunctional pursuit performance observed in many schizophrenic patients. Smooth pursuit performance was measured in 23 first-episode schizophrenic patients and 23 healthy controls matched for age and estimated IQ, both in the dark and over a structured background (a random checkerboard of black and white squares). Velocity gain was measured, as well as the number and size of corrective saccades (catch-up saccades) and intrusive saccades (anticipatory saccades and square wave jerks). Overall, schizophrenic patients had lower velocity gain and made more catch-up saccades than controls. The effect of the background was to lower velocity gain and increase the number of catch-up saccades to the same extent in schizophrenic patients and controls. There were no significant interactions between group and background effect. These results suggest that, although their overall level of performance was worse, the schizophrenic patients were as able as controls to inhibit the effect of the OKR. Since lesion studies show that inhibition of the OKR requires intact inferior parietal regions in man (Lawden et al., 1995), one hypothesis is that the parietal component of smooth pursuit may be intact in schizophrenia.
Suicidal ideation and communication were investigated for 89 suicide victims with a primary severe depression and matched controls. The selection of patients was based on multiaxial ratings of all hospitalised patients between 1956 and 1969. A blind record evaluation was performed, including scores on Beck's Scale for Suicidal Ideation and additional items apart from that scale. There was no relation between high scores on the Beck's scale and completed suicide. In the male group, suicidal ideation &quot;beyond one's own will&quot; was related to suicide. Female suicides that had made an attempt showed higher suicidal ideation than female suicides who had not. A substantial minority of the women (22%) committed suicide without showing any previous intent. Only 5% of the male suicides had shown no previous intent to commit suicide.
The main purpose of this study was to investigate the changes in anthropometric measures and muscle strength that occur during puberty in children from the age of 11 to 16 years. Special attention was paid to possible gender- and muscle action-type-specific alterations in torque/velocity and EMG/velocity characteristics. Sixteen children participated in the study (9 boys and 7 girls). Eccentric and concentric muscle strength was measured on an isokinetic dynamometer at angular velocities of 45, 90 and 180 degrees x s(-1). Simultaneously, a surface electromyogram (EMG) was recorded from the quadriceps muscle. At the age of 11, the boys and girls exhibited equal anthropometric measures and strength performance. In both genders, body measures and muscle strength increased significantly during the 5-year period, with larger increases being recorded for the boys. In addition, the boys increased selectively their eccentric torque per body mass, indicating an action-type-specific change in muscle quality. The general shape of the torque/velocity relationship exhibited an adult-like pattern both before and after puberty, and did not differ between genders. Both pre- and postpuberty, myoelectric activity was generally lower during eccentric than concentric actions, the highest values occurring for both genders in the concentric 180 degrees x s(-1) test. Ratios of eccentric to concentric torque per EMG, which reflect electromechanical efficiency, showed no significant changes with age. A significant velocity- and gender-specific change in electromechanical efficiency was observed at the highest speed at postpuberty, where the ratio for the girls was higher than for the boys.

The SLC6A4 gene encodes the serotonin transporter, the target of an important class of antidepressant drugs (serotonin selective reuptake inhibitors). Polymorphisms in the SLC6A4 gene have been reported to be associated with susceptibility to depression and other psychiatric disorders. We have constructed a 1 Mb YAC and PAC contig which harbours both the SLC6A4 and the carboxypeptidase D (CPD) genes. The order of loci within the contig was cen-D17S975-D17S1549-24R-D17S1294-SLC6A4-28L+ ++-(CPD, D17S2009, D17S2004)-D17S2120-ter. Both genes were deleted in one of 17 neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) patients carrying submicroscopic NF1 contiguous gene deletions.
We have previously described the potent and selective (RS)-2-amino-3-(3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolyl)propionic acid (AMPA) receptor agonist, (RS)-2-amino-3-(3-carboxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolyl)propionic acid (ACPA), and the AMPA receptor antagonist (RS)-2-amino-3-[3-(carboxymethoxy)-5-methyl-4-isoxazolyl]propionic acid (AMOA). Using these AMPA receptor ligands as leads, a series of compounds have been developed as tools for further elucidation of the structural requirements for activation and blockade of AMPA receptors. The synthesized compounds have been tested for activity at ionotropic excitatory amino acid (EAA) receptors using receptor binding and electrophysiological techniques, and for activity at metabotropic EAA receptors using second messenger assays. Compounds 1 and 4 were essentially inactive. (RS)-2-Amino-3-[3-(2-carboxyethyl)-5-methyl-4-isoxazolyl]propionic acid (ACMP, 2), on the other hand, was shown to be a selective AMPA receptor antagonist (IC(50) = 73 microM), more potent in electrophysiological experiments than AMOA (IC(50) = 320 microM). The isomeric analogue of 2, compound 5, did not show AMPA antagonist effects, but was a weak NMDA receptor antagonist (IC(50) = 540 microM). Finally, compound 3, which is an isomer of ACPA, turned out to be a very weak NMDA antagonist, and an AMPA receptor agonist approximately 1000 times weaker than ACPA. None of the compounds showed agonist or antagonist effects at metabotropic EAA receptors.
Repeated falls are reported as one of the clinical characteristics in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). We examined the incidence of fall-related injuries in 561 dementia patients with various clinical diagnoses, including DLB and Alzheimer's disease (AD), in a ward established for dementia research. The incidence of fall-related injuries was significantly higher in DLB patients (10.7%) than in AD patients (1.1%) (P &lt; 0.001). The high incidence in those patients with DLB cannot be attributed to Parkinsonism because none of the DLB patients with injuries showed extrapyramidal sign. Our observations suggest that patients with a clinical diagnosis of DLB have a high risk of fall-related injuries, even though they do not show Parkinsonism. An appropriate clinical discrimination between DLB and AD is recommended to manage and prevent fall-related injuries.
Focal hyperhidrosis is a common and sometimes handicapping condition for which the presently most effective treatment, sympathectomy, often leads to irreversible side-effects. We aimed to study effectiveness and tolerability of an alternative treatment with botulinum toxin injections over a period of one year for this condition. Twenty-eight patients with palmar (n = 19) and/or axillary (n = 13) hyperhidrosis were treated with intracutaneous injections of botulinum toxin (Botox(R)) 2 U/4 cm2. Sweat function was studied clinically and by objective measurements after treatment of one side. Treated and untreated sides, and pre- and post-treatment skin areas were compared. Subjective evaluation was performed after treatment of one side and 2-5 months after treatment of both sides. Duration of effect was controlled by a one-year follow-up. Sweating disappeared in eight out of 13 patients with axillary and in five out of 19 with palmar hyperhidrosis, and was reduced markedly in another five out of 13 and 10 out of 19 patients. Two-thirds of those treated for hand sweat noticed a slight and transient reduction of power of finger grip. No side-effects were noticed after treatment of axillary hyperhidrosis. We find intracutaneous injections of botulinum toxin with this technique safe and effective, and due to the relatively long duration of effect the treatment should be recommended before sympathectomy for focal hyperhidrosis.
Following the 1997 Recommendations of the EFNS Task Force on Acute Neurological Stroke Care (European Journal of Neurology, 1997: 4:435-441) a European Inventory was undertaken to assess the development of acute stroke care in the EFNS member countries and to give an estimate of the needs based on 1997 data. All 30 members of the EFNS Stroke Scientist Panel were asked to complete a questionnaire on acute stroke epidemiology as well as acute stroke care in their country. Data were based either on national surveys, hospital statistics, or estimates given on the basis of extrapolation of regional studies, or other defined sources. Specialist estimates were also taken into account where no other data source was available. Data from 22 countries were received and referred to almost one million strokes occurring per year in a population of over 500 million. Most epidemiological data confirmed an east-west gap known from previous studies. These included rates that, in eastern countries, were higher for incidence, stroke as a leading cause of death, and 30-day case-fatality, and rates that were lower for overall hospitalization or availability of CT scanning. East-west differences were not seen for the total number of acute stroke units or the number of acute stroke units set up within neurological hospital departments, nor for most other quality indicators of acute stroke care with the exception of technological standards in some countries. The higher rates for 30-day case-fatality in eastern Europe (mostly above 20%) compared with western Europe (mostly below 20%) are probably caused by a case mix with more severe ischemic strokes and a higher percentage of cerebral haemorrhages admitted for acute care in eastern Europe. This is probably due to the higher prevalence of the most common risk factors for stroke in these countries which tend to result in more severe strokes. This, therefore, underlines the need for stroke prevention programmes especially in eastern Europe. This epidemiological east-west gap is not reflected by most quality indicators for acute stroke care, e.g. total number of acute stroke units available within each country. Most eastern European countries have a well-developed neurological care system for acute stroke but still have urgent technological and socioeconomical needs. The leading role of clinical neurology in acute stroke care is visible in most but not all European countries.
The neuropeptide substance P (SP) modulates nociceptive transmission within the spinal cord. Normally, SP is uniquely contained in a subpopulation of small-calibre axons (Adelta- and C-fibres) within primary afferent nerve. However, it has been shown that after nerve transection, besides being downregulated in small axons, SP is expressed de novo in large myelinated Abeta-fibres. In this study we investigated whether, following peripheral nerve injury, SP was released de novo from the spinal cord after selective activation of Abeta-fibres. Spinal cords with dorsal roots attached were isolated in vitro from rats 2 weeks following distal sciatic axotomy or proximal spinal nerve lesion (SNL). The ipsilateral dorsal roots were electrically stimulated for two consecutive periods at low- or high-threshold fibre strength, spinal cord superfusates were collected and SP content was determined by radioimmunoassay. SNL, but not axotomized or control rat cords, released significant amounts of SP after selective activation of Abeta-fibres. Not only do these data support the idea that Abeta myelinated fibres contribute to neuropathic pain by releasing SP, they also illustrate the importance of the proximity of the lesion to the cell body.
Munc18-1 is a mammalian member of the SEC1 protein family implicated in neuronal secretion. Its sequence contains several consensus sites for phosphorylation by protein kinase C (PKC), a kinase known to enhance secretion. We have characterized the phosphorylation of the synaptic munc18-1 pool by endogenous, presynaptic PKC-isoforms. In isolated rat brain nerve terminals, munc18-1 was almost completely nonphosphorylated. Its phosphorylation state increased by 250% on inhibition of endogenous phosphatases and by 1500% on additional, direct PKC activation using phorbol esters. K+-evoked depolarization also increased munc18-1 phosphorylation, by 50% within 5 s in a Ca2+-dependent manner. Munc18-1 phosphorylation in nerve terminals was blocked by PKC inhibitors. Activation of endogenous PKC in nerve terminals inhibited the interaction of synaptic munc18-1 with its binding partner syntaxin-1A by 50%. Munc18-1 antisera precipitated 80% of native, brain-derived munc18-1 from salt solutions, but only 12% from synaptosomal lysates, together with 6% synaptic syntaxin-1A/B; these amounts were not changed by PKC activation. In this 12%, the phosphate incorporation per mole of munc18 was four-fold lower than the total pool. We conclude that the synaptic munc18-1 pool can be readily and rapidly phosphorylated by endogenous presynaptic PKC isoforms. A high constitutive phosphatase activity keeps its basal phosphorylation state low so that PKC activation can increase the phosphorylation state dramatically. These phosphorylation dynamics and the effects on the interaction with syntaxin-1A make munc18-1 a prominent candidate to account for PKC-dependent enhancement of secretion.
Using a reinstatement procedure, it has been shown that intermittent footshock stress reliably reinstates extinguished drug-taking behaviour in rats. Here we studied the role of noradrenaline (NE), one of the main brain neurotransmitters involved in responses to stress, in reinstatement of heroin seeking. We first determined the effect of clonidine, an alpha-2 adrenergic receptor agonist that decreases NE cell firing and release, on stress-induced reinstatement of heroin seeking. Rats were trained to self-administer heroin (0.1 mg/kg per infusion, IV, three 3-h sessions per day) for 9-10 days. Extinction sessions were given for up to 11 days during which saline was substituted for the drug. Tests for reinstatement were then conducted after exposure to intermittent footshock (5, 15 and 30 min, 0.5 mA). During testing, clonidine was injected systemically (10-40 microgram/kg, i.p.) or directly into the lateral or fourth ventricles (1-3 microram). Clonidine (1-2 microgram per site) or its charged analogue, 2-[2, 6-diethylphenylamino]-2-imidazole (ST-91, 0.5-1 microgram per site), was also injected bilaterally into the locus coeruleus (LC), the main noradrenergic cell group in the brain. Clonidine blocked stress-induced reinstatement of drug seeking when injected systemically or into the cerebral ventricles. In contrast, neither clonidine nor ST-91 consistently altered stress-induced reinstatement when injected into the locus coeruleus. We therefore studied the effect of lesions of the lateral tegmental NE neurons on stress-induced reinstatement. 6-Hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions performed after training for heroin self-administration had no effect on extinction of heroin-taking behaviour, but significantly attenuated reinstatement induced by intermittent footshock. These data suggest that: (i) clonidine prevents stress-induced relapse to heroin seeking by its action on neurons other than those of the locus coeruleus; and (ii) activation of the lateral tegmental NE neurons contributes to stress-induced reinstatement of heroin seeking.
The release of norepinephrine in the cerebral cortex from axon terminals of locus coeruleus neurons was suggested to be involved in the control of attention. Accumulating data indicate that the responses of cortical neurons are varied when norepinephrine is applied iontophoretically in the vicinity of the cells being recorded. However, it is not known how the pattern of excitatory propagation is modified when norepinephrine is applied over a wide area in the visual cortex. By applying optical imaging to rat visuocortical slices, we found a new mode of norepinephrine action; a prominent suppression of the horizontal propagation in layers II/III. This action of norepinephrine was confirmed by the simultaneous recording of field potentials from multiple sites by use of a multi-electrode dish. Furthermore, our electrophysiological recordings showed that this norepinephrine action is exerted through suppression of excitatory neural transmission and enhancement of inhibitory transmission to the pyramidal neurons in these layers. Because the release of norepinephrine in the visual cortex is regulated by the level of attention, the neural basis of visual attention may relate partially to the suppression of the integration of visual information by norepinephrine resulting in a state-dependent restructuring of the receptive field.
DOC2A and DOC2B are two homologous genes implicated in synaptic vesicle exocytosis. Their complementary, nonoverlapping expression patterns in adult rat brain suggest that they exert similar functions in different neurons. We have analysed the expression pattern of the two genes in the developing rat brain by in situ hybridization. Unexpectedly, we found no parallel expression of the two genes during development. DOC2B mRNA was highly expressed as early as embryonic day 12 (E12) throughout the neuroepithelium, long before synaptic transmission is functional, and the expression remained abundant from E12 onwards. In contrast, faint expression of DOC2A transcripts was first detected at E17 in ventral brain areas, and it extended gradually to other brain structures in the sequence of their ontology, i.e. structures that had formed first also expressed DOC2A first. At postnatal day 3, both genes were highly expressed throughout the brain. This overlapping expression diverged to the complementary distribution of the adult brain. The temporal and spatial differences in expression point to a functional divergence between these homologous genes during brain development: the pattern of DOC2A is consistent with its proposed synaptic function, whereas that of DOC2B suggests an additional, nonsynaptic role in proliferating cells.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of intrathecally delivered trophic molecules nerve growth factor (NGF), neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) on substance P (SP) release and content in the rat spinal cord and SP content in sciatic nerve. SP release was assayed with an in vitro dorsal roots-attached spinal cord preparation, in which the roots were stimulated at A- or C-fibre strength, and SP levels were measured by radioimmunoassay (RIA). NGF but not NT-3 and GDNF treatment caused a significant increase in basal SP outflow; NGF, NT-3 but not GDNF increased C-fibre stimulation-evoked SP release, and capsaicin superfusion-induced SP release. The increase in C-fibre stimulation-evoked SP release over basal outflow was greater in NGF- than NT-3-treated cords, and nociceptive threshold testing showed that intrathecal NGF, but not NT-3 or GDNF treatment was associated with thermal hyperalgesia. There was no detectable A-fibre stimulation-induced SP release from any group as well as no change in SP content in the sciatic nerve and spinal cord. Systemic treatment with the NGF-sequestering fusion protein trkA-IgG significantly inhibited electrically or capsaicin-evoked SP release without affecting basal outflow and SP content in spinal cord and sciatic nerve. These results suggest that: (i) NGF tonically regulates the central synaptic function of SP-containing primary afferents; (ii) increased SP-release from the spinal cord is not necessarily associated with behavioural hyperalgesia as in NT-3-treated rats there was increased SP release but no detectable hyperalgesia; and (iii) because A-fibre stimulation failed to increase SP release in any group, these neurotrophins are unlikely to be responsible for the de novo upregulation of SP in large afferents seen after peripheral inflammation or nerve injury.
Cerebral blood flow (CBF) and cerebral autoregulation have been investigated 24 h after transient focal ischaemia in the rat. Cerebral blood flow was measured autoradiographically before and during a moderate hypotensive challenge, to test autoregulatory responses, using two CBF tracers, (99m)Tc-d,l-hexamethylproyleneamine oxide and 14C-iodoantipyrine. Prior to induced hypotension, CBF was significantly reduced within areas of infarction; cortex (28 +/- 20 compared with 109 +/- 23 mL/100 g/min contralateral to ischaemic focus, P = 0.001) and caudate (57 +/- 31 compared with 141 +/- 32 mL/100 g/min contralaterally, P = 0.005). The hypotensive challenge (mean arterial pressure reduced to 60 mmHg by increasing halothane concentration) did not compromise grey matter autoregulation in the contralateral hemisphere; CBF data were not significantly different at normotension and during hypotension. However, in the ipsilateral hemisphere, a significant volume of cortex adjacent to the infarct, which exhibited normal flow at normotension, became oligaemic during the hypotensive challenge (e.g. frontal parietal cortex 109 +/- 15% to 65 +/- 15% of cerebellar flow, P &lt; 0.01). This resulted in a 2.5-fold increase in the volume of cortex which fell below 50% cerebellar flow (39 +/- 34 to 97 +/- 46 mm3, P = 0.003). Moderate hypotension induced a significant reduction in CBF in both ipsilateral and contralateral subcortical white matter (P &lt; 0.01). In peri-infarct caudate tissue, CBF was not significantly affected by hypotension. In conclusion, a significant volume of histologically normal cortex within the middle cerebral artery territory was found to have essentially normal levels of CBF but impaired autoregulatory function at 24 h post-ischaemia.
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is characterized by attentional problems such as hyperkinesia, restlessness and disturbances in timing. Environmental psychosocial factors interact with a genetic predisposition in causing measurable biological impairment. It is a common, persistent disorder of childhood that may change in manifestation with development from preschool through adult life. Untreated, it predisposes children to psychiatric and social pathology later in life. Unlike other psychiatric disorders of childhood, it can be successfully treated.

We analysed the effects of electrical noxious stimulation on the autonomic nervous system of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients who were assessed by means of the Mini Mental State Examination test (MMSE). To do this, we used electrical stimuli at two different intensities: just above pain threshold and twice pain threshold. We recorded heart rate and systolic blood pressure by using conventional electrocardiography and finger photo-plethysmography. When a pain stimulus just above threshold was delivered, AD patients were found to have blunted autonomic responses compared to controls of the same age. Similarly, prestimulus expectation produced a less pronounced increase of the responses in AD patients compared to the controls. However, when the painful stimulus was increased to twice the pain threshold, the systolic blood pressure increase of AD patients did not differ from the controls, whereas heart rate increase was still slightly diminished. By contrast, pain perception was similar in the two groups when the stimulus was at pain threshold, whereas it was blunted in AD patients when the stimulus was twice the pain threshold. These findings show that in AD mild noxious stimulation produces blunted autonomic responses and normal pain perception, whereas strong noxious stimulation produces quasi-normal autonomic responses and blunted pain perception. These results indicate that AD patients have an increased threshold for both autonomic activation and pain tolerance.
The effect of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor citalopram was studied in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 4-month trial in patients with the fibromyalgia syndrome (FMS) who all fulfilled the American College of Rheumatology criteria. The citalopram doses varied between 20-40 mg daily. Forty female patients, 21 patients in the citalopram and 19 in the placebo group, participated. Assessment of pain, depressive symptoms and physical functioning were made using Visual Analogue Scales (VAS), the Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) and the Fibrositis Impact Questionnaire (FIQ). In the global judgement of improvement, no significant changes were found between the citalopram and placebo groups as concerns pain or well-being, either in the Intention to Treat (ITT) analysis or in the completer analysis. However, among the completers, it was a tendency that more patients in the citalopram group (52.9%) were improved as compared to the placebo group (22.2%) concerning well-being. Furthermore, the results indicated that treatment with citalopram had a significant effect on pain on the VAS after 2 months of treatment compared to baseline. After 4 months, however, the effect had diminished. Measured with the FIQ, significant differences in the pain ratings were seen at the end of the trial. Significant effects on the depressive symptomatology measured by means of the MADRS were seen already after 1 month of treatment and were increasing further at the end of the trial, when a significant difference between the groups was also found.
The aim was to study the frequently found white-matter changes on computerized tomography (CT) in patients with dementia and to relate these changes to clinical regional brain symptomatology, vascular factors, albumin ratio [indicator of blood-brain barrier (BBB) function] and other CT changes. The study included 85 patients, average age 71 +/- 8, with Alzheimer's disease (n = 56) and vascular dementia (n = 29), who underwent CT (Siemens Somatome DR 1) of the brain. They were inpatients in a psychiatric department specialized in dementia investigations. The degree of CT white-matter changes (absence, mild-moderate, severe) was the basis for the division of the patients into three groups. As the patients without white-matter changes were significantly younger than those with such changes, all statistical analyses were controlled for age. Subcortical symptomatology was significantly more frequent in the group with severe white-matter changes, whereas the reverse was true for parietal symptomatology. Diabetes mellitus, hypertension, ischemic cardiac disease and lacunas were significantly more common in patients with white-matter changes, whereas the frequency of transient ischemic attack/stroke episodes did not differ significantly between the groups. The albumin ratio was significantly higher in the groups with white-matter changes and highest in the group with severe white-matter changes. The findings indicate that white-matter changes in demented patients are at least partially an age- and stroke-independent disease manifestation of the vascular system and is associated with a specific symptom pattern. BBB dysfunction may be the link between the vasculature and the tissue damage.
To evaluate what at present is known about the relationship between vascular diseases and the development of chronic polyneuropathy, the literature on ischemia and peripheral nerve damage was reviewed with emphasis on chronic ischemia.


Electrophysiologic and functional imaging studies have shown that the visual cortex produces differential responses to the presence or absence of structure within visual textures. To further define and characterize regions involved in the analysis of form, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was used to detect changes in activation during the viewing of four levels of isodipole textures. The texture levels systematically differed in the density of visual features such as extended contours and blocks of solid color present within the images. A linear relationship between activation level and density of structure was observed in the striate cortex of human subjects. This finding suggests that a special subpopulation of striate cortical neurons participates in the ability to extract and process structural continuity within visual stimuli.
We examined single-unit activity in the dorsal premotor cortex for evidence of fast neuronal oscillations. Four rhesus monkeys performed a task in which visuospatial instruction stimuli indicated the direction of forelimb movement to be executed on each trial. After an instructed delay period of 1.5-3 s, movements to either the right or left of a central origin were triggered by a second visuospatial stimulus. From a database of 579 single units, 78 units (13%) contained periodic peaks in their autocorrelation histograms (ACHs), with oscillation frequencies typically 20-30 Hz (mean 27 Hz). An additional 26 units (5%) had oscillatory features that were identified in joint interspike-interval (ISI) plots. Three observations, taken together, suggest entrainment by rhythmic drive extrinsic to these neurons: shuffling ISIs attenuated ACH peaks, indicating a dependency on serial-order effects; oscillation frequency did not change during either increases or decreases in firing rate; and joint ISI plots contained features consistent with a rhythmicity interrupted by intervening discharges. In some cells, oscillations occurred for only one of the two directions of movement. During the delay period, such directional selectivity was observed in 37 units (60% of delay-period oscillators). For at least 17 of these units, we could exclude the possibility that oscillatory directional selectivity resulted from the difficulty in detecting oscillations due to low discharge rates (for one of the two movement directions). Directional selectivity in fast oscillations shows that they can reflect specific aspects of an intended action.
Our goal is to summarize what has been learned from studies of human movement and orientation control in weightless conditions. An understanding of the physics of weightlessness is essential to appreciate the dramatic consequences of the absence of continuous contact forces on orientation and posture. Eye, head, arm, leg, and whole body movements are discussed, but only experiments whose results seem relatively incontrovertible are included. Emphasis is placed on distinguishing between virtually immediate adaptive compensations to weightlessness and those with longer time courses. The limitations and difficulties of performing experiments in weightless conditions are highlighted. We stress that when astronauts and cosmonauts return from extended space flight they do so with both physical &quot;plant&quot; and neural &quot;controller&quot; structurally and functionally altered. Recent developments in adapting humans to artificial gravity conditions are discussed as a way of maintaining sensory-motor and structural integrity in extended missions involving transitions between different force environments.
The expression of S100beta and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) was analyzed following bilateral injection of kainic acid (KA), a glutamate derivative, into the CA3 region of the adult rat hippocampus. This treatment produces a progressive degeneration of the pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus while sparing the granule cells of the dentate gyrus which undergo sprouting of their axons in the supragranular layer. Messenger RNA and protein levels were measured, by Northern blot and ELISA, in the hippocampus of lesioned and sham-operated rats 1, 7, and 30 days after KA injection. A significant increase of GFAP and its mRNA was demonstrated at each time point, whereas S100beta mRNA levels were significantly enhanced only 30 days after the KA injection and the levels of S100beta protein remained unchanged at all time points. However, when analyzed by immunohistochemistry the S100beta showed clear changes in its expression and distribution depending on the region considered. One month after KA injection, S100beta immunoreactivity was considerably reduced in the stratum radiatum of CA3 region, but there was increased S100beta immunoreactivity in the stratum moleculare. In particular, a notable band of S100beta positive, hypertrophic astrocytes appeared in the supragranular layer of the dentate gyrus where the sprouting of mossy fiber collaterals was detected by Timm's staining. These data show for the first time that an increase in S100beta expression in subpopulations of reactive astrocytes may be involved in the structural reorganization of the hippocampus following KA-induced neurodegeneration.
In a previous study we showed that the staining of tyrosine kinase receptors (trks), which are high-affinity neurotrophin receptors (NTRs), is strongly diminished in the nucleus basalis of Meynert (NBM) of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, which may explain the lack of effect of NGF therapy in AD patients so far. Since the literature regarding the expression of low-affinity NTRs was rather controversial, the aim of the present study was to examine (i) possible changes in the staining of low-affinity NTRs, i.e., p75 in the human NBM, an area that is severely affected in AD; and (ii) alterations of these receptors in relation to risk factors for AD, e. g., age, sex, and menopause. Brain material of 31 controls and 30 AD patients was obtained at autopsy, embedded in paraffin, and stained immunocytochemically. Using an image analysis system, we quantified p75 immunoreactivity in both cell bodies and fibers at the level of the NBM. Our results showed a significant diminishment of p75 immunoreactivity in both cell bodies and fibers of NBM neurons in AD. We did not find any relationship between age or sex and the expression of p75 receptor in cell bodies. However, there was a clearly positive relationship between age and fiber staining in AD patients which suggests the occurrence of a p75 transport disorder as an early event in the process of AD. These observations and the earlier reported decreased staining of trk receptors show that degeneration of NBM neurons in AD is associated with a decreased neurotrophin responsiveness of NBM neurons in AD and that therapeutic strategies should be directed toward upregulation of receptors or facilitation of transport before an effect of neurotrophins in AD may be expected.
Currently, reduction of apomorphine-induced rotational behavior in the 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesioned rat is the most utilized drug-induced paradigm for assessing functional efficacy in a rat model of Parkinson's disease (PD). Any clinically predictive animal model of PD should include a positive response to l-dopa, the standard pharmacotherapy for PD. However, the acute interaction between L-dopa and apomorphine has never been studied to determine if L-dopa pretreatment could reduce apomorphine-induced rotational behavior in a 6-OHDA lesioned rat. The present study was designed to explore whether, indeed, pretreatment with subrotational doses of L-dopa could inhibit apomorphine-induced rotations. The data indicate that L-dopa significantly reduced apomorphine-induced rotational behavior only at one dose (5.0 mg/kg) for 12 min. Based on these and other data, it is concluded that although the apomorphine-induced rotational paradigm may continue to be utilized as one additional indicator of efficacy in the 6-OHDA rat model of PD, it is not in itself a completely valid functional assay.
In spite of numerous studies utilizing intraventricular administration of porcine galanin (1-29), little is known about the spread and cellular distribution of exogenous galanin following intraventricular administration. In this study a discrete nerve cell body population with their dendrites became strongly galanin immunoreactive (IR) in the dorsal hippocampus following intraventricular porcine galanin (1.5 nmol/rat). Time course experiments showed that after time intervals of 10 and 20 min, but not at 60 min, scattered small- to medium-sized galanin-IR nerve cell bodies and their dendrites were present in all layers of the dorsal and ventral hippocampus. In double-immunolabeling experiments most of these nerve cells were identified as putative GABA interneurons costoring NPY-IR or somatostatin-IR in some cases. Twenty minutes after intraventricular injection of artificial cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF), only endogenous punctate and coarse galanin-IR terminals were found, but no galanin-IR cell bodies. Intrahippocampal injection of fluorophore-labeled galanin resulted in the appearance of fluorescent nerve cell bodies with the same morphology and localization as in the above experiments. Coadministration of the putative galanin antagonist M35 (0.5 nmol) and galanin (1.5 nmol) resulted in a reduced number of galanin-IR nerve cell bodies in the hippocampus of half of the rats. These findings support the existence of a population of putative hippocampal GABA interneurons with the ability to internalize and concentrate galanin and/or its fragments present in the extracellular fluid, possibly mediated by galanin receptors.
Synaptic reorganization of mossy fibers following kainic acid (KA) administration has been reported to contribute to the formation of recurrent excitatory circuits, resulting in an epileptogenic state. It is unclear, however, whether KA-induced mossy fiber sprouting results from neuronal cell loss or the seizure activity that KA induces. We have recently demonstrated that certain strains of mice are resistant to excitotoxic cell death, yet exhibit seizure activity similar to what has been observed in rodents susceptible to KA. The present study takes advantage of these strain differences to explore the roles of seizure activity vs cell loss in triggering mossy fiber sprouting. In order to understand the relationships between gene induction, cell death, and the sprouting response, we assessed the regulation of two molecules associated with the sprouting response, c-fos and GAP-43, in mice resistant (C57BL/6) and susceptible (FVB/N) to KA-induced cell death. Following administration of KA, increases in c-fos immunoreactivity were observed in both strains, although prolonged induction of c-fos was present only in the hippocampal neurons of FVB/N mice. Mossy fiber sprouting following KA administration was also only observed in FVB/N mice, while induction of GAP-43, a marker associated with mossy fiber sprouting, was not observed in either strain. These results indicate that: (i) KA-induced seizure activity alone is insufficient to induce mossy fiber sprouting; (ii) mossy fiber sprouting may be due to the loss of hilar neurons following kainate administration; and (iii) induction of GAP-43 is not a necessary component of the sprouting response that occurs following KA in mice.
Macrophage/microglial infiltration is a characteristic feature of brain tumors. The functional role(s) of these cells is complex and could include both trophic and suppressive effects on tumors. Information has recently emerged about the molecular signals that regulate the accumulation and function of monocytes in pathological disorders. Recent data indicate that the chemokine, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), a potent monocyte activating and chemotactic factor, is a primary regulator of the macrophage response in brain tumors. We hypothesized that if MCP-1 regulates macrophage/microglial infiltration, then expression of the specific MCP-1 receptor, CCR2, will be induced in peritumoral tissue and/or within brain tumors. Identification of a specific receptor that is preferentially expressed in brain tumors could be important both in terms of tumor biology and as a potential therapeutic target. We used an established experimental gliosarcoma model, induced by intracranial transplantation of cultured 9L cells into adult rat brain, to test this hypothesis. RT-PCR analysis showed high levels of both MCP-1 and CCR2 mRNA and Western blot analysis demonstrated increased CCR2 protein in tumor extracts. Immunocytochemistry showed CCR2 immunoreactive microglia in peritumoral tissue and, unexpectedly, that intrinsic tumor cells, rather than monocytes, were the predominant source of CCR2. These results demonstrate that CCR2 expression is markedly upregulated in this brain tumor model.
The ready availability of unlimited quantities of neural stem cells derived from the human brain holds great interest for basic and applied neuroscience, including therapeutic cell replacement and gene transfer following transplantation. We report here the combination of epigenetic and genetic procedures for perpetuating human neural stem cell lines. Thus we tested various culture conditions and genes for those that optimally allow for the continuous, rapid expansion and passaging of human neural stem cells. Among them, v-myc (the p110 gag-myc fusion protein derived from the avian retroviral genome) seems to be the most effective gene; we have also identified a strict requirement for the presence of mitogens (FGF-2 and EGF) in the growth medium, in effect constituting a conditional perpetuality or immortalization. A monoclonal, nestin-positive, human neural stem cell line (HNSC.100) perpetuated in this way divides every 40 h and stops dividing upon mitogen removal, undergoing spontaneous morphological differentiation and upregulating markers of the three fundamental lineages in the CNS (neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes). HNSC.100 cells therefore retain basic features of epigenetically expanded human neural stem cells. Clonal analysis confirmed the stability, multipotency, and self-renewability of the cell line. Finally, HNSC.100 can be transfected and transduced using a variety of procedures and genes encoding proteins for marking purposes and of therapeutic interest (e.g., human tyrosine hydroxylase I).
Previous studies have shown that traumatic brain injury (TBI) produces progressive degradation of cytoskeletal proteins including neurofilaments (e.g., neurofilament 68 [NF68] and neurofilament 200 [NF200]) within the first 24 h after injury. Thus, we employed immunofluorescence (light and confocal microscopy) to study the histopathological correlates of progressive neurofilament protein loss observed at 15 min, 3 h, and 24 h following unilateral cortical injury in rats. TBI produced significant alterations in NF68 and NF200 immunolabeling in dendrites and cell bodies at contusion sites ipsilateral to injury, as well as in the noncontused contralateral cortex. Changes in immunolabeling were associated with, but not exclusively restricted to, regions previously shown to contain dark shrunken neurons labeled by hematoxylin and eosin staining, a morphopathological response to injury suggesting impending cell death. Immunofluorescence microscopic studies of neurofilament proteins in the ipsilateral cerebral cortex detected prominent fragmentation of apical dendrites of pyramidal neurons in layers 3-5 and loss of fine dendritic arborization within layer 1. While modest changes were observed 15 min following injury, more pronounced loss of dendritic neurofilament immunofluorescence was detected 3 and 24 h following injury. Confocal microscopy also revealed progressive alterations in NF68 immunoreactivity in dendrites following TBI. While some evidence of structural alterations was observed 15 min following TBI, dendritic breaks were readily detected in confocal micrographs from 3 to 24 h following injury. However, disturbances in axonal NF68 by immunofluorescence microscopy in the corpus callosum were not detected until 24 h after injury. These studies confirmed that derangements in dendritic neurofilament cytoskeletal proteins are not exclusively restricted to sites of impact contusion. Moreover, changes in dendritic cytoskeletal proteins are progressive and not fully expressed within the first 15 min following impact injury. These progressive dendritic disruptions are characterized by disturbances in the morphology of neurofilament proteins, resulting in fragmentation and focal loss of NF68 immunofluorescence within apical dendrites. In contrast, alterations in axonal cytoskeletal proteins are more restricted and delayed with no pronounced changes until 24 h after injury.
Electrochemical biosensors have been of increasing interest, especially those developed to be directly applied in diagnostic areas, such as neuroscience. We have been interested in developing a range of biosensors for monitoring glucose, lactate, pyruvate, and glutamate in order to study on-line both brain function in the laboratory and to monitor brain health in neurointensive care. For a biosensor to function effectively in these situations, it has to combine the following characteristics: quick response and high sensitivity, good reproducibility and adequate stability. In this study we compared the performance of a number of different amperometric biosensors strategies. These included ferrocene mediation of immobilised enzymes (system A), a redox hydrogel based system (system B), and a conducting polymer approach using polyaniline (system C). All assays were operated as flow-injection systems with upstream immobilised enzyme beds if necessary. When calibrated for H2O2 systems A and B reacted quickly enough to give quantitative conversion up to 0.2 mM. Above this concentration the response was limited by horseradish peroxidase enzyme kinetics and eventually enzyme loading. System C showed a restricted H2O2 response. When calibrated for glucose (by use of immobilised glucose oxidase) system B exhibited the highest sensitivity but its analytical range was restricted because the system became limited by H2O2 response. System A had low sensitivity for analyte compared to H2O2 and system B, but a greater useful range. Problems of mediator cycling between the immobilised enzymes are discussed. System C gave an excellent linear range but sensitivity was limited by background noise. Stability and reproducibility of the systems are also described. In conclusion, from this study the ferrocene system proved to be overall most useful and has now been used in the first dual on-line monitoring of glucose and lactate in patients in neurointensive care.
It has been suggested that reactive oxygen species (ROS) play a role in the neuronal damage occurring in ischemic injury and neurodegenerative disorders and that their neutralization by antioxidant drugs may delay or minimize neurodegeneration. In the present study we examine whether vinpocetine can act as an antioxidant and prevent the formation of ROS and lipid peroxidation in rat brain synaptosomes. After ascorbate/Fe2+ treatment a significant increase in oxygen consumption (about 5-fold) and thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) formation (about 7-fold) occurred as compared to control conditions. Vinpocetine inhibited the ascorbate/Fe2+ stimulated consumption of oxygen and TBARS accumulation, an indicator of lipid peroxidation, in a concentration-dependent manner. The ROS formation was also prevented by vinpocetine. Oxidative stress increased significantly the fluorescence of the probes 2',7'-dichlorodihydrofluorescein (DCFH2-DA) (about 6-fold) and dihydrorhodamine (DHR) 123 (about 10-fold), which is indicative of intrasynaptosomal ROS generation. Vinpocetine at 100 microM concentration decreased the fluorescence of DCFH2-DA and DHR 123 by about 50% and 83%, respectively. We conclude that the antioxidant effect of vinpocetine might contribute to the protective role exerted by the drug in reducing neuronal damage in pathological situations.
In molecular neurobiology, perhaps no molecule has been as thoroughly examined as Alzheimer's beta-amyloid precursor protein (beta-APP). In the years since the cDNA encoding beta-APP was cloned, the protein has been the subject of unparalleled scrutiny on all levels. From molecular genetics and cellular biology to neuroanatomy and epidemiology, no scientific discipline has been left unexplored - and with good reason. beta-amyloid (Abeta) is the main constituent of the amyloidogenic plaques which are a primary pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease, and bta-APP is the protein from which Abeta is cleaved and released. Unraveling the molecular events underlying Abeta generation has been, and remains, of paramount importance to scientists in our field. In this review we will trace the progress that has been made in understanding the molecular and cellular basis of beta-APP trafficking and processing, or alternatively stated, the molecular basis for Abeta generation. Imperative to a complete understanding of Abeta generation is the delineation of its subcellular localization and the identification of proteins that play either direct or accessory roles in Abeta generation. We will focus on the regulation of beta-APP cleavage through diverse signal transduction mechanisms and discuss possible points of therapeutic intercession in what has been postulated to be a seminal molecular step in the cascade of events terminating in the onset of dementia, loss of neurons, and eventual death from Alzheimer's disease.
The author briefly reviews the main evidence in favour of both central and peripheral factors supposed to take part in the complex pathomechanisms leading to the activation of the trigemino-vascular system in the migraine attack.
The identification and development of the potent 5-HT1B/1D agonist, sumatriptan has resulted in new therapeutic opportunities for the treatment of migraine and a number of chemically novel agents with a similar mechanism of action have been identified. Whilst these agents are optimised to enhance the therapeutic effect of sumatriptan, development of mechanistically novel therapies may provide new directions for the care of migraine sufferers. To develop new treatment paradigms, novel chemical entities should be evaluated in animal models which are predictive of therapeutic efficacy e.g.: in animal models where sumatriptan has shown activity, or the pathophysiological processes involved in the disease must be targeted. Therefore, investigation of mechanisms underlying cortical activity and its involvement in the activation of trigeminal vascular pathways may allow better understanding of the disease and result in the identification of new non-triptan-like therapies.
Current theories propose that the pain of migraine is caused by chemical activation of meningeal perivascular fibers. In an animal model of migraine, we have recently shown that chemical activation of meningeal primary afferent nociceptors that innervate the dura could lead to the following: a) peripheral sensitization of these nociceptors to intracranial mechanical stimulation; b) central sensitization of second-order trigeminovascular neurons that receive convergent input from the dura and skin to extracranial mechanical and thermal stimulation; and c) facilitated cardiovascular pressor responses that are usually indicative of pain. These findings provide the first set of evidence for the induction of peripheral and central sensitization along trigeminovascular pain pathways by visceral input from the intracranial dura. We propose that the throbbing pain of migraine is mediated mainly through peripheral and to a lesser extent through central sensitization, and that the development of scalp tenderness is mediated mainly through central sensitization.
All elements of headache burden, and those who bear them, need to be identified if headache is to secure its rightful place in the priority queue for scarce healthcare resources. This paper sets out to do this. Illness manifesting as headache imposes substantial burdens on individual people and on society. Whilst different diagnostic categories of headache vary quantitatively in their impact, the elements of burden are similar for all common headaches. Migraine, being the most studied, is a good model. The AASH/IHS Consensus Symposium on Improving Migraine Management, held in Washington DC on October 2nd 1998, argued that, world-wide, migraine is both under-diagnosed and under-treated. Whilst improved allocation of healthcare resources to migraine and other headache illnesses will mitigate these burdens, this will not happen unless the size and full nature of the problem are recognised. Using rhetoric, I answer two questions: what are the burdens of headache, and who bears them? Migraine has a peculiar tendency to extend its burdens beyond attacks and to others than the immediate sufferer. In many cases it should be characterised as a chronic rather than episodic illness. Other categories of headache impose qualitatively similar and heavy and widely-placed burdens. Healthcare resources expended on better treatment are likely to be repaid several-fold by savings elsewhere.
Migraine is a common disorder characterized by recurrent pain attacks of mild-severe intensity associated with autonomic and occasionally neurological symptoms. The migraine attack is a complex process that involves both central and peripheral structures. Various pathogenetic hypotheses have been proposed but the pathophysiology of the disease is still unknown. The study of the pathophysiology of migraine includes the investigation of neurotransmitter systems and their potential role in the development of the attack. Several studies performed since the '60s have demonstrated the key role of serotonin. The theory whereby hypersensitivity of the dopaminergic system may be involved in the pathogenesis of migraine has been supported by various authors on the basis of clinical, pharmacological and recent genic evidence. Recent neurophysiological studies performed using new techniques have led to a correlation of migraine with central nervous system disorders characterized by an altered neuronal excitability. Migraine seems to be characterized by a low threshold of neuronal excitability which is in turn regulated by genetic factors involving the dopaminergic system. A genetically determined hypersensitivity of the dopaminergic system may be involved in the onset of the migraine attack.
Glucocorticoids secreted peripherally during stressful events act on central monoaminergic systems. In particular, serotonergic mediation of social behavior, such as aggression and reproduction, may be affected by glucocorticoids. This study was undertaken to determine if systemically administered corticosterone would rapidly affect central monoaminergic activity. Male Anolis carolinensis (N = 8 each group) were injected intraperitoneally with 10 or 100 micrograms corticosterone, 10 micrograms testosterone, or saline. Twenty minutes after treatment, brains were rapidly dissected and frozen and then microdissected (punch diameter 300 microm) and analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography. Serotonergic turnover (estimated by 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid/serotonin) in the hippocampus and medial amygdala was significantly enhanced by systemic corticosterone. Both of these regions of the brain have been associated with social stress. Testosterone also enhanced turnover in the hippocampus. The effect of corticosterone and testosterone may be to modulate socially induced differences in serotonergic response. Rapid, but short-lived, glucocorticoid stimulation of serotonin release suggests a possible mechanism for mediation of changing social behavioral events.
Tropomodulin (TMOD) is the actin-capping protein for the slow-growing end of filamentous actin, and a neuronal-specific isoform, neuronal tropomodulin (NTMOD), is the major binding protein to brain tropomyosin in rat. The Drosophila TMOD homolog, Sanpodo, alters sibling cell fate determination, so we used a cross-species approach to identify additional TMOD family members that may play a critical role in this process. We characterized the human and mouse orthologs to rat NTMOD (TMOD2 and Tmod2, respectively) as well as two novel tropomodulin family members (TMOD3, Tmod3 and TMOD4, Tmod4). Their expression patterns vary extensively, from ubiquitous (TMOD3 and Tmod3) to muscle (TMOD4) or neuronal tissues only (TMOD2 and Tmod2). TMOD2 and TMOD3 map next to one another on chromosome 15q21.1-q21.2, and their mouse orthologs map to a homologous region on mouse chromosome 9; TMOD4 maps to the telomeric end of 1q12 and Tmod4 to a homologous region of mouse chromosome 3. Their location and expression patterns make TMOD2 and TMOD3 candidate genes for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 5 (ALS5) and dyslexia-1 (DYX1) and TMOD4 a candidate gene for limb girdle muscular dystrophy 1B (LGMD1B). Our mapping efforts revealed new regions of paralogy among chromosomes 1q, 9q, 15q, and 19p.
To give back dreaming to reason, to remove from it &quot;that which is marvellous, supernatural and often terrible for the common man who studies it seriously&quot;, that is the intention of Jrme Richard and Samuel Formey, who were both contemporaries of the philosophers of the Age of the Enlightenment. Relying on the medical theories of the time as well as on the explanatory models of physiology and psychology, they try to demonstrate &quot;the true cause of dreaming&quot; and the natural character of the oneiric phenomenon. The transmission of sensations, the working of memory and the association of ideas, the nature and power of imagination, the predetermined or random character of dreams constitute the framework of the questions from which the explanation of &quot;all this apparent confusion&quot; is developed.
We previously found that 82% of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-positive hippocampal astrocytes acutely isolated from P1-10 rats responded to glutamate (Glu) with transient intracellular calcium increases via activation of a Group I metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR). Fewer cells responded to ATP and none to serotonin (5-HT). In this study we asked the question whether hippocampal astrocytes in older animals retain this relative pattern of expression. We have found that 77% of GFAP (+) cells from P11-20 rats responded to 50 microM Glu, 43% to ATP, and none to 5-HT. Thirty-three percent of GFAP (+) cells from P25-35 rats responded to Glu, 12% to ATP and 3% to 5-HT. In the case of the responses to Glu, pharmacological characterization and single-cell RT-PCR data confirmed that these responses were mediated by the mGluR5 subtype of group I mGluRs. Also, fewer (36%) GFAP mRNA (+) cells from P25-35 rats expressed detectable mGluR5 mRNA than those from P11-20 rats (77%). This number essentially corresponds to the number of GFAP(+) showing a Ca(2+) response to Glu. Both mGluR5a and b were expressed with equal frequency in cells from P11-20 rats, but the b form predominated in cells from older animals. Overall, our studies show that expression of mGluR5 in hippocampal astrocytes decreases with increasing age and the &quot;a&quot; splice variant declines to a greater extent than the &quot;b&quot; splice variant, corresponding to the developmental changes shown in total tissue for mGluR5.
Roles proposed for nitric oxide (NO) in CNS pathophysiology are increasingly diverse and range from intercellular signaling, through necrotic killing of cells and invading pathogens, to the involvement of NO in apoptosis and tissue remodeling. In vitro evidence and observations from experimental animal models of a variety of human neuropathologies, including stroke, indicate that glial cells can produce NO. Regulation of at least one of the NO synthase genes (NOS-2) in glia has been well described; however, apart from hints emerging out of co-culture studies and extrapolation based upon the reactivity of NO, we are a long way from identifying functions for glial-derived NO in the CNS. Although the assumption is that NO is very often cytotoxic, it is evident that NO production does not always equate with tissue damage, and that both the cellular source of NO and the timing of NO production are important factors in terms of its effects. With the development of strategies to transfer or manipulate expression of the NOS genes in specific cells in situ, the ability to deliver NO into the CNS via long-lived chemical donors, and the emergence of more selective NOS inhibitors, an appreciation of the significance of glial-derived NO will change.
In previous studies we have shown that sulfatide (galactosylceramide-3-O-sulfate), in various species, is present in the insulin-producing cells in pancreatic islets of Langerhans. In this study the synthesis of sulfatide in the islets has been investigated by pulse chase labeling at varying glucose levels and in the presence or absence of the glycosphingolipid synthesis inhibitory agents, Brefeldin A, fumonisin B1 and chloroquine and the distribution of sulfatide by immune-electronmicroscopy. The data showed that (1) sulfatide was produced in islets of Langerhans, (2) the main pathway for synthesis was through recycling involving partial degradation in the lysosome, and that (3) high glucose levels, although not primarily reflected in an increased synthesis of sulfatide, lead to an increased expression of mRNA for the UDP-galactose:ceramide galactosyltransferase, producing the immediate precursor of sulfatide. Furthermore, mass spectrometry analyses revealed a high proportion of short chain fatty acids, C16:0 (50%) and no hydroxylated forms and thus special physicochemical properties, indicating important differences between pancreatic and brain/neural sulfatide. Immune electron microscopy revealed an intracellular expression of sulfatide in the secretory granules, the Golgi network and the lysosomes of the islets. These results indicate that sulfatide follows the same intracellular route as insulin and suggest a functional association between these molecules. We have raised the hypothesis that sulfatide possibly plays a role in the trafficking of insulin in the islets of Langerhans in rat pancreas.
The first experiment in this study used the classical heart rate (HR) conditioning paradigm to determine if rabbits could associate an auditory conditioned stimulus (CS) and a fear-producing shock-unconditioned stimulus (US) separated by an empty 10-s trace interval. Trace conditioned rabbits (n = 7) acquired significant bradycardiac conditioned HR responses on CS-alone test trials during a single 35-trial conditioning session. Control animals (n = 7) which received unpaired CSs and USs did not show HR conditioning. During a retention session of CS-alone trials 24 h after the conditioning session, some trace-conditioned animals showed conditioned HR responses immediately following CS onset (n = 3), while others showed responses appropriately timed to the US onset (n = 4) used in trace conditioning 24 h earlier. Thus, rabbits remember the duration of the long 10-s trace interval 24 h after a single day of training. The second part of this study sought to determine if cells in the dorsal hippocampus play a role in trace HR conditioning. Rabbits were given bilateral ibotenic acid lesions in the neocortex (n = 7) or dorsal hippocampus (n = 8). During trace conditioning and retention, neocortical animals showed conditioned HR responses to the CS, whereas the hippocampal group showed no significant HR conditioning. One week after trace conditioning, the same animals received a delay HR conditioning session where no trace interval separated the CS and US. During delay conditioning, hippocampal animals showed significant conditioned HR responses to the CS that were similar to the neocortical group. Thus, the dorsal hippocampus plays a critical role in rabbit HR conditioning when the CS and US are separated by a 10-s trace interval. This paradigm may be ideal for in vivo electrophysiological recording studies because rabbits are easily immobilized during the testing procedure, and learning occurs during a single day of training.
Subicular neurons receive direct afferent connections from the vast majority of CA1 pyramidal cells and send their axons to the various brain areas. Because of this strategic position, subicular cells can modulate output of the hippocampus and, thus, play a significant part in memory, spatial processing, and seizure amplification and propagation from the hippocampus. Despite its important role as a hippocampal interface with different brain regions, present knowledge of the subiculum and the plastic properties of the synapses on the subicular neurons is rather limited. By using IR-DIC videomicroscopy and whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in mouse hippocampal slices, I demonstrated that long-term potentiation (LTP) in CA1-subicular cell synapses can be readily induced by high-frequency stimulation (HFS) of the afferents, but not by pairing of low-frequency stimulation with depolarization of postsynaptic cells. This tetanus-induced LTP is input specific, insensitive to the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist 3-[(R)-2Carboxipiperazin-4-yl]-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (R-CPP), and reduces paired-pulse facilitation in potentiated synapses. Subsequent morphologic analysis of the recorded cells, which were filled either with Lucifer Yellow or Biocytin, revealed pyramidal-shaped neurons localized predominantly in the deep layer of the subiculum, close to the CA1 border. Axons of the majority of these neurons extended to the alveus and on toward the hippocampus, probably exiting it via the fornix. These data indicate that CA1-subicular cell synapses in mice exhibit LTP, which can be expressed presynaptically, and its induction does not require NMDA-receptor activation. The observed activity-dependent plasticity might play an important role in the integrative mechanisms of the subiculum and may influence transfer of information from the hippocampus to subcortical and cortical brain areas.
A transient interruption in cerebral blood flow can lead to delayed neuronal death in certain vulnerable cell populations several days after blood flow is restored. Among the most vulnerable cell populations in the forebrain are hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons, which die between 48-72 h after the ischemic insult. Neurons in the dentate gyrus and area CA3 are relatively resistant, and will recover from the same insult. Uncovering the factors that render some neuronal populations vulnerable to transient ischemia is key to understanding mechanisms leading to cell death and to developing therapeutic interventions. By applying selective staining and three-dimensional (3D) imaging with electron tomography, we uncovered dramatic structural modifications in postsynaptic densities in the postischemic brain. Postsynaptic densities in the postischemic brain appeared both thicker and less condensed than those from sham-operated controls. Although the class of synapse could not be determined with the methods used, most are likely to be glutamatergic synapses onto dendritic spines, because the majority of synapses in the region examined belong to this class. Further analysis using electron tomography to examine the 3D structure of postsynaptic densities revealed degenerative changes, as evidenced by an overall loosening of the normally compact structure. Synaptic modifications were particularly severe and persistent in hippocampal area CA1 compared to the dentate gyrus. These structural modifications correlate well with biochemical and physiological studies indicating that alterations in synaptic transmission occur in the postischemic brain. The combination of selective staining and 3D reconstruction provides a valuable tool for revealing aspects of synaptic morphology not apparent from standard electron microscopic evaluation.
Growing evidence suggests that the associative parietal cortex (APC) of the rat is involved in the processing of spatial information. This observation raises the issue of the respective functions of the APC and the hippocampus in spatial processing as well as of their possible interactions. In this paper, we review neuroanatomical, electrophysiological, and behavioral data that support the existence of such functional interactions. Our hypothesis is that the APC is involved in the initial combination of visuospatial information and self-motion information necessary for the integration of egocentrically acquired information into allocentrically coded information, the latter step being completed in the hippocampus. The dialogue between the hippocampus and the APC is therefore crucial, particularly when the elaboration and/or updating of an allocentric representation depends on complex combinations of visuospatial and self-motion information.
The structures forming the medial temporal lobe appear to be necessary for the establishment of long-term declarative memory. In particular, they may be involved in the &quot;consolidation&quot; of information in higher-order associational cortices, perhaps through feedback projections. This review highlights the fact that the medial temporal lobe is organized as a hierarchy of associational networks. Indeed, associational connections within the perirhinal, parahippocampal, and entorhinal cortices enables a significant amount of integration of unimodal and polymodal inputs, so that only highly integrated information reaches the remainder of the hippocampal formation. The feedback efferent projections from the perirhinal and parahippocampal cortices to the neocortex largely reciprocate the afferent projections from the neocortex to these areas. There are, however, noticeable differences in the degree of reciprocity of connections between the perirhinal and parahippocampal cortices and certain areas of the neocortex, in particular in the frontal and temporal lobes. These observations are particularly important for models of hippocampal-neocortical interaction and long-term storage of information in the neocortex. Furthermore, recent functional studies suggest that the perirhinal and parahippocampal cortices are more than interfaces for communication between the neocortex and the hippocampal formation. These structures participate actively in memory processes, but the precise role they play in the service of memory or other cognitive functions is currently unclear.
The hippocampal memory system, consisting of the hippocampal formation and the adjacent parahippocampal region, is known to play an important role in learning and memory processes. In recent years, evidence from a variety of experimental approaches indicates that each of the constituting fields of the hippocampal memory system may serve functionally different, yet complementary roles. Understanding the anatomical organization of cortico-parahippocampal-hippocampal connectivity may lead to a further understanding of these potential functional differences. In the present paper we present the two main conclusions of experiments in which we studied the anatomical organization of the hippocampal memory system of the rat in detail, with a focus on the pivotal position of the entorhinal cortex. We first conclude that the simple traditional view of the entorhinal cortex as simply the input and output structure of the hippocampal formation needs to be modified. Second, our data indicate the existence of two parallel pathways through the hippocampal memory system, arising from the perirhinal and postrhinal cortex. These two parallel pathways may be involved in separately processing functionally different types of sensory information. This second proposition will be subsequently evaluated on the basis of series of electrophysiological studies we carried out in rats and some preliminary functional brain imaging studies in humans.
A model of place-cell firing is presented that makes quantitative predictions about specific place cells' spatial receptive fields following changes to the rat's environment. A place cell's firing rate is modeled as a function of the rat's location by the thresholded sum of the firing rates of a number of putative cortical inputs. These inputs are tuned to respond whenever an environmental boundary is at a particular distance and allocentric direction from the rat. The initial behavior of a place cell in any environment is simply determined by its set of inputs and its threshold; learning is not necessary. The model is shown to produce a good fit to the firing of individual place cells, and populations of place cells across environments of differing shape. The cells' behavior can be predicted for novel environments of arbitrary size and shape, or for manipulations such as introducing a barrier. The model can be extended to make behavioral predictions regarding spatial memory.
Unilateral injection of kainic acid (KA) into the dorsal hippocampus of adult mice induces spontaneous recurrent partial seizures and replicates histopathological changes observed in human mesial temporal lobe epilepsy (MTLE) (Bouilleret V et al., Neuroscience 1999; 89:717-729). Alterations in pre- and postsynaptic components of GABAergic neurotransmission were investigated immunohistochemically at different time points (1-120 days) in this mouse model of MTLE. Markers of GABAergic interneurons (parvalbumin, calbindin-D28k, and calretinin), the type-1 GABA transporter (GAT1), and major GABA(A)-receptor subunits expressed in the hippocampal formation were analyzed. Acutely, KA injection produced a profound loss of hilar cells but only limited damage to CA1 and CA3 pyramidal cells. In addition, parvalbumin and calbindin-D28k staining of interneurons disappeared irreversibly in CA1 and dentate gyrus (DG), whereas calretinin staining was spared. The prominent GABA(A)-receptor alpha1 subunit staining of interneurons also disappeared after KA treatment, suggesting acute degeneration of these cells. Likewise, GAT1 immunoreactivity revealed degenerating terminals at 24 h post-KA in CA1 and DC and subsided almost completely thereafter. Loss of CA1 and, to a lesser extent, CA3 neurons became evident at 7-15 days post-KA. It was more accentuated after 1 month, accompanied by a corresponding reduction of GABA(A)-receptor staining. In contrast, DC granule cells were markedly enlarged and dispersed in the molecular layer and exhibited a prominent increase in GABA(A)-receptor subunit staining. After 4 months, the dorsal CA1 area was lost almost entirely, CA3 was reduced, and the DG represented most of the remaining dorsal hippocampal formation. No significant morphological alterations were detected contralaterally. These results suggest that loss of hilar cells and GABAergic neurons contributes to epileptogenesis in this model of MTLE. In contrast, long-term degeneration of pyramidal cells and granule cell dispersion may reflect distinct responses to recurrent seizures. Finally, GABA(A)-receptor upregulation in the DG may represent a compensatory response persisting for several months in epileptic mice.
After seizures caused by kindling or kainic acid (KA), hippocampal granule-cell axons, the mossy fibers, sprout into the supragranular layer of the rat. The mechanisms underlying this phenomenon remain elusive, but excitotoxic loss of hilar cells, which project to this supragranular layer, is suspected to be a critical determinant. Consistent with this hypothesis, we previously reported that while rats show mossy fiber sprouting after kainate, ICR mice do not. This may be associated with the observation that ICR mice, unlike rats, do not appear to show hilar cell death after KA (McNamara et al., Mol Brain Res 1996;40:177-187). Other strains of mice, however, such as 129/SvEMS, do show hilar cell death after KA (Schauwecker and Steward, Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 1997;94:4103-4108). We examined the possibility that the 129/SvEMS mouse strain would show granule-cell sprouting, in contrast to ICR mice. After administration of KA, mossy fiber sprouting was indeed observed in strain 129/SvEMS, but only in animals displaying evident hilar cell death. In contrast, neither hilar cell death nor mossy fiber sprouting was observed in ICR mice, confirming previous results. Both mouse strains demonstrated comparable behavioral seizures. These results strengthen the view that hilar cell death, together with epileptogenesis, triggers reactive synaptogenesis and mossy fiber sprouting.
Prenatal exposure to alcohol can result in fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS), characterized by growth retardation, facial dysmorphologies, and a host of neurobehavioral impairments. Neurobehavioral effects in FAS, and in alcohol-related neurodevelopmental disorder, include poor learning and memory, attentional deficits, and motor dysfunction. Many of these behavioral deficits can be modeled in rodents. This paper reviews the literature suggesting that many fetal alcohol effects result, at least in part, from teratogenic effects of alcohol on the hippocampus. Neurobehavioral studies show that animals exposed prenatally to alcohol are impaired in many of the same spatial learning and memory tasks sensitive to hippocampal damage, including T-mazes, the Morris water maze, and the radial arm maze. Direct evidence for hippocampal involvement is provided by neuroanatomical studies of the hippocampus documenting reduced numbers of neurons, lower dendritic spine density on pyramidal neurons, and decreased morphological plasticity after environmental enrichment in rats exposed prenatally to alcohol. Electrophysiological studies also demonstrate changes in synaptic activity in in vitro hippocampal brain slices isolated from prenatal alcohol-exposed animals. Considered together, these observations demonstrate that prenatal exposure to alcohol can result in abnormal hippocampal development and function. Such studies provide a better understanding of neurological deficits associated with FAS in humans, and may also contribute to the development of strategies to ameliorate the effects of prenatal alcohol exposure on behavior.
For well over a century, ethanol was believed to exert its effects on cognition and behavior by producing a ubiquitous depression of central nervous system activity. A general disruption in brain function was consistent with the belief that ethanol's effects on cognition and behavior were also quite general. Substantial evidence now indicates that ethanol produces a host of selective effects on neural activity, resulting in regional differences in ethanol's effects in the brain. Consistent with such evidence, recent research suggests that ethanol's effects on cognition and behavior are not as global as previously assumed. The present paper discusses evidence that many of ethanol's effects on learning and memory stem from altered cellular activity in the hippocampus and related structures. Potential mechanisms for ethanol's disruption of hippocampal function are reviewed. Evidence suggests that ethanol disrupts activity in the hippocampus by interacting directly with hippocampal neurons and by interacting with critical hippocampal afferents.
We studied the regional and laminar distribution of neurons expressing immunoreactivity with antibodies against the neuropeptide somatostatin (SOM) in the entorhinal cortex of colchicine-treated rats. We further determined whether these neurons also express immunoreactivity with antibodies against the neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). Frontally and horizontally cut brain sections were subjected to double immunofluorescence histochemistry and investigated in a two-laser confocal laser scanning fluorescence microscope. The exact position of each single- or double-labeled cell was obtained via the preparation of large-scale digital fluorescence images superimposed on a brightfield digital image obtained postscanning after decoverslipping and staining with cresyl violet. Three types of SOM-positive cells were found: big multipolar cells (10-15% of the SOM-positive cells), oval cells (15-20%), and small spherical cells (majority of SOM-positive cells). Most cells were seen in layer III. In addition, we found immunoreactive cells in the other layers, with the fewest cells in layers I and IV (lamina dissecans). Of the SOM-positive cells, 18% also expressed GABA immunoreactivity; of the GABA-positive cells, 8% were also immunoreactive for SOM. Double-labeled cells were mostly small spherical cells and, infrequently, multipolar. These data indicate that in the entorhinal cortex, a large proportion of the cells belonging to the SOM population do not express GABA. We speculate that there may be several subpopulations of SOM cells, of which the largest may consist of non-GABAergic, excitatory interneurons.
Hippocampal place cells in rats display spatially selective firing in relation to both external and internal cues. In the present study, we assessed the effects of removing visual and/or olfactory cues on place field stability. Place cell activity was recorded as rats searched for randomly scattered food in a cylinder. During an initial recording session, the lights were on and the only available cue was a single white cue card. Following this session, three sessions were run in a row with the cue card removed. In addition, the lights were either turned off or left on and the floor was either cleaned or left unchanged, thus creating four conditions: dark/cleaning, dark/no cleaning, light/cleaning, and light/no cleaning. A fifth session was run with the cue card back on the cylinder wall and the lights turned on. The rat remained in the cylinder during all sessions without being removed at any time. In the dark/cleaning and light/cleaning conditions, most place fields were not stable (i.e., abruptly shifted position). In addition, half of the cells stopped firing in the dark/cleaning condition. In contrast, in the dark/no cleaning and light/no cleaning conditions, most place fields remained stable across sessions. These results suggest that 1) rats are not able to rely on only movement-related information to maintain a stable place representation, 2) visual input is necessary for the firing of a large number of cells, and 3) olfactory information can be used to compensate for the lack of visuospatial information.
This paper presents a model of how hippocampal place cells might be used for spatial navigation in two watermaze tasks: the standard reference memory task and a delayed matching-to-place task. In the reference memory task, the escape platform occupies a single location and rats gradually learn relatively direct paths to the goal over the course of days, in each of which they perform a fixed number of trials. In the delayed matching-to-place task, the escape platform occupies a novel location on each day, and rats gradually acquire one-trial learning, i.e., direct paths on the second trial of each day. The model uses a local, incremental, and statistically efficient connectionist algorithm called temporal difference learning in two distinct components. The first is a reinforcement-based &quot;actor-critic&quot; network that is a general model of classical and instrumental conditioning. In this case, it is applied to navigation, using place cells to provide information about state. By itself, the actor-critic can learn the reference memory task, but this learning is inflexible to changes to the platform location. We argue that one-trial learning in the delayed matching-to-place task demands a goal-independent representation of space. This is provided by the second component of the model: a network that uses temporal difference learning and self-motion information to acquire consistent spatial coordinates in the environment. Each component of the model is necessary at a different stage of the task; the actor-critic provides a way of transferring control to the component that performs best. The model successfully captures gradual acquisition in both tasks, and, in particular, the ultimate development of one-trial learning in the delayed matching-to-place task. Place cells report a form of stable, allocentric information that is well-suited to the various kinds of learning in the model.
A PET study of 10 normal individuals was carried out to investigate the cerebral regions involved in the controlled updating of verbal working memory. Subjects viewed single concrete words on a computer monitor and detected occasional target words in an attended color. In the activating condition, a target was defined as a word that was identical to the previous word presented in the attended color. In the control condition, the target was a predesignated word. The same word lists, target probabilities, and target response demands were used for both conditions, with interword intervals constrained to ensure equivalence in the demand for target rehearsal. A comparison of the conditions found bilateral activation of dorsolateral prefrontal (middle frontal gyrus; MFG) and inferior parietal (supramarginal gyrus; SMG) cortical regions. Activation of the MFG is taken to reflect executive control by prefrontal regions over the working memory updating process linking posterior representations of the anticipated target stimulus to anterior representations of the planned response. It is proposed that the updating of the stimulus link is mediated via connections between the MFG and SMG. The role of the SMG as an amodal region binding the various modal representations in posterior association cortex of the word being retained in working memory is considered and reviewed. It is suggested that the combined activation of these regions is related to the executive control of goal-setting in planned behavior.
Recently, event-related fMRI-experiments have been reported in which subsequent trials were separated by only 2 sec or less. Because the BOLD response needs 10 sec and longer to return to baseline, the event-related signal in these experiments has to be extracted from the overlapping responses elicited by successive trials. Usually it is assumed that this convolved signal is a summation of the overlapping BOLD responses. We tested this assumption by comparing event-related signals in conditions with little and with substantial BOLD overlap in two fMRI experiments of a task-switching paradigm. We analyzed the difference in the activational time course elicited by a critical task and a baseline task when trials of both tasks were separated by intertrial intervals of 15 sec or when the critical trials were embedded in a stream of baseline trials with ISI = 1 sec. The change of the BOLD signal elicited by the critical trials showed a high correspondence between both experiments in five out of six cortical ROI. Our data support the view that BOLD overlap leads to largely linear signal changes. In the present study, task-related increases in the BOLD response were detected equally well with substantial BOLD overlap as with mostly nonoverlapping BOLD responses.
We have demonstrated that the phenotype of the mouse mutant sex-linked fidget ( slf ) is caused by developmental malformations of the inner ear that result in hearing loss and vestibular dysfunction. Recently, pilot mapping experiments suggested that the mouse Brn4 / Pou3f4 gene co-segregated with the slf locus on the mouse X chromosome. These mapping data, in conjunction with the observation that the vertical head-shaking phenotype of slf mutants is identical to that observed in mice with a targeted deletion of the Brn4 gene, suggested that slf is a mutant allele of the Brn4 gene. In this paper, we have identified the nature of the slf mutation, and demonstrated that it is an X chromosomal inversion with one breakpoint close to Brn4. This inversion selectively eliminates the expression of the Brn4 gene in the developing inner ear, but not the neural tube. Finally, these results demonstrate that the slf mutation is a good mouse model for the most prevalent form of X-linked congenital deafness in man, which is associated with mutations in the human Brn4 ortholog, POU3F4.
Gaucher disease, the most common lysosomal storage disorder, results from the inherited deficiency of the enzyme glucocerebrosidase. Three clinical types are recognized: type 1, non-neuronopathic; type 2, acute neuronopathic; and type 3, subacute neuronopathic. Type 2 Gaucher disease, the rarest type, is progressive and fatal. We have performed molecular analyses of a cohort of 31 patients with type 2 Gaucher disease. The cases studied included fetuses presenting prenatally with hydrops fetalis, infants with the collodion baby phenotype, and infants diagnosed after several months of life. All 62 mutant glucocerebrosidase (GBA) alleles were identified. Thirty-three different mutant alleles were found, including point mutations, splice junction mutations, deletions, fusion alleles and recombinant alleles. Eleven novel mutations were identified in these patients: R131L, H255Q, R285H, S196P, H311R, c.330delA, V398F, F259L, c.533delC, Y304C and A190E. Mutation L444P was found on 25 patient alleles. Southern blots and direct sequencing demonstrated that mutation L444P occurred alone on 9 alleles, with E326K on one allele and as part of a recombinant allele on 15 alleles. There were no homozygotes for point mutation L444P. The recombinant alleles that included L444P resulted from either reciprocal recombination or gene conversion with the nearby glucocerebrosidase pseudogene, and seven different sites of recombination were identified. Homozygosity for a recombinant allele was associated with early lethality. We have also summarized the literature describing mutations associated with type 2 disease, and list 50 different mutations. This report constitutes the most comprehensive molecular study to date of type 2 Gaucher disease, and it demonstrates that there is significant phenotypic and genotypic heterogeneity among patients with type 2 Gaucher disease. Hum Mutat 15:181-188, 2000. Published 2000 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Nerves that contain calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) are components of the sensory nervous system. Although these afferent nerves have traditionally been thought to sense stimuli in the periphery and transmit the information centrally, they also have an efferent vasodilator function. Acute administration of a CGRP receptor antagonist increases the blood pressure (BP) in several models of hypertension, which indicates that this potent vasodilator plays a counterregulatory role to attenuate the BP increase in these settings. To determine the role of this peptide in the long-term regulation of cardiovascular function, including hypertension, we obtained mice that have a deletion of the alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide (alpha-CGRP) gene. Although the beta-calcitonin gene-related peptide (beta-CGRP) gene is intact in these mice, alpha-CGRP is by far the predominant species of CGRP produced in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) sensory neurons. Initially, we examined the effect of deletion of the alpha-CGRP on baseline BP and beta-CGRP and substance P mRNA expression. Systolic BP was significantly higher in the knockout mice (n=7) compared with wild-type in both male (160+/-6.1 vs 125+/-4.8 mm Hg) and female (163+/-4.8 vs 135+/-33 mm Hg) mice. Next, groups (n=7) of knockout and wild-type mice had catheters surgically placed in the right carotid artery for mean arterial pressure recording. With the animals fully awake and unrestrained, the knockout mice displayed an elevated mean arterial pressure compared with wild-type in both male (139+/-4.9 vs 118+/-4.9 mm Hg) and female (121+/-3.4 vs 107+/-3.1 mm Hg) mice. Northern blot analysis of DRG RNA samples confirmed the absence of alpha-CGRP mRNA in the knockout mice. Substance P mRNA content in DRG was unchanged between the 2 groups; however, beta-CGRP mRNA levels were reduced 2-fold in the knockout mice. These results indicate for the first time that alpha-CGRP may be involved in the long-term regulation of resting BP and suggest that these mice are particularly sensitive to challenges to BP homeostasis because of the loss of a compensatory vasodilator mechanism.
This paper describes a probabilistic framework for modeling single-trial functional magnetic resonance (fMR) images based on a parametric model for the hemodynamic response and Markov random field (MRF) image models. The model is fitted to image data by maximizing a lower bound on the log likelihood. The result is an approximate maximum a posteriori estimate of the joint distribution over the model parameters and pixel labels. Examples show how this technique can used to segment two-dimensional (2-D) fMR images, or parts thereof, into regions with different characteristics of their hemodynamic response.


We report the characterization of a naturally occurring polymorphism in CD40 ligand (CD40L, CD154) expressed by activated T cells from a young female patient. This polymorphism encodes a nonconservative Gly --&gt; Arg substitution in amino acid 219 in the extracellular, CD40 binding domain of the molecule. Studies carried out with 293 epithelial cells ectopically expressing the polymorphic protein (CD154/G219R) revealed reduced levels of binding to different anti-CD154 monoclonal antibodies (mAb) and CD40-immunoglobulin (CD40-Ig). However, recognition of the polymorphic and wild-type CD154 molecules by a polyclonal antiserum was comparable, suggesting that the polymorphism affects the ability of the protein to interact with CD40 but does not significantly alter its surface expression. To determine if reduced cross-linking of CD40 mediated decreased functional effects, three CD40-dependent properties were measured. We found that pathways leading to the induction of surface CD23, CD80, and Igamma transcription were activated in response to CD154/G219R signalling. However, the decrease in affinity for CD40 by the mutated CD154 affected the ability of CD40-Ig to efficiently interfere with the binding and effectively block induced CD80 expression. In contrast, we found that the 5c8 mAb, which recognized the polymorphic molecule to a similar extent as wild-type CD154, effectively blocked the interaction between CD154/G219R and CD40 as measured by CD80 expression. These findings suggest that naturally occurring polymorphisms in the CD154 molecule may affect the ability of CD40-mediated functions to be blocked by soluble CD40 or anti-CD154 mAb in the therapeutic treatment of disease and graft rejection.
Simple methods are presented for quantitating contraction and intracellular calcium simultaneously in single, cultured smooth muscle cells. These methods are the first to demonstrate that reliable velocities of cell shortening can be measured in cultured smooth muscle cells and that cells in vitro exhibit shortening velocities comparable to those measured in the fastest phasic muscles in situ. Temporal relationships between changes in intracellular calcium and shortening within single cells were determined with a resolution of 100 ms and were consistent with measures in more &quot;classical&quot; preparations. Intracellular calcium rose quickly and transiently 10-fold above the basal level of 80-90 nM in response to the muscarinic agonist, carbachol. Shortening of the cells occurred 200 ms after intracellular calcium began to rise. The sensitivity and reliability of these methods allowed the effects of different stimuli to be easily resolved. The present report demonstrates that genuine contractility need not be ignored in cultured smooth muscle cells and that the temporal relations between shortening and intracellular calcium mobilization can be quantitatively assessed in controlled in vitro environments.
There is increased interest in the surgical management of epilepsy in children in the last decade or two. The plasticity of the developing brain and realization of the deleterious effects of uncontrolled seizures on the brain have prompted earlier surgery where indicated. All patients with uncontrolled partial seizures are potential candidates for surgery and merit a detailed presurgical evaluation. This consists of a detailed neurological evaluation, EEG, video EEG, a high resolution MRI, SPECT, and a neuropsychological evaluation. The outcome of properly selected cases for surgery is excellent and it offers the possibility of a cure. However, close coordination of a multidisciplinary team is essential for the successful implementation of any epilepsy surgery program.
A young male schizophrenic presented with neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS). Risperidone was the probable precipitating agent. Rigidity and elevated CPK levels poorly responded to bromocriptine, but showed good response to dantrolene. The role of specific treatment and the differential response of the symptom clusters are discussed.
Sialorrhea is reported by 31% of patients taking clozapine. Anticholinergic agents and adrenergic agonists are used for its treatment based on empirical evidence. In the present study, 10 patients who failed to respond to anticholinergic or adrenergic agents received intranasal ipatropium bromide (IPB) to minimize anticholinergic systemic absorption. Intranasal IPB was given to 10 patients for clozapine-induced sialorrhea who failed to respond to benztropine or clonidine. Pre-, post- and 6 month follow-up values were recorded on a single-item, 5-point Hypersalivation Rating Scale. The sign test was used for statistical comparison (P &lt; 0.05). Eight patient reported initial improvement in sialorrhea values. Two patients reported no change and two patients discontinued IPB. At 6 months, six patients maintained improvement. Side-effects for IPB were minor. A significant trend was observed in the values pre- and post-treatment with IPB (P &lt; 0.004). Improvement was maintained at 6 month follow-up (P &lt; 0.008). This case series demonstrates the possible utility of intranasal IPB for clozapine-induced sialorrhea. Intranasal IPB lacks significant systemic anticholinergic effects when prescribed along with clozapine. This study shows only qualitative differences in salivation values and large controlled-comparative trials are needed.
The Eph receptors are the largest known family of receptor tyrosine kinases. The Eph receptors and their membrane-attached ligands, ephrins, show diverse expression patterns during development. Recent studies have demonstrated that Eph receptors and ephrins play important roles in many developmental processes, including neuronal network formation, the patterning of the neural tube and the paraxial mesoderm, the guidance of cell migration, and vascular formation. In the nervous system, Eph receptors and ephrins have been shown to act as positional labels to establish topographic projections. They also play a key role in pathway finding by axons and neural crest cells. The crucial roles of Eph receptors and ephrins during development suggest involvement of these genes in congenital disorders affecting the nervous system and other tissues. It has also been suggested that Eph receptors and ephrins may be involved in carcinogenesis. It is therefore of clinical importance to further analyse the function of these molecules, as manipulation of their function may have therapeutic applications.
A prevalence study methodology developed for use in rural and frontier settings is described. The general method was developed over a 15 year period and has been successfully adapted and used in studies of 14 different childhood onset developmental disorders. Subjects were the 168,000 school aged children from North Dakota who were first surveyed for cases of autism--pervasive developmental disorders in 1985 and 1986. The results of the prevalence study were compared with the results of a 12-year ongoing surveillance of the cohort. The 12-year ongoing surveillance identified one case missed by the original prevalence study. Thus the original prevalence study methodology identified 98% of the cases of autism-pervasive developmental disorder in the population. This methodology may also be useful for studies of other developmental disorders in rural and frontier settings.


Pancreatic cancer is the fourth most common cancer-related mortality in the United States, and the ninth most common cause of death from cancer worldwide. The opioid growth factor (OGF), [Met5]-enkephalin, inhibits the growth of human pancreatic adenocarcinoma in vitro and in vivo, and acts in a receptor-mediated fashion. Ligand binding assays using PANC-1 human pancreatic tumor cells and [3H]-[Met5]-enkephalin were performed to identify and characterize the receptor responsible for the growth-regulatory effects of OGF in pancreatic cancer. Specific and saturable binding was detected, and a Scatchard analysis revealed that the data were consistent for a single binding site with a binding affinity of 1.2+/-0.3 nM and a binding capacity of 36.4+/-4.1 fmol/mg protein. Subcellular fractionation studies showed that binding was restricted to the nuclear fraction. Competition experiments revealed that cold [Met5]-enkephalin was the most effective ligand at displacing [3H]-[Met5]-enkephalin; ligands for mu, delta, and kappa opioid receptors exhibited little or no competition. Binding was detected in 3 other human pancreatic tumor cell lines. Receptor number in xenografts of Capan-1 was decreased 8.6-fold compared to the same cells grown in tissue culture. Binding to radiolabeled [Met5]-enkephalin was detected in pancreatic cancers obtained from surgical resections. Binding capacity, but not binding affinity, was 7.1-fold greater in normal pancreatic tissues than in pancreatic neoplasia. The function, pharmacological and biochemical characteristics, distribution, and subcellular location of OGF binding in human pancreatic cancer were consistent with the OGF receptor (OGFr). In addition, human pancreatic cancer appears to have a low number of receptors for OGF, having the net effect of diminishing control of cellular replicative events.
The Hep3B cell line analyzed in the present study is a widely used in vitro model in studies characterizing pathogenetic, functional, and therapeutic aspects of human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Here we have determined the chromosomal composition using a combination of cytogenetic techniques. In agreement with the original description for this cell line, Hep3B was found to have a hypotriploid chromosome content carrying 59-63 chromosomes and no cytogenetic differences were demonstrated between early and late passages suggesting that this cell line has remained stable after repeated subculturing. Mutations and alterations of the IGF-axis as well as of chromosome 1p34, where the genes for histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) and transforming growth factor beta receptor interacting protein-1 (TRIP-1) map, are frequent events in hepatocarcinogenesis. This study characterizes the Hep3B cell line in detail at the karyotypic level, using comparative genomic hybridization (CGH), spectral karyotyping (SKY), G-banding and FISH techniques. We have also examined the effects of the histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin A (TSA) on members of the IGF-axis, and analysed them with regard to the karyotype. The results show that expression of one member of the IGF-axis, IGFBP-3, is greatly upregulated by treatment of Hep3B cells with TSA. As IGFBP-3 has been shown to induce apoptosis, these results suggest a possible use for histone deacetylase inhibitors and/or IGFBP-3 in the treatment of HCC.
Abnormal glutamate metabolism is implied in the pathogenesis of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) glutamate levels appear to be elevated. Since nitric oxide (NO) inhibits glutamate transport, excessive amounts of nitric oxide could underlie the glutamate induced neurotoxicity in ALS. Stable metabolites of NO (NO2- + NO3-) levels were determined in serum and CSF of sporadic ALS patients and control subjects. NO2- + NO3- levels were higher in ALS, in males and in serum samples compared to controls, females and CSF, respectively. Furthermore, while the difference between serum and CSF NO2- + NO3- levels was significant in males (higher in serum) no such difference was observed in females. Our results suggest that nitric oxide may be involved in the pathogenesis of ALS directly or indirectly and in a sexually dimorphic manner.
The purpose of this study was to quantify with precision the characteristics of normal physiological tremor in the dominant and nondominant hand of a group of right-handed females. Twenty-two right-handed females (aged 20 to 40) gave informed consent to participate. Manual dominance determined with a questionnaire had to be equal to, or above 90%, for subjects to be accepted in the study. While the subjects kept their eyes closed, tremor was recorded simultaneously in the two extended index fingers during 40 s. Preceding the recording of postural tremor there was a period during which the subjects were asked to relax (control condition); to exert a pressure with the two index fingers on two strain gauges (static condition); or to press on and off with both index fingers on two strain gauges (dynamic condition). Each condition was recorded twice with two helium neon velocity lasers. This procedure was repeated after permutation of the lasers, thus a total of twelve sweeps of data were recorded. Seven parameters were used to analyze the tremor signal including measures of harmonicity, median frequency, proportional power in the 7-12 Hz range, amplitude, waveform morphology, entropy, and nonlinearity. Significant differences between hands were found in three parameters (median frequency, power in 7-12 Hz and entropy) but not in tremor amplitude (RMS). In addition, significant differences were found in five out of seven characteristics between conditions. These results suggest that neuromotor activity preceding the recording of tremor has a significant influence on tremor characteristics and that some of these characteristics are significantly different between the right and left hand in right-handed females.
Rats treated with the NMDA-blocker, ketamine hydrochloride 30 minutes after the induction of seizures by lithium pilocarpine exhibited statistically smaller lateral ventricles in the left hemisphere compared to rats that had received acepromazine after the induction of these seizures. In addition, the ketamine-treated rats had more neurons and glial cells surrounding the ventricles. These results suggest a neuroprotective effect of ketamine, such that there is less atrophy surrounding the ventricles and therefore, a smaller degree of dilatation. The possibility that insidious neuronal atrophy and death associated with the ventricular enlargement encourages the marked aggression in the epileptic rats not treated by ketamine is discussed.
After inoculation with spinal cord and complete Freund's adjuvant, female Lewis rats were exposed to weak, 7 Hz complex magnetic fields or to the control condition. The computer-generated magnetic field, whose amplitude varied from 15 nT to 60 nT every 6 to 12 sec, was presented for 6 min every hour between midnight and 0800 of the scotophase. In two replicates of the experiment, the rats exposed to the field displayed statistically significant suppression relative to sham-field controls (effect size = 55%) of the overt symptoms of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis which included hindleg paralyses.
The effect of weak electromagnetic stimulation on the emergence of conditioned analgesia was examined in the adult rat. Subjects were conditioned to associate a continuous 20 kHz ultrasonic tone (CS) with 0.2 mA footshock (UCS-) over five successive days. For 30 min either before or after conditioning sessions, rats were exposed to sham or pulsed (primed burst potentiation) magnetic fields (500 nT). At the end of the conditioning phase, all animals were evaluated for anticipatory analgesia following CS presentation using a hotplate analgesiometer. Data analysis suggested a statistically significant attenuation of fear-conditioned analgesia in rats exposed to electromagnetic stimulation prior to conditioning, whereas post-conditioning exposure potentiated the reduction in pain sensitivity compared to baseline measures. The present results suggest that the emergence of fear-conditioned responses is sensitive to whole body exposure to a magnetic field pattern that has been shown to induce long-term potentiation in hippocampal slices.
In mammals, although sex is determined chromosomally, gonads in both sexes begin development as similar structures. Until recently it was widely held that female development constituted a &quot;default&quot; pathway of development, which would occur in the absence of a testis-determining gene. This master gene on the Y chromosome, SRY in the human and Sry in the mouse, is thought to act in a cell-autonomous fashion to determine that cells in the gonadal somatic population develop as pre-Sertoli cells. Triggering of somatic cell differentiation along the Sertoli cell pathway is therefore a key event; it was thought that further steps in gonadal differentiation would follow in a developmental cascade. In the absence of Sertoli cells, the lack of anti-Mullerian hormone would allow development of the female Mullerian duct and absence of Leydig cells would prevent maintenance of the Wolffian duct. Recent findings that female signals not only maintain the Mullerian duct and repress the Wolffian duct but also suppress the development of Leydig cells and maintain meiotic germ cells, together with the finding that an X-linked gene is required for ovarian development and must be silenced in the male, have shown that the female default pathway model is an oversimplification. Morphological steps in gonadal differentiation can be correlated with emerging evidence of molecular mechanisms; growth factors, cell adhesion, and signaling molecules interact together, often acting within short time windows via reciprocal control relationships.



The tremendous neuroscience advances and technological developments of the last several decades have led to an increasingly sophisticated appreciation of the nature of brain function and how it is modified. Even with these advances, our need to be skilled in developing and maintaining a therapeutic relationship with patients to maximize treatment effectiveness still exists. How to integrate our scientific advances with our humanistic approach to patient care, in light of evolving mental health care delivery systems changes and an increasingly well informed patient population, and to continue to provide a multi-focal approach to psychiatric education, remains the major challenge for psychiatry in the new century.
There has been controversy about the role of family in the etiology and course of schizophrenia for almost 70 years. Psychoanalysts and family therapists have proposed theories about the development of schizophrenia that overtly blamed parents, and recently, expressed emotion (EE) research has been criticized as implicating families once again. However, the study of schizophrenia as a brain disorder has resulted in new understandings of the influence of the family. This article reviews recent research revealing a unique vulnerability to stress in persons with schizophrenia and suggesting that communication difficulties may be due to a shared genetic heritage. Advanced practice mental health nurses who have a solid foundation in neurobiology are ideally suited to help the person with schizophrenia and his or her family. Knowledge about the neurobiological basis of schizophrenia has become very sophisticated and complex, but that knowledge is nevertheless essential to understand the otherwise puzzling patterns of behavior shown by persons with schizophrenia.
This era of neurobiological advances challenges psychiatric nurses to develop innovative practice models that address the needs of clients with anxiety disorders. Technological discoveries and molecular and genetic research provide a wealth of evidence-based data that serve as the basis of symptom management, prevention, and health promotion and maintenance in clients experiencing anxiety disorders. This article provides an overview of current data-based studies and conceptual models of various anxiety disorders and their key components. Underpinnings include the interrelationship among neurotransmitter systems, neuroendocrinological processes, and neuroanatomical structures and their role in mediating stress, normal anxiety, and various anxiety disorders. Treatment considerations are also an integral part of this article. The discussion of pharmacologic and nonpharmacological interventions reflect dysregulation of intricate neurobiologic processes and concurrent behaviors and individual client needs.

This study evaluated the early phase of development of a model for quality improvement of habilitation and rehabilitation project processes. The focus of the methodologic support in habilitation and rehabilitation model was on cooperation between practice contexts and science. Habermas' theory about communicative action was a theoretical frame of reference. Three project coordinators and ten project leaders were interviewed. The results revealed different attitudes towards methodologic support activities, demonstrating the importance of acknowledging cognitive and social functions, the process of legitimization, different approaches of practice versus science, and problems regarding information and communication. The model was shown to be important in bridging the gap between practice and science. To support reflective and emancipatory cognitive learning, more efforts to foster communicative action are called for, and more attention must be paid to the importance different missions and organizational structures have for the development of the dialog between practitioners and researchers.

Nature Reviews Molecular Cell Biology Nature Publishing Group (2000). ISSN 1471-0072. Monthly First there was Annual Reviews, then came the monthly Elsevier Trends Journals, both of which try to identify hot topics in their chosen fields. The Current Opinion journals followed several years later, and Current Opinion in Cell Biology is presently one of the highest 'impact factor' review journals, with a distinguished board of editors and advisors and a systematic approach to regular coverage of the major fields of cell biology. Important topics are visited once a year, whether or not something specially exciting happened in the last 12 months. Add to this list Seminars in Cell and Developmental Biology, the FASEB journal and the countless minireviews in 'real' journals, and you begin to wonder how anyone finds any time for doing experiments, or indeed reading the primary literature. So, into this already crowded field arrive three important newcomers: Nature Reviews in Molecular Cell Biology, Genetics, and Neurosciences, of which the first two will probably interest readers of Journal of Cell Science the most. Backed by the name and money of Nature and edited by experienced Nature staff, it is hard to see how these publications can possibly do other than succeed with writers and readers alike. What's inside the first issue? The cover of Nature Reviews in Molecular Cell Biology presents a 3-colour montage of a blue cell nucleus surrounded by splotches of green GPI-anchored GFP overlaid by orange actin stress fibres that seem to come from somewhere else. This image trails a comprehensive review from Kai Simons and Derek Toomre about Lipid Rafts. There are another five major review articles: calcium puffs and sparks, rings around DNA, HIV inhibitors, kinesin and the circadian clock provide a rich and varied mix of topics from authors who know what they're talking about. Surrounding this core is an entertaining mixture of 'highlights' at the front: news and views about a well-chosen selection of recent articles in the primary literature written by the three editors. These struck me as striking slightly too jokey a style. It is a terrible temptation and mistake in this kind of piece, I think, to equate lightheartedness with clarity. The sugar coating is more likely to irritate than enlighten. I would also question the wisdom, if it is indeed a policy, of only allowing editors to write in this section. I'm all for experienced writers writing, but I think I would prefer the variety of voice and authority evinced by the parental Nature News and Views. After the main reviews comes a section entitled 'perspectives', which include a 'Timeline' piece on Hayflick and his limit by Jerry Shay and Woodring Wright that I very much enjoyed, and a review (or Opinion) about cancer from Judah Folkman, Philip Hahnfeldt and Lynn Hlatky. In their own words, &quot;the impetus for this Opinion article centres on the increasing awareness of the heterogeneity and instability of the cancer genome [. I]t is possible that suppressing this degenerative process may itself comprise an alternative constraint-based paradigm.&quot; The authors' fondness for portentous phrases of this kind rather spoiled their discussion for me. I also had trouble with an article on molecular computing. PCR reactions can solve the travelling salesman problem, it seems, but extremely slowly compared to a proper computer. The magazine has a nice heft to it, and is attractively designed and presented in glossy colour, although the main font is small enough to make reading difficult for your middle-aged reviewer in a particularly heavily overcast and rainy week in London. A first issue is supposed to be a kind of showcase, but if they can keep this up, the editors will surely have a success on their hands and you will probably be obliged to take out a personal subscription (85), or persuade your library to part with 565. That's slightly cheaper than TiBS and a lot cheaper than Current Opinion in Cell Biology, both of which will have to run faster if they want to stay in the same place.
Nature Reviews Molecular Cell Biology Nature Publishing Group (2000). ISSN 1471-0072. Monthly First there was Annual Reviews, then came the monthly Elsevier Trends Journals, both of which try to identify hot topics in their chosen fields. The Current Opinion journals followed several years later, and Current Opinion in Cell Biology is presently one of the highest 'impact factor' review journals, with a distinguished board of editors and advisors and a systematic approach to regular coverage of the major fields of cell biology. Important topics are visited once a year, whether or not something specially exciting happened in the last 12 months. Add to this list Seminars in Cell and Developmental Biology, the FASEB journal and the countless minireviews in 'real' journals, and you begin to wonder how anyone finds any time for doing experiments, or indeed reading the primary literature. So, into this already crowded field arrive three important newcomers: Nature Reviews in Molecular Cell Biology, Genetics, and Neurosciences, of which the first two will probably interest readers of Journal of Cell Science the most. Backed by the name and money of Nature and edited by experienced Nature staff, it is hard to see how these publications can possibly do other than succeed with writers and readers alike. What's inside the first issue? The cover of Nature Reviews in Molecular Cell Biology presents a 3-colour montage of a blue cell nucleus surrounded by splotches of green GPI-anchored GFP overlaid by orange actin stress fibres that seem to come from somewhere else. This image trails a comprehensive review from Kai Simons and Derek Toomre about Lipid Rafts. There are another five major review articles: calcium puffs and sparks, rings around DNA, HIV inhibitors, kinesin and the circadian clock provide a rich and varied mix of topics from authors who know what they're talking about. Surrounding this core is an entertaining mixture of 'highlights' at the front: news and views about a well-chosen selection of recent articles in the primary literature written by the three editors. These struck me as striking slightly too jokey a style. It is a terrible temptation and mistake in this kind of piece, I think, to equate lightheartedness with clarity. The sugar coating is more likely to irritate than enlighten. I would also question the wisdom, if it is indeed a policy, of only allowing editors to write in this section. I'm all for experienced writers writing, but I think I would prefer the variety of voice and authority evinced by the parental Nature News and Views. After the main reviews comes a section entitled 'perspectives', which include a 'Timeline' piece on Hayflick and his limit by Jerry Shay and Woodring Wright that I very much enjoyed, and a review (or Opinion) about cancer from Judah Folkman, Philip Hahnfeldt and Lynn Hlatky. In their own words, &quot;the impetus for this Opinion article centres on the increasing awareness of the heterogeneity and instability of the cancer genome [. I]t is possible that suppressing this degenerative process may itself comprise an alternative constraint-based paradigm.&quot; The authors' fondness for portentous phrases of this kind rather spoiled their discussion for me. I also had trouble with an article on molecular computing. PCR reactions can solve the travelling salesman problem, it seems, but extremely slowly compared to a proper computer. The magazine has a nice heft to it, and is attractively designed and presented in glossy colour, although the main font is small enough to make reading difficult for your middle-aged reviewer in a particularly heavily overcast and rainy week in London. A first issue is supposed to be a kind of showcase, but if they can keep this up, the editors will surely have a success on their hands and you will probably be obliged to take out a personal subscription (85), or persuade your library to part with 565. That's slightly cheaper than TiBS and a lot cheaper than Current Opinion in Cell Biology, both of which will have to run faster if they want to stay in the same place.
Central cholinergic systems have been visualized by immunohistochemistry using antibodies to choline acetyltransferase (ChAT). Peripheral cholinergic cells and fibers, however, have been hardly detectable with most of these antibodies. This phenomenon suggests that a different form of ChAT may exist in peripheral tissues. Here we report two types of mRNA for ChAT expressed by alternative splicing in rat pterygopalatine ganglion. One is exactly identical with ChAT mRNA reported in the central nervous system (ChAT of a common type; cChAT). The other lacks exons 6, 7, 8 and 9, which was detected only in the pterygopalatine ganglion (ChAT of a peripheral type; pChAT). The peculiarity of pChAT in chemical structure, possessing a splice joint of the exons 5 and 10, led us to produce rabbit antisera against a recombinant peptide of 41 amino acids which spans over the splice joint. On Western blots using a successfully obtained antiserum, an intense band of about 50 kDa, corresponding to the expected molecular weight of pChAT, was detected in the pterygopalatine ganglion but not in the brain. Immunohistochemistry using the antiserum failed to reveal positive staining of known brain cholinergic structures, while it permitted us to observe peripheral, probably cholinergic, nerve cells and fibers including those in the pterygopalatine ganglion and enteric nervous system.
Protein inhibitor of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (PIN) is reported as the protein inhibiting neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) activity by preventing dimerization of nNOS. It was also reported that PIN inhibits the activity of all nitric oxide synthase (NOS) isozymes. We examined the effects of facial nerve transection on PIN mRNA and NOS expression by in situ hybridization for PIN mRNA and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase (NADPH-d) staining. PIN mRNA was initially expressed and transiently increased from 3 to 5 days and returned to the basal level at 7 days after axotomy in the motoneurons of the facial nucleus. NADPH-d-positive motoneurons were found from 7 days post-operation in the facial nucleus. These results suggest that PIN may interact with NOS from 7 days post-operation.

In this, the 11th Annual Research Review, I have been pleased to work with an outstanding group of contributors. As in past issues of the Annual Research Review the aim is to provide our readers with reviews that update both current knowledge and research findings. Authors are asked to be selective, rather than comprehensive, in their coverage as they identify the issues that they feel are particularly important for future research. I am grateful not only to the authors but to the numerous referees who provided critiques of each paper. In the first paper in this issue David Skuse provides an update on the relevance of behavioural neuroscience to child psychopathology. This paper provides a thoughtful review of the findings of the past decade and outlines possible directions for future research developments; it appears that we are poised for a major explosion of knowledge in this area. In the second paper Robin Chapman provides a very useful review of recent research on language development. This paper provides an update of Dorothy Bishop's earlier review of the topic and illustrates the considerable progress made since the time of that review. In the third paper Eilish Gilvarry summarises recent research on substance abuse in young people. This review covers recent changes in trends and patterns of substance abuse, aspects of risk and comorbidity, and treatment. Brown and colleagues then review recent work on children and adolescents with HIV and AIDS; this global health problem presents unique issues relative both to research and intervention. Danya Glaser then provides an overview of recent work on child abuse and neglect and the brain; the attempt to bring the various perspectives of neuroscience together on this topic is particularly timely and appropriate. Finally, Sparrow and Davis provide an overview of recent advances in the assessment of intelligence. This paper provides a helpful summary of current perspectives on the assessment of intelligence; the review of instruments will be of particular interest to our readers. For the 12th edition of the Annual Research Review we anticipate coverage of the following topics: intersubjectivity, reading disability, longitudinal approaches to developmental data, mental retardation, conduct disorder, and psychopharmacology.
We have just emerged from &quot;the Decade of the Brain&quot;, yet in so many ways it was the &quot;Decade of the Genome&quot;. What relevance does the remarkable advance in knowledge in genetics and neuroscience over that period have to our understanding of child psychopathology? When the complexity of the genetic systems involved in behavioural regulation of relatively simple organisms such as the nematode worm Caenorhabditis elegans or the fruitfly Drosophila melanogaster is considered, the possibility of comprehending the links from genes to behaviour in the developing child seems remote. Yet, the principles of investigation in model systems are not so different to those that should apply in humans. This review draws out the parallels, and introduces recent findings from behavioural studies of C. elegans, D. melanogaster, and the laboratory mouse, as well as humans, to illustrate the point.
PLP139-51-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (R-EAE) displays a relapsing-remitting paralytic course in female SJL mice. We investigated the role of apoptosis/activation-induced cell death (AICD) in the spontaneous recovery from acute disease. Clinical EAE was significantly enhanced in Fas (CD95/APO-1)-deficient SJL lpr/lpr mice, which displayed significantly increased mean peak clinical scores, reduced remission rates, and increased mortality when compared with their SJL +/lpr littermates. PLP139-151-specific proliferative responses were fairly equivalent in the 2 groups, but draining lymph node T cells from SJL lpr/lpr mice produced dramatically increased levels of IFN-gamma. Central nervous system (CNS) Fas and FasL mRNA levels in wild-type SJL (H-2(s)) mice peaked just before spontaneous disease remission and gradually declined as disease remitted. We applied the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) assay to detect apoptosis in situ in spinal cords of mice at various clinical stages of EAE. Most TUNEL(+) cells were found during active periods of inflammation: the acute, peak, and relapse time points. Significantly fewer apoptotic cells were observed at preclinical and remission time points. Collectively, these findings indicate that Fas-mediated apoptosis/AICD plays a major role in the spontaneous remission after the initial acute inflammatory episode and represents an important intrinsic mechanism in regulation of autoimmune responses.
In order to determine the influence of age of onset, sex, onset symptoms, clinical course and interval from onset to first relapse on the subsequent outcome of multiple sclerosis (MS), data from 2934 cases of MS documented in a large population based study undertaken in Australia have been analysed. Disability on prevalence day (30 June 1981) was defined on the Kurtzke disability scale as mild (DSS 0-3), moderate (DSS 4-6) and severe (DSS 7-9). Prognostic factors associated with mild vs moderate/severe, and moderate vs severe disability on prevalence day were identified by logistic regression analysis. A worse prognosis was significantly associated with older age of onset, progressive disease course, onset symptoms that were multiple, pyramidal or cerebellar, and a short interval between onset and first relapse.

The underlying pathophysiology of bipolar disorder is a continually evolving complexity of multilayer interacting and independent systems. The dearth of adequate preclinical or clinical models that incorporate the various features of the illness, i.e., acute and chronic, recurrent and episodic, and time-course and treatment-related variables, has made the consistency and interpretation of data difficult. Newer technologies and the availability of structurally and mechanistically distinct pharmacologic agents have expanded opportunities for experimental study. In addition to the well-known neurotransmitter systems that are disrupted in mood disorders, critical guanine nucleotide-binding protein (G protein)-coupled signaling pathways are implicated in modulating mood state. Regulation of gene expression and identification of factors regulating neuroplasticity and neurotrophic events in the central nervous system in bipolar disorder are 2 of the more recent approaches contributing to clarification of the pathophysiology and potential treatment options.
The inclusion of research diagnostic criteria for premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) in the DSM-IV recognizes the fact that some women have extremely distressing emotional and behavioral symptoms premenstrually. PMDD can be differentiated from premenstrual syndrome (PMS), which presents with milder physical symptoms, headache, and more minor mood changes. In addition, PMDD can be differentiated from premenstrual magnification of physical and/or psychological symptoms of a concurrent psychiatric and/or medical disorder. As many as 75% of women with regular menstrual cycles experience some symptoms of PMS, according to epidemiologic surveys. PMDD is much less common; it affects only 3% to 8% of women in this group. The etiology of PMDD is largely unknown, but the current consensus is that normal ovarian function (rather than hormone imbalance) is the cyclical trigger for PMDD-related biochemical events within the central nervous system and other target organs. The serotonergic system is in close reciprocal relationship with the gonadal hormones and has been identified as the most plausible target for interventions. Thus, beyond the conservative treatment options such as lifestyle and stress management, other nonantidepressant treatments, or the more extreme interventions that eliminate ovulation altogether, the serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRIs) are emerging as the most effective treatment option for this population. Results from several randomized, placebo-controlled trials in women with PMDD have clearly demonstrated that the SRIs have excellent efficacy and minimal side effects. More recently, several preliminary studies indicate that intermittent (premenstrual only) treatment with selective SRIs is equally effective in these women and, thus, may offer an attractive treatment option for a disorder that is itself intermittent.

Although mood disorders have traditionally been conceptualized as &quot;neurochemical disorders,&quot; considerable literature from a variety of sources demonstrates significant reductions in regional central nervous system (CNS) volume and cell numbers (both neurons and glia) in persons with mood disorders. It is noteworthy that recent advances in cellular and molecular biology have resulted in the identification of 2 novel, hitherto completely unexpected targets of lithium's actions, discoveries that may have a major impact on the future use of this unique cation in biology and medicine. Chronic lithium treatment has been demonstrated to markedly increase the levels of the major neuroprotective protein bc1-2 in rat frontal cortex, hippocampus, and striatum. Similar lithium-induced increases in bc1-2 are also observed in cells of human neuronal origin and are observed in rat frontal cortex at lithium levels as low as approximately 0.3 mM. Bc1-2 is widely regarded as a major neuroprotective protein, and genetic strategies that increase bc1-2 levels have demonstrated not only robust protection of neurons against diverse insults, but have also demonstrated an increase in the regeneration of mammalian CNS axons. Lithium has also been demonstrated to inhibit glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK-3beta), an enzyme known to regulate the levels of phosphorylated tau and beta-catenin (both of which may play a role in the neurodegeneration observed in certain forms of Alzheimer's disease). Consistent with the increases in bc1-2 levels and inhibition of GSK-3beta, lithium has been demonstrated to exert robust protective effects against diverse insults both in vitro and in vivo. These findings suggest that lithium may exert some of its long-term beneficial effects in the treatment of mood disorders via underappreciated neurotrophic and neuroprotective effects. To date, lithium remains the only medication demonstrated to markedly increase bc1-2 levels in several brain areas; in the absence of other adequate treatments, an investigation of the potential efficacy of lithium in the long-term treatment of several neurodegenerative disorders is warranted. Additionally, we suggest that a reconceptualization of the use of lithium in mood disorders may be warranted-namely, that the use of lithium as a neurotrophic/neuroprotective agent should be considered in the long-term treatment of mood disorders, irrespective of the &quot;primary&quot; treatment modality being used for the condition.
A decade of remarkable research in neuroscience has given us a much more complete picture of how the central nervous system works and, in some instances, how the brain does not work when patients develop depression. Preclinical and clinical studies have shown that stimulation of the serotonergic system leads to noradrenergic effects and vice versa, confirming that the serotonin and norepinephrine systems are intimately connected in the central nervous system. Although medications that target the serotonergic neurotransmitter system have recently dominated antidepressant therapy, atypical antidepressants--with either mixed serotonergic and noradrenergic effects or exclusively noradrenergic effects--have been shown to be clinically efficacious medications. This increased understanding of the interrelationship between neurotransmitter systems has renewed interest in the role of neurotransmitters other than serotonin in the treatment of depression. With the introduction of reboxetine, a very selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, researchers have had an opportunity to study the unique effects of norepinephrine in the etiology and treatment of depression. Ultimately, differences in neurotransmitter profiles may influence therapeutic potentials of antidepressants. For example, influencing norepinephrine may affect the expression of energy and interest, while influencing serotonin may affect impulse control and influencing dopamine may affect drive. Clinicians now have a range of antidepressants with variable neurotransmitter effects, different side effect profiles, and some interesting differences in functional utility in their armamentarium for treating depression.

The functional neuroanatomy of visual processing of surface features of emotionally valenced pictorial stimuli was examined in normal human subjects using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Pictorial stimuli were of two types: emotionally negative and neutral pictures. Task performance was slower for the negatively valenced than for the neutral pictures. Significant blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) increases occurred in the medial and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, midbrain, substantia innominata, and/or amygdala, and in the posterior cortical visual areas for both stimulus types. Increases were greater for the negatively valenced stimuli. While there was a small but significant BOLD decrease in the subgenual prefrontal cortex, which was larger in response to the negatively valenced pictures, there was an almost complete absence of other decreases prominently seen during the performance of demanding cognitive tasks [Shulman, G. L., Fiez, J. A., Corbetta, M., Buckner, R. L., Miezin, F. M., Raichle, M. E., &amp; Petersen, S. E. (1997). Common blood flow changes across visual tasks: II. Decreases in cerebral cortex. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 9, 648--663]. These results provide evidence that the emotional valence and arousing nature of stimuli used during the performance of an attention-demanding cognitive task are reflected in discernable, quantitative changes in the functional anatomy associated with task performance.
Each molt in the hawkmoth, Manduca sexta, culminates in the shedding of the old cuticle at ecdysis. Prior to each larval ecdysis, the old cuticle is loosened by pre-ecdysis behavior, which includes rhythmic, synchronous compressions in all abdominal segments. Prior to ecdysis to the pupal stage, pre-ecdysis behavior and its underlying motor pattern are markedly attenuated. A single pair of interneurons located in the terminal abdominal ganglion, the IN-402s, drives compression motoneuron activity during the pre-ecdysis motor pattern via monosynaptic excitatory connections. The present study tested the hypotheses that (1) changes in intrinsic properties (resting membrane potential, spike threshold, input resistance and excitability) of compression motoneurons, or (2) changes in the strength of synaptic connections from IN-402s to compression motoneurons, underlie the developmental attenuation of the pre-ecdysis motor pattern. Membrane potential was slightly more hyperpolarized in prepupal as compared to larval motoneurons, but no other findings supported the tested hypotheses. These results suggest that developmental weakening of the pre-ecdysis motor pattern results from changes upstream of the compression motoneurons and their synaptic connections from IN-402s.
A quasi-three-dimensional finite-volume numerical simulator was developed to study passive voltage spread in vestibular macular afferents. The method, borrowed from computational fluid dynamics, discretizes events transpiring in small volumes over time. The afferent simulated had three calyces with processes. The number of processes and synapses, and direction and timing of synapse activation, were varied. Simultaneous synapse activation resulted in shortest latency, while directional activation (proximal to distal and distal to proximal) yielded most regular discharges. Color-coded visualizations showed that the simulator discretized events and demonstrated that discharge produced a distal spread of voltage from the spike initiator into the ending. The simulations indicate that directional input, morphology, and timing of synapse activation can affect discharge properties, as must also distal spread of voltage from the spike initiator. The finite volume method has generality and can be applied to more complex neurons to explore discrete synaptic effects in four dimensions.
This is a report of a cleft palate-craniofacial team's experience with 768 patients that have had clefting over 22 years, with a primary focus on function and prevention of communication disorders associated traditionally with cleft palate. The treatment philosophy is based on tenets of child development and the dependency of neuropsychobiological development on the child's inherent competency, and early environmental stimulation and support. The applied treatments include ensuring early and adequate hearing, psychosocial adaptation of the parent and child through training for applications of indirect therapies, and early fistula-free surgical closure of the cleft that produces minimal scarring and a mobile velum. Team members have extensive backgrounds in child development that seem to have helped the majority of families in their complex efforts of daily care and sensory stimulation, and their children have developed early the ability to adapt modified structures to normal functions. Only one of these patients has needed or received secondary palatal surgery for correction of velopalatal insufficiency. Fifty-six children who did not achieve acceptable 2 to 3-year old communication criteria were referred for speech and language evaluation and therapy. These patients were reported to exhibit oral motor deficits described as developmental verbal dyspraxia.
The mantis shrimp Squilla mantis shows a graded series of avoidance/escape responses to visual and mechanical (vibration and touch) rostral stimuli. A low-threshold response is mediated by the simultaneous protraction of the thoracic walking legs and abdominal swimmerets and telson, producing a backwards 'lurch' or jump that can displace the animal by up to one-third of its body length, but leaves it facing in the same direction. A stronger response starts with similar limb protraction, but is followed by partial abdominal flexion. The maximal response also consists of limb protraction followed by abdominal flexion, but in this case the abdominal flexion is sufficiently vigorous to pull the animal into a tight vertical loop, which leaves it inverted and facing away from the stimulus. The animal then swims forward (away from the stimulus) and rights itself by executing a half-roll. A bilaterally paired, large-diameter, rapidly conducting axon in the dorsal region of the ventral nerve excites swimmeret protractor motoneurons in several ganglia and is likely to be the driver neuron for the limb-protraction response. The same neuron also excites unidentified abdominal trunk motoneurons, but less reliably. The escape response is a key feature of the malacostracan caridoid facies, and we provide the first detailed description of this response in a group that diverged early in malacostracan evolution. We show that the components of the escape response contrast strongly with those of the full caridoid reaction, and we provide physiological and behavioural evidence for the biological plausibility of a limb-before-tail thesis for the evolution of the escape response.

Cones in the vertebrate retina project to horizontal and bipolar cells and the horizontal cells feedback negatively to cones. This organization forms the basis for the center/surround organization of the bipolar cells, a fundamental step in the visual signal processing. Although the surround responses of bipolar cells have been recorded on many occasions, surprisingly, the underlying surround-induced responses in cones are not easily detected. In this paper, the nature of the surround-induced responses in cones is studied. Horizontal cells feed back to cones by shifting the activation function of the calcium current in cones to more negative potentials. This shift increases the calcium influx, which increases the neurotransmitter release of the cone. In this paper, we will show that under certain conditions, in addition to this increase of neurotransmitter release, a calcium-dependent chloride current will be activated, which polarizes the cone membrane potential. The question is, whether the modulation of the calcium current or the polarization of the cone membrane potential is the major determinant for feedback-mediated responses in second-order neurons. Depolarizing light responses of biphasic horizontal cells are generated by feedback from monophasic horizontal cells to cones. It was found that niflumic acid blocks the feedback-induced depolarizing responses in cones, while the shift of the calcium current activation function and the depolarizing biphasic horizontal cell responses remain intact. This shows that horizontal cells can feed back to cones, without inducing major changes in the cone membrane potential. This makes the feedback synapse from horizontal cells to cones a unique synapse. Polarization of the presynaptic (horizontal) cell leads to calcium influx in the postsynaptic cell (cone), but due to the combined activity of the calcium current and the calcium-dependent chloride current, the membrane potential of the postsynaptic cell will be hardly modulated, whereas the output of the postsynaptic cell will be strongly modulated. Since no polarization of the postsynaptic cell is needed for these feedback-mediated responses, this mechanism of synaptic transmission can modulate the neurotransmitter release in single synaptic terminals without affecting the membrane potential of the entire cell.
Musical release hallucinations are complex auditory phenomena, affecting mostly the deaf geriatric population, in which individuals hear vocal or instrumental music. Progressive hearing loss from otosclerosis disrupts the usual external sensory stimuli necessary to inhibit the emergence of memory traces within the brain, thereby &quot;releasing&quot; previously recorded perceptions. Responses to conventional antipsychotic agents have been variable and extrapyramidal and other side effects have limited their use. We report the first case of hypnogogic release hallucinations successfully treated with the atypical antipsychotic quetiapine. The patient is an 88-year-old woman with progressive deafness who complained of hearing the piano, drums, or a full orchestra every time she was about to fall asleep. She accused her neighbor of hosting loud parties. Physical, neurologic, and psychiatric examination and work-up were unremarkable. She was treated with low-dose quetiapine affording near total resolution of hallucinations without adverse effects.
Circadian rhythms of primate brain temperature, head and ankle skin temperature, motor activity, and heart rate were studied during spaceflight and on the ground. In space, the circadian rhythms of all the parameters were synchronized with diurnal Zeitgebers. However, in space the brain temperature rhythm showed a significantly more delayed phase angle, which may be ascribed to an increase of the endogenous circadian period.

Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) is a major neuropsychiatric complication of cirrhosis. HE develops slowly in cirrhotic patients, starting with altered sleep patterns and eventually progressing through asterixis to stupor and coma. Precipitating factors are common and include an oral protein load, gastrointestinal bleeding and the use of sedatives. HE is common following transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic stent shunts (TIPS). Neuropathologically, HE in cirrhotic patients is characterized by astrocytic (rather than neuronal) changes known as Alzheimer type II astrocytosis and in altered expression of key astrocytic proteins. Magnetic resonance imaging in cirrhotic patients reveals bilateral signal hyperintensities particularly in globus pallidus on T1-weighted imaging, a phenomenon which may result from manganese deposition. Proton (1H) magnetic resonance spectroscopy shows increases in the glutamine resonance in brain, a finding which confirms previous biochemical studies and results no doubt from increased brain ammonia removal (glutamine synthesis). Additional evidence for increased brain ammonia uptake and removal in cirrhotic patients is provided by studies using positron emission tomography and 13NH3. Recent molecular biological studies demonstrate increased expression of genes coding for neurotransmitter-related proteins in chronic liver failure. Such genes include monoamine oxidase (MAO-A isoform), the peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor and nitric oxide synthase (nNOS isoform). Activation of these systems has the potential to lead to alterations of monoamine and amino acid neurotransmitter function as well as modified cerebral perfusion in chronic liver failure. Prevention and treatment of HE in cirrhotic patients continues to rely on ammonia-lowering strategies which include assessment of dietary protein intake and the use of lactulose, neomycin, sodium benzoate and L-ornithine-aspartate. The benzodiazepine receptor antagonist flumazenil may be effective in certain cases. A more widespread use of central nervous system-acting drugs awaits a more complete understanding of the precise neurotransmitter systems involved in the pathogenesis of HE in chronic liver failure.
Technical advancements in molecular genetics have shown various mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) abnormalities in patients with mitochondrial myopathies. Recently, it has been revealed that, in these patients, the nuclear DNA carries sequences similar to those of the mtDNA (nuclear pseudogene) and it has several point mutations previously reported to be pathogenic. We verified the existence of the T3250C and T3291C mutations, which we have found in patients with mitochondrial myopathy, in the authentic mitochondrial genome. A long polymerase chain reaction provides a powerful tool for avoiding nuclear pseudogene amplification and for ruling out ambiguity in the detection of the mutation for diagnosis.
As human amniotic epithelial tissue is formed on about the eighth day after fertilization, human amniotic epithelial cells (hAEC) may have multipotency to differentiate into various organs, such as brain, heart, or liver. In this study, we showed evidence of the synthesis and excretion of albumin by hAEC, by immunostaining and enzyme-linked immunoassay. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and western blot analyses revealed the expression of albumin mRNA and protein, respectively. In addition, hAEC also demonstrated immunoreactivity to genetic markers of liver lineage, such as human serum albumin and alpha-fetoprotein. Transplanted hAEC to Scid mouse liver showed positive immunoreactivity to albumin and alpha-fetoprotein. Genetically modified cells containing the beta-galactosidase (LacZ) gene (AxCALacZ) were integrated in liver parenchyma. Human polymorphic gene analysis in Scid mouse liver after the implantation of hAEC showed that these Scid mouse livers obviously contained this human-specific gene until day 7 after the cell transplantation. As hAEC do not cause any acute rejection by allotransplantation, we conclude that hAEC may be useful as a transgene carrier to treat patients with inherited liver diseases.
Of 100 patients with the clinical diagnosis of Leigh syndrome, 21 were found to have specific enzyme defects: 15 involving cytochrome c oxidase (COX); 4, pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDHC); one, complex I (reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide [NADH]-coenzyme Q reductase) and one, complex II (succinate-ubiquinone reductase) deficiencies. In addition to the most common form of COX deficiency, mtDNA mutations in the adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase) 6 coding region were also commonly seen. Eighteen patients (18%) had mtDNA mutations at nucleotide position (np) 8993 or 9176. The mutated DNAs were present in a heteroplasmic state, comprising more than 90% of the DNA in muscle and/or blood samples from all patients. Patients with the T-to-G mutation at np 8993 usually had early onset of the disease with rapid progression, showing the typical clinical features of Leigh syndrome. On the other hand, those with the T-to-C 8993 mutation showed a milder and more chronic course. Patients with the mutation at np 9176 showed variable courses. Phylogenetic analysis of mtDNA D-loop sequences for the patients with the ATPase 6 mutations and normal Japanese subjects revealed that a T-to-G/C mutation at np 8993 and a T-to-C mutation at np 9176 occurred many times independently in the Japanese population.
Fabry disease is an X-linked inherited metabolic disorder caused by a deficiency of alpha-galactosidase (alpha-gal), resulting in the accumulation of ceramide trihexoside (CTH) in body fluids and in many organs and tissues. We constructed a recombinant adenovirus with a human alpha-gal cDNA (AxCAG alpha-gal), and transfected this vector to skin fibroblasts from Fabry patients. Transfected cells expressed high amounts of alpha-gal in their cytoplasm, and a high level of alpha-gal activity was detected in the medium. The accumulated CTH in the fibroblasts disappeared 3 days after infection. The secreted alpha-gal also eliminated the accumulated CTH from uninfected patient's cells. The enzyme may be taken up through mannose-6-phosphate receptors, as the addition of mannose-6-phosphate to the medium completely inhibited the uptake of the enzyme. The infected cells continued to express alpha-gal for more than 10 days. These results suggest that AxCAG alpha-gal could be used as enzyme replacement gene therapy for Fabry disease.
The B7/CD28 pathway provides critical costimulatory signals required for complete T cell activation and has served as a potential target for immunotherapeutic strategies designed to regulate autoimmune diseases. This study was designed to examine the roles of CD28 and its individual ligands, B7-1 and B7-2, in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a Th1-mediated inflammatory disease of the CNS. EAE induction in CD28- or B7-deficient nonobese diabetic (NOD) mice was compared with the effects of B7/CD28 blockade using Abs in wild-type NOD mice. Disease severity was significantly reduced in CD28-deficient as well as anti-B7-1/B7-2-treated NOD mice. B7-2 appeared to play the more dominant role as there was a moderate decrease in disease incidence and severity in B7-2-deficient animals. EAE resistance was not due to the lack of effective priming of the myelin peptide-specific T cells in vivo. T cells isolated from CD28-deficient animals produced equivalent amounts of IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha in response to the immunogen, proteolipid protein 56-70. In fact, IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha production by Ag-specific T cells was enhanced in both the B7-1 and B7-2-deficient NOD mice. In contrast, peptide-specific delayed-type hypersensitivity responses in these animals were significantly decreased, suggesting a critical role for CD28 costimulation in in vivo trafficking and systemic immunity. Collectively, these results support a critical role for CD28 costimulation in EAE induction.
Chronic exposure to elevated glucocorticoid levels in Cushing's syndrome (CS), is associated with deficits in cognitive function and in emotion. The hippocampus plays a crucial role in the behavioral manifestations of the syndrome as it is richest in glucocorticoid receptors and is thus particularly vulnerable to glucocorticoid excess. The wide distribution of glucocorticoid receptors throughout the cerebral cortex, however, suggests that several cognitive functions can also be affected by the dysregulation of glucocorticoids. In this study, we investigated how an excess of glucocorticoid hormones affects cognitive processes. Nineteen patients with chronic hypercortisolemia due to CS were compared to healthy controls matched for age, sex, education, and occupation in tests of processing of visual and spatial information, memory, reasoning and concept formation, language and verbal functions, and attention. Multivariate and univariate analyses revealed overall differences in tests of treatment of visual and spatial information, reasoning and concept formation as well as in verbal and language performance, with poorer performance from CS patients. Differences were also observed in nonverbal aspects of memory and in attention tasks. The results suggest that chronic exposure to elevated levels of cortisol is associated with deficits in several areas of cognition, particularly those involving processing of selective attention and visual components. This study also shows that hormones play an important role in the modulation of cognitive function and that their influence on cerebral structure and function merits closer scrutiny.
A simple procedure for analyzing multi-subject functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data is proposed. In the first step, a voxel-wise t-test across standardized z-maps is performed to identify areas that are consistently activated across subjects. In the second step, for each area, individual mean z-scores are calculated and subsequently subjected to an analysis of variance. An example is provided.
The insulin-like growth factors are mitogens and survival factors for normal mammary epithelial cells in vitro. Data reviewed here demonstrate that mRNAs for IGF-I and IGF-II, the IGF type I receptor and the IGFBPs are expressed locally in mammary tissue during pubertal and pregnancy-induced growth and differentiation of murine mammary glands. IGF-I, IGF-II and the IGF-IR were expressed in terminal end buds (TEBs) in virgin glands during ductal growth. In addition, IGF-II and IGF-IR mRNAs were expressed in ductal and alveolar epithelium in glands throughout postnatal development. Consistent with these results, IGF-I promoted ductal growth and proliferation in mouse mammary glands in organ culture. In addition to endogenous expression of the IGFs and IGF-IR, the IGFBPs showed a varied pattern of expression in mammary tissue during postnatal development. For example, IGFBP-3 and -5 mRNAs were expressed in TEBs and ducts while IGFBP-2 and -4 mRNAs were expressed in stromal cells immediately surrounding the epithelium. These results support a role for the IGFs and IGFBPs as local mediators of postnatal mammary gland growth and differentiation.

Excitotoxicity is thought to be a major mechanism contributing to neurodegeneration during central nervous system ischemia, trauma, and other neurological disorders. Briefly, synaptic overactivity leads to the excessive release of glutamate, the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian central nervous system. Glutamate activates a number of postsynaptic cell membrane receptors, which upon activation open their associated ion channel pore to produce ion influx or efflux. This leads to a disturbance of the intracellular ionic environment, the best characterized feature of which is the influx of sodium, chloride, and Ca2+. An excess of Ca2+ ions then activates intracellular Ca2+-dependent signaling cascades that eventually lead to neuronal cell death. Despite intensive research in the field of Ca2+-dependent neurotoxicity the precise molecular mechanisms leading to cell death remain poorly understood. In particular, the question of the precise relationship between Ca2+ loading and neurotoxicity has been controversial. Many glutamate receptors are clustered and localized at the postsynaptic density. Recently, increasing knowledge of the molecular composition of the postsynaptic density has allowed us to extend our understanding of the molecular mechanisms of Ca2+-dependent excitotoxicity and to propose that distinct, membrane receptor-specific, neurotoxic signaling pathways transduce Ca2+-dependent excitotoxicity. These findings may have significant implications in the search for precisely targeted therapeutic drugs for a range of neurological disorders.
Hundreds of extracellular stimuli are received by cells via the pathways consisting of three basic components: cell-surface receptors, heterotrimeric G proteins, and intracellular effector enzymes or ion channels. A number of additional molecules, including G protein-coupled receptor kinases (GRKs), phosducin and Ca(2+)-binding proteins modulate signal transduction through these cascades. Understanding how these universal pathways work requires a detailed analysis of the interactions between these proteins. The recently emerged technology of surface plasmon resonance (SPR) can study protein-protein interactions by measuring not only the equilibrium binding constants, but also the association and dissociation rates. This article reviews experimental design used by researchers to analyze different components of the G protein pathway by SPR and focuses on the insights this technique provides regarding the kinetics, structure-function aspects and regulation of specific molecular events in the cascade.
We studied the growth-associated protein, GAP-43 (also called neuromodulin and B-50) in post-mortem brain tissue using immunohistochemistry and quantitative Western blotting, from patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and age-matched control subjects. By immunohistochemistry, we found a clear reduction of GAP-43 in the frontal cortex, while in the hippocampus, there was a marked reduction in some areas (dentate molecular layer, stratum moleculare and radiale of CA1 and CA4), while not in other areas (stratum lacunosum, pyramidale and oriens of CA1). Moreover, in the hippocampus, neuritic staining was prominent, and was often associated with senile plaques. Quantitative analysis showed that GAP-43 was significantly reduced in AD, both in the frontal cortex (70% of the control value, p &lt; 0.01) and in the hippocampus (81% of the control value, p &lt; 0.05). In the frontal cortex, there was a significant negative correlation between GAP-43 and duration of dementia (r = -0.58; p &lt; 0.02) and a positive correlation between GAP-43 and the synaptic vesicle-specific protein rab3a (r = 0.62; p &lt; 0.05), while no such correlation were found in the hippocampus. In contrast, a significant positive correlation was found between GAP-43 and the number of senile plaques in the hippocampus (r = 0.64; p &lt; 0.05), but not in the frontal cortex. GAP-43 is known to be involved in maintenance of synapses and in neuritic regeneration. Our findings may suggest that in the frontal cortex, GAP-43 levels decline as a consequence of the synaptic degeneration, while in the hippocampus, sprouting processes, involving GAP-43, are active.
To investigate the possible involvement of an intronic polymorphism in the presenilin 1 (PS1) gene and its interactions with the aplolipoprotein E (APOE) or alpha-1 antichymotrypsin (ACT) polymorphisms in the manifestation of AD, we analyzed the PS1, APOE and ACT genotypes of 100 sporadic AD patients and 199 normal elderly controls in Koreans. The genotypic (chi2= 0.92, df = 2, P &gt; 0.1) and allelic (chi2 = 0.01, df = 1, P &gt; 0.1) frequencies of the PS1 polymorphism in the late- and early-onset sporadic AD patients did not differ from those in the controls. And the occurrence of the APOE epsilon4 allele and ACT A allele did not influence the distribution of the PS1 intronic polymorphism. The PS1 intronic polymorphism didn't influence the age-at-onset of AD (F = 0.02, df = 2, P &gt; 0.1). In conclusion, the PS1 intronic polymorphism did not modify the risk for sporadic AD, neither independently nor synergistically with the APOE epsilon4 allele or ACT A allele, in Koreans.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of tau, beta-amyloid(1-42) and growth-associated protein 43 (GAP-43) were studied in patients with frontotemporal dementia (FTD; n = 17), Alzheimer's disease (AD; n = 60), subcortical white-matter dementia (SWD; n = 24), Parkinson's disease (PD; n = 23) and dysthymia (n = 19) and in age-matched controls (n = 32). CSF-tau was significantly increased only in AD, and CSF-beta-amyloid(1-42) was significantly decreased in AD and SWD as compared to controls, and in AD compared to FTD. CSF-GAP-43 was significantly decreased only in PD. The GAP-43/tau ratio was decreased in all the patient groups except the dysthymia group compared to controls. A positive correlation was found between CSF-GAP-43 and CSF-tau in all groups. The results suggest normal levels of CSF-tau and CSF-beta-amyloid(1-42) in FTD, which will aid in the clinical separation of FTD from AD. In SWD, decreased levels of CSF-beta-amyloid(1-42) suggest concomitant involvement of vascular and amyloid protein mechanisms.
Monoamine oxidases (MAO) play a critical role in the degradation of endogenous and exogenous amines throughout the body. There are two distinct MAO isoforms, MAO-A and MAO-B, which both are encoded in genes on the X chromosome. Alterations in MAO-B activity have previously been connected with several neurological disorders. Platelet MAO (trbc-MAO) is exclusively of the B-type and the catalytic activity of this enzyme is under strong, yet unknown, genetic control. Specific trbc-MAO activity has been reported to be increased in certain neurodegenerative diseases and to correlate with personality traits such as sensation seeking and impulsiveness. In the present study, we investigated if trbc-MAO activity is associated with genotype at a variable region (A/G dimorphism) in intron 13 of the human gene encoding MAO-B. The MAOB intron 13 allele status and levels of trbc-MAO were determined for 55 Caucasian non-smoking males. Individuals with the &quot;A-allele&quot; displayed significantly lower enzyme activity than individuals with the &quot;G-allele&quot;, i.e. 11.4 +/- 0.6 nmol/10(10) platelets/min compared with 13.5 +/- 0.6 (mean +/- SEM, p = 0.019). The present results suggest that the MAOB genotype may be involved in determining trbc-MAO activity.
Although the psychotic symptoms in schizophrenia can be alleviated by treatment with dopaminergic receptor antagonists, the etiology and underlying neurochemical pathology remains obscure. Both neuropathological and magnetic resonance imaging studies have found evidence for neuronal loss and atrophy in the thalamus in schizophrenia, implicating this key structure for gating information to cortical areas in the pathophysiology. Recent studies have also found evidence of synaptic loss in the thalamus in schizophrenia. To further examine possible synaptic disturbances, we studied the synaptic related protein rab3a as a marker for synaptic density, using both quantitative Western blotting and immunohistochemistry. The material consisted of brains from 22 schizophrenic patients (mean age 79.3 years), and 24 control subjects (74.8 years). Reduced rab3a protein levels were found in the left thalamus in schizophrenia (0.47 +/- 0.17 vs. 1.00 +/- 0.18; p &lt; 0.0001), while a less marked decrease was found also in the right thalamus (0.75 +/- 0.13 vs. 1.00 +/- 0.09; p &lt; 0.0001). Immunohistochemistry, performed on two schizophrenic and two control brains, revealed that rab3a immunoreactivity was most reduced in the left anterior and mediodorsal thalamic nuclei. Therefore, we extended the study to brain regions connected these thalamic nuclei. Reduced rab3a protein levels were found schizophrenia also in the frontal cortex, hippocampus, gyrus cinguli, and parietal cortex, while no significant differences were found in the temporal cortex, or in cerebellum. The reduction in rab3a was not found to be secondary to confounding factors such as age-differences, post-mortem delay time, generalized brain atrophy, or antipsychotic medication. Therefore, the reduction of rab3a probably reflects synaptic disturbances, possibly synaptic loss, in the limbic system and neocortical areas, in schizophrenia. This part of the brain is known to be involved in behavioral and emotional control, and thus to be crucial for higher mental functions, suggesting that synaptic disturbances in the limbic system may be of importance in the development of psychotic symptoms in schizophrenia.
A polymorphism consisting of a deletion near the 5' splice site of exon 18 on the alpha2-macroglobulin (A2M) gene (A2M-2) has been suggested to be associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) in family-based studies. We studied the A2M-2 allele together with the ApoE alleles in a large series on patients with AD (n = 449) and age-matched controls (n = 349). Neuropathologically confirmed diagnoses were available in 199 cases (94 AD and 107 control cases). We found no increase in A2M-2 genotype or allele frequencies in AD (27.5% and 14.6%) versus controls (26.4% and 14.9%). In contrast, a marked increase (p &lt; 0.0001) in ApoE epsilon4 genotype or allele frequencies was found in AD (66.6% and 41.2%) as compared with controls (29.8% and 16.5%), suggesting sufficient statistical power in our sample. No relation was found between the A2M-2 and the ApoE epsilon4 allele. No change in A2M exon 17-18 mRNA size or sequence or A2M protein size was found in cases carrying the A2M-2 deletion, suggesting that there is no biological consequences of the A2M intronic deletion. No change in A2M protein level in cerebrospinal fluid was found in AD, suggesting that the A2M-2 allele does not effect the A2M protein expression in the brain. The lack of an association between the A2M-2 allele and AD in the present study, and the lack of abnormalities in the A2M mRNA or protein suggest that the A2M-2 allele is not associated with AD.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterised by a loss of dopaminergic neurones in the basal ganglia. These neurones may be visualised by single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with the cocaine analogue 2beta-carboxymethyl-3-beta-(4-iodophenyl)tropane ([123I]beta-CIT), which labels the dopamine reuptake sites in the nerve terminals. In order to evaluate the possibility to predict the outcome of ECT a prospective study was performed with six PD patients in whom the [123I]beta-CIT uptake was measured before and after an electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) series. The side-to-side difference in the radiotracer uptake was found to be significantly lower in striatum located contralaterally to the part of the body with the most pronounced symptomatology. No significant change in uptake of the radioligand was seen after ECT. Patients with best uptake and thus with less advanced PD improved most after ECT. The possibility to use the [123I]beta-CIT uptake to predict the outcome of ECT treatment has to be further evaluated.
This study was conducted to investigate an effect of heat stress at 44 degrees C for 30 min on intracellular Ca2+ signaling system and on heat shock protein (HSP)-70 expression. 5-HT-induced Ca2+ mobilization was reduced 1, 3 and 6 hrs after heat stress, and recovered to the control level 12 and 24 hrs after heat stress. One hr after heat stress, Ca2+ rise was significantly decreased when the cells were stimulated by any concentration of 5-HT. Thrombin-induced Ca2+ increase was also markedly reduced 1 hr after heat stress. HSP-70 level was increased 6 and 9 hr after heat stress. In HSP synthesis inhibitor quercetin-treated cells, HSP-70 expression was not enhanced after heat stress, and Ca2+ rise in response to 5-HT did not return to the control level. However, the Ca2+ rise induced by 5-HT was not restored to the control level after stress in Ac-Asp-Glu-Val-Asp-H (DEVD)-exposed cells while DEVD had little effect on heat stress-induced synthesis of HSP-70. Dexamethasone did not alter the change in HSP-70 expression or Ca2+ response after heat stress. These results indicate that heat stress attenuated 5-HT-induced Ca2+ mobilization and that HSP-70 expression played an important role in recovery from Ca2+ impairment, possibly via protease activity in C6 cells.
(-)Deprenyl (selegeline) is a monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) inhibitor, but it also exerts several effects independent of MAO-B inhibition. For example, it has been shown to improve neuronal survival in different neurodegenerative models. In the present study, we have tested whether (-)deprenyl attenuates the neuronal damage in the hippocampus that is induced in a model of transient global ischemia in gerbils. (-)Deprenyl was administered 1) at a low daily dose starting two weeks before occlusion, 2) at a single high dose administered 3h after occlusion, or 3) at a low daily dose for one or two weeks after occlusion. A nonsignificant trend of reduced neuronal damage in the hippocampal CA1 area was seen in all experimental groups treated with (-)deprenyl, regardless of the timing of treatment. The results together with previous evidence suggest that (-)deprenyl may protect CA1 neurons from ischemia-induced delayed death by several possible mechanisms, including the suppression of oxidative stress and apoptotic processes.
In the present study we evaluated the possible role of nitric oxide (NO) in mediating neuronal damage in middle-aged rats after an i.c.v. injection of streptozotocin (STREP). An i.c.v. injection of STREP has been reported to decrease the central metabolism of glucose. This inhibition of the energy metabolism after STREP treatment might induce an excitotoxic mechanism, which may lead to the stimulation of NO synthase and, consequently to the synthesis of NO. On the other hand, STREP might induce oxidative stress directly by liberation of NO from its nitroso moiety. To investigate whether NO synthase is involved in a possible excitotoxic mechanism after STREP treatment, some of the rats treated with STREP (1.25 mg/ kg in 4 microl, bilaterally 2 microl/injection site) were also treated with the NO synthase inhibitor N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 20 mg/kg i.p. 10 min, 6, 24 and 96 h after STREP injection). To investigate whether NO liberated from STREP may be responsible for neurotoxic effects, one additional group of control rats received an i.c.v. injection of the NO donor sodium nitroprusside (SNP, 10 microg in 4 microl). We found that STREP affected the behavioral performances in the open field and two-way active avoidance task. In addition, immunostaining for glial fibrillary acidic protein, an indicator of reactive astroglial changes to neuronal damage, showed that this was mainly located in peri- and paraventricular regions of the third and lateral ventricles, like for instance in the septum, caudate putamen and hippocampus. L-NAME treatment had no protective effect on the behavioral impairments and neuronal damage of STREP-treated rats. This suggests that the neuronal damage of STREP may still be a result of the decrease in the central energy metabolism, but without the involvement of NO synthase. This was supported by measuring, using immunostaining, the NO-mediated cyclic GMP production by the enzyme soluble guanylyl cyclase in cortical slices, i.e. L-NAME did not prevent NO production after STREP administration in vitro. In addition, it was found that SNP liberated NO in vitro, whereas in vivo SNP administration did not lead to any behavioral and neuronal deficits at all. However, the present study cannot exclude the involvement of NO liberated from STREP in neuronal damage.
Due to conditioning processes, originally neutral stimuli become drug-associated cues and can initiate drug craving. Standardized stimuli are required to assess stimulus-induced activation of drug memory and craving in brain imaging and neurophysiology studies. We developed substance-specific visual and olfactory stimuli for alcohol, tobacco, opiate and cannabis abuse and tested them in subjects with the respective addiction and in healthy volunteers. Stimulus-related drug craving differed significantly between the diagnostic groups and indicated that the stimuli are suitable for craving studies.
Radioligand binding studies were done to investigate the effect of chronic administration of fluoxetine on 5-HT1 receptor mediated response to adenylate cyclase (AC) in rat brain. Our studies revealed a significant decrease in the densities of 5-HT1 and 5-HT1A receptor sites in cortex and hippocampus of rat brain after chronic administration of fluoxetine (10 mg/Kg body wt.). However there was no significant change in the affinity of [3H]5-HT and [3H]DPAT for 5-HT1 and 5-HT1A receptor sites, respectively. However, in striatum, along with a significant (75%) downregulation of 5-HT1 sites, the affinity of [3H]5-HT to these sites was increased, as revealed by decrease in Kd (0.50 +/- 0.08 nM). Displacement studies showed that fluoxetine has higher affinity for 5-HT1A receptors with a Ki value of 14.0 +/- 2.8 nM, than 5-HT1 sites. No significant change was observed in basal AC activity in any region after fluoxetine exposure. However, in cortex of experimental rats the 5-HT stimulated AC activity was significantly increased (16.03 +/- 0.97 pmoles/mg protein; p &lt; 0.01), when compared to 5-HT stimulated AC activity (12.98 +/- 0.78 pmoles/mg protein) in control rats. The increase in 5-HT stimulated AC activity in cortex may be due to the significant downregulation of 5-HT1A sites in cortex after fluoxetine exposure as these sites are negatively coupled to AC. The observed significant decrease in 5-HT1 sites with concomitant increase in 5-HT stimulated AC activity, after fluoxetine treatment, suggests that fluoxetine, which has high affinity for these sites, acts by modulating the 5-HT1A receptor mediated response in brain.
Twenty non-demented patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) underwent single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) with [123I]beta-CIT to further investigate the contribution of nigrostriatal dysfunction to cognitive and motor deficits. Compared to matched controls PD patients showed normal verbal intelligence, short-term memory and phasic alertness. There were significant (p &lt; 0.05) deficits in tests of verbal working memory (digit ordering, reading span), strategic memory (story recall) and executive functions (card sorting), indicating a &quot;prefrontal&quot; cognitive deficit. Significant (p &lt; 0.05) correlations were observed between dopamine transporter (DAT) density in the putamen and motor deficits as well as between DAT density in both striatal compartments (head of the caudate nucleus and putamen) and prefrontal functioning. Age was a major contributing factor to both cognitive status and nigrostriatal integrity as measured by [123I]beta-CIT SPECT. These results support the view that the striatum is part of a neuronal network that is mediating prefrontal cognitive functions.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is caused by an abnormal degeneration of the dopamine (DA) producing cells in the substantia nigra (SN) and ventral tegmentum area (VTA) in combination with a varying decay of the noradrenergic (locus coeruleus), cholinergic forebrain (nucleus basalis of Meynert) and serotoninergic (dorsal raphe nuclei) systems, leading to a multitude of motor and non-motor behavioral disturbances, known as parkinsonism. Normally, main dopamine depletion is restricted to the SN region with manifest (non)motor behavioral abnormalities caused by the inability to spontaneously switch between intern-cued cortical behavioral programmes. Clinical symptoms comprise motoric abnormalities, though subtle cognitive disturbances as well as psychological dysfunction with loss of mental flexibility and reactive depressive symptoms might be seen. These symptoms might be compensated in part by externally-cued behavior.
We have cloned, expressed, and raised antibodies against a novel member of the TGF-beta superfamily, growth/differentiation factor-15 (GDF-15). The predicted protein is identical to macrophage inhibitory cytokine-1 (MIC-1), which was discovered simultaneously. GDF-15 is a more distant member of the TGF-beta superfamily and does not belong to one of the known TGF-beta subfamilies. In the CNS, GDF-15/MIC-1 mRNA is abundantly expressed by the choroid plexus. In addition we have preliminary evidence that GDF-15/MIC-1 is a potent trophic factor for selected classes of neurons in vitro and in vivo. Thus, GDF-15 is a novel neurotrophic factor with prospects for the treatment of disorders of the CNS.
Several lines of evidence indicate that A beta may play an important role in the pathogenesis of AD. However, there are several discrepancies between the production of A beta and the development of the disease. Thus, A beta may not be the sole active fragment of beta-amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP) in the neurotoxicity assiciated with AD. We focused on the amyloidegenic carboxyl terminal fragments of betaAPP containing the full length of A beta (CT105). We synthesized a recombinant carboxyl-terminal 105 amino acid fragment of betaAPP and examined the effects of CT105 and A beta on cultured neurons, Ca++ uptake into rat brain microsomes, Na+-Ca++ exchange activity, ion channel forming activity in lipid bilayers and passive avoidance performance of mice. Our results suggest that the cytotoxic and channel inducing effects of CT105 are much more potent than that of A beta and toxic mechanisms of CT105 are different from those of A beta. Taken together, these lines of evidence postulate that CT is an alternative toxic element important in the generation of the symptoms common to AD.
Excitotoxicity might play an important role in neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease. In the mouse brain, kainic acid (KA) lesioning results in neurodegeneration patterns similar to those found in human disease. For this study, two sets of experiments were performed in order to determine if Cerebrolysin ameliorates the alterations associated with KA administration. In the first set of experiments, mice received intraperitoneal KA injections followed by Cerebrolysin administration, while in the second, mice were pretreated with Cerebrolysin for 4 weeks and then challenged with KA. Behavioral testing in the water maze and assessment of neuronal structure by laser scanning confocal microscopy showed a significant protection against KA lesions in mice pretreated with Cerebrolysin. In contrast, mice that received Cerebrolysin after KA injections did not show significant improvement. This study supports the contention that Cerebrolysin might have a neuroprotective effect in vivo against excitotoxicity.
Current treatments for Alzheimer's disease (AD) are largely symptomatic and improve cognition. Only a single trial of selegiline and vitamin E has been demonstrated to delay progression of the time to clinically important endpoints in this disease. Effective treatments currently under development are designed to either slow the rate of progression or delay the time of onset. Classes of agents currently being investigated include: antioxidants, anti-inflammatory agents, growth factors, hormones, and drugs designed to prevent the deposition or enhance the removal of amyloid. In addition to trials designed to slow the rate of progression, several primary prevention trials have already been initiated. Finally, a series of trials designed to prevent the development of AD in patients with mild cognitive impairment have been initiated.
Abnormal processing and aggregation of synaptic proteins might play an important role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders. Among them, amyloid precursor protein (APP) has been clearly associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and various transgenic (tg) animal models have been developed where mutant APP is overexpressed under the regulatory control of neuronal promoters. These studies have shown that AD-like pathology (namely plaques and synapse damage) begins to develop at 6-8 months of age in mice expressing human APP under Thy1, platelet-derived growth factor (B-chain) or protease-resistant prion protein promoters, provided that levels of APP are higher than 5-7 fold of endogenous levels. None of these models have shown the presence of tangles; however, tau-immunoreactive neurites in plaques and astroglial/microglial activation are observed after 12 months of age. Neuronal loss and alterations of synaptic function and connectivity are found in the CA1 region in the PDAPP tg mice lacking the Swiss Webster background. Co-expression of other genes associated with AD modify this phenotype, for example, mutant presenilin 1 accelerates the onset of plaque formation, transforming growth factor beta enhances vascular amyloidosis, and apolipoprotein E decreases amyloid deposition. In conclusion, tg mice which are capable of mimicking some aspects of AD (provided that high enough levels of expression are achieved) can potentially be used to test novel drugs for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders.
A major risk factor for neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease (PD), Huntington's disease (HD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Alzheimer's disease (AD) and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is aging. Two processes that have been implicated in aging are free radical-induced oxidative damage and mitochondrial dysfunction. A progressive impairment of mitochondrial function and/or increased oxidative damage has been suggested to play critical roles in the pathogenesis of these neurodegenerative diseases. For example, decreased complex I activity, increased oxidative damage and altered activities of antioxidant defense enzymes have been demonstrated in PD. In AD, decrements in complex IV activity and increased oxidative damage have been reported. Reductions in complex II activity, increased cortical lactate levels and oxidative damage have been described in HD. Some familial ALS cases are associated with mutations in the gene for Cu,Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) while increased oxidative damage is observed in sporadic ALS. Studies in PSP have demonstrated regionally specific reductions in brain and muscle mitochondrial function, hypofrontality and increased oxidative damage. Altogether, the age-dependent onset and progressive course of these neurodegenerative diseases may ultimately highlight an association between aging, mitochondrial impairment and oxidative stress.
Neurofibrillary tangles, Pick bodies and Lewy bodies are considered quantitatively in relation to neuron loss. It would seem that the inclusions are not themselves the cause of neuron death.
Alzheimer's disease is a primary degenerative dementia and is not considered to be of vascular origin. Furthermore, severe cerebrovascular diseases are generally exclusionary for the clinical diagnosis. During recent years both epidemiological and neuropathological studies have suggested an association between Alzheimer's disease and several vascular risk factors, such as hypertension, inheritance of the apolipoprotein E epsilon4 allele, coronary heart disease, diabetes mellitus, ischaemic white matter lesions and generalised atherosclerosis. These findings may reflect an overdiagnosis of Alzheimer's disease in individuals with silent cerebrovascular disease or that cerebrovascular disease may affects the clinical expression of Alzheimer's disease. Further possibilities include that Alzheimer's disease may increase the risk of vascular disease or that vascular disease may stimulate the Alzheimer's disease process. Similar mechanisms may also be involved in the pathogenesis of both disorders, such as disturbances in the renin-angiotensin system, apoptosis, and psychological stress.
Vascular dementia (VaD) incorporate different vascular mechanisms and changes in the brain, and have different causes and clinical manifestations. Variation in defining the cognitive syndrome, in vascular etiologies, and allowable brain changes in current clinical definitions of VaD have resulted in variable estimates of prevalence, of groups of subjects, and of the types and distribution of putative causal brain lesions. Thus current criteria for VaD select an etiologically and clinically heterogeneous group. This definitional heterogeneity may have been a factor in &quot;negative&quot; clinical trials. An alternative for clinical drug trials is to focus on a more homogeneous group, such as those with subcortical (ischemic) VaD. This designation incorporates two small vessel clinical entities &quot;Binswanger's disease&quot; and &quot;the lacunar state&quot;. It comprises small vessel disease as the primary vascular etiology, lacunar infarct(s) and ischaemic white matter lesions as the primary type of brain lesions, and subcortical location as the primary location of lesions. The subcortical clinical syndrome is the primary clinical manifestation, a definition which still requires additional empirical data. We expect that subcortical VaD show a more predictable clinical picture, natural history, outcome, and treatment responses. We propose a modification of the NINDS-AIREN criteria as a new research criteria for subcortical VaD.

Ecto-5'-nucleotidase is regarded as being the key enzyme in the formation of the neuromodulator adenosine from released ATP. However, the association of ecto-5'-nucleotidase with nerve terminals is not consensual. Only enzyme histochemical and biochemical studies, but not immunocytochemical studies, agree on a general synaptic location of the enzyme. To clarify this issue further we tested the effect of an antibody against ecto-5'-nucleotidase, previously used in immunocytochemical studies, on the activity of ecto-5'-nucleotidase in fractions of nerve terminals isolated from different areas of rat hippocampus. The specific activity of extracellular AMP catabolism was higher in synaptosomes from the CA3 area (0.81+/-0.06 nmol/min/mg of protein) than from synaptosomes from the CA1 area or the dentate gyrus or from the whole hippocampus (0.49-0.68 nmol/ min/mg of protein). The catabolism of AMP (10 microM) was equally inhibited (85-92%) in synaptosomes from whole hippocampus, CA1, CA3, or dentate gyrus by alpha,beta-methylene-ADP (100 microM) and equally unaffected by p-nitrophenyl phosphate (0.5 mM) or rabbit IgGs (100 microg/ml). However, the antiserum against ecto-5'-nucleotidase (100 microg/ml) inhibited extracellular AMP catabolism by 44% in CA3 synaptosomes but had little or no effect in synaptosomes from CA1, dentate gyrus, or whole hippocampus. A similar difference in the inhibitory potential of the antibody was observed between fractions of isolated 5'-nucleotidase binding to concanavalin A-Sepharose (70%) and fractions not retained by the lectin column (18%). Taken together, these results suggest that immunological isoforms of ecto-5'-nucleotidase exist in the rat hippocampal nerve terminals, with predominance in the CA3 area.
We previously reported that dehydroevodiamine.HCl (DHED) has anticholinesterase and antiamnesic activities. To verify the effects of DHED on cognitive deficits further, we tested it on the scopolamine-induced amnesia model of the rat using the passive avoidance and eight-arm radial maze tests. A single (20 mg/kg p.o.) and repeated (10 mg/kg p.o.) administrations of DHED could significantly reverse the latency time shortened by scopolamine (1 mg/kg i.p.) to control level. The impaired spatial working memory induced by scopolamine (1 mg/kg i.p.) was also improved significantly by a single injection (6.25 mg/kg i.p.) and repeated administrations of DHED (10 mg/kg p.o.) in the eight-arm radial maze test. In addition, we examined the effects of DHED on the memory impairment and the histological changes of the brain after unilateral electrolytic lesion of the entorhinal cortex (EC) and middle cerebral artery occlusion in rats. The cognitive deficits caused by EC lesion and middle cerebral artery occlusion were improved significantly by repeated administrations of DHED (6.25 mg/kg i.p.) after EC lesion or ischemic insult once a day for 7 days in the passive avoidance test. Histological analysis showed that the neuronal loss in the DHED-treated group was notably reduced in the hippocampal area (CA1) of ischemic rats and in the dentate gyrus and hippocampal area (CA1 and CA3) of EC-lesioned rats compared with the nontreated group. The infarction area was decreased significantly by a single administration of DHED (6.25 mg/kg i.p.) 30 min before ischemic insult for 6 h. These results suggest that DHED might be an effective drug for not only the Alzheimer's disease type, but also the vascular type of dementia.
Deficits of cortical nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) have been observed in Alzheimer's disease (AD) by receptor binding assays. Little is known about the receptor subunit specificity influenced by AD, and it might be of importance for therapeutic strategies. In the present study, the protein levels of nAChR alpha3, alpha4, alpha7, and beta2 subunits were investigated using western blot analysis on postmortem brains of patients with AD and age-matched controls. The results showed that in human postmortem brain samples, bands with molecular masses of 52, 42, and 50 kDa were detected by anti-alpha4, anti-alpha7, and anti-beta2 antibodies, respectively. When anti-alpha3 antibody was used, one major band of 49 kDa and two minor bands of 70 and 38 kDa were detected. In AD patients, as compared with age-matched controls, the alpha4 subunit was reduced significantly by approximately 35 and 47% in the hippocampus and temporal cortex, respectively. A significant reduction of 25% in the alpha3 subunit was also observed in the hippocampus and a 29% reduction in the temporal cortex. For the alpha7 subunit, the protein level was reduced significantly by 36% in the hippocampus of AD patients, but no significant change was detected in the temporal cortex. In neither the hippocampus nor the temporal cortex was a significant difference observed in the beta2 subunit between AD patients and controls. These results reveal brain region-specific changes in the protein levels of the nAChR alpha3, alpha4, and alpha7 subunits in AD.
There is growing evidence that activation of either protein kinases or protein phosphatases determines the type of plasticity observed after different patterns of hippocampal stimulation. Because activation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) has been shown to be necessary for long-term potentiation, we investigated the regulation of ERK in long-term depression (LTD) in the adult hippocampus in vivo. We found that ERK immunoreactivity was decreased following the induction of LTD and that this decrease required NMDA receptor activation. The LTD-associated decrease in ERK immunoreactivity could be simulated in vitro via incubation of either purified ERK2 or hippocampal homogenates with either protein phosphatase 1 or protein phosphatase 2A. The protein phosphatase-dependent decrease in ERK immunoreactivity was inhibited by microcystin. Intrahippocampal administration of the protein phosphatase inhibitor okadaic acid blocked the LTD-associated decrease in ERK2, but not ERK1, immunoreactivity. Collectively, these data demonstrate that protein phosphatases can decrease ERK immunoreactivity and that such a decrease occurs with ERK2 during LTD. These observations provide the first demonstration of a biochemical alteration of ERK in LTD.
Excessive activation of glutamate receptors mediates neuronal death in a number of neurodegenerative diseases. The intracellular signaling pathways that mediate this type of neuronal death are only partly understood. Following mild insults via NMDA receptor activation, central neurons undergo apoptosis, but with more fulminant insults, necrosis intervenes. Caspases are important in several forms of apoptosis in vivo and in vitro. Previously, we have demonstrated that caspases are important in excitotoxicity-mediated apoptosis of cerebrocortical neurons. To determine the possible activation of caspase-3 in NMDA-induced neuronal apoptosis, we used an affinity-labeling technique: Biotinylated N-acetyl-Asp-Glu-Val-Asp-aldehyde (DEVD.CHO) preferentially labels conformationally active caspase-3-like proteases, allowing us to visualize affinity-labeled caspases with streptavidin-fluorescein isothiocyanate under confocal microscopy. NMDA-induced apoptosis of cerebrocortical neurons was associated with a time-dependent increase in conformationally active caspase-3-like proteases. The activation of caspases was apparent within 20 min of NMDA stimulation and was localized primarily in the cytosol. However, following incubation of neurons for 18-24 h, conformationally active caspase-3-like proteases were also detectable in nuclei. Double labeling with propidium iodide to detect chromatin condensation indicated that affinity-labeled caspase-3-like proteases were specifically expressed in apoptotic cells. To further confirm this, we used an antibody specific for the conformationally active fragment of caspase-3 and found largely concordant results. Moreover, preincubation with DEVD.CHO prevented NMDA-induced apoptosis. Our results suggest that caspase-3-like proteases play a major role in excitotoxin-induced neuronal apoptosis.
How senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles are linked represents a major gap in our understanding of the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We have previously shown that the addition of fibrillar beta-amyloid (Abeta) to mature hippocampal neurons results in progressive neuritic degeneration accompanied by the enhanced phosphorylation of adult tau isoforms. In the present study, we sought to obtain more direct evidence of the signal transduction pathway(s) activated by fibrillar Abeta leading to tau phosphorylation and the generation of dystrophic neurites. Our results indicated that fibrillar Abeta induced the progressive and sustained activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) in mature hippocampal neurons. On the other hand, the specific inhibition of the MAPK signal transduction pathway by means of PD98059, a MAPK kinase (MEK) specific inhibitor, prevented the phosphorylation of tau (at Ser199/Ser202) induced by fibrillar Abeta. In addition, the inhibition of MAPK activation partially prevented neurite degeneration. Taken collectively, our results suggest that the sustained activation of the MAPK signal transduction pathway induced by fibrillar Abeta may lead to the abnormal phosphorylation of tau and the neuritic degeneration observed in AD.
Abnormalities in oxidative metabolism and inflammation accompany many neurodegenerative diseases. Thiamine deficiency (TD) is an animal model in which chronic oxidative stress and inflammation lead to selective neuronal death, whereas other cell types show an inflammatory response. Therefore, the current studies determined the response of different brain cell types to TD and/or inflammation in vitro and tested whether their responses reflect inherent properties of the cells. The cells that have been implicated in TD-induced neurotoxicity, including neurons, microglia, astrocytes, and brain endothelial cells, as well as neuroblastoma and BV-2 microglial cell lines, were cultured in either thiamine-depleted media or in normal culture media with amprolium, a thiamine transport inhibitor. The activity levels of a key mitochondrial enzyme, alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (KGDHC), were uniquely distributed among different cell types: The highest activity was in the endothelial cells, and the lowest was in primary microglia and neurons. The unique distribution of the activity did not account for the selective response to TD. TD slightly inhibited general cellular dehydrogenases in all cell types, whereas it significantly reduced the activity of KGDHC exclusively in primary neurons and neuroblastoma cells. Among the cell types tested, only in neurons did TD induce apoptosis and cause the accumulation of 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal, a lipid peroxidation product. On the other hand, chronic lipopolysaccharide-induced inflammation significantly inhibited cellular dehydrogenase and KGDHC activities in microglia and astrocytes but not in neurons or endothelial cells. The results demonstrate that the selective cell changes during TD in vivo reflect inherent properties of the different brain cell types.
Alpha-dystroglycan (alpha-DG) is part of a complex of cell surface proteins linked to dystrophin or utrophin, which is distributed over the myofiber surface and is concentrated at neuromuscular junctions. In laminin overlays of muscle extracts from developing chick hindlimb muscle, alpha-DG first appears at embryonic day (E) 10 with an apparent molecular mass of 120 kDa. By E15 it is replaced by smaller (approximately 100 kDa) and larger (approximately 150 kDa) isoforms. The larger form increases in amount and in molecular mass (&gt;200 kDa) as the muscle is innervated and the postsynaptic membrane differentiates (E10-E20), and then decreases dramatically in amount after hatching. In myoblasts differentiating in culture the molecular mass of alpha-DG is not significantly increased by their replication, fusion, or differentiation into myotubes. Monoclonal antibody IIH6, which recognizes a carbohydrate epitope on alpha-DG, preferentially binds to the larger forms, suggesting that the core protein is differentially glycosylated beginning at E16. Consistent with prior observations implicating the IIH6 epitope in laminin binding, the smaller forms of alpha-DG bind more weakly to laminin affinity columns than the larger ones. In blots of adult rat skeletal muscle probed with radiolabeled laminin or monoclonal antibody IIH6, alpha-DG appears as a &gt;200-kDa band that decreases in molecular mass but increases in intensity following denervation. Northern blots reveal a single mRNA transcript, indicating that the reduction in molecular mass of alpha-DG after denervation is not obviously a result of alternative splicing but is likely due to posttranslational modification of newly synthesized molecules. The regulation of alpha-DG by the nerve and its increased affinity for laminin suggest that glycosylation of this protein may be important in myofiber-basement membrane interactions during development and after denervation.
The neurotoxic actions of polyamines such as spermine have been linked to their modulation of NMDA receptors, resulting in an excitotoxic cell death. Here, we demonstrate that chronic exposure to the polyamine spermine and acute exposure to the combination of spermine and glutamate result in significant toxicity to primary cultures of cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs). However, in both cases this cell death (a) lacks the characteristic cell swelling associated with the necrotic cell death induced by glutamate and (b) is characterized by the widespread formation of apoptotic nuclei. Whereas dizocilpine (MK-801) blocks the synergistic cell death resulting from acute exposure to spermine plus glutamate, neither MK-801 nor the calcium chelator EGTA appreciably attenuates CGN death resulting from chronic exposure to spermine. Consistent with previous reports, glutamate, both acute and chronic, causes CGN death that is characterized by cell swelling, sensitivity to MK-801 and EGTA, and only small numbers of apoptotic nuclei. Spermine-induced toxicity is not blocked by either the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide or the pancaspase inhibitor tert-butoxycarbonyl-Asp-(O-methyl) fluoromethyl ketone. However, the antioxidant butylated hydroxyanisole is an effective blocker of spermine-induced CGN death, suggesting a free-radical component to this cell death. The intact spermine molecule, rather than a catabolic by-product, is required for cell death because the amine oxidase inhibitors N1,N2-bis(2,3-butadienyl)-1,4-butanediamine and aminoguanidine fail to block this toxicity. Thus, in CGNs, spermine-induced toxicity does not occur by its modulation of NMDA receptors, although, under some circumstances, NMDA receptor activation can modulate spermine-induced toxicity.
Fast fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (fFLAIR) is more sensitive that conventional or fast spin echo T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for detecting lesions in the brain of patients with ischemic, inflammatory, or demyelinating diseases of the CNS. We investigated whether the use of fFLAIR also increases the sensitivity of brain MRI assessment in patients with systemic autoimmune disorders. Turbo spin echo (TSE) dual-echo and fFLAIR scans of the brain were obtained from patients affected by systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) with (NSLE, n = 9) and without clinical CNS involvement (n = 15), Behet disease (n = 5), Wegener granulomatosis (n = 9), and antiphospholipid antibody syndrome (n = 6). Brain hyperintense lesions were counted and classified according to their size and their location by two observers by consensual agreement. The total lesion volume was measured using a semiautomated technique for lesion segmentation on both TSE and fFLAIR scans. The imaging modalities showed brain hyperintense lesions in all 9 SLE patients with CNS involvement, 5 of 15 SLE patients without CNS involvement, 5 of 9 patients with Wegener granulomatosis, 1 of 5 with Behet disease, and 3 of 6 with antiphospholipid antibody syndrome. A total of 342 lesions were seen on both sequences; 88 were seen only on TSE and 54 only on fFLAIR scans. The average number of brain lesions per scan was higher on TSE than on fFLAIR, since significantly more discrete (P&lt;0.002) and small (P = 0.004) lesions were seen on TSE than on fFLAIR. The median total lesion volume, however, was similar on TSE and fFLAIR. Our study indicates that the use of fFLAIR does not improve the sensitivity of fast dual-echo MRI for detecting brain abnormalities in patients with systemic autoimmune disorders.
Both community-based studies and reports from more selected epilepsy populations consistently reveal persons with epilepsy to have a mortality rate two to three times that of the general population. This increased rate is most pronounced in patients with remote symptomatic epilepsy, although many studies also report a significant excess mortality also among those with idiopathic epilepsy. The highest standardized mortality ratios (SMR) are seen in young age groups, mainly due to the low expected mortality in children, and during the first 5-10 years after diagnosis. Many of these observations suggest that the higher mortality is partly related to the underlying disorder causing epilepsy rather than a direct consequence of the seizures. For example, mortality in cerebrovascular diseases is increased, with SMRs ranging from 1.8 to 5.3 in the various studies. Deaths due to neoplasms, and in particular brain tumors, is also increased among patients with epilepsy. Accidents, status epilepticus, and sudden unexpected death (SUD) are more directly seizure-related causes of death. The incidence of such deaths vary considerably depending on the population being studied. While rare among patients with new-onset epilepsy, seizure-related deaths may account for up to 40% of all deaths in patients with chronic epilepsy. SUD is probably the most frequent seizure-related cause of death among young adults with epilepsy, with an SMR more than 20 compared with the general population. Seizure-induced autonomic cardiorespiratory effects have been suggested, but the mechanisms behind SUD are far from fully understood. It appears, however, that the risk of SUD is closely related to seizure frequency, being 40 times higher in patients who continue to have seizures than in those who are seizure-free.



We report a patient with acute cranial polyneuropathy with unilateral involvement of the ninth, tenth, and eleventh cranial nerves. Although this patient lacked a typical cutaneous herpetic manifestation, elevated levels of IgM and IgG antibodies to varicella zoster virus (VZV) in both the serum and cerebrospinal fluid confirmed the clinical diagnosis of VZV infection and zoster sine herpete. Coexisting hypoplasia of the ipsilateral jugular foramen was detected using three-dimensional, surface-rendering displays reconstructed from the cranial helical CT scan. The patient recovered almost completely following treatment with an anti-inflammatory corticosteroid. Anatomical narrowing of the jugular foramen in this patient may have contributed to entrapment of the affected nerves at their passage through the foramen.
Patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) often complain of blurred vision or even of distinctive visual disturbances like hallucinations and illusions. Recent studies have emphasized the potential influence of primary visual deficits of color and contrast discrimination. To study primary visual function, we studied color discrimination (CD) and contrast sensitivity (CS) during 'on' medication in PD patients and compared them to non-PD subjects. Twenty one PD patients were compared to 30 age-matched controls using CD tested by the D-15 Lanthony test (D15) and the Farnsworth-Munsell 100 Hue test (FM) and CS tested by the Pelli-Robson (PL) and the Vis-Tech tables (VT). We excluded subjects with a visual acuity &lt;/=0.6 Snellen fraction or known ophthalmological diseases. PD patients showed greater impairment on all visual tests than controls. This difference was significant for the FM test (P&lt;0.001), the spatial frequencies 12 and 18 cpd (cycles per degree) of the VT test (P&lt;0.05) and both the monocular and binocular PR tests (P&lt;0.05). Most tests for CS and CD showed statistical independency. CS deficits, but not CD deficits, correlated with age in both patients and controls. This study documents major and independent impairment of both color and contrast discrimination in PD patients. Further studies should elucidate possible clinical implications and correlations, such as the frequency of falls or visual hallucinations.
The aim of this study is to investigate the usefulness of a vascular endothelial surface score (VESS) and MIB-1 labeling index (MIB-1 LI), in a defined series of glioblastomas, as biological markers with prognostic significance of survival. Tumor tissue and survival were studied in a series of 38 patients with glioblastoma, previously treated by surgical resection and radiotherapy. For each tumor, immunohistochemical and morphometric studies were performed in order to study MIB-1 LI, and VESS, expressed as the CD-34 immunostained endothelial surface per 1000 tumor cells. The survival for the entire patient population of the series was 48.1+/-14.1 weeks, and the mean VESS for the tumors of the series ranged from 16.7 to 107 microm2 per 1000 tumor cells (mean: 38.7+/-18.2). Factors such as age or MIB-1 LI were not significatively associated with survival, but the median survival for the 18 patients with a VESS less than 35 was 50.7+/-3.7 weeks, versus 45.9+/-2.8 weeks for the 20 patients showing a VESS higher than 36 (p &lt; 0.05). Our present results suggest that tumor VESS, expressed as the CD-34 immunostained endothelial surface per each 1000 tumor cells, may have usefulness, as angiogenic-related factor influencing survival, in patients with glioblastoma.
A micromachined silicon substrate sieve electrode was implanted within transected toadfish (Opsanus tau) otolith nerves. High fidelity, single unit neural activity was recorded from seven alert and unrestrained fish 30 to 60 days after implantation. Fibrous coatings of genetically engineered bioactive protein polymers and nerve guide tubes increased the number of axons regenerating through the electrode pores when compared with controls. Sieve electrodes have potential as permanent interfaces to the nervous system and to bridge missing connections between severed or damaged nerves and muscles. Recorded impulses might also be amplified and used to control prosthetic devices.
Paradoxically, attempts to visualize odorant-induced functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) activation in the human have yielded activations in secondary olfactory regions but not in the primary olfactory cortex-piriform cortex. We show that odorant-induced activation in primary olfactory cortex was not previously made evident with fMRI because of the unique time course of activity in this region: in primary olfactory cortex, odorants induced a strong early transient increase in signal amplitude that then habituated within 30-40 s of odorant presence. This time course of activation seen here in the primary olfactory cortex of the human is almost identical to that recorded electrophysiologically in the piriform cortex of the rat. Mapping activation with analyses that are sensitive to both this transient increase in signal amplitude, and temporal-variance, enabled us to use fMRI to consistently visualize odorant-induced activation in the human primary olfactory cortex. The combination of continued accurate odorant detection at the behavioral level despite primary olfactory cortex habituation at the physiological level suggests that the functional neuroanatomy of the olfactory response may change throughout prolonged olfactory stimulation.
A critical role of Ca(2+) in vertebrate olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) is to couple odor-induced excitation to intracellular feedback pathways that are responsible for the regulation of the sensitivity of the sense of smell, but the role of intracellular Ca(2+) stores in this process remains unclear. Using confocal Ca(2+) imaging and perforated patch recording, we show that salamander ORNs contain a releasable pool of Ca(2+) that can be discharged at rest by the SERCA inhibitor thapsigargin and the ryanodine receptor agonist caffeine. The Ca(2+) stores are spatially restricted; emptying produces compartmentalized Ca(2+) release and capacitative-like Ca(2+) entry in the dendrite and soma but not in the cilia, the site of odor transduction. We deplete the stores to show that odor stimulation causes store-dependent Ca(2+) mobilization. This odor-induced Ca(2+) release does not seem to be necessary for generation of an immediate electrophysiological response, nor does it contribute significantly to the Ca(2+) transients in the olfactory cilia. Rather, it is important for amplifying the magnitude and duration of Ca(2+) transients in the dendrite and soma and is thus necessary for the spread of an odor-induced Ca(2+) wave from the cilia to the soma. We show that this amplification process depends on Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release. The results indicate that stimulation of ORNs with odorants can produce Ca(2+) mobilization from intracellular stores without an immediate effect on the receptor potential. Odor-induced, store-dependent Ca(2+) mobilization may be part of a feedback pathway by which information is transferred from the distal dendrite of an ORN to its soma.
Timing of oscillatory activity along the longitudinal body axis is critical for locomotion in the lamprey and other elongated animals. In the lamprey spinal locomotor central pattern generator (CPG), intersegmental coordination is thought to arise from the pattern of extensive connections made by propriospinal interneurons. However, the mechanisms responsible for intersegmental coordination remain unknown, in large part because of the difficulty in obtaining quantitative information on these multisegmental fibers. System-level experiments were performed on isolated 50-segment preparations of spinal cord of adult silver lampreys, Ichthyomyzon unicuspis, to determine the dependence of CPG performance on multisegmental coupling. Coupling was manipulated through use of an experiment chamber with movable partitions, which allowed separate application of solution to rostral, middle, and caudal regions of the spinal cord preparation. During control trials, fictive locomotion, induced by bath application of D-glutamate in all three regions, was recorded extracellularly from ventral roots. Local synaptic activity in a variable number of middle segments was subsequently blocked with a low-Ca(2+), high-Mn(2+) saline solution in the middle compartment, whereas conduction in axons spanning the middle segments was unaffected. Spectral analysis was used to assess the effects of blocking propriospinal coupling on intersegmental phase lag, rhythm frequency, correlation, and variability. Significant correlation and a stable phase lag between the rostral and caudal regions of the spinal cord preparation were maintained during block of as many as 16 and sometimes 20 intervening segments. However, the mean value of this rostrocaudal phase decreased with increasing number of blocked segments from the control value of approximately 1% per segment. By contrast, phase lags within the rostral and caudal end regions remained unaffected. The cycle frequency in the rostral and caudal regions decreased with the number of blocked middle segments and tended to diverge when a large number of middle segments was blocked. The variability in cycle frequency and intersegmental phase both increased with increasing number of blocked segments. In addition, a number of differences were noted in the properties of the motor output of the rostral and caudal regions of the spinal cord. The results indicate that the maximal functional length of propriospinal coupling fibers is at least 16-20 segments in I. unicuspis, whereas intersegmental phase lags are controlled at a local level and are not dependent on extended multisegmental coupling. Other possible roles for multisegmental coupling are discussed.
The marine mollusk Clione limacina, when swimming, can stabilize different body orientations in the gravitational field. The stabilization is based on the reflexes initiated by activation of the statocyst receptor cells and mediated by the cerebro-pedal interneurons that produce excitation of the motoneurons of the effector organs; tail and wings. Here we describe changes in the reflex pathways underlying different modes of postural activity; the maintenance of the head-up orientation at low temperature, the maintenance of the head-down orientation at higher temperature, and a complete inactivation of the postural mechanisms during defense reaction. Experiments were performed on the CNS-statocyst preparation. Spike discharges in the axons of different types of neurons were recorded extracellularly while the preparation was rotated in space through 360 degrees in different planes. We characterized the spatial zones of activity of the tail and wing motoneurons and the CPB3 interneurons mediating the effects of statocyst receptor cells on the tail motoneurons. This was done at different temperatures (10 and 20 degrees C). The &quot;fictive&quot; defense reaction was evoked by electrical stimulation of the head nerve. At 10 degrees C, a tilt of the preparation evoked activation in the tail motoneurons and wing retractor motoneurons contralateral to the tilt and in the wing locomotor motoneurons ipsilateral to the tilt. At 20 degrees C, the responses in the tail motoneurons and in the wing retractor motoneurons occurred reversed; these neurons were now activated with the ipsilateral tilt. In the wing locomotor motoneurons the responses at 20 degrees C were suppressed. During the defense reaction, gravitational responses in all neuron types were suppressed. Changes in the chains of tail reflexes most likely occurred at the level of connections from the statocyst receptor cells to the CPB3 interneurons. The changes in gravitational reflexes revealed in the present study are sufficient to explain the corresponding modifications of the postural behavior in Clione.
As a first step in understanding the development of synaptic activation in the locomotor network of the zebrafish, we examined the properties of spontaneous, glutamatergic miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs). Whole cell patch-clamp recordings were obtained from visually identified hindbrain reticulospinal neurons and spinal motoneurons of curarized zebrafish 1-5 days postfertilization (larvae hatch after the 2nd day of embryogenesis). In the presence of tetrodotoxin (TTX) and blockers of inhibitory receptors (strychnine and picrotoxin), we detected fast glutamatergic mEPSCs that were blocked by the AMPA/kainate receptor-selective antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX). At positive voltages or in the absence of Mg(2+), a second, slower component of the mEPSCs was revealed that the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-selective antagonist DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (AP-5) abolished. In the presence of both CNQX and AP-5, all mEPSCs were eliminated. The NMDA component of reticulospinal mEPSCs had a large single-channel conductance estimated to be 48 pS. Larval AMPA/kainate and NMDA components of the mEPSCs decayed with biexponential time courses that changed little during development. At all stages examined, approximately one-half of synapses had only NMDA responses (lacking AMPA/kainate receptors), whereas the remainder of the synapses were composed of a mixture of AMPA/kainate and NMDA receptors. There was an overall increase in the frequency and amplitude of mEPSCs with an NMDA component in reticulospinal (but not motoneurons) during development. These results indicate that glutamate is a prominent excitatory transmitter in the locomotor regions of the developing zebrafish and that it activates either NMDA receptors alone at functionally silent synapses or together with AMPA/kainate receptors.
Fictive swimming was elicited in low-spinal immobilized turtles by electrically stimulating the contralateral dorsolateral funiculus (cDLF) at the level of the third postcervical segment (D(3)). Fictive hindlimb motor output was recorded as electroneurograms (ENGs) from up to five peripheral nerves on the right side, including three knee extensors (KE; iliotibialis [IT]-KE, ambiens [AM]-KE, and femorotibialis [FT]-KE), a hip flexor (HF), and a hip extensor (HE). Quantitative analyses of burst amplitude, duty cycle and phase were used to demonstrate the close similarity of these cDLF-evoked fictive motor patterns with previous myographic recordings obtained from the corresponding hindlimb muscles during actual swimming. Fictive rostral scratching was elicited in the same animals by cutaneous stimulation of the shell bridge, anterior to the hindlimb. Fictive swim and rostral scratch motor patterns displayed similar phasing in hip and knee motor pools but differed in the relative amplitudes and durations of ENG bursts. Both motor patterns exhibited alternating HF and HE discharge, with monoarticular knee extensor (FT-KE) discharge during the late HF phase. The two motor patterns differed principally in the relative amplitudes and durations of HF and HE bursts. Swim cycles were dominated by large-amplitude, long-duration HE bursts, whereas rostral scratch cycles were dominated by large-amplitude, long-duration HF discharge. Small but significant differences were also observed during the two behaviors in the onset phase of biarticular knee extensor bursts (IT-KE and AM-KE) within each hip cycle. Finally, interactions between swim and scratch motor networks were investigated. Brief activation of the rostral scratch during an ongoing fictive swim episode could insert one or more scratch cycles into the swim motor pattern and permanently reset the burst rhythm. Similarly, brief swim stimulation could interrupt and reset an ongoing fictive rostral scratch. This shows that there are strong central interactions between swim and scratch neural networks and suggests that they may share key neural elements.
Glutamate stimulation of hippocampal CA1 neurons in slice was delivered via iontophoresis from a microelectrode. Five pulses (approximately 5 muA, 10 s duration, repeated at 1 min intervals) were applied with the electrode tip positioned in the stratum radiatum near the dendrites of a neuron filled with the Ca(2+) indicator fura-2. A single stimulus set produced Ca(2+) elevations that ranged from several hundred nM to several microM and that, in all but a few neurons, recovered within 1 min of stimulus termination. Subsequent identical stimulation produced Ca(2+) elevations that outlasted the local glutamate elevations by several minutes as judged by response recoveries in neighboring cells or in other parts of the same neuron. These long responses ultimately recovered but persisted for up to 10 min and were most prominent in the mid and distal dendrites. Recovery was not observed for responses that spread to the soma. The elevated Ca(2+) levels were accompanied by membrane depolarization but did not appear to depend on the depolarization. High-resolution images demonstrated responsive areas that involved only a few mu(m) of dendrite. Our results confirm the previous general findings from isolated and cell culture neurons that glutamate stimulation, if carried beyond a certain range, results in long-lasting Ca(2+) elevation. The response characterized here in mature in situ neurons was significantly different in terms of time course and reversibility. We suggest that the extended Ca(2+) elevations might serve not only as a trigger for delayed neuron death but, where more spatially restricted, as a signal for local remodeling in dendrites.
The consolidation of motor skills necessitates long-lasting changes in the nervous system. For the most part, plasticity has been documented in motor systems after training and long-term adaptation. However, there has been no demonstration of immediate neural changes associated with the rapid adaptation of motor behavior required to interact with a dynamic environment. To address this issue, we explored the changes in performance (reaction time) of rhesus monkeys that executed saccadic eye movements to one of two visual stimuli while monitoring the preparatory activity of neurons in the superior colliculus, a structure close to the motor output. Similar to the well established sequential effects observed in human manual responses, each monkey displayed reaction times to target locations that were organized in a sequential pattern, becoming progressively shorter with each preceding repeated movement and longer with each preceding nonrepeated movement. This sequential pattern of performance modification was associated with concordant changes in the preparatory activity of superior colliculus neurons in advance of the saccadic target presentation. These data indicate that neural properties are continuously shaped by use-related experience in a manner consistent with the progressive adaptation of motor behavior.
Humans can easily by touch discriminate fine details of the shapes of objects. The computation of representations and the representations of objects differing in shape are, when the differences are not founded in different sensory cues or the objects belong to different categories, assumed to take place in a series of cortical areas, which only show differences at the single-neuron level. How the somatosensory cortex computes shape is unknown, but theoretically it should depend heavily on the curvatures of the object surfaces. We measured regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) of normal volunteers with positron emission tomography (PET) as an index of neuronal activation. One group discriminated a round set of ellipsoids having a narrow spectrum of curvatures and an oblong set of ellipsoids having a broad spectrum of curvatures. Another group discriminated curvatures. When the rCBF from the conditions round and oblong ellipsoid discrimination was contrasted, part of the cortex lining the postcentral sulcus had significantly higher rCBF when ellipsoids having a broader spectrum of curvatures were discriminated. This cortex was also activated by curvature discrimination. The activation is therefore regarded as crucial for the computation of curvature and in accordance with curvature being a major determinant of object form; this cortex is also crucially active in somatosensory shape perception. A comparison of the activation with cytoarchitectural maps, in the anatomical format of the standard brain for both PET and cytoarchitectural brain images, revealed that this part of the cortex lining the postcentral sulcus is situated caudally from cytoarchitectural area 1 and may involve presumptive area 2 on the posterior bank of the sulcus.

This is the third in a series of studies of the neural representation of tactile spatial form in somatosensory cortical area 3b of the alert monkey. We previously studied the spatial structure of &gt;350 fingerpad receptive fields (RFs) with random-dot patterns scanned in one direction () and at varying velocities (). Those studies showed that area 3b RFs have a wide range of spatial structures that are virtually unaffected by changes in scanning velocity. In this study, 62 area 3b neurons were studied with three to eight scanning directions (58 with four or more directions). The data from all three studies are described accurately by an RF model with three components: (1) a single, central excitatory region of short duration, (2) one or more inhibitory regions, also of short duration, that are adjacent to and nearly synchronous with the excitation, and (3) a region of inhibition that overlaps the excitation partially or totally and is temporally delayed with respect to the first two components. The mean correlation between the observed RFs and the RFs predicted by this three-component model was 0.81. The three-component RFs also predicted orientation sensitivity and preferred orientation to a scanned bar accurately. The orientation sensitivity was determined most strongly by the intensity of the coincident RF inhibition in relation to the excitation. Both orientation sensitivity and this ratio were stronger in the supragranular and infragranular layers than in layer IV.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) has potent trophic effects on adult sensory neurons after nerve injury and is one of a family of proteins that includes neurturin, persephin, and artemin. Sensitivity to these factors is conferred by a receptor complex consisting of a ligand binding domain (GFRalpha1-GFRalpha4) and a signal transducing domain RET. We have investigated the normal expression of GDNF family receptor components within sensory neurons and the response to nerve injury. In normal rats, RET and GFRalpha1 were expressed in a subpopulation of both small- and large-diameter afferents projecting through the sciatic nerve [60 and 40% of FluoroGold (FG)-labeled cells, respectively]. GFRalpha2 and GFRalpha3 were both expressed principally within small-diameter DRG cells (30 and 40% of FG-labeled cells, respectively). Two weeks after sciatic axotomy, the expression of GFRalpha2 was markedly reduced (to 12% of sciatic afferents). In contrast, the proportion of sciatic afferents that expressed GFRalpha1 increased (to 66% of sciatic afferents) so that virtually all large-diameter afferents expressed this receptor component, and the expression of GFRalpha3 also increased (to 66% of sciatic afferents) so that almost all of the small-diameter afferents expressed this receptor component after axotomy. There was little change in RET expression. The changes in the proportions of DRG cells expressing different receptor components were mirrored by alterations in the total RNA levels within the DRG. The changes in GFRalpha1 and GFRalpha2 expression after axotomy could be largely reversed by treatment with GDNF.
Diversity in behavioral responses to sensory stimuli has been attributed to variations in preparatory set. Variability in oculomotor responses toward identical visual stimuli has been well documented, but the neuronal processes underlying this variability are poorly understood. Here, we report evidence for set-related activity for saccadic eye movements in single neurons in the frontal eye field (FEF) in monkeys trained on a task in which they either had to look toward a visual stimulus (pro-saccade) or away from the stimulus (anti-saccade) depending on a previous instruction. A portion of FEF neurons were identified as neurons projecting directly to the superior colliculus (SC) with antidromic activation techniques. Saccade-related neurons in the FEF had lower prestimulus and stimulus-related activity on anti-saccade trials compared with pro-saccade trials. The level of prestimulus activity correlated with saccadic reaction times, express saccade occurrence, and errors in the anti-saccade task. In addition, saccade-related activity in the FEF was higher for pro-saccades than for anti-saccades. These results demonstrate that the direct descending pathway from the FEF to the SC carries preparatory set-related activity for pro-saccades and anti-saccades. The results also provide insights into the neuronal basis of variations in saccadic reaction times and in the control of the prepotent response to glance to a flashed stimulus.
Hepatocyte growth factor/scatter factor (HGF/SF) is expressed in the developing limb muscles of the chick embryo during the period of spinal motoneuron (MN) programmed cell death, and its receptor c-met is expressed in lumbar MNs during this same period. Although cultured motoneurons from brachial, thoracic, and lumbar segments are all rescued from cell death by chick embryo muscle extract (CMX) as well as by other specific trophic agents, HGF/SF only promotes the survival of lumbar MNs. Similarly, treatment of embryos in ovo with exogenous HGF/SF rescues lumbar but not other somatic MNs from cell death. Blocking antibodies to HGF/SF (anti-HGF) reduce the effects of CMX on MN survival in vitro and decrease the number of lumbar MNs in vivo. The expression of c-met on MNs in vivo is regulated by a limb-derived trophic signal distinct from HGF/SF. HGF/SF is a potent, select, and physiologically relevant survival factor for a subpopulation of developing spinal MNs in the lumbar segments of the chick embryo.
Retinal cells that respond selectively to light onset or offset are segregated into On and Off pathways. Here, we describe the development of cone bipolar cells whose axonal arbors at maturity synapse onto ganglion cell dendrites confined to On and Off strata of the inner plexiform layer (IPL). In particular, we sought to determine whether the formation of this segregated pattern is dependent on the presence of ganglion cells. Developing bipolar cells were visualized using an antibody against recoverin, the calcium binding protein that labels On and Off cone bipolar cells in the adult rat retina. Recoverin-positive cells were apparent in the ventricular zone on the day of birth [postnatal day 0 (P0)], before bipolar cells begin to migrate to the inner nuclear layer. Two distinct strata were first apparent in the IPL at P8, with the Off pathway maturing earlier than the On pathway. There was no indication of exuberant bipolar cell projections. Throughout development, there were also a small number of recoverin-positive cells of unknown origin in the ganglion cell layer. To assess whether the formation of On and Off cone bipolar cell projections is dependent on the presence of ganglion cells, these target neurons were eliminated by unilateral section of the optic nerve. This was done on the day of birth, resulting in a total loss of ganglion cells 5-6 d before bipolar cell axons innervate the IPL. In retinas with optic nerve sections, On and Off cone bipolar cells were present, albeit at a lower than normal density, and the axonal arbors of these interneurons were organized into two distinct strata. This indicates that ganglion cells are not essential for the formation of segregated On and Off bipolar cell inputs. These results lend support to the hypothesis that specific ingrowth patterns of bipolar cell terminal arbors could regulate the formation of stratified retinal ganglion cell dendrites.
The ubiquitin-proteasome protein degradation pathway is crucial in controlling intracellular levels of a variety of short-lived proteins and maintaining cellular growth and metabolism. In a previous study, we showed the accumulation of conjugated ubiquitin in CA1 neurons of the gerbil after 5 min of forebrain ischemia (; ). The accumulation of conjugated ubiquitin may reflect proteasome malfunction. In the present study, we investigated the effects of proteasome inhibitors on primary neuronal cultures to determine whether proteasomal malfunction induces neuronal death. When carbobenzoxy-Leu-Leu-Leu-aldehyde or lactacystin, two different types of proteasome inhibitors, were separately used to suppress proteasome activity, we observed induction of apoptotic neuronal cell death in both cases. During the apoptotic process, mitochondrial membrane potential was disrupted, cytochrome-c was released from mitochondria into the cytosol, and caspase-3-like proteases were activated. Apoptosis was inhibited by pretreatment with acetyl-aspartyl-glutamyl-valyl-aspart-1-aldehyde or overexpression of Bcl-x/(L). These results demonstrated that suppression of proteasome function induces neuronal apoptosis via the release of cytochrome c from mitochondria and activation of caspase-3-like proteases.
Apoptosis is an important mechanism of physiological and pathological cell death. It is regulated by several gene products, including caspases and the bcl-2-like proteins, whose roles have been demonstrated in numerous systems. One of these is a model of cerebellar granule cells (CGCs) in which apoptosis is induced by acute removal of serum and depolarizing concentrations of potassium. Previous work by several authors showed that benzyloxycarbonyl-DEVD-fluoromethylketone, a somewhat selective caspase inhibitor, significantly protected CGCs from apoptosis; however, because this molecule targets multiple caspases, it is not known whether a single caspase is primarily responsible for effecting cell death in this model. We attempted to answer this question by cotransfecting CGCs with green fluorescent protein reporter and a hammerhead ribozyme directed against caspase-3 mRNA. Maximal protection by this ribozyme was observed after 24 hr of deprivation, at which time apoptosis was 18 +/- 0.7% compared with 32 +/- 2% in control cells. Significant protection was also observed with human inhibitor of apoptosis (IAP)-like protein-X-linked IAP, a specific inhibitor of caspase-3, -7, and -9, and with p35, a general caspase inhibitor. Overexpression of bcl-2 produced almost complete protection from apoptosis after 24 hr of serum-K(+) deprivation (5 +/- 2 vs 44 +/- 2% in control cells). These results confirm that caspases play an important role in CGC apoptosis and indicate that caspase-3 itself is a significant mediator of this process.
At larval zebrafish neuromuscular junctions (NMJs), miniature end plate currents (mEPCs) recorded in vivo have an unusually fast time course. We used fast-flow application of acetylcholine (ACh) onto outside-out patches to mimic the effect of synaptic release onto small numbers of ACh receptor channels (AChRs). Positively charged ACh acted at hyperpolarized potentials and at millimolar concentrations as a fast (&quot;flickering&quot;) open channel blocker of AChRs. Because of filtering, the open channel block resulted in reduced amplitude of single channel currents. Immediately after brief (1 msec) application (without significant desensitization) of millimolar ACh at hyperpolarized potentials, a slower, transient current appeared because of delayed reversal of the block. This rebound current depended on the ACh concentration and resembled in time course the mEPC. A simple kinetic model of the AChR that includes an open channel-blocking step accounted for our single channel results, as well as the experimentally observed slowing of the time course of mEPCs recorded at a hyperpolarized compared with a depolarized potential. Recovery from AChR block is a novel mechanism of synaptic transmission that may contribute in part at all NMJs.
Isolated brain mitochondria were examined for their responses to calcium challenges under varying conditions. Mitochondrial membrane potential was monitored by following the distribution of tetraphenylphosphonium ions in the mitochondrial suspension, mitochondrial swelling by observing absorbance changes, calcium accumulation by an external calcium electrode, and oxygen consumption with an oxygen electrode. Both the extent and rate of calcium-induced mitochondrial swelling and depolarization varied greatly depending on the energy source provided to the mitochondria. When energized with succinate plus glutamate, after a calcium challenge, CNS mitochondria depolarized transiently, accumulated substantial calcium, and increased in volume, characteristic of a mitochondrial permeability transition. When energized with 3 mM succinate, CNS mitochondria maintained a sustained calcium-induced depolarization without appreciable swelling and were slow to accumulate calcium. Maximal oxygen consumption was also restricted under these conditions, preventing the electron transport chain from compensating for this increased proton permeability. In 3 mM succinate, cyclosporin A and ADP plus oligomycin restored potential and calcium uptake. This low conductance permeability was not effected by bongkrekic acid or carboxyatractylate, suggesting that the adenine nucleotide translocator was not directly involved. Fura-2FF measurements of [Ca(2+)](i) suggest that in cultured hippocampal neurons glutamate-induced increases reached tens of micromolar levels, approaching those used with mitochondria. We propose that in the restricted substrate environment, Ca(2+) activated a low-conductance permeability pathway responsible for the sustained mitochondrial depolarization.
Excitatory synaptic activity governs excitotoxicity and modulates the distribution of NMDA receptors (NMDARs) among synaptic and extrasynaptic sites of central neurons. We investigated whether NMDAR localization was functionally linked to excitotoxicity by perturbing F-actin, a cytoskeletal protein that participates in targeting synaptic NMDARs in dendritic spines. Depolymerizing F-actin did not affect NMDA-evoked whole-cell currents. However, the number of dendritic NMDAR clusters and the NMDAR-mediated component of miniature spontaneous EPSCs were reduced, whereas the number of AMPA receptor clusters and AMPA receptor-mediated component of EPSCs was unchanged. This selective perturbation of synaptically activated NMDARs had no effect on neuronal death or the accumulation of (45)Ca(2+) evoked by applying exogenous NMDA or L-glutamate, which reach both synaptic and extrasynaptic receptors. However, it increased survival and decreased (45)Ca(2+) accumulation in neurons exposed to oxygen glucose deprivation, which causes excitotoxicity by glutamate release at synapses. Thus, synaptically and extrasynaptically activated NMDARs are equally capable of excitotoxicity. However, their relative contributions vary with the location of extracellular excitotoxin accumulation, a factor governed by the mechanism of extracellular neurotransmitter accumulation, not the synaptic activation of NMDARs.
Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis is a disease induced by neuroantigen-reactive T cells bearing particular types of T cell receptor (TCR). Although the nature of TCRs of encephalitogenic T cells has been partially delineated using encephalitogenic T cell clones established in vitro, the entire TCR repertoire formed in situ after immunization with neuroantigen remains unclear. In the present study, we immunized Lewis rats with myelin basic protein (MBP) and its fragment peptides and determined the TCR repertoire of spinal cord T cells formed after the immunization by CDR3 spectra-typing. It was revealed that the oligoclonal expansion of Vbeta2, Vbeta8.2, and Vbeta17 spectratypes was detectable after immunization with guinea pig MBP and its immunodominant epitope, the 68-88 sequence, whereas immunization with a peptide containing a minor epitope induced Vbeta10 expansion. Immunization with rat MBP induced much broader TCR Vbeta expansion (all of the above Vbetas plus Vbeta3). These findings suggest that TCRs activated by immunization with guinea pig MBP used as heteroclitic immunogen recognize autoantigen, rat MBP. Furthermore, the strategy used in this study gives insight into the pathogenesis of autoimmune disease and provides useful information for designing TCR-based immunotherapy.
Visualization of specific transsynaptic neural pathways is an indispensable technique for understanding the relationship between structure and function in the nervous system. Here, we demonstrate the application of the wheat germ agglutinin (WGA) transgene technique for tracing transsynaptic neural pathways in Drosophila. The intracellular localization of WGA was examined by immunoelectron microscopy. WGA signals were detected in granule-like structures in both the outer photoreceptor cells expressing WGA and the second-order laminar neurons. Misexpression of tetanus toxin (TNT), which inactivates N-synaptobrevin, in the outer photoreceptor cells resulted in the elimination of on/off transients in electroretinogram (ERG) recordings and in a great reduction in WGA transfer into laminar neurons, suggesting that anterograde WGA transsynaptic transfer is dependent mainly on synaptic transmission. Retrograde WGA transfer was also detected upon its forced expression in muscle cells. WGA primarily expressed in muscle cells was taken up by motoneuron axons and transported to their cell bodies in the ventral nerve cord, suggesting that WGA can trace motoneuronal pathways in combination with the muscle-specific GAL4 driver. Thus, the GAL4/UAS-WGA system should facilitate the dissection of the Drosophila neural circuit formation and/or synaptic activity in various regions and at various developmental stages.



Formulations containing potassium salts (e.g., chloride, nitrate, citrate, oxalate) are widely used for treating dentin hypersensitivity (DH). The purpose of this review was to evaluate evidence for the clinical efficacy of potassium salts in reducing DH and also to consider the biologic basis for any effects. Literature searches were used to identify reports of clinical trials of potassium-containing preparations. Searches revealed 3 trials of potassium nitrate solutions or gels; 2 trials of mouthwashes containing potassium nitrate or citrate; 6 trials of potassium oxalates; and 16 double-blind randomized trials of toothpastes containing potassium nitrate, chloride, or citrate. The toothpaste studies provided quantitative data on treatment effects. These outcome measures were expressed as percentage reductions in sensitivity to cold air and mechanical stimulation and the patients' subjective reports. Trials of topically applied solutions yielded inconsistent results. Potassium-containing mouthwashes produced significant reductions in sensitivity. All potassium-containing toothpastes produced a significant reduction in sensitivity to tactile and air stimuli, as well as subjectively reported sensitivity. In most studies, the active agent (potassium) was superior to the minus-active control (placebo), but a few of the more recent trials have demonstrated significant placebo effects. It is postulated that potassium ions released from toothpastes diffuse along the dentinal tubules to inactivate intradental nerves. However, this principle has never been confirmed in intact human teeth. The mechanism of the desensitizing effects of potassium-containing toothpastes remains uncertain at present.
Glutamatergic innervation of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and the nucleus accumbens (NA) regulates locomotor activity. The present study was designed to evaluate the involvement of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) in motor activity. Agonists selective for each of the three subgroups of mGluRs were microinjected into the VTA or NA, and motor activity was monitored. The group I agonist (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine elicited a dose-dependent elevation in motor activity after microinjection into either the VTA or NA. The effect in the NA was blocked by the mGluR1-specific antagonist 7-(hydroxyimino)cyclopropa[b]chromen-1a-carboxylate ethyl ester. The group II agonist (2S,2'R,3'R)-2-(2',3'-dicarboxycyclopropyl)glycine also elicited a short-duration motor activation after microinjection into either structure. The dose response in the VTA was biphasic, and the coadministration of the group II/III-specific antagonist (RS)-alpha-methyl-4-phosphonophenylglycine partially blocked motor activation in both the NA and VTA. Although the group III agonist L-(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid produced a relatively modest behavioral stimulation after microinjection into the NA, it was without effect in the VTA. These data indicate a role for mGluR subgroups in the regulation of motor activity in the VTA and NA.
The progesterone metabolite 3alpha-hydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one (3alpha,5alpha-P or allopregnanolone) is a potent positive modulator of gamma-aminobutyric acid(A) (GABA(A)) receptors. Although it is well documented that chronic ethanol (EtOH) administration produces cross-tolerance to the positive modulatory effect of benzodiazepines and GABA at GABA(A) receptors, recent findings suggest that sensitivity to 3alpha,5alpha-P is enhanced during EtOH withdrawal. In addition, EtOH-naive inbred strains of mice, which differ in EtOH withdrawal severity (DBA/2 &gt; C57BL/6), had marked differences in behavioral sensitivity to 3alpha,5alpha-P. Therefore, the present study was conducted to determine whether C57BL/6 (B6) and DBA/2 (D2) mice would be differentially sensitive to several of the pharmacological effects of 3alpha,5alpha-P during EtOH withdrawal. Male mice were exposed to EtOH vapor or air for 72 h. During withdrawal from EtOH, animals were injected with 3alpha,5alpha-P (0, 3.2, 10, or 17 mg/kg i.p.) and tested for activity and anxiolysis on the elevated plus maze, muscle relaxation, ataxia, and seizure protection following pentylenetetrazol. Sensitivity to the anticonvulsant effect of 3alpha,5alpha-P was enhanced during EtOH withdrawal in B6, but not D2 mice. In contrast, sensitivity to the muscle relaxant effects of 3alpha,5alpha-P was reduced in EtOH-withdrawing B6 and D2 mice, with a suggestion of decreased sensitivity to the anxiolytic effect of 3alpha,5alpha-P during EtOH withdrawal in B6. These results suggest that sensitization to the anticonvulsant effect of 3alpha,5alpha-P during EtOH withdrawal does not generalize across all genotypes nor does it generalize to all of the pharmacological effects of 3alpha,5alpha-P.
The purpose of this study was to examine the mechanism of enhanced endothelium-dependent dilation in arteries from female rats compared with arteries from males. Isolated mesenteric resistance arteries ( approximately 250 microm) from sexually mature male and female Sprague-Dawley rats were pressurized and outer diameter was measured. Arteries from females were more sensitive to the endothelium-dependent vasodilator acetylcholine (Ach) compared with those from males (-log EC(50): male = 6.74 +/- 0.06; female = 6.96 +/- 0.06; P =.037). After incubation with N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine (100 microM) or apamin (30 nM), there was no longer a gender difference in midrange sensitivity to ACh. In contrast, at higher concentrations of ACh, N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine had a greater inhibitory effect in the males than in the females. Indomethacin (10 microM) decreased sensitivity to ACh in arteries from both males and females, but did not alter the maximal response or eliminate the gender difference. Finally, there was no gender difference in vasodilation to the nitric oxide (NO) donor spermine-NO complex, nor did apamin alter the spermine-NO complex response. In conclusion, mesenteric arteries from female rats are more sensitive to ACh than those from males. An enhanced contribution of an apamin-sensitive K(Ca) channel on the endothelium of female arteries appears to be responsible for the augmented ACh-stimulated NO production compared with that of males. In addition, ACh stimulates the production of a non-NO, noncyclooxygenase, endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor to a greater extent in females compared with males.
Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction was used to identify the pertussis toxin (Ptx)-sensitive G protein alpha-subunit pool in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) and mouse fibroblast (B82) cells. We detected the presence of mRNA for G(ialpha2), G(ialpha3), and G(oalpha) in both cell lines. G(ialpha1) and G(alphaz) mRNAs were not detected. We also found a homolog of the retinal rod transducin (G(talpha1)) in CHO, and the mouse cone transducin (G(talpha2)) in B82 cells. The presence of the transducin alpha-subunit proteins in CHO and B82 cells was confirmed by immunoprecipitation with specific antibodies. To test the interaction of heterologously expressed receptors with transducin in CHO cells, a Ptx-insensitive (C347S) rod transducin mutant was transfected into a CHO cell line stably expressing the human delta-opioid receptor (hDOR/CHO). (+)-4-[(alphaR)-alpha-((2S,2R)-4-allyl-2, 5-dimethyl-1-piperazinyl)-3-methoxybenzyl]-N,N-diethylbenzamide, a selective delta-opioid receptor agonist, stimulated guanosine-5'-O-(3-[(35)S]thio)triphosphate binding by 293 +/- 36% after Ptx pretreatment in the mutant cell line with an EC(50) value of 54 +/- 32 nM, showing that transducin can functionally couple to the human delta-opioid receptors in these cells.
Interneurones receiving excitatory input from group II muscle afferents of hindlimb nerves and located in the lower-lumbar (L6-L7) segments of the cat spinal cord were investigated using both extracellular and intracellular recording. The interneurones were located mainly in the lateral parts of laminae IV-VII, dorsal and lateral to the main region in which interneurones with input from group I muscle afferents are located. Almost half the sample of interneurones (38 of 76) were characterized by an ipsilateral ascending projection within the lateral funiculus to the L4 level. The most powerful group II excitation was produced by afferents of the quadriceps and deep peroneal muscle nerves (which discharged 70-80% of extracellularly recorded neurones) while group II afferents of tibialis posterior, posterior biceps-semitendinosus and gastrocnemius soleus were also highly effective (discharging 45-55% of extracellularly recorded neurones). A proportion of intracellularly recorded group II EPSPs were monosynaptic. Seventy-five per cent of the extracellularly recorded interneurones were discharged by group II afferents of two or more muscle nerves and 43% by afferents of three or more nerves. Group I muscle afferents evoked small EPSPs in over one-quarter of the intracellularly recorded interneurones and virtually all were strongly excited by cutaneous afferents. Evidence of excitatory input from joint, interosseous and group III muscle afferents was also observed. The properties of the interneurones are compared with those of others in the lumbosacral segments and the possibility that they may function as last-order premotor interneurones is discussed.
The actions of group II muscle afferents projecting to the lower-lumbar (L6 and L7) segments of the cat spinal cord were investigated by recording the cord dorsum and focal synaptic field potentials evoked by electrical stimulation of hindlimb muscle nerves. Cord dorsum potentials recorded over the lower-lumbar segments were generally much smaller than those produced by group II afferents terminating within the midlumbar and sacral segments. Only group II afferents of tibialis posterior produced potentials with an amplitude (mean maximal amplitude 39 microV, n = 7) approaching that of potentials over other segments. Focal synaptic potentials (mean maximal amplitudes 135-200 microV) were evoked by group II afferents of the following muscle nerves, listed in order of effectiveness: quadriceps, tibialis posterior (throughout L6 and L7), gastrocnemius soleus, flexor digitorum longus, posterior biceps-semitendinosus and popliteus (mainly within L7). Field potentials were recorded in the dorsal horn (laminae IV-V) and also more ventrally in a region which included the lateral part of the intermediate zone (lateral to the large group I intermediate field potentials) and often extended into the ventral horn (laminae V-VII). The latencies of the group II potentials are considered compatible with the monosynaptic actions of the fastest conducting group II muscle afferents. The results are compared with morphological evidence on the pattern of termination of group II muscle afferents in the lower-lumbar segments and with previous descriptions of the actions of group II muscle afferents in midlumbar and sacral segments.
Cognitive neuroscience has provided an extensive literature on the neuroanatomy and psychopharmacology of working memory. However, while it has been shown that children with attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (AD/HD) have deficits in working memory, relatively little is known about working memory functions in adults diagnosed with AD/HD. Furthermore, it remains to be seen whether methylphenidate (Ritalin), which is used in the treatment of childhood AD/HD can improve performance deficits in adult AD/HD patients. We have used three paradigms of spatial working memory validated in cortical lesion patients, and psychopharmacological and neuroimaging studies, in order to examine the effects of methylphenidate administration in a case of an adult diagnosed with AD/HD. In the AD/HD patient at baseline testing, performance on a test of spatial recognition memory and on a task of self-ordered spatial working memory was shown to be impaired. Importantly, the impairments on the self-ordered spatial working memory task were ameliorated by an acute oral dose of methylphenidate (0.5 mg/kg). These findings provide insights into the possible neurochemical and neuroanatomical substrates of the action of methylphenidate in AD/HD and suggest a useful methodology for further research into this potentially debilitating disorder.
Endothelin has previously been localised in perivascular nerves of the rat basilar artery. Considering its potent vasoconstrictor and mitogenic properties on vascular smooth muscle, the potential role of a neural source of this peptide in hypertension has been investigated. The trigeminal, superior cervical and sphenopalatine ganglia of Wistar Kyoto (WKY) rats and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) at 16 weeks of age have been examined for immunolocalisation of endothelin at the light and electron microscope level. At the light microscope level, neurones immunopositive for endothelin were detected in these ganglia of the SHR but were not seen in ganglia from WKY rats. This difference was particularly marked in the trigeminal ganglia where endothelin-positive neurones colocalised with substance P immunoreactivity. Using in situ hybridisation techniques, endothelin-1 mRNA was localised to the cytoplasm of neurones in the ganglia and was more prominent in the SHR. At the electron microscope level, endothelin-immunoreactivity was localised at the peripheral perikarya of some neuronal cell bodies of the trigeminal, superior cervical and sphenopalatine ganglia of WKY rats but was more prominent with heavy labelling throughout the cytoplasm of neurones in the SHR. Notably, in the trigeminal ganglia of the SHR only, some endothelin-immunopositive nerve fibres appeared to be damaged and contained vacuoles with granular material. Ultrastructural examination of the basilar artery revealed an increased number of endothelin-positive axons in the SHR, but these axons usually showed selective damage. In summary, in the SHR, there was a marked increase in endothelin particularly in sensory neurones projecting to the basilar artery which also appear to be undergoing degenerative changes. An increased neural source of endothelin in the SHR may contribute to the development of hypertension or may be a consequence of selective degenerative change.
We study here the effect of a short-term training paradigm on the gain and phase of the human translational VOR (the linear VOR: LVOR). Subjects were exposed to lateral sinusoidal translations on a sled, at 0.5 Hz, 0.3 g peak acceleration. With subjects tracking a remembered target at 1.2 m, the LVOR (slow-phase) under these conditions typically has a phase lead or lag, and a gain that falls short of compensatory. To induce short-term adaptation (training), we presented an earth-fixed visual scene at 1.2 m during sinusoidal translation (x 1 viewing) for 20 minutes, so as to drive the LVOR toward compensatory phase and gain. We examined both the slow-phase and the saccadic responses to these stimuli. Testing after training showed changes in slow-component gain and phase which were mostly but not always in the compensatory direction. These changes were more consistent in naive subjects than in subjects who had previous LVOR experience. Changes in gain were seen with step as well as sinusoidal test stimuli; gain changes were not correlated with vergence changes. There was a strong correlation between gain changes and phase changes across subjects. Fast phases (catch-up saccades) formed a large component of the LVOR under our testing conditions (approximately 30% of the changes in gain but not in phase due to training.
The phase of the translational linear VOR (LVOR) can be adaptively modified by exposure to a visual-vestibular mismatch. We extend here our earlier work on LVOR phase adaptation, and discuss the role of the oculomotor neural integrator. Ten subjects were oscillated laterally at 0.5 Hz, 0.3 g peak acceleration, while sitting upright on a linear sled. LVOR was assessed before and after adaptation with subjects tracking the remembered location of a target at 1 m in the dark. Phase and gain were measured by fitting sine waves to the desaccaded eye movements, and comparing sled and eye position. To adapt LVOR phase, the subject viewed a computer-generated stereoscopic visual display, at a virtual distance of 1 m, that moved so as to require either a phase lead or a phase lag of 53 deg. Adaptation lasted 20 min, during which subjects were oscillated at 0.5 Hz/0.3 g. Four of five subjects produced an adaptive change in the lag condition (range 4-45 deg), and each of five produced a change in the lead condition (range 19-56 deg), as requested. Changes in drift on eccentric gaze suggest that the oculomotor velocity-to-position integrator may be involved in the phase changes.
Numerous animal studies have suggested that the vestibular system modulates respiratory and cardiovascular function. However, relatively few studies have examined vestibular-autonomic interaction in humans. In this study we investigated the effects of repeated horizontal (clockwise or anticlockwise) optokinetic stimulation on systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP), pulse and latency to circularvection (CV) in humans, and compared the effects with those of repeated exposure to a stationary visual stimulus. Although all subjects experienced CV, neither mean SBP, DBP or pulse differed significantly between the clockwise/anticlockwise optokinetic stimulation and no optokinetic stimulation conditions. However, SBP and DBP changed significantly over the 20 trials in each test session, even when there was no optokinetic stimulation (P &lt; 0.001 in each case). These results suggest that while horizontal optokinetic stimulation does not significantly affect SBP, DBP or pulse in humans, changes in these variables can be induced by trial repetition itself, even when no optokinetic stimulation occurs.
The aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of scopolamine (1.5 mg, transdermal patch) and cyclizine (50 mg tablet), at the doses usually used for the relief of motion sickness, on postural sway, optokinetic nystagmus (OKN) and circularvection (CV) in humans, using a within-subjects, double-blind, placebo-controlled design. Scopolamine and cyclizine were found to have no significant suppressive effect on these aspects of visual-vestibular interaction. Postural sway and CV were not significantly affected by either drug treatment; OKN SPV was significantly increased (p &lt; 0.05), although OKN amplitude and frequency were unaffected. These results suggest that scopolamine and cyclizine, at doses used for the relief of motion sickness, may have minimal suppressive effects on these aspects of visual-vestibular interaction.
The goal of the present study was to determine if adaptive modulation of vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) function is associated with commensurate alterations in manual target localization. To measure the effects of adapted VOR on manual responses we developed the Vestibular-Contingent Pointing Test (VCP). In the VCP test, subjects pointed to a remembered target following passive whole body rotation in the dark. In the first experiment, subjects performed VCP before and after wearing 0.5X minifying lenses that adaptively attenuate horizontal VOR gain. Results showed that adaptive reduction in horizontal VOR gain was accompanied by a commensurate change in VCP performance. In the second experiment, bilaterally labyrinthine deficient (LD) subjects were tested to confirm that vestibular cues were central to the spatial coding of both eye and hand movements during VCP. LD subjects performed significantly worse than normal subjects. These results demonstrate that adaptive change in VOR can lead to alterations in manual target localization.
Recent extensive advances in neuroscience not only proved that optic nerve has a capacity for functional repair, but made its regeneration a reality in laboratory mammals. Today it is evident that optic nerve after axonotmesis displays signs of very active regeneration. Nevertheless, the regeneration is inhibited by a number of factors acting in the environment of normal CNS. Inhibitors secreted by oligodendrocytes and deposited in the layer of myelin attenuate migration of macrophages and process of phagocytosis, which is indispensable for axon regeneration. Astrocytes, which secrete substances supporting nerve regeneration, can not migrate to the injured axons. Glial scar formation prevent axon regrowth and revascularisation. Moreover, immediate expression of certain genes causes axotomised retinal ganglion cells to undergo process of programmed cell death--apoptosis. At present, regeneration of the optic nerve may be successfully promoted in laboratory set-up with substances which can slow down ganglion cells apoptosis and promote axon regrowth. Peripheral nerve bridges and embryonic transplants offer the regenerating axons more friendly environment than that of the normal, matured CNS. One problem, which can not yet be successfully addressed, is how to lead regrowing axons back appropriately to their original targets to reform patterned connections.


The traditional Chinese medicines have been used clinically for a long time in some Asian countries, however, very few studies have been done to demonstrate the working mechanisms of these medicines using recently developed biochemical methodologies. In this study, we examined the anti-inflammatory effect of Huang-Lian-Jie-Du-Tang (HLJDT), a combination of herbs used in traditional Chinese medicine, on paw edema, thermal hyperalgesia and the mRNA increase of neuropeptides in spinal dorsal horn and hypothalamic neurons using a rat model of peripheral inflammation and hyperalgesia. The rats that received HLJDT from 3 days before the injection of complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) into the plantar had significantly less edema and reduced thermal hyperalgesia compared to control rats that received CFA injection. The up-regulation of preprodynorphin mRNA in L4-5 dorsal horn neurons 8 hours after CFA injection that was observed in control rats, was also decreased in the HLJDT-treated rats. Moreover, there was a significant decrease in mRNA level of corticotropin-releasing factor in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus in the HLJDT-treated rats. These data demonstrate that HLJDT is anti-inflammatory, and produces changes in mRNA expression in dorsal horn and hypothalamic neurons. This is the first demonstrated that a traditional Chinese medicine can affect the excitability of neurons through an anti-inflammatory action.
Quantitative, multislice dynamic susceptibility contrast-enhanced MRI perfusion measurements were used to determine the patterns of cerebral blood flow (CBF), cerebral blood volume (CBV), mean transit time (MTT), and normalized first moment of the tissue deltaR2-time curve (N) in 11 subjects with carotid artery occlusion or stenosis. MTT correlated with degree of carotid stenosis, whereas a range of alterations in CBF and CBV were found presumably reflecting variables degrees of collateral flow. There was no significant correlation between MRI and SPET flow perfusion measurements, with increasing disparity between the two techniques at higher inter-hemispheric flow ratios. The effect of obtaining the arterial input function (AIF) from the middle cerebral artery (MCA) ipsilateral or contralateral to the stenosis was determined. Despite the use of an AIF from the MCA, which is distal to the circle of Willis, and hence the major sources of collateral supply, there was still some extra dispersion of the contrast agent bolus due to differences in arrival time.

The nervous system has an enhanced capacity to generate seizures during a restricted phase of postnatal development. Studies in animals and particularly in in vitro brain slices from hippocampus and neocortex have been instrumental in furthering an understanding of the underlying processes. Developmental alterations in glutaminergic excitatory synaptic transmission appear to play a key role in the enhanced seizure susceptible of rodents during the second and third week of life. Prior to this period, the number of excitatory synapses is relatively low. The scarcity of connections and the inability of the existing synapses to release glutamate when activated at high frequencies likely contribute importantly to the resistance of neonates to seizures. However, at the beginning of week 2, a dramatic outgrowth of excitatory synapses occurs, and these synapses are able to faithfully follow activation at high frequencies. These changes, coupled with the prolonged nature of synaptic potentials in early life, likely contribute to the ease of seizure generation. After this time, seizure susceptibility declines, patterns of local synaptic connectivity remodel, and some synapses are pruned. Concurrently, the duration of excitatory postsynaptic potentials shortens due at least in part to a switch in the subunit composition of postsynaptic receptors. Other studies have examined the mechanisms underlying chronic epilepsy initiated in early life. Models of both cortical dysplasia and recurrent early-life seizures suggest that alterations in the normal development of excitatory synaptic transmission can contribute importantly to chronic epileptic conditions. In the recurrent early-life seizure model, abnormal use-dependent selection of subpopulations of excitatory synapses may play a role. In experimental cortical dysplasia, alterations in the molecular composition of postsynaptic receptor are observed that favor subunit combinations characteristic of infancy.
The immature brain is highly susceptible to seizures induced by a variety of insults, including hypoxia, fever, and trauma. Unlike early life epilepsy associated with congenital dysplasias or genetic abnormalities, insults induce a hyperexcitable state in a previously normal brain. Here we evaluate the epileptogenic effects of seizure-inducing stimuli on the developing brain, and the age and regional specificity of these effects.
The search for a neurobiological substrate for dyslexia has focused on anomalous planum symmetry. The results of imaging studies of the planum have been inconsistent, perhaps due to diagnostic uncertainty, technical differences in measurement criteria, and inadequate control of handedness, sex, and cognitive ability. Although structural imaging studies have not clarified the neurobiology of reading disability, converging evidence suggests that variation in asymmetry of the planum temporale does have functional significance. Studies in a variety of populations have shown a significant association between planar asymmetry, the strength of hand preference, and general verbal skills such as vocabulary and comprehension. Future structural imaging studies of dyslexia should match participants on hand preference and general verbal ability in order to determine the relationship between brain structure and written and oral language.
Functional neuroimaging methods hold promise for elucidating the neurobiology of autistic disorders, yet they present difficult practical and scientific challenges when applied to these complex and heterogeneous syndromes. Single-state studies of brain metabolism and blood flow thus far have failed to yield consistent findings, but suggest considerable variability in regional patterns of cerebral synaptic activity. Patients with idiopathic autism are less likely to show abnormalities than are patients with comorbid illness or epilepsy. Activation studies have begun to suggest alterations in brain organization for language and cognition. Neurotransmitter studies using positron emission tomography (PET) suggest abnormalities of serotonergic and dopaminergic function. Studies using magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) have begun to document metabolic deficits in the frontal cortex and cerebellum. A single study using magnetoencephalography suggests a high incidence of epileptiform activity in children with autistic regression. Research needs include well-controlled developmental studies, particularly of young subjects and relatively homogeneous subgroups, which balance scientific rigor with ethical constraints. Investigations of the serotonergic and dopaminergic systems, limbic-based memory and emotional systems, and the role of epileptiform activity in autism represent priorities for future research.
Virtually all developmental neuropsychiatric disorders involve some dysfunction or dysregulation of emotion. Moreover, many psychiatric disorders with adult onset have early subclinical manifestations in children. This essay selectively reviews the literature on the neuroimaging of affect and disorders of affect in children. Some critical definitional and conceptual issues are first addressed, including the distinctions between the perception and production of emotion and between emotional states and traits. Developmental changes in morphometric measures of brain structure are then discussed and the implications of such findings for studies of functional brain activity are considered. Data on functional neuroimaging and childhood depression are then reviewed. While the extant data in this area are meager, they are consistent with studies in adults that have observed decreased left-sided anterolateral prefrontal cortex activation in depression. Studies in children on the recognition of emotion and affective intent in faces using functional magnetic resonance imaging are then reviewed. These findings indicate that the amygdala plays an important role in such affective face processing in children, similar to the patterns of activation observed in adults. Moreover, one study has reported abnormalities in amygdala activation during a task requiring the judgment of affective intent from the eye region of the face in subjects with autism. Some of the methodological complexities of developmental research in this area are discussed, and directions for future research are suggested.
The emergence of new technologies to study brain function in vivo has resulted in an explosion of interest in cognitive neuroscience within the last ten years. While most research in functional neuroimaging has been geared toward adult normal volunteers, the development of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has made it possible to study neural development in normal children, as well as those with developmental disorders. This technology provides an unprecedented opportunity to expand our knowledge of brain function throughout childhood. A variety of technological, experimental, and practical difficulties are amplified when imaging children. This paper reviews some of the more challenging theoretical and practical concerns and provides suggestions for their management.

Differentiation of neurons within the central nervous system occurs by the combined effects of intrinsic genetic programs and epigenetic stimuli. Disorders causing mental retardation and other abnormalities of higher cortical function arise by disturbances of the normal developmental sequence. MRDD Research Reviews 6:41-46, 2000.











In recent years the role played by mitochondria in cellular aging has become the focus of intensive research. The concept that these energy-producing organelles are involved in aging derives from the views of Harman (1) and Gerschman (2) linking senescence to the damaging effects of free radicals, especially those released in the mitochondrial respiratory chain.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease in which abnormal filamentous inclusions accumulate in dystrophic and dying nerve cells. These inclusions have been described as neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) of which paired helical filaments (PHFs) are the primary constituents (1-3). The PHFs primarily are composed of the microtubule-associated protein tau, which has undergone posttranslational modification such as phosphorylation (4,5), glycation (6-9), and crosslinking by transglutaminase (TGase) (10-16). Crosslinking of proteins catalyzed by TGase results in the deposition of these proteins into insoluble matrices that are resistant to proteolytic digestion and chaotropic denaturation (for review see ref. 17). In this regard, TGase has been demonstrated to be associated with NFTs from the Alzheimer brain (13,14) and to exhibit elevated activity in the AD brain as compared with normal aged-matched control subjects (16). Here we discuss important aspects of TGase and in vitro experimental approaches that address its ability to catalyze the tau protein into insoluble complexes exhibiting biophysical and immuno-logical properties similar to those of the Alzheimer PHFs and NFTs.
Tau was originally isolated from brain microtubules and shown to be a microtubule-associated protein (MAP) that promoted tubulin polymerization (1). It is largely confined to axons, where it is the major MAP. It promotes microtubule nucleation, elongation, and bundling, and stabilizes microtubules by inhibiting depolymerization.
Antibodies to the microtubule-associated protein tau have been used for more than a decade, both in studies of the role of tau neuronal function, and in examination of the neurofibrillary pathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The vast majority of the available antibodies have been produced with preparations obtained from the brains of patients with AD, although a few antibodies have been generated with tau purified from bovine brain. This chapter restricts discussion to the production and characterization of monoclonal antibodies, although some investigators continue to use affinity-purified polyclonal antibodies. The opinions expressed in this chapter are based on the author's experience in the production of several series of monoclonal antibodies to tau and paired helical filaments (PHF-tau) over the last 10 yr. There is no doubt that modifications in the procedures described can be developed for specific purposes, but the discussion is confined to those methods that we have found to be reliable and informative.
When the amyloid precursor protein (APP) was cloned, A was found to be part of the large APP molecule and it became obvious that at least two endoproteolytic cleavage events are required to release A from its large precursor (1). More than 10 yr later nobody has published definitive identification of either of the proteases, although they are prime therapeutic targets for an antiamyloid therapy for Alzheimer's disease.
A detailed understanding of the biochemical events leading to the proteolytic excision of the -amyloid peptide (A ) from the amyloid precursor protein (APP) has eluded many researchers. This is largely because the measurement of the various APP processing products is technically challenging owing to their low levels of production in in vitro and in vivo test systems. Sequence analysis of products in cell cultures, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and amyloid plaques has been used to predict the major cleavage sites resulting from the - and -secretase proteolytic activities that release the A peptide from APP (1 -3). More routine identification of the secretase activities has relied on the specificity and sensitivity of antibodies raised to the predicted cleavage products and has been impeded by the difficulties associated with the generation of such reagents.


A patient with 2-oxoadipic aciduria and 2-aminoadipic aciduria presented at 2 years of age with manifestations typical of organic acidemia, episodes of ketosis and acidosis, progressive to coma. This resolved and the key metabolites disappeared from the urine and blood. At 9 years of age she developed typical Kearns-Sayre syndrome with complete heart block, retinopathy, and ophthalmoplegia. Southern blot revealed a deletion in the mitochondrial genome.
In this review, we will examine the most recent preclinical evidence in support of the fact that both acute and chronic stress may have a detrimental impact on the normal function of the dopaminergic system. In recent decades, the term stress has changed its meaning from that of a 'non-specific body response' to a 'monitoring system of internal and external cues'; that is a modality of reaction of the mammalian central nervous system (CNS) which is critical to the adaptation of the organism to its environment. Compelling results have demonstrated that the dopaminergic system is important not only for hedonic impact or reward learning but also, in a broader sense, for reactivity to perturbation in environmental conditions, for selective information processing, and for general emotional responses, which are essential functions in the ability (or failure) to cope with the external world. In this, stress directly influences several basic behaviors which are mediated by the dopaminergic system such as locomotor activity, sexual activity, appetite, and cross sensitization with drugs of abuse. Studies using rat lines which are genetically different in dopamine (DA) physiology, have shown that even small alterations in the birth procedure or early life stress events may contribute to the pathophysiology of psychiatric disorders-in particular those involving central DA dysfunction-and may cause depression or psychotic derangement in the offspring. Finally, the fact that the dopaminergic system after stress responds, preferentially, in the medial prefrontal cortex (MFC), is thought to serve, in humans, as a protection against positive psychotic symptoms, since the increased DA activity in the MFC suppresses limbic DA transmission. However, excessive MFC dopaminergic activity has a negative impact on the cognitive functions of primates, making them unable to select and process significant environmental stimuli. Thus it appears that a critical range of DA turnover is necessary for optimal cognitive functioning after stress, in the response of the CNS to ever-changing environmental demands. Molecular Psychiatry (2000) 5, 14-21.
Population stratification is a potential source of error in psychiatric genetics. New study designs and statistical methods can help guard against this problem. Molecular Psychiatry (2000) 5, 11-13.
The number of muscles in the body is actually fairly close to the number required to control completely all its degrees of freedom. The apparent need for a coordinating principle arises from the experimental practice of asking subjects to perform simple movements and assuming that they make no implicit assumptions about other constraints. Natural activities include implicit constraints that differ greatly for different tasks and circumstances and that would be met best by a nervous system free of a priori principles.

This study was designed to investigate anorectal function in Parkinson's disease and multiple system atrophy (MSA). After a standardized interview, 17 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and 16 patients with multiple system atrophy (MSA) underwent anorectal manometry with a continuously perfused multi-lumen catheter, located to record pressures from the anal canal, and a balloon for rectal distension. Data were analyzed by observers blind to the neurologic diagnosis. Disease duration was shorter in the MSA than in the PD group (6+/-4 versus 10+/-5 yrs, p&lt;0.05). Most patients reported a bowel frequency of less than three evacuations per week and some patients had fecal incontinence. Most manometric recordings disclosed an abnormal pattern during straining (a paradoxic contraction or lack of inhibition) in 13 patients with MSA and 11 patients with PD. Mean anal pressures and rectal sensitivity threshold were not significantly higher in the MSA group, whereas the inhibitory anal reflex and rectal compliance thresholds were within the normal range in both groups. Manometric patterns did not differentiate patients with MSA from patients with PD. Most patients in both groups showed an abnormal straining pattern, decreased anal tone, or both dysfunctions. In conclusion, our findings suggest that although bowel and anorectal dysfunctions do not differentiate MSA from PD, both abnormalities occur earlier and develop faster in MSA than in PD.
In order to define diagnostic criteria for the demyelinating polyneuropathy associated with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS), we compared 30 patients with idiopathic chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) without a monoclonal gammopathy, with 29 patients with polyneuropathy associated with MGUS. All 59 patients fulfilled research criteria for CIDP. In the patients with MGUS, sensory symptoms and signs predominated, there was usually no cranial nerve involvement, and the neuropathy was symmetrical with a slowly progressive course. On electrophysiological examination, an abnormal median nerve sensory action potential in combination with a normal sural nerve action potential (AMNS) was not found. In idiopathic CIDP patients, a preceding infection was frequent, motor features predominated, there was often cranial nerve involvement, the neuropathy could be asymmetrical, and AMNS was frequently found. Diagnostic criteria for demyelinating polyneuropathy associated with MGUS are presented.
Local events in the milieu of injured peripheral nerve trunks may have an important influence on the likelihood of regenerative success or the development of neuropathic pain. Injury-related changes in the microcirculation of this milieu have provided some evidence that axonal endbulbs, structures that form at the proximal end of transected axons, dump peptides and other molecules into the injury milieu where they may exert local actions, including those on microvessels. During a later phase of nerve repair, macrophage influx and pancellular proliferative events appear to develop in a coordinated fashion. Nitric oxide is probably an important and prominent player in the injured nerve trunk, both at early and later stages of the repair process. A better understanding of the injured peripheral nerve microenvironment may allow therapeutic approaches that can enhance regeneration and diminish pain.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a safe, noninvasive, and painless way to stimulate the human motor cortex in behaving human subjects. When it is applied as a single-pulse, measurements such as central conduction time, motor threshold, silent-period duration, recruitment curve, and mapping of muscle representation can be determined. Paired-pulse TMS is a useful way to examine cortical excitability. Single and paired-pulse TMS have been applied to study plasticity following amputation and cortical excitability in patients with dystonia. Another form of TMS is repetitive TMS (rTMS), with stimuli delivered repeatedly to a single scalp site. High-frequency rTMS can be used to transiently inactivate different cortical areas to study their functions. rTMS can also modulate cortical excitability. At stimulus frequencies higher than 5 Hz, rTMS increases cortical excitability, and stimulation around 1 Hz reduces cortical excitability. Modulation of cortical excitability by rTMS has therapeutic potential in psychiatric and neurological disorders.

Ability to integrate diverse forms of information in current thought, or working memory, is essential for human reasoning and problem solving. We used functional imaging to identify brain regions preferentially involved in maintaining integrated versus unintegrated information in working memory. For equal amounts of verbal and spatial information, activation of prefrontal cortex was greater for maintaining integrated rather than unintegrated representations. Posterior brain regions showed the opposite pattern. These results demonstrate frontal-lobe specialization in maintaining working-memory representations that integrate verbal and spatial information. The role of prefrontal cortex in integrating multiple forms of information in working memory may underlie its unique contribution to high-level cognition that demands flexible mental representations.
Many complex cells in mammalian primary visual cortex are finely tuned to binocular disparity. In the prevailing model, several binocular simple cells drive each disparity-tuned complex cell. However, some cat complex cells receive direct LGN input, and binocular simple cells are rare in macaque. In our biophysically detailed compartmental model, active dendrites of a single neuron perform the multiple simple-cell-like subunit computations that underlie both orientation and disparity tuning. The responses of our detailed model could be predicted by a simple algebraic formula closely related to an 'energy' model. Adding inhibitory synapses led to sharper, more contrast-invariant tuning curves. Thus active dendrites could contribute to binocular-disparity tuning in complex cells.
Sonic Hedgehog (Shh) is a secreted protein that controls cell fate and mitogenesis in the developing nervous system. Here we show that a constitutively active form of Smoothened (Smo-M2) mimics concentration-dependent actions of Shh in the developing neural tube, including activation of ventral marker genes (HNF3beta, patched, Nkx2.2, netrin-1), suppression of dorsal markers (Pax-3, Gli-3, Ephrin A5) and induction of ventral neurons (dopaminergic, serotonergic) and ventrolateral motor neurons (Islet-1+, Islet-2+, HB9+) and interneurons (Engrailed-1+, CHX10+). Furthermore, Smo-M2's patterning activities were cell autonomous, occurring exclusively in cells expressing Smo-M2. These findings suggest that Smo is a key signaling component in the Hh receptor and that Shh patterns the vertebrate nervous system as a morphogen, rather than through secondary relay signals.
To understand the function of Notch in the mammalian brain, we examined Notch1 signaling and its cellular consequences in developing cortical neurons. We found that the cytoplasmic domain of endogenous Notch1 translocated to the nucleus during neuronal differentiation. Notch1 cytoplasmic-domain constructs transfected into cortical neurons were present in multiple phosphorylated forms, localized to the nucleus and could induce CBF1-mediated transactivation. Molecular perturbation experiments suggested that Notch1 signaling in cortical neurons promoted dendritic branching and inhibited dendritic growth. These observations show that Notch1 signaling to the nucleus exerts an important regulatory influence on the specification of dendritic morphology in neurons.
Several ion channels are thought to be directly modulated by nitric oxide (NO), but the molecular basis of this regulation is unclear. Here we show that the NMDA receptor (NMDAR)-associated ion channel was modulated not only by exogenous NO but also by endogenous NO. Site-directed mutagenesis identified a critical cysteine residue (Cys 399) on the NR2A subunit whose S-nitrosylation (NO+ transfer) under physiological conditions underlies this modulation. In cell systems expressing NMDARs with mutant NR2A subunits in which this single cysteine was replaced by an alanine, the effect of endogenous NO was lost. Thus endogenous S-nitrosylation can regulate ion channel activity.
Two reports of electrical synapses between identified inhibitory neurons in the neocortex suggest that many neuron types known to communicate chemically may also be electrically coupled.
Gephyrin is a synaptic protein that is required for clustering of glycine and GABAA receptors. Gephyrin itself may be regulated by a newly identified protein named collybistin.
The potent metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptor agonist, LY379268, selectively activates mGlu2/3 receptors with EC50 values in the low nanomolar range. We have previously shown in rats that LY379268 reverses phencyclidine (PCP)-induced motor activations (increases in ambulations and fine movements, and decreases in the animals time at rest). Here, we have investigated: (1) the dose-response and time course for this action of LY379268 following oral (p.o.) administration and (2) the therapeutic index in this model following acute versus subchronic (4 days) p.o. dosing. LY379268 (3 mg/kg p.o.) evoked a maximal effect on PCP (5 mg/kg s.c.)-elicited behaviors 4 h post-dosing. At this time point, p.o. LY379268 inhibited the effects on PCP-elicited activities with a similar potency (ED50 values ca 1 mg/kg) to that previously obtained following s.c. administration. Doses up to 3 mg/kg p.o. LY379268 were without effect on the rotorod performance of rats when measured at 1, 2, 4, 8, and 24 h post-administration. In agreement with the peak time-effect on PCP-evoked motor behaviors, 10 mg/kg p.o. LY379268 only significantly impaired rotorod performance at the 4-h time point. Interestingly, acute motor impairment produced by higher doses of LY379268 (10, 30, or 100 mg/kg p.o.) was absent following 4-day repeated administration of LY379268. In contrast, the potency of LY379268 for the inhibition of PCP-evoked motor activities was not affected following multiple dosing over a similar period. These results demonstrate that although the reduction of PCP motor activities by LY379268 is maintained after subchronic dosing, tolerance to the motor impairment evoked by the compound occurs, thus greatly widening the therapeutic index of LY379268.
Coincident firing of neurons projecting to a common target cell is likely to raise the probability of firing of this postsynaptic cell. Therefore, synchronized firing constitutes a significant event for postsynaptic neurons and is likely to play a role in neuronal information processing. Physiological data on synchronized firing in cortical networks are based primarily on paired recordings and cross-correlation analysis. However, pair-wise correlations among all inputs onto a postsynaptic neuron do not uniquely determine the distribution of simultaneous postsynaptic events. We develop a framework in order to calculate the amount of synchronous firing that, based on maximum entropy, should exist in a homogeneous neural network in which the neurons have known pair-wise correlations and higher-order structure is absent. According to the distribution of maximal entropy, synchronous events in which a large proportion of the neurons participates should exist even in the case of weak pair-wise correlations. Network simulations also exhibit these highly synchronous events in the case of weak pair-wise correlations. If such a group of neurons provides input to a common postsynaptic target, these network bursts may enhance the impact of this input, especially in the case of a high postsynaptic threshold. The proportion of neurons participating in synchronous bursts can be approximated by our method under restricted conditions. When these conditions are not fulfilled, the spike trains have less than maximal entropy, which is indicative of the presence of higher-order structure. In this situation, the degree of synchronicity cannot be derived from the pair-wise correlations.
In this study, we evaluated the goldfish model of hemilabyrinthectomy for investigating potential recovery-promoting drugs. In this lesion model, the unilateral removal of the labyrinth induces a postural imbalance in response to light (Dorsal Light Reflex), from which the animals can recover over time. The behavioral effects of two neuropeptides were tested--namely, of substance P and ACTH4-10, both of which are known to promote functional recovery in several other lesion models. Furthermore, the effect of MK-801, an antagonist of the glutamatergic NMDA-receptor subtype, was tested because this substance has also been shown to exert a neuroprotective effect. After lesion of the right labyrinth, the animals (n = 12) were treated intraperitoneally daily either with vehicle (n = 12), substance P (n = 11), ACTH4-10 (n = 12), or MK-801 (n = 12). Another group (n = 11), which served as a non-lesion control, did not receive hemilabyrinthectomy or systemic injections. The lesion group, treated post-operatively with vehicle, did not recover from the postural deviation over the 24-d testing period. In contrast, all three test substances accelerated the functional recovery after unilateral labyrinthectomy. The decrease of the dorsal light reflex persisted even after cessation of drug treatment after 20 d. The results indicate that using the dorsal light reflex in the model of hemilabyrinthectomy in goldfish provides a useful approach to studying the ability of potential new neurotrophic or neuroprotective drugs to promote functional recovery.
Unilateral transection of the bulbar pyramid, performed before the ablation of the ipsilateral sensorimotor cortex, has been shown to facilitate the recovery of operantly conditioned reflexes and compensatory processes in rats. Such enhanced behavioral recovery was absent when only the sensorimotor cortex was ablated. This phenomenon is explained by the switching of motor activity under the control of the cortico-rubrospinal system. Switching of the descending influences is accomplished through the following loop: cortico-rubral projection-red nucleus-inferior olive-cerebellum-thalamus-cerebral cortex. This suggests that a preliminary lesion of the peripheral part of the system, represented by a descending spinal projection, facilitates the recovery processes to develop during the subsequent destruction of its central part.
Neuropeptide Y, cholecystokinin (tetra- and octasulphated peptides) and substance P were measured in lumbar cerebrospinal fluid obtained from patients with various neurologic disorders such as Parkinson's disease, cerebrovascular disorders, multiple sclerosis, tuberculous meningitis and aseptic meningitis. These results are statistically compared with healthy results. The results accumulated showed that the data collected can provide the vital information necessary for designing drug therapy.
Cortical patterns of beta-amyloid (Abeta) deposition were evaluated in 40 beagle dogs ranging in age from 2 to 18 years. Abeta deposition in the prefrontal, occipital, parietal and entorhinal cortices was visualized by using an antibody against Abeta1-42. A logistic regression was used to estimate differences in age-at-onset and rate of deposition of Abeta as a function of brain region. The earliest and most consistent site of Abeta deposition with age was in the prefrontal cortex. Entorhinal Abeta deposition was not consistently observed until the age of 14 years, but was present in a subset of dogs under the age of 14 years. These regional vulnerabilities to Abeta accumulation are similar to those seen in the aging human. By using parameters derived from regression analyses, it may be possible to predict the presence of Abeta within specific brain regions in individual dogs. We propose that these models will be a useful tool to evaluate interventions that delay the age of onset or slow the rate of accumulation of Abeta in the dog.
To elucidate the role of microglia in Alzheimer's disease, a clinicopathological study was performed involving 26 cases, the mental status of which had been studied pre mortem by the Blessed test score (BTS). We measured the volume density of CD 68 immunoreactive (IR) microglia, congophilic plaques and Abeta deposits, and the numerical density of neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) in a sample of Area 9 (middle frontal gyrus). Dementia was significantly correlated only with the volume density of Abeta deposits and the numerical density of NFT. The volume densities of microglia and congophilic plaques were strongly correlated. With the intellectual status used as a time scale, IR microglia and amyloid deposits appeared almost simultaneously at an early stage in the pathological cascade and decreased, whereas Abeta and NFT were still accumulating. The intellectual deficit seemed to be more significantly related to the latter two lesions than to the microglia-amyloid complex, that was visible at an earlier stage (around BTS = 15).
Under the influence of semicarbazide-sensitive amine oxidase (SSAO), methylamine is deaminated to formaldehyde, which can react with various macromolecules and form irreversible adducts. We hereby present an autoradiographic method of visualising SSAO activity by measuring the in vivo formation of such adducts from 14C-methylamine. Our results revealed high concentrations of radioactive deposits in the intestinal wall, brown adipose tissue, spleen and bone marrow. Hydralazine is a potent SSAO inhibitor and pretreatment with this irreversible inactivator resulted in a nearly complete loss of radioactive deposits in the tissues. By giving 14C-methylamine at different time-points after irreversible inhibition of SSAO, it was also possible to determine the resynthesis rate of SSAO. Interestingly, the recovery rate of SSAO after such inactivation was tissue-specific. The possible therapeutic value of a specific SSAO inhibitory drug has been discussed.
Semicarbazide-sensitive amine oxidases (SSAOs) are widely expressed copper-containing enzymes. One enzyme of this family have high specific activity towards benzylamine and is present in human blood plasma. This enzyme is altered in several diseases, for instance in diabetes. Presently it is unclear where the plasma SSAO is synthesized. Previous autoradiographic studies have suggested that SSAO may be expressed in bone tissue. In the current study we have analyzed levels of SSAO in serum from cases with 'skeletal disease', i.e. patients with severe skeletal metastases of prostate cancer and subjects having recent fractures. Interestingly, subjects with metastases showed significantly elevated levels of SSAO in serum compared to individuals having prostate cancer without skeletal metastases. It is speculated that, at least in part, SSAO in the blood stream may be derived from bone tissue.
Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) localization in the human thymus has been studied by biochemical and morphological methods during development and aging. The occurrence, the amount and the distribution of acetylcholinesterase and the changes with age were examined in 24 human thymuses. The whole human thymus was removed during autopsies in males of the following age-groups: prenatal of six months, new-born, infant, young, adult and elderly. The thymuses were weighed, measured and dissected: the microanatomical details were stained with Eosin-orange, nervous structures were identified by means of Bodian's method. Protein content was determined with biochemical methods. Histoenzymatical and biochemical demonstration of acetylcholinesterase was performed. The morphological results obtained were submitted to quantitative image analysis. Our results show that the thymic microenvironment changes with age; moreover, an increase of acetylcholinesterase-positive structures can be observed with age. Biochemical results are in agreement with morphological results and both are confirmed by the outcome of quantitative analysis of images. Acetylcholinesterase activity in human thymus may play a key role in thymic functions.
Though it is well known that humans perceive the temporal features of the environment incessantly, the brain mechanisms underlying temporal processing are relatively unexplored. Functional magnetic resonance imaging was used in this study to identify brain activations during sustained perceptual analysis of auditorally and visually presented temporal patterns (rhythms). Our findings show that the neural network supporting time perception involves the same brain areas that are responsible for the temporal planning and coordination of movements. These results indicate that time perception and motor timing rely on similar cerebral structures.

Interleukin-2 (IL-2), together with other cytokines, may be involved in communication between the immune system and the CNS. Moreover, IL-2 alterations have been implicated in psychiatric disorders, and IL-2 immunotherapy may engender neuropsychiatric and cognitive disturbances. Given the presumed relationship between mood disturbances and monoamine activity, the present investigation was undertaken to determine the central monoamine alterations associated with acute and repeated systemic IL-2 administration in mice. Acute, systemic IL-2 (0.55-17.6 x 10(3) IU) did not influence plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone or corticosterone levels, but increased the utilization of norepinephrine (NE) within the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. In contrast to the effects of acute IL-2 administration, when administered repeatedly (for 7 days), IL-2 increased NE utilization within the median eminence plus arcuate nucleus and in the hippocampus, and to a lesser extent in the central amygdala and medial prefrontal cortex. These changes in utilization were accompanied by increased levels of NE within the median eminence plus arcuate nucleus and central amygdala, and reduced NE within the locus coeruleus. As well, serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) levels were altered within the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex, and dopamine turnover was reduced within the caudate and substantia nigra. The finding of altered central neurotransmitter activity needs to be considered in the context of the marked cognitive/memory impairments, as well as the neuropsychiatric symptoms, which are associated with IL-2 immunotherapy in humans.
Chronic neurodegeneration in the brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients may be mediated, at least in part, by the ability of amyloid beta (Abeta) to exacerbate inflammatory pathways in a conformation-dependent manner. In this regard, we previously reported that the Abeta-peptide-mediated potentiation of inflammatory cytokine secretion from interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta)-stimulated human astrocytoma cells was conformation dependent. Other amyloidogenic peptides, such as human amylin, which display similar conformation-dependent neurotoxic effects, may also elicit inflammatory cytokine secretion from glial cells. To test this hypothesis, we compared human and rat amylin for the effects on cytokine production in U-373 MG human astrocytoma cells. Human amylin alone stimulated U-373 MG cells to secrete IL-6 and IL-8 in a concentration-dependent manner with maximum effects seen at 10-25 microM peptide. In addition, human amylin markedly potentiated IL-1beta-stimulated cytokine production with a similar concentration dependence. In contrast, nonamyloidogenic rat amylin modestly stimulated cytokine secretion, either alone or combined with IL-1beta. Aging human amylin resulted in diminished cytokine secretion, probably due to the formation of large, less active aggregates. In agreement with our previous studies using Abeta, extracellular Ca(2+) was necessary for human amylin stimulation of cytokine secretion. Our data suggest that amyloidogenic peptides promote cytokine secretion through similar beta-sheeted secondary-structure- and extracellular-Ca(2+)-dependent mechanisms.
In rats splenic natural killer (NK) cell activity was found to be significantly higher following chronic uncontrollable electrical stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus in fully conscious rats, compared to sham-operated rats. In a pre-test study, all rats had demonstrated that the electrode site had self-stimulating properties, which supports the possibility that the experience of reward may be implicated in NK cell activity augmentation.
Although the circulation of cerebrospinal fluid enjoys an apparent simplicity, its underlying basis is amazingly complex. Many factors influence how CSF flows through the human central nervous system. In the presence of hydrocephalus and subsequent shunt placement, this system is further complicated. The challenge before us then is to advance our understanding of the mechanisms that underlie CSF circulation, to place within that context the implications of shunt dependency, and to design a shunt system capable of simultaneous redirection of CSF and restoration of the CNS toward normal. Such a new shunt system would have to overcome not only those complications that result from hydrocephalus, but also those that result from the shunt's very placement. The purpose of this publication is 1. to provide an overview of the CSF circulatory system in the context of hydrocephalus and shunt dependency; 2. to explore resultant complications within the framework of those factors that influence CSF circulation within the human biological system as well as those that arise from the factors that influence CSF flow through a shunt; and 3. to propose in brief an alternative shunt valve designed to restore the accumulator function of the CNS toward normal.
Human mitochondrial transcription factor A (hmtTFA or Tfam), a 25-kDa protein encoded by a nuclear gene located on chromosome 10q21, is involved in the control of replication and transcription of mtDNA. To better understand the complex relationship between h-mtTFA and mitochondrial function, we assessed by western blot the levels of h-mtTFA in skeletal muscle from 7 patients affected by mitochondrial diseases (MD) caused by different mtDNA mutations. We related these results to exercise lactate production as well as to the pathologic features of the underlying myopathy. h-mtTFA levels were significantly inversely related to blood lactate and the percent of RRF, borderline to cox negative fibers. Our results indicate that hmtTFA may be involved in the cascade of events which determine functional impairment of MD.
The neurologist's views on disease therapy have changed over recent years from nihilism to reasonable optimism, thanks to the development of MS-specific therapies (interferon beta and COP-1) and to the remarkable advances in the understanding of the pathogenesis of the disease. Available immunological, clinical and pathological data suggest that the early treatment of RRMS patients with immunomodulatory drugs could be more advantageous compared to treatment started later in the disease course. The early reduction of relapse rate as well as of the extent of pathological lesions, should be the strategy for patients particularly in the first phases of the disease. Early treatment has a robust rationale both in prevention of irreversible pathological changes and in reducing clinical and MRI activity with favorable prognostic implications. For the near future, interferon beta and COP-1 seem to be the pharmacological agents best qualified to be utilized for this purpose.
Conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has markedly increased our ability to detect the macroscopic abnormalities of the brain and spinal cord in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). Magnetization transfer imaging and diffusion-weighted imaging have the potential to provide relevant and complementary information on the structural changes occurring within and outside these lesions and are contributing significantly to our understanding of the mechanisms leading to the accumulation of irreversible neurological disability in MS patients. The present review will summarize the major results achieved with the application of these two MR techniques to the assessment of the evolution of MS.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is characterized by the presence in the central nervous system (CNS) of perivascular inflammatory infiltrates containing, among others, autoreactive T cells and activated macrophages. These observations indicate that MS is a T cell-mediated CNS-confined chronic inflammatory demyelinating disease in which the ultimate effector cell is the activated macrophage. The inflammatory process, leading to patchy demyelination and axonal loss, is mainly sustained by pro-inflammatory cytokines that, along with chemokines, adhesion molecules and metalloproteases, modulate at different levels the pathogenic process underlying MS. Due to their central role in MS pathogenesis, &quot;inflammatory&quot; molecules might represent suitable peripheral markers of disease (disease-trait) and/or disease activity (state-trait). However, reliable disease-trait or state-trait immunological markers for MS have not yet been identified. The intrinsic characteristics of these molecules (i.e. autocrine/paracrine activity, short half-life, redundancy) may in part explain their inconsistency as disease markers. Additionally, the unreliability of methodologies and the lack of careful patient stratification can also, at least in part, account for the unsatisfactory results so far obtained.
Multiple sclerosis (MS), an inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system of unknown pathogenesis, is a complex disease with a multifactorial etiology determined by both genetic and environmental factors. The pathological entity MS has a wide phenotype, and also the severity of the disease is widely variable. Clinical heterogeneity of the disease might arise from different genotype-phenotype interactions. Results of recent studies and theories about the modifying role of different genes in the course and the severity of MS are here discussed.
The technique of deep brain stimulation (DBS) for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) is evolving very rapidly. The subthalamic nucleus (STN) has become the preferred target in the past few years since our group demonstrated that high-frequency stimulation in this nucleus improves all cardinal features of PD, including resting tremor. This benefit in the parkinsonian symptoms allows a drastic reduction in daily levodopa requirements. Dyskinesias become drastically attenuated, possibly as a consequence of reduced dopaminergic medication but also because STN DBS may stabilize basal ganglia output activity, thus avoiding the problems associated with standard levodopa replacement therapy. DBS of the STN is associated with a marked improvement of motor function even in patients with advanced PD. Such a large degree of benefit in parkinsonian features relies on two crucial points that must be taken into consideration for achieving the best possible results with this technique: proper selection of patients and accuracy in targeting the STN. From a neurosurgical point of view, we believe that the most precise localization of the STN is obtained by using ventriculography to determine the stereotactic coordinates of the STN. This is complemented with intraoperative neuronal microrecording to define physiologically the sensorimotor region of the nucleus. Future advances in neuroimaging techniques may well lead to modifications of our current methodology.
Catechol-O-methyl transferase (COMT) inhibitors block the peripheral metabolism of levodopa, increase its plasma half-life, and enhance its brain availability. Two COMT inhibitors, tolcapone and entacapone, have recently been made available as adjunctive agents to levodopa. In PD patients with motor fluctuations, they have been shown to increase &quot;on&quot; time and reduce &quot;off&quot; time. In patients with more advanced disease, they provide similar benefits, but patients tend to experience less overall benefit and a greater likelihood of developing dopaminergic adverse events. Accordingly, closer monitoring is required. In stable patients who have not yet developed motor complications, there are preliminary data suggesting that they experience improvements in motor function and in activities of daily living. Finally, there are theoretical reasons to consider administering a COMT inhibitor to patients from the onset of levodopa therapy in order to reduce the likelihood that motor complications will develop. COMT inhibitors are easy to administer, do not require titration, and are generally well tolerated particularly in patients with relatively mild disease. Adverse events are primarily dopaminergic and can usually be controlled by levodopa dose adjustments. COMT inhibitors have thus proven to be a useful addition to the therapeutic armamentarium of PD.
Essential tremor (ET) can be measured objectively by physiological techniques, simple tests of the tremor's impact on function, or subjective use of clinical rating scales. The methods of measuring ET and its influence on patients are reviewed. Multidimensional evaluations are recommended for the assessment of the severity of ET in clinical trials. The term &quot;detractor&quot; describes the relationships between ET and the disability and handicap that it produces.
Essential tremor (ET) is probably the most common movement disorder and is a common cause of social, physical, and psychological handicaps. Its etiology and pathogenesis are unknown. Phenomenologically, ET overlaps and is associated with other disorders of movement, such as parkinsonism and dystonia. There is large variation in the stated prevalence of ET as well as limited availability of epidemiologic studies. Prevalence variations reflect differences in the definition of ET and the methodologies of investigation. The familial and sporadic forms of ET are generally assumed to be similar. The familial form appears to have a narrow phenotype. Wide variation in the reported percentage of patients with positive family history reflects ascertainment and classification differences. Linkage of ET to two different chromosome locations has been reported.
Sleep is a vital, complex state with as yet unknown functions. It is active and highly organized and is regulated by homeostatic, circadian, and ultradian processes. It consists of two distinct sleep states, rapid eye movement (REM) and non-rapid eye movement (NREM), both of which have a dramatic impact on many aspects of physiology and behavior. The significance and consequences of the REM-NREM organization of sleep are not known. On the other hand, the sleep state and its organization are quite fragile and dynamic. Any number of factors can disrupt sleep and its expression, and its nature changes over the life span. What is certain is that any reduction and/or disruption of sleep hinders an organism's ability to navigate through the waking state.

Mutations of the SOD1 gene, encoding the enzyme copper/zinc superoxide dismutase, have been identified in around 20% of patients with familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and also in patients with apparently sporadic ALS. The table documents the mutations identified and published to date, and references clinical and pathological descriptions of the patients and families with individual mutations. The table includes 63 different mutations of SOD1 at 43 codons, three intronic sites, and two in the 3' untranslated region. Most of the mutations are heterozygotes, with autosomal dominant inheritance, but a small number of individuals appear to be sporadic, or are homozygotes with autosomal dominant recessive inheritance.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of an aerobic training program on the metabolic and sympathetic responses to exercise in 12 patients with mitochondrial myopathies. A 10-week course of aerobic training, consisting of supervised exercise every other day on an electrically braked pedal-rate bicycle ergometer was prescribed to each patient and four healthy controls. Venous lactate, epinephrine (EP) and norepinephrine (NEP) levels were assessed at baseline and after the aerobic training by means of constant-workload exercise performed at near lactate threshold (LT). In patients, a decrease in exercise peak values, significant for lactate (-38.6%, P &lt; 0.01) but not for catecholamines (EP: -26.0%, NEP: -22.1%) was observed after training, findings confirmed by the lactate/EP and lactate/NEP area ratios. The results show that lactate accumulation during exercise is decreased after aerobic training in mitochondrial myopathies and that the effect is partially dissociated from the catecholaminergic response. This in turn suggests that the lactate decrease can be explained, at least in part, by the improved muscle oxidative metabolism consequent to the proposed training program.
Although nerve growth factor (NGF) is a crucial factor in the activity-dependent development and plasticity of visual cortex, its role in synaptic efficacy changes is largely undefined. We demonstrate that the maintenance phase of long-term potentiation (LTP) is blocked by local application of exogenous NGF in rat visual cortex at an early stage of postnatal development. Long-term depression (LTD) and bidirectional plasticity are unaffected. At later postnatal ages, blockade of either endogenous NGF by immunoadhesin (TrkA-IgG) or TrkA receptors by monoclonal antibody rescues LTP. Muscarinic receptor activation/inhibition suggests that LTP dependence on NGF is mediated by the cholinergic system. These results indicate that NGF regulates synaptic strength in well-characterized cortical circuitries.
Anterior forebrain (AF) neurons become selective for song as songbirds learn to produce a copy of a memorized tutor song. We report that development of selectivity is compromised when birds are prevented from matching their output to the tutor song. Finches with denervated vocal organs developed stable song, but it usually did not resemble the tutor song. In those birds, numerous neurons in Area X responded selectively to both tutor and bird's own song (BOS), indicating the importance of both in shaping AF responses. The degree of selectivity for BOS was less, however, than that of normal adults. In contrast, neurons in denervated birds that successfully mimicked tutor song exhibited normal adult selectivity for BOS. Thus, during sensorimotor learning, selectivity for complex stimuli may be influenced by how well motor output matches internal sensory models.
In the Drosophila peripheral nervous system, proneural genes direct the formation of different types of sensory organs. Here, we show that amos is a novel proneural gene that promotes multiple dendritic (MD) neuron formation. amos encodes a basic-helix-loop-helix (bHLH) protein of the Atonal family. During embryonic development, amos is expressed in patches of ectodermal cells, and the expression is quickly restricted to sensory organ precursors. Loss of amos function eliminates MD neurons that remain in ASC;atonal mutants. Misexpression of amos generates ectopic MD and other types of neurons. Amos interacts with the ubiquitously expressed Daughter-less protein in vivo and in vitro. Our final misexpression experiments suggest that a domain located outside the DNA-binding domain of Amos determines the MD neuronal specificity.
Neuropilins are receptors for class 3 secreted semaphorins, most of which can function as potent repulsive axon guidance cues. We have generated mice with a targeted deletion in the neuropilin-2 (Npn-2) locus. Many Npn-2 mutant mice are viable into adulthood, allowing us to assess the role of Npn-2 in axon guidance events throughout neural development. Npn-2 is required for the organization and fasciculation of several cranial nerves and spinal nerves. In addition, several major fiber tracts in the brains of adult mutant mice are either severely disorganized or missing. Our results show that Npn-2 is a selective receptor for class 3 semaphorins in vivo and that Npn-1 and Npn-2 are required for development of an overlapping but distinct set of CNS and PNS projections.
We determined the relative effects of chemical receptor inactivation on dopaminergic signaling through adenylate cyclase and phospholipase C pathways and evaluated the behavioral implications of such receptor manipulations. Groups of rats were given intraperitoneal injections of 10 mg/kg N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2-dihydroquinoline (EEDQ), a reagent that differentially inactivates neurotransmitter receptors. Control and treated animals were used to assess dopaminergic-mediated behaviors or brain tissues were prepared from the animals and used to assay D1-like receptor binding and agonist-stimulated second messenger formation. EEDQ decreased by 75% the number of D1-like binding sites and completely abolished dopamine-stimulated cyclic AMP formation in striatal membranes. Conversely, dopamine-stimulated phosphoinositide hydrolysis was insensitive to inactivation by EEDQ as examined over different durations of EEDQ treatment, in different brain regions, or with different concentrations of the D1-like receptor agonist SKF38393. EEDQ-pretreated animals lost their stereotypic response to apomorphine but showed increased vacuous jaw movements in response to apomorphine or SKF38393. Basal catalepsy was increased and SCH23390 was unable to further enhance catalepsy beyond the basal levels in the lesioned animals. In naive animals, SCH23390 catalepsy was reversed by apomorphine, and apomorphine stereotypy was reversed by SCH23390. Taken together, the present results imply that the dopamine-sensitive phospholipase C system mediates a subset of dopaminergic behaviors, notably vacuous jaw movements, in contrast to stereotypy and catalepsy which appear to be respectively mediated through stimulation and inhibition of the adenylate cyclase-coupled dopaminergic system.
The spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) has been used as an animal model of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). This disorder, which is most prevalent in males during childhood, persists in adulthood more frequently in females. Since other work has shown that neonatal testosterone levels may be a contributing factor in the expression of ADHD-like behavior, the present study was designed to determine whether androgen levels also altered the neurobiology of adult SHRs compared to Wistar (WKY) controls. Males castrated on postnatal day 45 were implanted with testosterone, and the density of tyrosine-hydroxylase-immunoreactive (TH-ir) fibers (an indicator of catecholamine innervation) in the frontal cortex was compared between animals. The data show that testosterone-treated SHRs were associated with higher levels of TH immunoreactivity in the frontal cortex and hippocampus than WKY rats. These results may explain why high circulating levels of testosterone during adulthood do not support an increase in ADHD-like behavior in both the animal model and human males.
We investigated the effects of antidepressants on the intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) increases induced by gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) or N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) in primary cultured rat cortical neurons using fluorescence imaging. Acute treatment with imipramine inhibited GABA- and NMDA-induced increases in [Ca2+]i in a concentration-dependent manner. Doses of 30 microM clomipramine, desipramine, amoxapine and maprotiline also inhibited both the GABA- and NMDA-induced [Ca2+]i increases significantly. Both inhibitory effects of the five major antidepressants on the GABA- or the NMDA-induced [Ca2+]i increases were well-correlated. Imipramine could inhibit significantly high-K+-induced [Ca2+]i increases. Our previous study has already shown that the GABA-induced [Ca2+]i increase involves a similar pathway to high-K+-induced Ca2+ influx. In conclusion, imipramine and several other antidepressants have acute inhibitory effects on the GABA-, NMDA- and high-K+-induced [Ca2+]i increases, suggesting that these inhibitory effects are not related to specific receptors. One possibility is that these effects may be commonly mediated via part of the high-K+-induced [Ca2+]i pathway.
Every discussant at the Novartis symposium was invited to submit a 250-word abstract, giving their views upon the question: 'Is MDMA a human neurotoxin?'. These abstracts are presented here. They illustrate a wide range of viewpoints and opinions, as might be expected from experts in such diverse fields: animal neuroscience, human cognitive testing, police pathology laboratory, psychotherapeutic institute and psychiatric hospital. Some abstracts emphasized the methodological weaknesses of the human empirical data: the uncertain nature of 'Ecstasy' tablets, the reliance on self-report data, and the contributory factors of heat, dancing/exertion, poor diet and other illicit drugs. These factors may lead to psychobiological changes, which could be misinterpreted as neural damage. The absence of gliosis in animal models was also noted, which led to suggestions that there might be alternative interpretations for the neural changes which have been observed in rats and monkeys. Others noted the absence of neural/behavioural change following a single Ecstasy tablet, or commented upon the therapeutic benefits of MDMA in a quiet supportive environment. Nevertheless, novel studies from England, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Scotland and Wales confirmed and extended the range of cognitive, behavioural, EEG and neurological deficits, displayed by drug-free Ecstasy users. Moreover, these deficits often remained when other illicit drug use was statistically controlled. In conclusion: If MDMA neurotoxicity in humans is a myth, then it is a myth with a heavy serotonergic component.
Associations between personality traits, measured with the Karolinska Scales of Personality, the Impulsiveness subscale from the Impulsiveness, Venturesomeness and Empathy (IVE) Inventory, and with self-assessed personality traits and disorders (SCID-II Screen Questionnaire), and plasma insulin, glucagon and glucose, respectively, were explored in a sample of 101 psychiatric outpatients of both sexes. No relationships between the peptide hormones and personality measures were found. However, fasting glucose values, which were all essentially within the normal biological variation, were significantly related to several personality measures. For males, a low blood glucose was associated with low stable general level of functioning, with high IVE Impulsiveness, and with self-assessed histrionic and narcissistic traits. High number of self-assessed personality traits for all cluster B personality disorders was strongly associated with high IVE Impulsiveness. The results of the present study support the generalizability of earlier findings from alcoholic impulsive offenders: in males, low blood glucose is associated with an extrovert and impulsive, acting-out behavior that includes the breaking of societal norms and rules. In contrast, for females a positive relationship between fasting glucose and self-assessed histrionic personality traits was found. Because no association between global level of functioning and glucose was found in women, these personality traits may not necessarily be maladaptive, as was the case for males.
The purpose of this study was to investigate whether chronic dexamethasone (Dex) administration induces serotonin (5-HT) 2A receptor supersensitivity and if chronic lithium carbonate (Li) administration contributes to the normalization of 5-HT2A receptor supersensitivity induced by Dex in rat brain. We investigated the effects of a 14-day administration of Dex and/or Li on changes in body weight (BW), on plasma corticosterone levels, on plasma lithium levels, on 5-HT2A receptor binding sites, and on (+/-)-1-(2, 5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2 aminopropane (DOI)-induced wet dog shake (WDS), which is mediated by 5-HT2A receptor in rats. Dex significantly reduced the BW of rats. Li did not have any effect on BW gain and did not prevent the BW loss induced by Dex. The plasma corticosterone levels of rats treated with Dex were too low to be detected. Li did not have any effect on corticosterone levels and did not prevent the decrease in the corticosterone levels induced by Dex. Six hours after the last treatment, the plasma lithium levels of rats treated with Li were significantly higher than those of rats treated with Dex/Li. Chronic Dex administration resulted in a significant increase in the density (B(max)) of the 5-HT2A receptor without a significant change in the affinity (K(d)). The increase in the B(max) induced by Dex was not prevented by chronic combined treatment with Dex and Li. Chronic Dex administration potentiated the WDS, and this increase was prevented by chronic combined treatment with Dex and Li. Chronic Li administration did not have any effect on WDS. These results indicate that chronic Li administration may improve the supersensitivity of the 5-HT2A receptor elicited by chronic Dex administration without decreasing the density of the 5-HT2A receptor, and the effect of Li was also independent of hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis function.
Face recognition is critical to the appreciation of our social and physical relations. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was used to identify brain regions involved in the recognition of newly learned faces. Two experiments were conducted. Experiment 1 contrasted a fixation control task with a face recognition task in which subjects were exposed solely to previously viewed faces (all-target). Experiment 2 compared a fixation control with another face recognition task in which subjects were presented with both novel and viewed faces (half-target). Compared to the fixation control, the all-target face recognition was associated with activation in the bilateral occipital and occipitotemporal regions, whereas the half-target face recognition produced activation in the right parietal and prefrontal regions, in addition to the occipital and occipitotemporal. The all-target minus half-target comparison revealed significant activation in the bilateral fusiform gyrus, suggesting stronger fusiform activity during the all-target than the half-target face recognition. The half-target minus all-target comparison showed significant activation in the superior and inferior parietal lobules and several regions in the right frontal lobe. These findings demonstrated that the bilateral fusiform gyrus is involved, not only in face perception, but in a certain aspect of face recognition memory and that this aspect is related to the actual recognition of previously viewed faces rather than the processing of novel ones, which results are consistent with previous lesion work. The right parietal and frontal regions, in contrast, are differentially more associated with the processes related to the detection of novel faces or retrieval effort.
Neurophysiological studies have demonstrated that in primates Magno and Parvo neurons have distinct contrast gain properties. Reaction Times (RTs) can be used to study supra-threshold contrast coding in humans over the same range of stimulus parameters. RTs to achromatic sinusoidal gratings were measured for a range of spatial frequencies (0.49-17.7 c/degree), stimulus luminances (0.005-20 cd/m2) and contrasts (from threshold to 0.5). The stimuli subtended an angle of 7.2 degrees at a viewing distance of 114 cm. RTs exhibit a linear relationship when plotted against the reciprocal of suprathreshold contrast. The slope of these functions reveals how contrast is linked to RT and can, therefore, be referred to as the RT-contrast factor with units of msec x contrast. A general equation is derived which accounts for all stimulus combinations. RT-based contrast functions resemble closely those obtained neurophysiologically for Magno (M) and Parvo (P) cells. Furthermore, the RT equivalent of contrast gain exhibits qualitatively similar gain characteristics to these neurons for a wide range of luminances and spatial frequencies. Our data support the notion that the sensory component of RTs is limited by the properties of pre-cortical neurons.
Scalp recorded event-related potentials were used to investigate the neural activity elicited by emotionally negative and emotionally neutral words during the performance of a recognition memory task. Behaviourally, the principal difference between the two word classes was that the false alarm rate for negative items was approximately double that for the neutral words. Correct recognition of neutral words was associated with three topographically distinct ERP memory 'old/new' effects: an early, bilateral, frontal effect which is hypothesised to reflect familiarity-driven recognition memory; a subsequent left parietally distributed effect thought to reflect recollection of the prior study episode; and a late onsetting, right-frontally distributed effect held to be a reflection of post-retrieval monitoring. The old/new effects elicited by negative words were qualitatively indistinguishable from those elicited by neutral items and, in the case of the early frontal effect, of equivalent magnitude also. However, the left parietal effect for negative words was smaller in magnitude and shorter in duration than that elicited by neutral words, whereas the right frontal effect was not evident in the ERPs to negative items. These differences between neutral and negative words in the magnitude of the left parietal and right frontal effects were largely attributable to the increased positivity of the ERPs elicited by new negative items relative to the new neutral items. Together, the behavioural and ERP findings add weight to the view that emotionally valenced words influence recognition memory primarily by virtue of their high levels of 'semantic cohesion', which leads to a tendency for 'false recollection' of unstudied items.
The kinematics of the action formed by reaching-grasping an object and placing it on a second target was studied in a patient who suffered from an acute vascular left brain lesion, which affected the Supplementary Motor Area proper (SMA-proper) (Matelli M, Luppino G. Thalamic input to mesial and superior area 6 in the macaque monkey. Journal of Comparative Neurology 1996;372:59-87, Matelli M, Luppino G, Fogassi L, Rizzolatti G. Thalamic input to inferior area 6 and area 4 in the macaque monkey. Journal of Comparative Neurology 1989;280:468-488), and in five healthy control subjects. The reach kinematics of the controls was affected by the positions of both the reaching-grasping and the placing targets (Gentilucci M, Negrotti A, Gangitano M. Planning an action. Experimental Brain Research 1997;115:116-28). In contrast, the reach kinematics of the patient was affected only by the position of the reaching-grasping target. By comparing these results with those previously found in Parkinson's disease patients executing the same action (Gentilucci M, Negrotti A. Planning and executing an action in Parkinson's disease patients. Movement Disorders 1999;1:69-79, Gentilucci M, Negrotti A. The control of an action in Parkinson's disease. Experimental Brain Research 1999;129:269-277), we suggest that the anatomical &quot;motor&quot; circuit formed by SMA-proper (see above), Basal Ganglia (BG) and Thalamus (Alexander GE, Crutcher MD. Functional architecture of basal ganglia circuits: neural substrates of parallel processing. Trends in the Neurosciences 1990;13:266-271, Hoover JE, Strick PL. Multiple output channels in the basal ganglia. Nature 1993;259:819-821) may be involved in the control of actions: SMA-proper assembles the sequence of the action, whereas BG updates its parameters and stores them.
When patients with left-sided neglect are asked to bisect horizontal lines, they tend to place their marks to the right of the line's objective mid-point. However, when asked to bisect short lines they are either more accurate or paradoxically cross over and place their marks to the left of the objective mid-point. Previous explanations of the cross over phenomenon have considered specific aberrations of spatial attention. However, these explanations make no predictions about judgments of non-spatial stimuli. Two patients with right brain damage were asked to judge weights placed on both hands simultaneously. They were biased in reporting weights on the right as being heavier than those on the left. This rightward bias changed with lighter pairs of weights presented in the context of equal reference weights. In one patient the directional bias was eliminated and in the other the bias was reversed so that she was more likely to report the left weight as heavier than the right. These data suggest that a phenomenon analogous to cross over in line bisections also occurs with judgments of non-spatial stimuli. Representations of stimuli appear to be influenced by features of the stimuli encountered on-line and by memory traces of similar stimuli encountered previously. With an attentional deficit, memory traces influence the magnitude of the representation derived on-line disproportionately.
Simultaneous attention in the two visual fields and interhemispheric integration of visual information was studied in 19-23 and 24-28-month-old infants. The stimuli were schematic faces within which the pair of eyes was made of either two identical (two circles or two triangles) or two different eyes (triangle-circle, circle-triangle). The faces were presented either in one visual hemifield, on the right or left side of a central fixation point (unilateral presentation), or across the two visual hemifields (bilateral presentation), with one eye of the stimulus on each side of the fixation point. The task was an operant conditioning task where the children had to decide whether the shapes of the two eyes were identical or not. The results show that even the younger subjects were able to perform the task when presented in the unilateral presentation condition, whereas only children aged 24 months and older could learn the task when presented in the bilateral condition. It is concluded that simultaneous attention to the two visual fields and inter-hemispheric co-ordination of visual information emerge very late in development at about the age of 24 months.
There is evidence of two neuronal systems for visual cognition which are referred to as spatial vision and object vision. We subjected 49 patients with mild-to-moderate probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) to tasks associated with these two types of visual cognition. Visual counting was employed as a task to assess visuospatial recognition. Identification of overlapping figures and discrimination of visual forms were used as visuoperceptual tasks that require an ability to recognize objects. Regional cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMRglc) of the subjects was also determined by positron emission tomography. Multivariate statistics controlling for the confounding factors assessed the correlation between the task performances and the rCMRglc. The visual counting score significantly correlated with the metabolic rate of the bilateral inferior parietal lobules. On the other hand, the scores of the visuoperceptual tasks significantly correlated with the metabolic rate of the right middle temporal gyrus and the right inferior parietal lobule. The present study showed that visuospatial disturbance was related to bilateral parietal metabolism, and that visuoperceptual disturbance was related to right temporo-parietal metabolism in patients with mild-to-moderate AD.
Selective impairment in recognition of faces (prosopagnosia) has been advanced as an argument for a brain module dedicated to face processing and focusing on the specific configural properties of faces. Loss of the inversion effect supposedly strengthened the argument ([10]: de Gelder B, Bachoud-Levi AC, Degos JD. Inversion superiority in visual agnosia may be common to a variety of orientation polarised objects besides faces. Vision Research, 1998;38:2855-61; [20]: Farah MJ, Wilson K, Drain H, Tanaka J. The inverted face inversion effect in prosopagnosia: Evidence for mandatory, face-specific perceptual mechanisms. Vision Research 1995b;35:2089-93). The present study of prosopagnosic patient LH reports that he has lost the normal pattern of superior performance with upright faces and objects and shows instead paradoxical inversion effect for faces but also for objects. Experiment 2 investigated whether LH's use of features based route for processing upright objects would be hindered by the whole-based encoding when processing upright objects. The data show the same context effect for objects as was found for faces. Therefore the inversion effect does not present decisive evidence for the existence of a face module. Moreover, the importance of configuration-based recognition known to be crucial for face processing, must also be taken seriously for object recognition.
Patients who show the &quot;strategy application disorder&quot; can show deficits restricted to situations requiring multitasking, but the precise neuroanatomical and cognitive correlates of this problem have been rarely investigated. In this study, 60 people with circumscribed cerebral lesions and 60 age- and IQ-matched controls were given a multitasking procedure which allowed consideration of the relative contributions of task learning and remembering, planning, plan-following and remembering one's actions to multitasking performance. Lesions to the left posterior cingulate and forceps major regions gave deficits on all measures except planning. Remembering task contingencies after a delay was also affected by lesions in the region of the left anterior cingulate, and rule-breaking and failures of task switching were additionally found in people with lesions affecting the medial and more polar aspects of Brodmann's areas 8, 9 and especially 10. Planning deficits were associated with lesions to the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (RDLPFC). A theory of the relationships between the cognitive constructs underpinning multitasking was tested using structural equation modelling. The results suggest that there are three primary constructs that support multitasking: retrospective memory, prospective memory, and planning, with the second two drawing upon the products of the first. It is tentatively suggested that the left anterior and posterior cingulates together play some part in the retrospective memory demands, while the prospective memory and planning components make demands on processes supported by the left areas 8, 9 and 10 and the RDLPFC respectively.
Recent functional imaging studies of topographical learning point to the participation of a large network of cortical and subcortical regions. Nevertheless, areas which are crucial remain poorly specified due to the absence of group studies of subjects with focal lesions distributed throughout the brain. We assessed the ability of 127 subjects with stable, focal lesions to learn a complex real-life route, a critical aspect of topographical functioning. Results indicated that impairment in route learning was highly associated with damage to medial occipital and posterior parahippocampal cortices in either hemisphere, the right hippocampus, and the right inferotemporal region. Impairment was seen among 86% of the subjects with damage to any these regions, in contrast to impairment among 31% of subjects with lesions in other regions. The importance of medial occipitotemporal cortices bilaterally and right inferotemporal cortex likely reflects the critical role of the ability to quickly and accurately perceive and learn multiple topographical scenes. The importance of the right (and probably left) posterior parahippocampal gyrus and of the right hippocampus likely reflects their critical, distinctive roles forming an integrated representation of the extended topographical environment (i.e., the appearance of places and spatial relationships between specific places), and consolidating that representation into multifaceted contextual knowledge of the environment.
Temporal orienting of attention is the ability to focus resources at a particular moment in time in order to optimise behaviour, and is associated with activation of left parietal and premotor cortex [Coull, J. T., Nobre, A. C. Where and when to pay attention: the neural systems for directing attention to spatial locations and to time intervals as revealed by both PET and fMRI. Journal of Neuroscience, 1998, 18, 7426-7435]. In the present experiment, we explored the behavioural and anatomical correlates of temporal orienting to foveal visual stimuli, in order to eliminate any spatial attention confounds. We implemented a two-way factorial design in an event-related fMRI study to examine the factors of trial validity (predictability of target by cue), length of delay (cue-target interval), and their interaction. There were two distinct types of invalid trial: those where attention was automatically drawn to a premature target and those where attention was voluntarily shifted to a delayed time-point. Reaction times for valid trials were shorter than those for invalid trials, demonstrating appropriate allocation of attention to temporal cues. All trial-types activated a shared system, including frontoparietal areas bilaterally, showing that this network is consistently associated with attentional orienting and is not specific to spatial tasks. Distinct brain areas were sensitive to cue-target delays and to trial validity. Long cue-target intervals activated areas involved in motor preparation: supplementary motor cortex, basal ganglia and thalamus. Invalid trials, where temporal expectancies were breached, showed enhanced activation of left parietal and frontal areas, and engagement of orbitofrontal cortex bilaterally. Finally, trial validity interacted with length of delay. Appearance of targets prematurely selectively activated visual extrastriate cortex; while postponement of target appearance selectively activated right prefrontal cortex. These findings suggest that distinct brain areas are involved in redirecting attention based upon sensory events (bottom-up, exogenous shifts) and based upon cognitive expectations (top-down, endogenous shifts).
Patients with frontal lobe brain damage are reportedly impaired on tasks that require plan development and execution. In this study, we examined the performance of 15 patients diagnosed with frontal lobe dementia and 14 patients with focal frontal lobe lesions on the Tower of London planning task. Patients with frontal lobe dementia committed a significantly higher number of rule violations, made more moves, and demonstrated longer solution time latencies compared to their matched controls. Patients with frontal lobe lesions demonstrated significantly delayed solution times and also made more moves compared to their matched controls. Frontal lobe lesion patient performance suggests an impairment in execution-related processes, while frontal lobe dementia patients appear to be impaired in both plan development and execution. Despite these findings, the identification of a specific cognitive impairment that induces these planning problems remains elusive.
From a review of the literature on the consequences of thalamic infarctions, it may be concluded that memory problems taking the form of an amnesic syndrome are dependent upon the integrity of the mammillo-thalamic tract (MTT). Memory problems incompatible with an amnesic syndrome however, appear to result from thalamic infarctions involving other areas of the thalamus but which leave MTT intact. In contrast, executive dysfunctions could not be shown so readily to depend upon a single structure of the thalamus. The results indicate that damage to the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus, the midline nuclei or the intralaminar nuclei, or a combined lesion of these structures may be responsible for deficits of executive functioning.
This study examined characteristics of visual recognition of familiar and unfamiliar faces in sheep using a 2-way discrimination task. Of particular interest were effects of lateralisation and the differential use of internal (configurational) vs external features of the stimuli. Animals were trained in a Y-maze to identify target faces from pairs, both of which were familiar (same flock as the subjects) or both of which were unfamiliar (different flock). Having been trained to identify the rewarded face a series of stimuli were presented to the sheep, designed to test for the use of each visual hemifield in the discriminations and the use of internal and external facial cues. The first experiment showed that there was a left visual hemifield (LVF) advantage in the identification of 'hemifaces', and 'mirrored hemifaces' and 'chimeric' faces and that this effect was strongest with familiar faces. This represents the first evidence for visual field bias outside the primate literature. Results from the second experiment showed that, whilst both familiar and unfamiliar faces could be identified by the external features alone, only the familiar faces could be recognised by the internal features alone. Overall the results suggest separate recognition methods for socially familiar and unfamiliar faces, with the former being coded more by internal, configurational cues and showing a lateral bias to the left visual field.
Two split-brained subjects, one (L.B.) with full forebrain commissurotomy and one (R.B.) with callosal agenesis, and a group of twenty neurologically intact subjects were tested in three discrimination tasks: a go-no go task, a two-choice task, and a three-choice task. The discriminations were based on colour in Experiment 1, and on shape in Experiment 2. The stimuli were presented in one or other visual field, and the subjects responded with the fingers of one or other hand, allowing the differences in reaction time between crossed and uncrossed responses (CUD) to be calculated. For the normal subjects the CUD tended to diminish with the complexity of the tasks, suggesting that both hemispheres were increasingly involved. Unlike R.B. and the normal controls, who made virtually no errors, L.B. had increasing difficulty as task complexity increased. He was better able to transfer information from the right to the left hemisphere than vice versa, but an analysis of his accuracy under the crossed conditions showed that the amount transferred was always well under one bit. This confirms previous evidence that L.B. has very limited subcortical transfer of either colour or shape.
Three cases of callosal agenesis (a 39-year-old woman and her 11- and 12-year-old daughters) were tested on their ability to integrate visual information between the visual hemifields. They were all able to name colors and digits in either hemifield with high accuracy and were able to decide whether letters or digits in opposite hemifields were the same or different. They had greater difficulty deciding whether colors in opposite hemifields were the same or different. When shown 6-letter words made up of pairs of 3-letter words that straddled the midline (e.g., MANAGE, ROTATE), they responded to them as whole words and never as 3-letter words, suggesting perceptual continuity across the midline, at least for verbal material. The most likely interpretation is that the integration of form, but not color, is achieved through the intact anterior commissure in these participants.

Reflex responses to electrocutaneous stimulation of the tail were characterized in awake cats, before and after transection of the spinal cord at sacrocaudal levels S3-Ca1. Consistent with effects of spinal transection at higher levels, postoperative cutaneous reflexes were initially depressed, and the tail was flaccid. Recovery ensued over the course of 70-90 days after sacrocaudal transection. Preoperative and chronic postlesion reflexes elicited by electrocutaneous stimulation were graded in amplitude as a function of stimulus intensity. Chronic postlesion testing of electrocutaneous reflexes revealed greater than normal peak amplitudes, peak latencies, total amplitudes (power), and durations, particularly for higher stimulus intensities. Thus, sacrocaudal transection produced effects representative of the spastic syndrome. In contrast, exaggerated reflex responsivity did not develop for a group of cats that received transplants of fetal spinal cord tissue within sacrocaudal transection cavities at the time of injury, in conjunction with long-term immunosuppression by cyclosporine. We conclude that gray matter replacement and potential neuroprotective actions of the grafts and/or immunosuppression prevent development of the spastic syndrome. This argues that the spastic syndrome does not result entirely from interruption of long spinal pathways.
Changes in sensory function including chronic pain and allodynia are common sequelae of spinal cord injury (SCI) in humans. The present study documents the extent and time course of mechanical allodynia and cold hyperalgesia after contusion SCI in the rat using stimulation with graded von Frey filaments (4.97-50.45 g force) and ice probes. Fore- and hind-paw withdrawal thresholds to plantar skin stimulation were determined in rats with a range of SCI severities (10-g weight dropped from 6.25, 12.5, or 25 mm using the MASCIS injury device); animals with 25-mm injuries most consistently showed decreased hind-paw withdrawal thresholds to touch and cold, which developed over several weeks after surgery. Stimulation of the torso with graded von Frey hairs was performed at specified locations on the back and sides from the neck to the haunch. Suprasegmental responses (orientation, vocalization, or escape) to mechanical stimulation of these sites were elicited infrequently in the laminectomy control rats and only during the first 3 weeks after surgery, whereas in 25-mm SCI rats, such responses were obtained for the entire 10 weeks of the study. These data suggest that rats with contusion SCI may exhibit sensory alterations relevant to human spinal cord injuries.
Although it was once thought that the central nervous system (CNS) of mammals was incapable of substantial recovery from injury, it is now clear that the adult CNS remains responsive to various substances that can promote cell survival and stimulate axonal growth. Among these substances are growth factors, including the neurotrophins and cytokines, and growth-supportive cells such as Schwann cells, olfactory ensheathing glia, and stem cells. We review the effects of these substances on promoting axonal growth after spinal cord injury, placing particular emphasis on the genetic delivery of nervous system growth factors to specific sites of injury as a means of promoting axonal growth and, in limited instances, functional recovery.
Advances in basic and clinical neuroscience are uniting to form new optimism for treatment and rehabilitation of persons with a variety of neurologic disorders. Both cognitive and motor systems have shown remarkable degrees of plasticity in response to incoming stimuli. Understanding the brain (and spinal cord) capacity for change will lead to new topics for research as well as new approaches to rehabilitation. Adaptive learning has been shown to be a fundamental part of the developmental process and has been used in remediation of a variety of language difficulties. Using such principles to approach motor functions also is showing promise. Expanding these observations to encompass other areas of disease and rehabilitation is an area for further research. Interdisciplinary approaches including the fields of computer technology, imaging, and genetic analysis will provide new tools. Contribution of new concepts within adaptive learning must address such topics as the relation between motor and sensory responses, measures that accurately indicate cognitive health, the brain and spinal cord areas involved in particular learning tasks, the optimal time windows for intervention, and the importance of behavior and motivation in treatment and rehabilitation.
Genetic rat models are important for research on the neural networks of attention and emotionality. Naples-High Excitability (NHE) rats and Naples Low-Excitability (NLE) rats were investigated with random-bred (NRB) rats as controls. These rat lines were named for their respective behavior on spatial novelty tasks. Quantitative cytochrome oxidase (CO) histochemistry has been demonstrated to reflect long-lasting changes in tissue metabolic capacity. CO metabolic differences between the NLE and NHE were found in the granular cell layer of the outer blade of the dentate gyrus. In addition, NLE showed greater CO activity than NRB in medial frontal cortex, and lower activity in perirhinal cortex (dorsal region). NHE showed greater CO activity than NRB in entorhinal cortex (superficial layers) and lower activities in perirhinal cortex and cortical amygdala. These data support the hypothesis that NLE/NHE rats may be an appropriate model for studying genetically altered limbic regions related to impaired emotional processing. The results support the involvement of limbic circuits in attentive processes and impulsiveness, and support the use of the NLE and NHE strains as animal models of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) in children.
Hyperkinesis and developmental behavioral deficiencies are cardinal signs of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder. In mice, the mutation coloboma (Cm) corresponds to a contiguous gene defect that results in phenotypic abnormalities including spontaneous hyperactivity, head-bobbing, and ocular dysmorphology. In addition, coloboma mutant mice exhibit delays in achieving complex neonatal motor abilities and deficits in hippocampal physiology, which may contribute to learning deficiencies. The hyperkinesis is ameliorated by low doses of the psychostimulant D-amphetamine and can be rescued genetically by a transgene encoding SNAP-25, located within the Cm deletion. Together with syntaxin and synaptobrevin/VAMP, SNAP-25 constitutes a core protein complex integral to synaptic vesicle fusion and neurotransmitter release. Despite the ubiquitous role of SNAP-25 in synaptic transmission, and uniformly decreased expression in the mutants, coloboma mice show marked deficits in Ca2+-dependent dopamine release selectively in dorsal but not ventral striatum. This suggests that haploinsufficiency of SNAP-25 reveals a specific vulnerability of the nigrostriatal pathway which regulates motor activity and may provide a model for impaired striatal input into executive functions encoded by the prefrontal cortex associated with ADHD.
Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) is a childhood psychiatric disorder which when carefully defined, affects around 1% of the childhood population [Swanson JM, Sergeant JA, Taylor E, Sonuga-Barke EJS, Jensen PS, Canwell DP. Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder and hyperkinetic disorder. Lancet 1998;351:429-433]. The primary symptoms: distractibility, impulsivity and overactivity vary in degree and association in such children, which led DSM IV to propose three subgroups. Only one of these subgroups, the combined subtype: deficits in all three areas, meets the ICD-10 criteria. Since the other two subtypes are used extensively in North America (but not in Europe), widely different results between centres are to be expected and have been reported. Central to the ADHD syndrome is the idea of an attention deficit. In order to investigate attention, it is necessary to define what one means by this term and to operationalize it in such a manner that others can test and replicate findings. We have advocated the use of a cognitive-energetic model [Sanders, AF. Towards a model of stress and performance. Acta Psychologica 1983;53: 61-97]. The cognitive-energetic model of ADHD approaches the ADHD deficiency at three distinct levels. First, a lower set of cognitive processes: encoding, central processing and response organisation is postulated. Study of these processes has indicated that there are no deficits of processing at encoding or central processing but are present in motor organisation [Sergeant JA, van der Meere JJ. Convergence of approaches in localizing the hyperactivity deficit. In Lahey BB, Kazdin AE, editors. Advancements in clinical child psychology, vol. 13. New York: Plenum press, 1990. p. 207-45; Sergeant, JA, van der Meere JJ. Additive factor methodology applied to psychopathology with special reference to hyperactivity. Acta Psychologica 1990;74:277-295]. A second level of the cognitive-energetic model consists of the energetic pools: arousal, activation and effort. At this level, the primary deficits of ADHD are associated with the activation pool and (to some extent) effort. The third level of the model contains a management or executive function system. Barkley [Barkley RA, Behavioral inhibition, sustained attention, and executive functions: constructing a unifying theory of ADHD. Psychological Bulletin 1997;121:65-94] reviewed the literature and concluded that executive function deficiencies were primarily due to a failure of inhibition. Oosterlaan, Logan and Sergeant [Oosterlaan J, Logan GD, Sergeant JA. Response inhibition in ADHD, CD, comorbid ADHD + CD, anxious and normal children: a meta-analysis of studies with the stop task. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry 1998;39:411-426] demonstrated that this explanation was not specific to ADHD but also applied to children with the associated disorders of oppositional defiant and conduct disorder. Other executive functions seem to be intact, while others, are deficient. It is argued here that the cognitive-energetic model is a useful guide for determining not only ADHD deficiencies and associated disorders but also linking human cognitive neuroscience studies with neurobiological models of ADHD using animals [Sadile AG. Multiple evidence of a segmental defect in the anterior forebrain of an animal model of hyperactivity and attention deficits. Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Reviews, in press; Sagvolden T, Sergeant JA. Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder: from brain dysyfunctions to behaviour. Behavioural Brain Research 1998;94:1-10]. A plea for an integrated attack on this research problem is made and the suggestion that conceptual refinement between levels of analysis is essential for further fundamental work to succeed is offered here.

The purpose of the present study was to examine the effect of chronic hypoxia on N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated cellular responses in differentiated PC12 cells. PC12 cells were differentiated by treatment with nerve growth factor. Patch-clamp analysis in differentiated PC12 cells showed that extracellularly applied N-methyl-D-aspartate induced an inward current that was abolished by the presence of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist MK-801. Results from Ca(2+) imaging experiments showed that N-methyl-D-aspartate induced an elevation in intracellular free Ca(2+) which was also abolished by MK-801. We also examined the effect of hypoxia on the N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced current in nerve growth factor-treated cells. We found that the N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced inward current and the N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced elevation in intracellular free Ca(2+) were markedly attenuated by chronic hypoxia. We next examined the possibility that the reduced N-methyl-D-aspartate responsiveness was due to down-regulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor levels. Northern blot and immunoblot analyses showed that both messenger RNA and protein levels for N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1 were markedly decreased during hypoxia. However, the messenger RNA for N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 2C was increased, whereas the protein level for subunit 2C did not change. Our results indicate that differentiated PC12 cells express functional N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors and that chronic exposure to hypoxia attenuates the N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced Ca(2+) accumulation in these cells via down-regulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1. This mechanism may play an important role in protecting PC12 cells against hypoxic stress.
Integrin receptors mediate several functions including prevention of matrix detachment-induced apoptosis (anoikis) of several adherent cell types. We report here that antagonists of beta1 integrins trigger an apoptotic signaling pathway in adherent differentiated LAN-5 human neuroblastoma cells, a cell line which represents a model system for the study of human neurons. The pathway is characterized by cytochrome c release into the cytoplasm, and activation of caspase-9 and caspase-3, 4-6h after treatment; cleavage products of caspase-8 and caspase-2 were not detectable in the cells. Coordinate inactivation of cell survival pathways, including cleavage of focal adhesion kinase, decreased expression of protein kinase B, and reduced phosphorylation of the pro-apoptotic protein, Bad, also characterized the signaling pathway. These events occurred in adherent cells; DNA fragmentation and detachment followed as late events 18-24h after addition of beta1 integrin antagonists. zDEVD-fmk, an irreversible inhibitor of caspase-3-like enzymes, and cytochalasin D, an actin depolymerizing agent, blocked caspase-3 cleavage and delayed cell death. In contrast to these results, undifferentiated, adherent and dividing LAN-5 cells did not die in response to beta1 integrin antagonists. These studies identify a distinct apoptotic pathway which is triggered by antagonists of beta1 integrins on differentiated adherent neuronal cells.
Substance P, the most abundant neurokinin in the CNS, is a major modulator of the immune system. We have examined the gene expression of substance P and its receptor in human fetal brain microglia. Using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and Southern blotting assay, the four isoforms of preprotachykinin-A gene transcripts (alpha, beta, gamma and delta) were detected in the microglia. The human fetal microglia produced significantly higher levels of endogenous substance P protein (640-850 pg/10(6) cells) than did human peripheral blood monocyte-derived macrophages (25-50 pg/10(6) cells), as determined by an enzyme immunoassay. Using immunohistochemical staining with an anti-substance P antibody, cell membrane substance P immunoreactivity was observed. In addition, we identified the presence of messenger RNA for neurokinin-1 receptor, a primary receptor for substance P in human fetal microglia.From these data, we propose that substance P and its receptor are biologically involved in regulating the functions of microglia, and potentially play an important role in host defense of the central nervous system.
To determine whether initial nociceptive inputs caused by subcutaneous injection of formalin into the hindpaw are necessary and/or sufficient for allodynic behavior and microglial activation observed at one week following behavior, we examined Sprague-Dawley rats under five test conditions. Test condition 1. Formalin alone group (six rats), 5% formalin was injected subcutaneously into the dorsal side of the right hind paw. Test condition 2. Bupivacaine/Formalin group (six rats), bupivacaine was injected into the ankle area and into the site of formalin injection 10 min before formalin injection. Test condition 3. Saline/Formalin group (six rats), saline was injected 10min before formalin in the same manner as bupivacaine. Test condition 4. Formalin/Bupivacaine group 1 (six rats), bupivacaine was injected 10 min after formalin. Test condition 5. Formalin/Bupivacaine group 2 (six rats), bupivacaine was injected similarly 1h after formalin. The magnitude of paw edema and paw withdrawal thresholds to mechanical stimuli applied to the plantar surface of the injected paw and on the dorsal surface of the contralateral side were evaluated prior to and one week after formalin injection. The lumbar spinal cord was immunohistochemically processed at one week to assess the expression of a marker for activated microglia. The results showed: (i) pre-treatment with bupivacaine blocked both phases of formalin-evoked pain behaviors and the mechanical allodynia that developed one week post-formalin injection, but did not block microglial activation; (ii) treatment with bupivacaine 1h after formalin injection reduced paw edema and prevented skin ulceration, but one week allodynia and microglial activation were still present; and (iii) prolonged spinal microglial activation was not dependent on acute formalin-induced nociceptor activity, but was strongly associated with the amount of tissue destruction. Our studies suggest that: (i) the central sensitization associated with the phase II of formalin-evoked behaviors and spinal microglial activation are both necessary to permit the development of the long-term hyperalgesia produced by the subcutaneous administration of formalin into the rat's hindpaw; and (ii) acute nociceptive inputs following formalin injection are not necessary for central microglial activation that may be triggered by nerve damage or prolonged signals from peripherally inflamed tissue
Sensory neurons express purinergic P2X receptors on their central and peripheral terminals as well as their cell bodies. ATP activation of these receptors drives action potential firing and glutamate release with potentially important consequences for sensory function. Here we show ATP-gated currents activated in cultured embryonic dorsal root ganglion neurons have heterogeneity of time-courses comparable to those observed in different subpopulations of acutely dissociated adult dorsal root ganglion neurons. The distribution of time-courses across the population of cultured neurons is strongly influenced by culture conditions. Heterogeneity in ATP current kinetics occurs even though immunocytochemical staining reveals a relatively homogeneous and widespread expression of the P2X2 and P2X3 subunits. We show that the time-courses of ATP-gated currents recorded at the cell bodies are mirrored by the time-courses of transmitter release from the dorsal root ganglion nerve terminals, indicating similar P2X receptor properties on the soma and their associated terminals. Our results illustrate a functional heterogeneity of P2X receptor-mediated currents that is strongly influenced by external factors. This heterogeneity in current kinetics may have implications for neuronal function as it constrains the time-course of ATP-mediated modulation of neurotransmitter release at sensory nerve terminals.
The cornea is innervated by three functional types of neurons: mechanosensory, polymodal and cold-sensitive neurons, all of which are presumed to be nociceptive. To explore if corneal neurons constitute a heterogeneous population according to their electrophysiological properties, intracellular recordings were made in vitro from trigeminal ganglion neurons innervating the cornea of the mouse. Corneal neurons were labelled with FluoroGold applied after a corneal epithelial wound. Five days later, the trigeminal ganglion attached to the eye by its nerves was removed and placed in a superfusion chamber. FluoroGold-positive cells that also responded to electrical stimulation of the cornea were considered corneal neurons. Non-corneal neurons were also studied. Based on their conduction velocity at room temperature, corneal neurons were classified as myelinated A (&gt;1.5m/s) or non-myelinated C (&lt; or =1.5m/s) neurons. A and C neurons differed significantly in their passive and active electrical properties. Virtually all corneal C neurons and about two-thirds of A neurons exhibited a hump in the falling phase of the action potential (S neurons), while the remaining A neurons (F neurons) showed faster and narrower action potentials without a hump. Among non-corneal neurons, A neurons of the F type were found in a proportion of about 50%. Based on their ability to produce somatic action potentials in tetrodotoxin (0.1 microM), non-corneal neurons were classified as fully or partially tetrodotoxin sensitive, which were mainly of the Adelta type, and tetrodotoxin resistant, which were C neurons. Among the corneal neurons, those with a faster action potential, possibly associated to the expression of tetrodotoxin-sensitive Na(+) channels, may be pure corneal mechanosensory neurons, all of which are known to belong to the Adelta type. Neurons with a slower action potential showing a hump in the repolarization phase are both corneal Adelta and C polymodal nociceptive neurons, a type of cell in which tetrodotoxin-resistant Na(+) channels have been identified. The possibility is raised that the small population of neurons with a very high input resistance are cold-sensitive neurons. From the present results, we suggest that the electrophysiological properties of primary sensory neurons innervating the cornea are attributable not only to their conduction velocities, but also to the functional characteristics of their peripheral nerve terminals.
Prostaglandins are important mediators in spinal nociceptive processing. They are produced by cyclo-oxygenase isoforms, cyclo-oxygenase-1 and -2, which are both constitutively expressed in the central nervous system. The present immunohistochemical study details localization and regulation of cyclo-oxygenase-1 and -2 and neuronal nitric oxide synthase in lumbar spinal cord before and after induction of a painful paw inflammation in mice. Cyclo-oxygenase-1 immunoreactivity was found in glial cells of the dorsal and ventral horns, but not in neurons. In unstimulated mice, cyclo-oxygenase-2 immunoreactivity was found in motoneurons of the ventral horns and in lamina X, but not in dorsal horn neurons. After induction of a paw inflammation with zymosan, cyclo-oxygenase-2 immunoreactivity increased dramatically in dorsal horn neurons of laminae I-VI and X, paralleled by a significant increase in prostaglandin E(2) release from lumbar spinal cord. Cyclo-oxygenase-2 was co-localized with neuronal nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity in several neurons in superficial laminae of the dorsal horns and in the area surrounding the central canal. Nitric oxide synthase was distributed in the cytoplasm and extended to processes of some neurons. In contrast, electron microscopy revealed that cyclo-oxygenase-2 immunoreactivity was restricted to the nuclear membrane and rough endoplasmic reticulum. It is shown in the present study that both cyclo-oxygenase isoforms are constitutively expressed in the spinal cord, cyclo-oxygenase-1 in glial cells of the dorsal and ventral horns and cyclo-oxygenase-2 in motoneurons. After induction of a hindpaw inflammation, several dorsal horn neurons express cyclo-oxygenase-2. Some of them are also positive for neuronal nitric oxide synthase, which is also induced following peripheral inflammation. Intracellularly, cyclo-oxygenase-2 is bound to the membranes of the nucleus and endoplasmic reticulum, whereas neuronal nitric oxide synthase is found in the cytoplasm.
Corticotropin releasing factor is a 41 amino acid peptide that is present in afferent systems that project to the cerebellum. In the adult, this peptide modulates the activity of Purkinje cells by enhancing their responsiveness to excitatory amino acids. Two different types of corticotropin releasing factor receptors, designated type 1 and type 2, have been identified. The purpose of this study is to use immunohistochemistry to identify which corticotropin releasing factor receptors are present in the cerebellum of the adult mouse and to determine their cellular distribution. Receptor type 1 immunostaining is present throughout all lobules of the cerebellar cortex. Distinct labeling is present over the somas of most, if not all, Purkinje cells as well as the primary dendrites of Purkinje cells located at the base of vermal folia. In vermal lobules V, VI, VIII and IX numerous glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactive processes, oriented radially in the molecular layer, also are immunoreactive for receptor type 1. In the granule cell layer, scattered type 1 immunoreactive puncta are present throughout most cerebellar lobules. Receptor type 2 immunoreactive puncta are present throughout the molecular layer in all lobules. In addition, scattered basket and/or stellate cells, identified with a GABA antibody, are immunopositive for the type 2 receptor. In the Purkinje cell layer, the type 2 receptor immunolabeling is confined to the basal pole of the Purkinje cell including the initial axonal segment. In the granule cell layer, labeling is present over large cell bodies, and their initial axonal segments. These are likely to be Golgi cells, based on their co-staining with GABA. Finally, numerous elongated processes within the white matter, which are likely to be axons, also are type 2 immunoreactive. These data indicate that both types of corticotropin releasing factor receptor are present in the mouse cerebellum. However, the unique distribution of the two types of receptor strongly suggests a differential role for corticotropin releasing factor in modulating the activity of neurons, axons and glial cells via cell-specific ligand-receptor interactions.
The robust activation of locus coeruleus neurons in response to a variety of stressors, in conjunction with the widespread outputs of the locus coeruleus, suggest that the locus coeruleus may be important in mediating responses to stress. Previous studies in rats have demonstrated that exposure to foot shock elicits Fos expression, a marker of neuronal activation, in the locus coeruleus and other brain sites. In order to evaluate the involvement of the locus coeruleus in foot shock-induced activation of other brain sites, shock-induced Fos expression was examined in the locus coeruleus and other brain areas known to be activated by foot shock, following direct inhibition of the locus coeruleus by local infusion of muscimol, a GABA agonist, prior to foot shock. Control rats received infusions of artificial cerebrospinal fluid into the locus coeruleus or muscimol into areas outside of locus coeruleus. Rats infused with artificial cerebrospinal fluid and then exposed to foot shock had significant increases in Fos expression in several brain areas, including locus coeruleus, nucleus O, several subdivisions of the hypothalamus, subnuclei of amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and cingulate cortex. Inhibition of the locus coeruleus prior to foot shock significantly inhibited Fos expression in the locus coeruleus, nucleus O, some subdivisions of the hypothalamus including the magnocellular and medial parvicellular paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus, subnuclei of amygdala, and cingulate cortex. In contrast, inhibition of the locus coeruleus did not affect shock-induced Fos expression in other areas, including certain subdivisions of the hypothalamus and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. We suggest that foot shock may activate multiple pathways, with activation of certain discrete nuclei requiring input from the locus coeruleus and activation of others occurring independently of locus coeruleus input.
The vesicular monoamine transporter in the brain can sequester the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium into synaptic vesicles and protect catecholamine-containing neurons from degeneration. Mouse nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons, and to a lesser extent locus coeruleus noradrenergic neurons, are vulnerable to toxicity produced by 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. The present study sought to determine whether pharmacological inactivation of the vesicular monoamine transporter in the brain would enhance the degeneration of substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons and locus coeruleus noradrenergic neurons in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3, 6-tetrahydropyridine-treated animals. Mice were treated subacutely with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine alone, or in combination with vesicular monoamine transporter inhibitors (tetrabenazine or Ro4-1284), and 10-24 days later striatal dopamine and cortical norepinephrine levels were measured using chromatographic methods. In the same animals, substantia nigra and locus coeruleus catecholaminergic neurons were counted using tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemical staining with computer imaging techniques. Mice in which pharmacological blockage of the vesicular monoamine transporter enhanced the effects of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine toxicity in the depletion of striatal dopamine concentrations also exhibited enhanced degeneration of substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons. In the same animals, however, vesicular monoamine transporter blockade did not enhance the effects of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3, 6-tetrahydropyridine in the locus coeruleus noradrenergic system. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that the vesicular monoamine transporter can protect catecholamine-containing neurons from 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium-induced degeneration by sequestration of the toxin within brain vesicular monoamine transporter-containing synaptic vesicles. Since the amount of vesicular monoamine transporter in locus coeruleus neurons is more than in substantia nigra neurons, and because 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium is sequestered within locus coeruleus neurons to a far greater extent than within substantia nigra neurons, it may be that a greater amount of vesicular monoamine transporter inhibition is required for 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium to be toxic to locus coeruleus neurons than to substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons.
Neural tracing experiments have demonstrated a direct spinal projection to Barrington's nucleus and a possible indirect pathway to Barrington's nucleus via the periaqueductal gray. We sought to identify the role of the periaqueductal gray matter in micturition in urethane-anesthetized rats. Blockade of micturition by focal injection of cobalt chloride was used to identify sites critical to micturition. These sites were located near the ventral margin of the caudal ventrolateral periaqueductal gray and in Barrington's nucleus. L-Glutamate injections into caudal regions of the periaqueductal gray evoked bladder contraction with coordinated sphincter activation. Additional L-glutamate sites with a similar pattern of response and sites where sphincter activation was produced without bladder contraction were found more rostrally and dorsally in the periaqueductal gray. Activation of bladder contractions by L-glutamate injection in the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray was blocked by prior injection of cobalt chloride into Barrington's nucleus. From these data we propose that ventrolateral periaqueductal gray is functionally important to micturition in the urethane-anesthetized rat. Further, we have shown that a periaqueductal gray to Barrington's nucleus pathway is functionally relevant to central mediation of bladder contraction.
Glutamatergic neurotransmission in the substantia nigra pars compacta and pars reticulata is mediated through N-methyl-D-aspartate and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxaline propionic acid/kainate (AMPA) type receptors as well as other glutamate receptors and is critical for basal ganglia functioning. A major glutamatergic input to the substantia nigra originates in the subthalamic nucleus, and the long-lasting stimulation of the dopaminergic cells of the substantia nigra pars compacta by the subthalamic neurons has been implicated in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease. The objectives of the present study were to determine the subcellular and subsynaptic localization of subunits of the N-methyl-D-aspartate and AMPA receptors in the substantia nigra, and also to determine whether co-localization of N-methyl-D-aspartate and AMPA receptor subunits occur at individual synapses. To achieve this, pre-embedding and post-embedding immunocytochemistry was applied to sections of substantia nigra using antibodies that recognize the NR1 and NR2A/B subunits of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, and GluR2/3 subunits of the AMPA receptor. In both regions of the substantia nigra, immunolabelling for each of the subunits was observed in numerous perikarya and proximal dendrites. At the subcellular level, silver-intensified immunogold particles localizing N-methyl-D-aspartate and AMPA receptor subunits were most commonly present within dendrites where they were associated with a variety of intracellular organelles and with the internal surface of the plasma membrane. Post-embedding immunogold labelling revealed immunoparticles labelling for NR1, NR2A/B and GluR2/3 to be enriched at asymmetric synaptic specializations, although a large proportion of asymmetric synapses were immunonegative. Double immunolabelling revealed, in addition to single-labelled synapses, the co-localization of subunits of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor and subunits of the AMPA receptor at individual asymmetric synapses. Similarly, double immunolabelling also revealed the co-localization of the NRl and NR2A/B subunits of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor at individual asymmetric synapses. Labelling for NR1 and GluR2/3 was, on average, relatively evenly distributed across the width of the synapse with a gradual reduction towards the periphery when analysed in single sections. In summary, the present results demonstrate that AMPA and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors are selectively localized at a subpopulation of asymmetric synapses in the substantia nigra pars compacta and reticulata and that the two receptor types, at least partially co-localize at individual synapses. It is concluded that glutamatergic transmission in the substantia nigra pars compacta and pars reticulata occurs primarily at asymmetric synapses and, at least in part, is mediated by both N-methyl-D-aspartate and AMPA receptors.
We have evaluated the effect of a vitamin E-deficient diet on the rat nigrostriatal dopaminergic system. After 15 days of deficient diet, the amount and activity of striatal and nigral tyrosine hydroxylase increased, which contrasted with a decreased messenger RNA expression for tyrosine hydroxylase and the dopamine transporter in the ventral mesencephalon. When we prolonged the deficiency of vitamin E for 30 days, dopamine levels did not differ in both areas. In contrast, messenger RNA levels for tyrosine hydroxylase and the dopamine transporter were markedly reduced in 30-day deficient rats. In addition, the number of oxidatively modified proteins significantly increased in the striatal and nigral areas studied. Overall, we propose that these changes suggest an important role of vitamin E in maintaining the normal equilibrium of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal system.
The possible advantage of using multiple phospho-specific antibodies to study changes in brain activity was assessed. For this purpose, rats were injected intraperitoneally with either a control treatment or 15 mg/kg pentylenetetrazol. The sub-convulsive dose of pentylenetetrazol did not induce marked behavioural effects. Ten minutes after treatment, the rats were perfused and the brains were dissected. Adjacent brain sections were immunohistochemically stained for phosphorylated cyclic-AMP response element-binding protein and phosphorylated mitogen-activated protein kinase. Opposite effects of pentylenetetrazol treatment were observed on the immunoreactivity of these two antibodies within the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, the supraoptic nucleus and the arcuate nucleus. In these regions, pentylenetetrazol treatment increased phosphorylated mitogen-activated protein kinase immunoreactivity, but decreased phosphorylated cyclic-AMP response element-binding protein immunoreactivity. These findings show that changes in the activity of a brain nucleus can be accompanied by differential changes in the activity of two signal transduction pathways, which can be detected immunohistochemically. Therefore, the use of multiple phospho-specific antibodies may enhance our potential to monitor changes in brain activity.
Sensory input from female reproductive structures is paramount for the co-ordination of neuroendocrine changes at parturition. Using a retrograde tracer (fluorescent latex microspheres) in combination with Fos (as an indicator of neuronal activation) and tyrosine hydroxylase (to identify catecholaminergic neurons) immunocytochemistry we identified cells within the brainstem and main olfactory bulb that project to the supraoptic nucleus, and which become significantly activated at parturition (compared to virgin rats and rats on the day of expected parturition). Within the A2/C2 region in the nucleus tractus solitarii, 60% of the projecting activated cells were catecholaminergic, as were 59% of such cells in the A1/C1 region of the ventrolateral medulla. This suggests that oxytocin and vasopressin neurons within the supraoptic nucleus are stimulated at parturition via afferent inputs from the brainstem, but the input is not exclusively noradrenergic. Within the mitral layer of the main olfactory bulb, cells that projected to the supraoptic nucleus were significantly activated, suggesting that the olfactory system may regulate supraoptic nucleus cell firing at parturition. The preoptic area, organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis and medial amygdala contained cells that projected to the supraoptic nucleus but these projections were not significantly activated at parturition, although non-projecting cells in these regions were. On the expected day of parturition, but before birth, projections from the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis to the supraoptic nucleus became significantly activated. These findings provide evidence of direct afferent pathways to the supraoptic nucleus from the brain stem and olfactory bulbs that are activated at parturition.
We have investigated with histochemical techniques the expression of peptides and other neurochemical markers in the hypothalamus and olfactory bulb of male mice, in which the genes encoding the alpha and beta thyroid hormone receptors (TRalpha1, TRbeta1 and TRbeta2) have been deleted. Thyrotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA levels were increased in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus and in the medullary raphe nuclei of mutant mice lacking the thyroid hormone receptors alpha1 and beta (alpha1(-/-)beta(-/-)), as compared to wild-type mice. In contrast, galanin messenger RNA levels were lower in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus of mutant animals, as was galanin-like immunoreactivity in the internal layer of the median eminence. Substance P messenger RNA levels were unchanged in the medullary raphe nuclei. Thyrotropin-releasing hormone receptor messenger RNA levels were increased in motoneurons, unchanged in the subiculum, and lower in the amygdala of mutant animals. Galanin messenger RNA levels were unchanged in the hypothalamic dorsomedial and arcuate nuclei of the thyroid hormone receptor alpha1(-/-)beta(-/-) mice, as was the immunocytochemistry for oxytocin and for vasopressin in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus. A reduction in tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA levels was found in the arcuate nucleus of mutant mice. In the olfactory bulb, immunohistochemistry for calbindin and for tyrosine hydroxylase revealed a reduction in the intensity of labeling of nerve processes in the glomerular layer of thyroid hormone receptor alpha1(-/-)beta(-/-) mice. The tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA levels were also slightly reduced. In contrast, the levels of galanin and neuropeptide Y messenger RNA in this region were unchanged in thyroid hormone receptor alpha1(-/-)beta(-/-) mice as compared to wild-type mice. Together these studies reveal many regional and neurochemically selective alterations in neuronal phenotype of mice devoid of all known thyroid hormone receptors.
Electrophysiological recordings of thalamic parafascicular nucleus neurons were done in normal rats and in three groups of rats at different time intervals after injection of 6-hydroxydopamine into the pars compacta of substantia nigra. In normal rats, parafascicular neurons exhibited low firing rates (3.88+/-0.80 spikes/s). Concerning the pattern, 59% of the units discharged irregularly and 41% exhibited bursty pattern. In rats with 6-hydroxydopamine lesions, the firing rate decreased significantly during the first week post-lesion (1.15+/-0.36 spikes/s, P&lt;0.01). During the second week, the firing rate was slightly, but not significantly, lower (2.59+/-0.41 spikes/s, P&gt;0.05) than that of normal rats to return to the basal level three weeks post-lesion (3. 66+/-0.41 spikes/s, P&gt;0.05). In these three groups of 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, the firing pattern showed no change when compared to control animals. These results show that the lesion of nigral dopaminergic neurons induced a transient decrease of the firing rate of parafascicular neurons with no change in the firing pattern demonstrating the absence of a stable influence of the dopaminergic system on the spontaneous activity of parafascicular neurons.
Using the quantification of the Fos protein as an indicator of neuronal activation, we studied the involvement of the rostral thalamic nuclei and associated structures in different spatial memory tasks in two experiments. In both experiments, tasks were matched for sensorimotor factors but differed in their spatial and mnemonic demands. In Experiment 1, matched groups of rats either ran in a standard eight-arm radial maze or ran up and down just one arm of the maze while the number of runs and rewards were matched across pairs of rats. In Experiment 2, both groups were trained on the eight-arm radial maze but in different rooms. On the test day, one group was moved so that both groups now performed the same radial-maze task in the same room but for one group the extramaze cues were novel. There were significant increases in Fos in all three of the anterior thalamic nuclei (anterodorsal, anteroventral and anteromedial) as well as the adjacent nucleus reuniens and rostral reticular thalamic nucleus, in both the eight-arm versus one-arm condition (Experiment 1) and the novel room versus familiar room condition (Experiment 2). There were no significant differences in the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus in either experiment. The more spatially demanding task in each experiment also resulted in increased Fos expression in the subicular complex (postsubiculum, presubiculum and parasubiculum), as well as in the prelimbic cortex. Performing the standard radial-arm maze task also produced significant Fos increases in both rostral and caudal levels of the retrosplenial cortex when compared to rats running up and down a single arm in the same maze (Experiment 1); performing the task in a novel room did not, however, result in any further Fos increases in this region (Experiment 2). The specificity of the changes in levels of Fos was shown by a lack of any consistent difference in levels in six control sites.The present results reveal a group of anatomically related structures that work together in the intact rat brain during tasks that tax allocentric spatial working memory.
Although the mechanisms by which the cerebral cortex controls its ascending input are still poorly understood, it is known that cortical control at the thalamic level is via direct glutamatergic projections to relay nuclei and to the reticular nucleus. Here we confirm previous light microscopic reports of a high expression of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor subunit, GluR4, in reticular and ventral posterior thalamic nuclei of the rat, and moderate staining using an antibody recognizing both GluR2 and GluR3. In contrast only low levels of staining for GluR2, and barely detectable levels of GluR1 immunoreactivity were observed. After injections of biotinylated dextran, electron microscopy revealed that anterogradely-labeled cortical synapses in both thalamic nuclei were small with fewer mitochondria and more densely-packed vesicles than terminals likely to arise from intrinsic and ascending pathways. We performed post-embedding immunogold to provide quantitative data on the density of AMPA receptor subunits at morphologically-defined groups of synapses. We found that corticothalamic synapses in the reticular thalamic nucleus contain twice as much GluR2/3, and at least three times more GluR4 protein than do intrathalamic synapses. In the ventral posterior nucleus, corticothalamic synapses contain similar amounts of GluR2/3, but four times more GluR4 than do those from ascending afferents. Corticothalamic synapses in reticular nucleus contain slightly more GluR2/3, and three times more GluR4, than those in ventral posterior nucleus. We conclude that enrichment of GluR4 at morphologically-defined cortical synapses is a feature common to both thalamic nuclei, and those in the reticular nucleus express higher levels of AMPA receptors. The rapid kinetics of GluR4-rich AMPA receptors we suggest indicate that cortical descending control may be more temporally precise than previously recognized.
Interleukin-1beta acts on the CNS to induce fever, neuroendocrine activation and behavioural depression. We have previously demonstrated that interleukin-1beta is synthesized in glial cells and macrophages of circumventricular organs and choroid plexus after intraperitoneal administration of bacterial lipopolysaccharide. Whether, and how, interleukin-1beta produced in glial cells affects neuronal functioning is unknown. Diffusion throughout the extracellular space is an important pathway by which factors produced by glial cells act on distant cells, a phenomenon coined &quot;volume transmission&quot;. The present study assessed diffusion of recombinant rat interleukin-1beta, recombinant human interleukin-1 receptor antagonist and 10mol. wt dexran in the rat CNS after intracerebroventricular administration to model interleukin-1beta release from choroid plexus. Immunocytochemistry with specific antibodies directed against interleukin-1beta and interleukin-1 receptor antagonist revealed that these molecules rapidly penetrated into periventricular tissue and spread along white matter fibre bundles and blood vessels in the caudoputamen, hypothalamus and amygdala. The transcription factor nuclear factor kappa B and the immediate-early gene product Fos were detected immunocytochemically to reveal interleukin-1beta action. Intracerebroventricular infusion of interleukin-1beta induced nuclear factor kappa B translocation in choroid plexus, ependymal cells, basolateral amygdala, cerebral vasculature and meninges. Fos immunoreactivity was found in the supraoptic and paraventricular hypothalamus and central amygdala. We propose that intracerebroventricular injected interleukin-1beta can enter the brain parenchyma and act as a &quot;volume transmission&quot; signal in, for example, the basolateral amygdala where it might activate a neuronal projection to the central amygdala.
In order to investigate the effects of stem cell grafts on water maze deficits in aged (22-month-old) rats, three groups of aged rats, assigned by pre-training latency scores to unimpaired, impaired control and impaired grafted groups, were compared with young (five-month-old) controls, six to eight weeks after implantation of cells from the conditionally immortal Maudsley hippocampal stem cell line, clone 36 (MHP36 stem cell line), in the cortex, striatum and hippocampus. Grafted rats were substantially superior to their matched impaired aged controls, and learned to find the platform as rapidly as unimpaired aged rats, although young controls were more efficient than all aged groups in several measures of spatial search during training. On the probe trial, however, aged rats with grafts showed significantly better recall of the precise position of the platform than any other group, including young controls, possibly indicating some perseveration. A further comparison found that groups of unimpaired and moderately impaired aged rats showed far less improvement from water maze pre-training to acquisition phases than young controls, indicative of progressive deficits over time. Histological investigation showed that beta-galactosidase-positive MHP36 cells migrated widely from the implantation sites to infiltrate the striatal matrix, all hippocampal fields and areas of the cortex. Grafted cells showed both astrocytic and neuronal morphologies, with cells of pyramidal and granular appearance in appropriate hippocampal strata.Taken together, these results indicate that neuroepithelial stem cell grafts extensively colonize the aged rat brain and substantially reverse progressive cognitive decline associated with ageing.
The development of transgenic mice has created new opportunities for the generation of animal models of human neurodegenerative diseases where previously there was no animal counterpart. The first successful transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease expressed increased levels of mutant human amyloid precursor protein, exhibiting neuritic-type amyloid deposits and behavioral deficits at six to nine months of age. More recently, it was shown that transgenic mice expressing both mutant human amyloid precursor protein and presenilin 1 exhibit neuritic-type amyloid deposits and behavioral deficits in as little as 12 weeks. This accelerated Alzheimer phenotype greatly reduces the time necessary to conduct preclinical drug trials, as well as animal housing costs. The purpose of this study was to quantify the deposition of amyloid in five regions of the cortex and two regions of the hippocampus of transgenic mice expressing amyloid precursor protein (K670N, M671L) and presenilin 1 (M146L) mutations at various ages, using quantitative methods of confocal laser scanning microscopy and image analysis. Amyloid burden, expressed as the percentage area occupied by thioflavin S-positive amyloid deposits, increased an average of 179-fold from 12 to 54 weeks of age (0.02+/-0.01% to 3.57+/-0.29%, mean+/-S.E.M., respectively) in five regions of the cortex and two of the hippocampus. This was a function of increases in both deposit number and size. This transgenic mouse provides an ideal animal model for evaluating the efficacy of potential therapeutic agents aimed at reducing amyloid deposition, such as inhibitors of amyloid fibril formation or secretase inhibitors.
The effects of different hormone replacement regimens on basal forebrain cholinergic function were examined by measuring changes in choline acetyltransferase activity and high affinity choline uptake in adult, ovariectomized, rats. Increases in choline acetyltransferase activity were detected in the frontal cortex (20. 1%) and olfactory bulbs (30.4%) following two weeks, but not four weeks, of repeated treatment with estrogen plus progesterone. Increases in high affinity choline uptake were detected in the frontal cortex (39.5-55.1%), hippocampus (34.9-48.9%), and olfactory bulbs (29.9%) after two weeks, but not four weeks, of either continuous estrogen administration, repeated progesterone administration, or repeated treatment with estrogen plus progesterone. Repeated administration of estradiol (2-25 microg/250 g body weight) for two or four weeks, and continuous estrogen administration for four weeks and six months, produced no significant changes in choline acetyltransferase activity or high affinity choline uptake in the hippocampus, frontal cortex or olfactory bulbs. Continuous estrogen administration for 13 months produced a significant decrease in high affinity choline uptake across all regions with the largest effect (-28.1%) detected in the hippocampus. The findings demonstrate that short-term treatment with estrogen and/or progesterone can significantly enhance cholinergic function within specific targets of the basal forebrain cholinergic projections. Most important is the fact that the effects varied considerably according to the manner and regimen of hormone replacement and did not persist with prolonged treatment. These findings could have important implications for the effective use of hormone replacement strategies in the prevention and treatment of Alzheimer's disease and age-related cognitive decline in women.
Latent inhibition describes a process by which pre-exposure of a stimulus without consequence retards the learning of subsequent conditioned associations with that stimulus. It is well established that latent inhibition in rats is impaired by increased dopamine function and potentiated by reduced dopamine function. Previous evidence has suggested that these effects are modulated via the meso-accumbens dopamine projections. We have now undertaken three experiments to examine this issue directly, especially in the light of one study in which latent inhibition was reported to be unaffected by direct injection of amphetamine into the accumbens. Latent inhibition was studied using the effect of pre-exposure of a tone stimulus on the subsequent formation of a conditioned emotional response to the tone. 6-Hydroxydopamine-induced lesions of dopamine terminals in the nucleus accumbens resulted in potentiation of latent inhibition. Bilateral local injections of the dopamine antagonist haloperidol into the nucleus accumbens (0.5 microg/side) before conditioning also potentiated latent inhibition. Moreover, such injections were able to reverse the disruptive effect of systemic amphetamine (1mg/kg, i.p.) on latent inhibition. Bilateral local injection of amphetamine (5 microg/side) into the nucleus accumbens before conditioning was able to disrupt latent inhibition, provided that it was preceded by a systemic injection of amphetamine (1mg/kg) 24h earlier.We conclude that the attenuation of latent inhibition by increased dopamine function in the nucleus accumbens is brought about by impulse-dependent release of the neurotransmitter occurring at the time of conditioning. The previously reported failure to disrupt latent inhibition with intra-accumbens amphetamine is probably due to impulse-independent release of dopamine. The implications of these conclusions for theories linking disrupted latent inhibition to the attentional deficits in schizophrenia, and to the dopamine theory of this disorder, are discussed.
A long-term induction of Fos-related antigens has been shown in neurons after brain injury, suggesting that Fos-related antigens are involved in enhancing the transcription of genes related to the process of regeneration and repair. In the present study, we report that levels of Fos-related antigen-2 are elevated in several models of chemically induced brain injury. Trimethyltin, which causes degeneration of neurons primarily in the hippocampus and other limbic regions, results in a five-fold induction of Fos-related antigen-2 immunoreactivity in neurons in the pyramidal and dentate layers of the hippocampus starting at seven days post-treatment and persisting for 60days. Methamphetamine and methylenedioxymethamphetamine, agents which cause degeneration of dopaminergic nerve terminals in the striatum of the mouse, cause an increase in Fos-related antigen-2 immunoreactivity which begins at three days post-treatment and returns to basal levels by days 5 and 15, respectively. Treatment with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3, 6-tetrahydropyridine elevated levels of Fos-related antigen-2 in the mouse striatum at three days post-treatment. This abbreviated time-course of Fos-related antigen-2 induction is consistent with less severe insult (terminal damage) relative to trimethyltin (cell death), but induction occurs during the period of regeneration and repair in both models. Dexfenfluramine, a non-neurotoxic amphetamine, does not induce Fos-related antigen-2 expression. Decreasing core temperature of the mouse, which blocks amphetamine-induced neurotoxicity, also blocks Fos-related antigen-2 induction. In summary, Fos-related antigen-2 is induced in models of both cell death and terminal degeneration, suggesting that this transcription factor may serve as a universal signal transduction molecule involved in the regulation of genes related to regeneration and repair in the CNS.
Previous studies have shown that increasing the temperature of rat hippocampal brain slices from 32.5 to 38.5 degrees C initiates a profound, adenosine-mediated decrease in excitatory synaptic transmission in the CA1 region. Here we found that upon lowering the temperature back to 32.5 degrees C, the amplitude of the field excitatory postsynaptic potential often recovers to a level that is significantly potentiated with respect to the initial baseline. This potentiation is rapid in onset (&lt; 5min following return to 32.5 degrees C) and long lasting (&gt;60min following the termination of the increase in temperature). Similar effects could not be induced by superfusion with adenosine alone, and adenosine receptor antagonists did not block the potentiation. Therefore, although an adenosine-mediated decrease in excitatory synaptic transmission occurs during the temperature increase, it is unrelated to the potentiation. Likewise, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation is not required, as N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists do not influence this form of potentiation. In summary, we propose that transiently increasing brain slice temperature represents a novel way to induce synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus, and may provide a paradigm to elucidate additional cellular mechanisms involved in functional plasticity.
Clinical and laboratory studies suggest that progesterone reduces epileptic seizure activity. The mechanisms underlying this effect are not known. The present study determined the effects of progesterone on extracellular evoked responses recorded in the CA1 field of hippocampal slices, as well as epileptiform responses recorded from tetanized slices. Slices were prepared from ovariectomized rats, with or without estrogen replacement. Hippocampal slices were superfused in vitro with one of the following treatments: progesterone with or without RU486 (a progesterone receptor antagonist); allopregnanolone (a progesterone metabolite that potentiates GABA action at GABA(A) receptors); RU5020 (a high-affinity progesterone receptor agonist); or cholesterol (control). In non-tetanized slices, a twofold increase in the excitatory postsynaptic field potential and population spike amplitude occurred during both cholesterol and progesterone superfusion. In contrast, under the same conditions, exposure to allopreganolone caused a 25% reduction in both field potential and population spike amplitude of evoked responses within 30min of treatment. In tetanized slices, progesterone and RU5020, but not allopregnanolone or cholesterol, caused significant reductions in the field potential and population spike amplitude of evoked responses. Progesterone and RU5020 also significantly reduced the duration of tetanic stimulus-induced afterdischarges and the frequency of spontaneous interictal discharges. The effects of allopregnanolone were restricted to a reduction in the primary afterdischarge duration. Estrogen replacement slightly attenuated progesterone's suppression of spontaneous discharges and depression of evoked responses. All responses to progesterone were blocked by prior or concurrent exposure to RU486. These data indicate that allopregnanolone suppresses evoked potentials in non-tetanized hippocampal slices, consistent with previous reports that this neurosteroid has marked anxiolytic and anticonvulsant effects. After tetanization, however, progesterone receptor-mediated responses become quantitatively more important as a mechanism for suppressing hippocampal electrical activity.
Neuronal morphogenesis is regulated, among other factors, by microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs). A family of these proteins, MAP2, which is very abundant in the mammalian nervous system, has been associated with the formation of neurites at early developmental stages and with the dendritic scaffold upon maturation. The function of MAP2 is regulated by its phosphorylation state. One of the phosphorylation sites that has been described is located in the proline-rich region of the protein. It comprises of the residues 1616-1626 and is specifically recognized by the antibody 305. However, little is known about the functional consequences of its modification in vivo. To gain insight into this, we have analysed the expression levels and intracellular distribution of MAP2 phosphorylated at this site (MAP2-P), in primary cultures of rat hippocampal neurons at different developmental stages. Western blot analysis of hippocampal neuron protein extracts revealed that the ratio of MAP2-P:MAP2 was 4:1 at early developmental stages and became 1:4 at later developmental stages, suggesting a role of such phosphorylated forms of the protein in neuritogenesis. Consistent with this view, immunofluorescence microscopy analysis showed that the ratio MAP2-P:MAP2 was 2 in the neurite growth cones, sites where net elongation takes place. A higher presence of phosphorylated MAP2 was observed in growth regions with higher levels of microfilaments, which may be related with the growth region stability. Indeed, when growth-cone collapse was induced in hippocampal neurons after cytochalasin D treatment, which depolymerizes microfilaments, the ratio MAP2-P:MAP2 in these growing regions decreased down to 1. Finally, acceleration of neuronal maturation induced by the activation of glutamate-receptors triggered a dramatic decrease in the phosphorylation of MAP2 at the site recognized by antibody 305. From these results we suggest that the phosphorylation of MAP2 at its proline-rich region is an important event during neuritogenesis.
Apolipoprotein E, the major brain lipid-binding protein, is expressed in humans as three common isoforms (E2, E3 and E4). Previous studies revealed that the allele apolipoprotein E4 is a major genetic risk factor of Alzheimer's disease and that traumatic brain injury is associated with increased risk for developing this disease. Furthermore, it has been suggested that the effects of traumatic head injury and apolipoprotein E4 in Alzheimer's disease are synergistic. To test the hypothesis that the apolipoprotein E genotype affects susceptibility to brain injury, we subjected transgenic mice, expressing either human apolipoprotein E3 or human apolipoprotein E4 on a null mouse apolipoprotein E background and apolipoprotein E-deficient knockouts, to closed head injury and compared mortality, neurological recovery and the extent of brain damage of the survivors. More than 50% of the transgenic mice expressing human apolipoprotein E4 died following closed head injury, whereas only half as many of the transgenic mice expressing human apolipoprotein E3, and of the control and apolipoprotein E-deficient mice died during this period (P&lt;0.02). A neurological severity score used for clinical assessment of the surviving mice up to 11 days after closed head injury revealed that the four mouse groups displayed similar severity of damage at 1h following injury. At three and 11 days post-injury, however, the neurological severity scores of the transgenic mice expressing human apolipoprotein E3 were significantly lower than those of the other three groups whose scores were similar, indicating better recovery of the transgenic mice expressing human apolipoprotein E3. Histopathological examination of the mice performed 11 days post-injury revealed, consistent with the above neurological results, that the size of the damaged brain area of the transgenic mice expressing human apolipoprotein E3 was smaller than that of the other head-injured groups. These findings show that transgenic mice expressing human apolipoprotein E4 are more susceptible than those expressing apolipoprotein E3 to closed head injury. We suggest that this effect is due to both a protective effect of apolipoprotein E3 and an apolipoprotein E4-related pathological function.
Mice deficient in monoamine oxidase A have previously been shown to demonstrate a chronic elevation of serotonin and norepinephrine in the brain. Using the autoradiographic [14C]iodo-antipyrine method, we examined cerebral cortical blood flow in conscious, restrained four- to five-month-old knock-out and wild-type animals following the intraperitoneal administration of either saline or D-fenfluramine. Knock-out animals administered saline, compared to their wild-type counterparts, demonstrated a significantly higher regional cortical blood flow in somatosensory and barrel field neocortex, an area which previous histological studies have shown to be characterized by abnormal serotonergic projection fibers and absent barrel formation. Regional cortical blood flow was significantly lower in knock-out than in wild-type mice in the entorhinal and midline motor cortex, with non-significant decreases noted in the olfactory, piriform and retrosplenial cortices and the amygdala. We compared the above findings to those obtained in response to D-fenfluramine which, in conjunction with its metabolite D-norfenfluramine, results in acute elevations of brain levels of serotonin and norepinephrine. Administration of D-fenfluramine (21. 2mg/kg) resulted in changes in regional cortical perfusion in most brain regions of both knock-out and wild-type mice that were opposite to the genotypic differences seen in perfusion in response to saline. Fenfluramine significantly increased regional cortical blood flow in the allocortex (olfactory, piriform, entorhinal) and the amygdala, and significantly decreased regional cortical blood flow in the somatosensory, barrel field, midline motor and retrosplenial cortices. Changes in regional perfusion in response to fenfluramine were topographically equivalent in knock-out and wild-type mice, although in knock-out mice such changes were of greater magnitude. Our study suggests that the effects on regional cortical blood flow of a lifelong absence of monoamine oxidase A, and the consequent chronic increase in serotonin and norepinephrine, differ from those attributable to acute increases in these neurotransmitters following fenfluramine administration. Such a differential response may reflect neurodevelopmental abnormalities and/or effects of a chronic physiological adaptation on the regulation of cortical activation.
The role of monoaminergic neuromodulators in the reorganization of cortical topography following limited sensory deprivation in the adult cat was investigated. The total concentrations of dopamine, noradrenaline, serotonin and their major metabolites were measured in the visual cortex of both normal control and experimental animals using microbore high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with electrochemical detection. The experimental animals were subjected to a binocular retinal lesion corresponding to the central 10 degrees of vision and killed two weeks post-lesion. The sensory deprivation was confirmed in area 17 by measuring immediate-early gene zif-268 messenger RNA expression. Following the retinal lesion, the total concentrations of noradrenaline and dopamine were significantly higher in the non-deprived cortex of retinal lesion cats than in the deprived cortex of retinal lesion cats and the cortex of normal animals. This pattern follows the release of the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate under the same conditions. Serotonin levels were significantly lower in the deprived cortex, and its metabolite 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid was significantly higher in the non-deprived cortex than in deprived cortex and normal cortex. From these results, we suggest that the modulation of noradrenaline, dopamine and serotonin is regulated by visual afferent activity.
We used whole-cell patch clamp recordings combined with intracellular dye-filling to examine the morphological and electrophysiological properties of atypically oriented pyramidal cells located at the layer 1/2 border of the juvenile rat neocortex. Orientation of the apical dendrite varied from oblique (&gt;20 degrees from vertical) to truly horizontal (90 degrees from vertical). The length of the apical dendrite ranged from 150 to 400 microm. The total horizontal domain of the dendritic tree (including basal dendrites) of the longest horizontal pyramids exceeded 500 microm, but we also found short horizontal cells with horizontal dendritic domains of less than 300 microm. In addition, atypically oriented pyramids had long horizontal axon collaterals in layer 1/2. Electrophysiologically, atypically oriented pyramidal cells had intrinsic membrane properties similar to regularly oriented pyramids that have been described in the superficial layers at this age in the rat. Cells that fired repetitively were all regular spiking. In addition, we identified a subgroup of neurons (20%) in this sample, which were unable to fire more than a few spikes at the beginning of the current pulse. We suggest that the unique orientation and size of their dendritic trees and the length and arrangement of their local axons collaterals make atypically oriented pyramids in layer 2 ideally suited to perform horizontal integration of synaptic inputs in the neocortex.
GABA(A) receptors are ligand-operated chloride channels assembled from five subunits in a heteropentameric manner. Using immunocytochemistry, we investigated the distribution of GABA(A) receptor subunits deriving from 13 different genes (alpha1-alpha6, beta1-beta3, gamma1-gamma3 and delta) in the adult rat brain. Subunit alpha1-, beta1-, beta2-, beta3- and gamma2-immunoreactivities were found throughout the brain, although differences in their distribution were observed. Subunit alpha2-, alpha3-, alpha4-, alpha5-, alpha6-, gamma1- and delta-immunoreactivities were more confined to certain brain areas. Thus, alpha2-subunit-immunoreactivity was preferentially located in forebrain areas and the cerebellum. Subunit alpha6-immunoreactivity was only present in granule cells of the cerebellum and the cochlear nucleus, and subunit gamma1-immunoreactivity was preferentially located in the central and medial amygdaloid nuclei, in pallidal areas, the substantia nigra pars reticulata and the inferior olive. The alpha5-subunit-immunoreactivity was strongest in Ammon's horn, the olfactory bulb and hypothalamus. In contrast, alpha4-subunit-immunoreactivity was detected in the thalamus, dentate gyrus, olfactory tubercle and basal ganglia. Subunit alpha3-immunoreactivity was observed in the glomerular and external plexiform layers of the olfactory bulb, in the inner layers of the cerebral cortex, the reticular thalamic nucleus, the zonal and superficial layers of the superior colliculus, the amygdala and cranial nerve nuclei. Only faint subunit gamma3-immunoreactivity was detected in most areas; it was darkest in midbrain and pontine nuclei. Subunit delta-immunoreactivity was frequently co-distributed with alpha4 subunit-immunoreactivity, e.g. in the thalamus, striatum, outer layers of the cortex and dentate molecular layer. Striking examples of complementary distribution of certain subunit-immunoreactivities were observed. Thus, subunit alpha2-, alpha4-, beta1-, beta3- and delta-immunoreactivities were considerably more concentrated in the neostriatum than in the pallidum and entopeduncular nucleus. In contrast, labeling for the alpha1-, beta2-, gamma1- and gamma2-subunits prevailed in the pallidum compared to the striatum. With the exception of the reticular thalamic nucleus, which was prominently stained for subunits alpha3, beta1, beta3 and gamma2, most thalamic nuclei were rich in alpha1-, alpha4-, beta2- and delta-immunoreactivities. Whereas the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus was strongly immunoreactive for subunits alpha4, beta2 and delta, the ventral lateral geniculate nucleus was predominantly labeled for subunits alpha2, alpha3, beta1, beta3 and gamma2; subunit alpha1- and alpha5-immunoreactivities were about equally distributed in both areas. In most hypothalamic areas, immunoreactivities for subunits alpha1, alpha2, beta1, beta2 and beta3 were observed. In the supraoptic nucleus, staining of conspicuous dendritic networks with subunit alpha1, alpha2, beta2, and gamma2 antibodies was contrasted by perykarya labeled for alpha5-, beta1- and delta-immunoreactivities. Among all brain regions, the median emminence was most heavily labeled for subunit beta2-immunoreactivity. In most pontine and cranial nerve nuclei and in the medulla, only subunit alpha1-, beta2- and gamma2-immunoreactivities were strong, whereas the inferior olive was significantly labeled only for subunits beta1, gamma1 and gamma2. In this study, a highly heterogeneous distribution of 13 different GABA(A) receptor subunit-immunoreactivities was observed. This distribution and the apparently typical patterns of co-distribution of these GABA(A) receptor subunits support the assumption of multiple, differently assembled GABA(A) receptor subtypes and their heterogeneous distribution within the adult rat brain.
Prosaposin is a 517 amino acid membrane component and secreted protein(5,7,9) that is proteolytically cleaved to generate the four small glycoproteins; saposins A, B, C and D.(9,13,19) Prosaposin's ability to promote neurite outgrowth(31) and to protect neurons from programmed cell death(28) in vitro, as well as to rescue neurons from ischemia and other damage in vivo(11,12,15,25) implied that prosaposin was neurotrophic/neuroprotectant.(1,7,24,31) The neurotrophic sequence of prosaposin was isolated to smaller peptide fragments termed prosaptides(15,31) within the amino terminal portion of saposin C.(1,6,8,10,17,20,21,28) The proposed use of synthetic prosaptides as peripherally administered neuroprotective and/or neurotrophic therapeutic agents has stemmed from their ability to cross the blood-brain barrier,(27) as well as their reported neurotrophic activity in vitro.(15,23,31) Few studies, however, have attempted to characterize these peptides, presumably due to their reported instability following peripheral administration.(27) With the recent design of a stable 11-mer retro-inverso prosaptide,(15,31) it has become feasible to investigate the pharmacological effects of a stable version of these peptides in the validated rabbit spinal cord ischemia model that has been used extensively in the development of therapeutics to treat ischemic stroke.(4,14,16,18) Our results show not only that prosaptide was not neurotrophic/neuroprotectant in vivo, but rather it worsened ischemia-induced behavioral deficits.
Aged rats may be behaviorally classified as either cognitively impaired or unimpaired based upon their performance in the Morris water maze task. In aged Long-Evans rats, emergence of functional deficits has been related to the increase in the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptor subtype in most hippocampal subfields, not observed in other brain structures. As AMPA receptors expressed in astrocytes may participate in the delayed and long-term glial response to injury, we investigated whether astrocytes participate in the increase of AMPA receptor observed in these aged rats. To this end, distribution of monoamine oxidase B, used as an astroglial marker, was characterized by quantitative autoradiography in the hippocampus and septum of young adults (six months) and aged (24-25 months) rats using [3H]lazabemide. Specific binding to brain sections of young, aged unimpaired, and aged impaired animals were calculated densitometrically. Compared to young animals, all hippocampal subfields in the aged unimpaired group showed a significant age-related increased labeling, which was not present in the aged impaired group. This contrasts with the increased glial transcription described in this last group. We propose that increase in AMPA receptors in the aged memory-impaired animals may be related to an atypic astrocytic reactivity.
The interpretation of task-induced functional imaging of the brain is critically dependent on understanding the relationship between observed blood flow responses and the underlying neuronal changes. However, the exact nature of this neurovascular coupling relationship remains unknown. In particular, it is unclear whether blood oxygen level-dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging (BOLD fMRI) responses principally reflect neuronal synaptic activity. In order to address this issue directly in humans, we measured the increase in somatosensory evoked potential amplitude and fMRI BOLD changes to increases in intensity of median nerve electrical stimulation in five healthy non-anaesthetized subjects. We found that mean N20-P22 amplitudes increased significantly with stimulus intensity in all subjects, as did fMRI BOLD percentage signal intensity change. Moreover, the intensity of the BOLD signal was found to correlate linearly with evoked potential amplitude in four of the five subjects studied. This suggests that the BOLD response correlates with synchronized synaptic activity, which is the major energy consuming process of the cortex.
At the synapse, neurotransmitter release is triggered physiologically by Ca(2+) influx through voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels. Non-physiologically, release can be evoked by a potent neurotoxin, alpha-latrotoxin, and by hypertonic sucrose. Controversy has arisen on whether release evoked by alpha-latrotoxin and hypertonic sucrose requires extracellular Ca(2+) or Ca(2+) from intracellular stores. Using synaptosomes, we have studied the Ca(2+) dependence of alpha-latrotoxin and sucrose action in different neurotransmitter systems. In agreement with previous data, no requirement for extracellular Ca(2+) in sucrose-induced secretion of norepinephrine, dopamine, glutamate or GABA was detected. Unexpectedly, we observed large differences between these neurotransmitters in the Ca(2+) dependence of alpha-latrotoxin-stimulated release: norepinephrine release required Ca(2+), dopamine release was only partially Ca(2+) dependent, and glutamate and GABA release did not require Ca(2+). To test if Ca(2+) derived from intracellular Ca(2+) stores participates in neurotransmitter release triggered by alpha-latrotoxin or hypertonic sucrose, we employed thapsigargin, a Ca(2+)-ATPase inhibitor that empties Ca(2+) stores. Thapsigargin did not induce neurotransmitter release, nor did it inhibit subsequent release stimulated by KCl depolarization, hypertonic sucrose or alpha-latrotoxin. However, intracellular Ca(2+) performs an important regulatory function, since thapsigargin increased the size of the readily releasable pool as measured by stimulation with hypertonic sucrose. This effect required extracellular Ca(2+) and protein kinase C, suggesting that depletion of internal Ca(2+) stores leads to store-operated Ca(2+) entry. The resulting Ca(2+) influx does not trigger release by itself, but activates protein kinase C that increases the readily releasable pool of neurotransmitters. Our data show that internal and external Ca(2+) is not acutely involved in hypertonic sucrose-evoked neurotransmitter release, while alpha-latrotoxin-triggered release requires external Ca(2+) for a subset of neurotransmitters. Although internal Ca(2+) is not essential for release, it modulates its extent, implying that the emptying of intracellular stores by activation of presynaptic receptors plays an important regulatory role in neurotransmitter release.
Two homomer-forming nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunits with 47% identity in their amino acid sequences were employed to compare the actions of cholinergic anthelmintics and ivermectin on expressed vertebrate and nematode nicotinic receptors of known molecular composition. Voltage-clamp electrophysiology was used to study recombinant nicotinic receptors expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes following nuclear injection of cDNA encoding either chicken alpha7 or Caenorhabditis elegans ACR-16 (Ce21) subunits. Butamisole, morantel and metyridine were without agonist actions on either alpha7 or ACR-16 nicotinic receptors in the range 10nM-1mM. However, butamisole (pIC(50)=4.9 for both alpha7 and ACR-16) and morantel (pIC(50)=5.6 for alpha7 and 5.7 for ACR-16) antagonized responses of both alpha7 and ACR-16 receptors to acetylcholine. Metyridine (1mM) did not affect responses to acetylcholine of either receptor. Oxantel was without agonist actions on ACR-16, but was an acetylcholine antagonist (pIC(50)=5.4). In contrast, it was found to have low efficacy agonist action (pEC(50)=4.4) on alpha7 at concentrations in the range 10-300microM. In agreement with a previous study, ivermectin (30microM), an agonist of L-glutamate-gated chloride channels, enhanced the amplitude of responses to acetylcholine of alpha7 nicotinic receptors. However, this same concentration of ivermectin (30microM) did not potentiate the acetylcholine-induced responses of ACR-16, but rather resulted in a slight attenuation. We conclude that oxantel and ivermectin have identified new pharmacological differences between the chicken alpha7 nicotinic receptor and its C. elegans homologue ACR-16.
Recently, we reported that, in rats, transplacental exposure to diethylstilbestrol, a potent synthetic estrogen, decreases the density of the ovarian sympathetic nerve network compared to that in control rats not exposed to diethylstilbestrol. To clarify the mechanism of the decrease in the density, we performed a series of experiments using rats prenatally exposed to diethylstilbestrol and unexposed control rats. First, a retrograde tract tracer, Fast Blue, was microinjected into the ovaries of both groups of rats at four months of age, and the number of Fast Blue-positive neurons in the celiac ganglion was counted. The number of neurons in the ganglion was smaller in diethylstilbestrol-exposed rats than in the controls. Second, double labeling of the neurons with antibody against estrogen receptor alpha and Fast Blue in the celiac ganglion was carried out in both groups of rats. The results showed that estrogen receptor alpha-containing neurons in the ganglion innervated the ovary, and their number was decreased selectively by prenatal diethylstilbestrol exposure. Finally, a decrease in the celiac ganglion volume in rats prenatally exposed to diethylstilbestrol was also detected on day 23 of gestation, as compared to the volume in the control rats. From these observations, we propose that prenatal exposure to diethylstilbestrol can induce a loss of estrogen receptor alpha-containing neurons innervating the ovary during development, resulting in paucity of the neural network in the ovary.
Partial injury of the rat sciatic nerve elicits a variety of characteristic chemical, electrophysical and anatomical changes in primary sensory neurons and constitutes a physiologically relevant model of neuropathic pain. To elucidate molecular mechanisms that underlie the physiology of neuropathic pain, we have used messenger RNA differential display to identify genes that exhibit increased ipsilateral expression in L4/5 dorsal root ganglia, following unilateral partial ligation of the rat sciatic nerve. One set of partial complementary DNA clones identified in this screen was found to encode a protein kinase, nerve injury-associated kinase. Cloning of the full-length human nerve injury-associated kinase complementary DNA, together with recombinant expression analysis, reveal nerve injury-associated kinase to be a functional member of a subgroup of sterile 20-like protein kinases characterised by the presence of a putative carboxy terminal autoregulatory domain. Induction of nerve injury-associated kinase expression in dorsal root ganglia in the rat neuropathic pain model was confirmed by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, and RNA in situ hybridization analysis revealed enhanced levels of nerve injury-associated kinase within neurons.Together, our data implicate nerve injury-associated kinase as a novel upstream component of an intracellular signalling cascade that is up-regulated in dorsal root ganglia neurons in response to sciatic nerve injury.
Spinal norepinephrine release and activation of spinal alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors represent important components of descending control of nociception. Recent studies have shown that nitric oxide is capable of stimulating neuronal norepinephrine release in the presence of thiol-containing compounds such as L-cysteine. In the present study, we tested a hypothesis in a rodent model of neuropathic pain that intrathecal injection of the nitric oxide donor S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine and L-cysteine produces an antiallodynic action mediated by the spinal alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors. Allodynia was induced in rats by ligation of the left lumbar L5/L6 spinal nerves. Mechanical allodynia was quantified by application of von Frey filaments to the left hindpaw. Intrathecal injection of 20-100microg of S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine in the presence of 200microg of L-cysteine, but not D-cysteine, dose-dependently attenuated the allodynia. Intrathecal injection of a combination of 100microg of S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine and 50-200microg of L-cysteine also inhibited the allodynia in a dose-dependent manner. Pretreatment with a nitric oxide scavenger, carboxy-PTIO, or depletion of norepinephrine with a specific neurotoxin, N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine, prevented the antiallodynic action of intrathecal S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine and L-cysteine. Furthermore, the antiallodynic effect produced by intrathecal injection of a combination of S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine and L-cysteine was abolished by pretreatment with intrathecal injection of a non-specific alpha-adrenergic receptor antagonist, phentolamine, or an alpha(2) receptor antagonist, idazoxan. This study provides the first functional evidence that spinal nitric oxide interacts with the thiol-containing compounds to produce an antiallodynic effect in neuropathic pain. We propose that such an action is mediated by endogenous norepinephrine and spinal alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors.
The hypothesis that the early inflammatory cell, the neutrophil, contributes to the hyperalgesia resulting from peripheral nerve injury was tested in rats in which the sciatic nerve was partially transected on one side. The extent and time-course of neutrophilic infiltration of the sciatic nerve and innervated paw skin after partial nerve damage was characterized using immunocytochemistry. The number of endoneurial neutrophils was significantly elevated in sections of operated nerve compared to sections of sham-operated nerve for the entire period studied, i.e. up to seven days post-surgery. This considerable elevation in endoneurial neutrophil numbers was only observed at the site of nerve injury. Depletion of circulating neutrophils at the time of nerve injury significantly attenuated the induction of hyperalgesia. However, depletion of circulating neutrophils at day 8 post-injury did not alleviate hyperalgesia after its normal induction. It is concluded that endoneurial accumulation of neutrophils at the site of peripheral nerve injury is important in the early genesis of the resultant hyperalgesia. The findings support the notion that a neuroimmune interaction occurs as a result of peripheral nerve injury and is important in the subsequent development of neuropathic pain.
Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 is a chemokine with potent monocyte activating and chemotactic effects. Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 gene and protein expression is rapidly up-regulated in response to a variety of acute and chronic central nervous system disorders. The activation and recruitment of microglia and monocytes into areas of inflammation may play a critical role in the pathogenesis of acute brain injury. Monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 could be a pathophysiologically important mediator of the microglial and monocyte responses in the brain. Using a well-characterized model of acute excitotoxic brain injury in neonatal rats, experiments were designed to evaluate whether monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 plays a role in the progression of tissue damage. Direct co-administration of recombinant monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 with the excitotoxin N-methyl-D-aspartate exacerbated injury, both in the striatum and in the hippocampus, by 55% and 167%, respectively. Complementary experiments to determine the effect of functional inhibition of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1, using an anti-monocyte chemoattractant protein-1-neutralizing antibody, revealed that co-administration of the antibody with N-methyl-D-aspartate attenuated tissue injury in the striatum and hippocampus by 57% and 39%, respectively.Together, these data suggest that monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 is a mediator of acute excitotoxic brain injury in neonatal rats and that inflammatory mechanisms contribute significantly to the pathogenesis of acute neonatal brain injury. Whether chemokines are pathophysiologically relevant mediators of neuronal injury in human neonates remains to be determined.
Nodose neurons play an important role in the regulation of visceral function. Recent studies demonstrated that about 80% of these neurons contain messenger RNA for the capsaicin receptor, a heat-sensitive ion channel. Nodose neurons express voltage-sensitive sodium currents that can be differentiated based on their sensitivity to tetrodotoxin. Considering the potential role of tetrodotoxin-resistant sodium currents in somatosensory neurons, sodium channel expression and sodium currents were studied in nodose neurons. The results were correlated with the response to capsaicin. Nodose neurons contain messenger RNA for the tetrodotoxin-resistant sodium channel PN3. Consistent with these findings, about half of the neurons predominantly expressed tetrodotoxin-resistant sodium currents. In 54% (47/87) of the cells, capsaicin triggered an increase in intracellular calcium. Similarly, in 42% (18/43) of the cells, capsaicin elicited an inward current. There was no relationship between cell size (r=0.07) or sodium current properties (r=0.14) and the response to capsaicin. Micromolar concentrations of capsaicin inhibited voltage-dependent sodium, calcium and potassium currents. This effect was use dependent and did not involve the capsaicin receptor. In conclusion, capsaicin changed the excitability of visceral sensory neurons by blocking voltage-dependent ion channels, an effect that may contribute to the analgesic properties of capsaicin.
Immunohistochemistry for vanilloid receptor 1-like receptor (VRL-1), a candidate transducer for high-threshold noxious heat, was performed on rat trigeminal primary sensory neurons. The immunoreactivity was detected in 14% of the trigeminal ganglion cell bodies, while the neurons in the mesencephalic trigeminal tract nucleus were almost devoid of it (0.5%). The immunoreactive neurons in the trigeminal ganglion were mostly of medium to large size (mean+/-S.D. of 956+/-376microm(2)). Nerve bundles in the tooth pulp, periodontal ligament, facial skin and oral mucosa contained VRL-1-positive smooth nerve fibers. The immunoreactivity could not be traced to the isolated nerve fibers, except in the tooth pulp. In the brainstem trigeminal nuclear complex, a notable concentration of the immunoreactivity was seen in laminae I and II of the medullary dorsal horn. Thirty-seven per cent of the trigeminal ganglion neurons retrogradely labeled from the tooth pulp exhibited VRL-1 immunoreactivity, while the immunoreactivity was detected in only 9% of those labeled from the skin. Co-expression of calcitonin gene-related peptide was common among the VRL-1-immunoreactive tooth pulp neurons (45%) and cutaneous neurons (25%). Moreover, as many as 41% of the VRL-1-immunoreactive tooth pulp neurons co-expressed parvalbumin immunoreactivity. Parvalbumin immunoreactivity was never detected in the VRL-1-immunoreactive cutaneous neurons. From the findings of the present study, we propose that large primary neurons responding to high-threshold noxious heat are abundant in the tooth pulp, but not in the facial skin.
The role of endogenous opioid systems in the analgesic response to exogenous opiates remains controversial. We previously reported that mice lacking the peptide neurotransmitter beta-endorphin, although unable to produce opioid-mediated stress-induced antinociception, nevertheless displayed intact antinociception after systemic administration of the exogenous opiate morphine. Morphine administered by a peripheral route can activate opioid receptors in both the spinal cord and brain. However, beta-endorphin neuronal projections are confined predominantly to supraspinal nociceptive nuclei. Therefore, we questioned whether the absence of beta-endorphin would differentially affect antinociceptive responses depending on the route of opiate administration. Time- and dose-response curves were obtained in beta-endorphin-deficient and matched wild-type C57BL/6 congenic control mice using the tail-immersion/withdrawal assay. Null mutant mice were found to be more sensitive to supraspinal (i.c.v.) injection of the micro-opioid receptor-selective agonists, morphine and D-Ala(2)-MePhe(4)-Gly-ol(5) enkephalin. In contrast, the mutant mice were less sensitive to spinal (i.t.) injection of these same drugs. Quantitative receptor autoradiography revealed no differences between genotypes in the density of mu, delta, or kappa opioid receptor binding sites in either the spinal cord or pain-relevant supraspinal areas. Thus we report that the absence of a putative endogenous ligand for the mu-opioid receptor results in opposite changes in morphine sensitivity between discrete areas of the nervous system, which are not simply caused by changes in opioid receptor expression.
In the present study we have used immunohistochemical staining and retrograde tracing techniques to investigate the relationship between the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor NR2B subunits and small-diameter primary afferent dorsal root ganglion neurons that give rise to the sciatic nerve fibers. Three days after an intra-sciatic nerve injection of tetramethyl rhodamine isothiocyanate-conjugated wheat germ agglutinin which labels small-diameter primary afferents, many NR2B and wheat germ agglutinin-double-labeled cells ( approximately 70% of wheat germ agglutinin-labeled neurons) were observed in the L5 dorsal root ganglia. Three days after an intra-sciatic nerve injection of fluorescein isothiocyanate-conjugated Bandeiraea simplicifolia agglutinin isolectin B4 which labels predominantly non-peptidergic C-fiber primary afferents, NR2B and Bandeiraea simplicifolia agglutinin isolectin B4 double-labeled neurons ( approximately 90% of Bandeiraea simplicifolia agglutinin isolectin B4-labeled neurons) were also observed in the L5 dorsal root ganglion. Three days after an intra-sciatic nerve injection of fluorescein isothiocyanate-conjugated cholera toxin B subunit, only approximately 40% of cholera toxin B subunit-labeled neurons were NR2B positive and those labeled neurons tended to be small-sized. When calcitonin gene-related peptide and NR2B were labeled by a double immunofluorescent staining technique, we found that the majority of calcitonin gene-related peptide-positive neurons was NR2B immunoreactive (&gt;90% of calcitonin gene-related peptide-positive neurons, and approximately 60% of NR2B-positive neurons) as well. Size frequency analysis also demonstrated that NR2B subunits were predominantly localized on the small and medium-sized neurons. These results suggest that NR2B subunits are predominantly expressed on small diameter primary afferents, and these NR2B containing N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors may play a role in the modulation of neurotransmitter release from primary afferent terminals.
In this study, we compared the sensitivity of non-periodically and periodically active neurons in chronically compressed dorsal root ganglion in rats to norepinephrine and sympathetic stimulation. Forty-nine of 58 (84.5%) neurons with non-periodic activity showed responses to norepinephrine, whereas only five of 48 (10.4%) neurons with periodic activity displayed any response. The dose-response relationship of norepinephrine to the irregular burst pattern neurons shifted towards the left significantly compared to that of the periodic activity neurons. Responses to norepinephrine became apparent in eight neurons after their periodic firing activity was transformed into the non-periodic firing activity through the increase in Ca(2+). Changes in the time-response curves indicate a higher sensitivity of irregular burst pattern neurons to sympathetic stimulation than the periodic activity neurons. Finally, deterministic dynamics contained within the interburst interval series for non-periodic activity were identified. From these results, we suggest that the non-periodic activity neurons have a higher adrenergic sensitivity than those displaying periodic activity, and that this sensitivity may depend on the deterministic chaos within its firing dynamic system.
Peripherin is a type III intermediate filament which, in contrast to the neurofilaments, is strongly up-regulated after nerve injury. Although peripherin expression is stimulated in vitro by neurotrophins and cytokines, little is known about its in vivo regulation. In this report, we show that the in vivo down-regulation of peripherin expression to normal levels during regeneration closely correlates with target reconnection in rat facial motoneurons. Prevention of reconnection, by transection and suture, results in the persistence of strong peripherin expression for prolonged periods of up to 11months. This contrasts with the modulation of the p75 low-affinity neurotrophin receptor, whose expression returns to normal even in the absence of reconnection. We further demonstrate that blockade of the axonal transport in non-injured motoneurons increases the expression of peripherin. Blockade of the axonal transport simultaneously to, or after injury of, facial motoneurons does not abolish the axotomy-induced peripherin up-regulation. These data demonstrate that the in vivo expression of peripherin is normally restrained by a distal retrogradely transported inhibitory signal. Thus, peripherin up-regulation results primarily from a lack of supply in this factor. Our results show that stimulatory factors released at the injury site are not required for the initial up-regulation and maintenance of high peripherin expression. However, they appear to enhance this increase during the acute post-lesion phase. Peripherin expression is thus finely tuned by both glial cell-derived stimulatory and distal inhibitory signals that reflect neuron-target interactions.
Tryptophan hydroxylase is the rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of serotonin and during development, brain serotonin levels and tryptophan hydroxylase activities increase. Increased tryptophan hydroxylase activity could result from alterations in tryptophan hydroxylase messenger RNA levels, translation, and/or post-translational regulation. Tryptophan hydroxylase messenger RNA levels in the dorsal raphe nucleus increased 35-fold between embryonic day 18 and postnatal day 22, measured by quantitative in situ hybridization, then decreased by 40% between postnatal days 22 and 61. These changes correlated with tryptophan hydroxylase enzyme activities in the raphe nuclei as expected, but not in cortical or hippocampal targets. Tryptophan hydroxylase messenger RNA expression in the nucleus raphe obscuris increased 2.5-fold between postnatal days 8 and 22 but did not correlate with enzyme activity in the spinal cord. Using an in vitro model of serotonergic raphe neuron differentiation, serotonergic differentiation was associated with an increase in both tryptophan hydroxylase promoter activity and protein expression. In vivo, tryptophan hydroxylase messenger RNA levels per single cell and per brain section were correlated during development up to postnatal day 22, but not beyond for both the dorsal raphe nucleus and nucleus raphe obscuris. Between postnatal days 22 and 61 single cell levels of tryptophan hydroxylase messenger RNA in the dorsal raphe nucleus did not change yet the levels per brain section significantly decreased by 40%. During the same period in the nucleus raphe obscuris, tryptophan hydroxylase messenger RNA levels per single cell signifcantly increased by 30% yet levels per brain section did not change. Comparison of tryptophan hydroxylase messenger RNA levels per cell and per brain section indicated a serotonergic loss between postnatal days 22 and 61 in both the dorsal raphe nucleus and nucleus raphe obscuris and may reflect either a loss of neurotransmitter phenotype or cell death. This study is the first to characterize the expression of brain tryptophan hydroxylase messenger RNA during rat development. In addition, this study is the first to report the activity of tryptophan hydroxylase in the spinal cord and hippocampus in the embryonic and neonatal rat. Together, the data provide a better understanding of the intricate relationship between patterns of tryptophan hydroxylase messenger RNA expression and enzyme activity.
A positive linear correlation between dopamine and serotonin release was found in the ventromedial hypothalamus and in the lateral hypothalamic area in fasting rats and in fed rats during intermeal intervals. Dopamine release in the ventromedial hypothalamus positively correlated with dopamine and serotonin release in the lateral hypothalamic area, which occurred only during intermeal intervals and was non-significant during the meal consumption periods or during fasting. Meal size correlated significantly only with a decrease in serotonin release in the lateral hypothalamic area. The study was designed to evaluate the relationship between dopamine and serotonin release in these hypothalamic areas and their dependence on feeding status. Microdialysis was performed simultaneously via two probes, one in the ventromedial hypothalamus and the other in the contralateral lateral hypothalamic area, of freely moving male lean Zucker rats over 24h with preserved light and dark phase, either with ad libitum access to food and water, or when no food was available. Dopamine and serotonin concentrations were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection in 20-min dialysis samples. Time-series analysis was applied to determine linear correlations between monoamines and in relation to food intake. Data showed that release of dopamine and serotonin is synchronized within the ventromedial hypothalamus and lateral hypothalamic area, particularly in the dark phase and when no food was ingested. However, synchronized release of monoamines between these nuclei occurred only during intermeal intervals: the periods of satiety. These findings suggest a tight relationship between dopaminergic and serotonergic systems of the lateral hypothalamic area and ventromedial hypothalamus, which is influenced by the feeding state and which may be involved in maintaining the balance within and between the centers of the parasympathetic and sympathetic nervous systems. The data also illustate that food intake is coupled unequivocally to the release of dopamine and serotonin in the hypothalamus, suggesting it as a mechanism of activation of postsynaptic neurons associated with new metabolic status.
Morphological and functional data indicate that glutamatergic innervation of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus plays an important role in the control of this prominent cell group. Sources of this neural input are unknown. The present investigations were aimed at studying this question. The retrograde tracer [3H]D-aspartate, which is selectively taken up by the terminals of neurons that use glutamate or aspartate as a neurotransmitter, and is retrogradely transported to their perikarya, was injected into the paraventricular nucleus. The brain was examined for labelled neurons visualized by autoradiography. Labelled neurons were detected in the paraventricular nucleus itself, in several hypothalamic areas including medial and lateral preoptic area, suprachiasmatic nucleus, anterior hypothalamic area, ventromedial nucleus, dorsomedial nucleus, lateral hypothalamic area, posterior part of arcuate nucleus, ventral premammillary nucleus and supramammillary nucleus. Outside the hypothalamus labelled neurons were found in the thalamic paraventricular nucleus and in certain telencephalic regions including lateral septum, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and amygdala. All of them are known to project to the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus. We failed to detect labelled neurons in the lower brainstem. From these findings we conclude that firstly, there are glutamatergic/aspartatergic interneurons in the paraventricular nucleus; secondly, all intrahypothalamic and telencephalic, but not lower brainstem afferents to this nucleus contain glutamatergic/aspartatergic fibres; and thirdly, the glutamatergic/aspartatergic innervation of this heterogeneous cell group is extremely complex.
Tardive dyskinesia develops as a common complication of long-term neuroleptic use. The emergence of such dyskinesias may reflect a shift in the balance of dopamine D(1) and D(2) receptor-mediated activity, with a relative increase in activity in the D(1) receptor-regulated direct striatonigral pathway. In rats, chronic treatment with the antipsychotic fluphenazine triggers a syndrome of vacuous chewing movements, which are attenuated by dopamine D(1) receptor antagonists. A similar syndrome can be seen in drug-naive animals following acute administration of selective dopamine D(1) receptor agonists. However, not all dopamine D(1) receptor agonists elicit these mouth movements. Thus, some investigators have suggested the existence of novel subtypes of the dopamine D(1) receptor. In these studies, we sought to clarify the role of the dopamine D(1A) receptor in vacuous chewing movements induced both by the selective dopamine D(1) receptor agonist SKF 38393, as well as by chronic neuroleptic administration, using in vivo oligonucleotide antisense to dopamine D(1A) receptor messenger RNA. Intrastriatal antisense treatment significantly and selectively attenuated striatal dopamine D(1) receptor binding, accompanied by reductions in SKF 38393- and chronic fluphenazine-induced vacuous chewing movements. These findings suggest that the dopamine D(1A) receptor plays an important role in the expression of vacuous chewing movements in a rodent model of tardive dyskinesia and may contribute to the pathogenesis of the human disorder. This may have important implications for the treatment of tardive dyskinesia in humans.
In vivo microdialysis was used to characterize basal dopamine dynamics and cocaine-evoked dopamine levels in the medial prefrontal cortex of male Sprague-Dawley rats that had previously received once daily injections of cocaine (days 1-5; 20mg/kg, i.p.) in combination with the selective kappa-opioid receptor agonist U-69593 (days 3-5; 0.32mg/kg, s.c.) or its vehicle. The influence of these treatments on [3H]dopamine uptake in medial prefrontal cortex synaptosomes was also determined. Three days following the cessation of drug treatment, animals with prior history of cocaine administration exhibited enhanced psychomotor stimulation in response to a subsequent cocaine challenge. This effect was not apparent in animals that had previously received the cocaine treatment regimen in combination with the kappa-opioid receptor agonist U-69593. Cocaine challenge increased prefrontal dopamine levels in all pretreatment groups, but cocaine-pre-exposed animals had lower cocaine-evoked dopamine levels and higher basal in vivo extraction fraction, indicative of an increase in basal dopamine uptake relative to controls. Pretreatment with U-69593 prevented these effects of cocaine. Measurement of [3H]dopamine uptake in synaptosomes revealed a significant increase in uptake three days after the cessation of cocaine treatment. No increase in uptake was observed in animals that had received the cocaine treatment regimen in combination with U-69593. These results demonstrate that the early phase of abstinence from cocaine is associated with marked alterations in medial prefrontal cortex dopamine neurotransmission and that these neuroadaptations are prevented by the activation of kappa-opioid receptors. Furthermore, they raise the possibility that mesocortical dopamine neurons may be an important neural substrate upon which kappa-opioid agonists act to prevent the development of cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization.
In vivo cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)-induced N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor and mitogen-activated protein kinase activation was investigated in the dorsal striatum by semiquantitative immunocytochemistry. Intracerebroventricular infusion of 8-bromo-adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphorothioate, Sp isomer (Sp-8-Br-cAMPS), increased phosphorylated cAMP-responsive element binding protein, phosphorylated Elk-1 and Fos immunoreactivity in a dose-dependent manner. Intracerebroventricular infusion of the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist, MK801, decreased, but tetrodotoxin or the mitogen-activated extracellular-regulated kinase inhibitor, PD98059, did not affect Sp-8-Br-cAMPS-induced phosphorylated c-AMP-responsive element binding protein, phosphorylated Elk-1, phosphorylated extracellular-signal-regulated kinase and Fos immunoreactivity. The p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase inhibitor, SB203580, decreased the Sp-8-Br-cAMPS-induced increase in all markers, except phosphorylated extracellular-signal-regulated kinase, in a dose-dependent manner. We suggest that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors couple c-AMP to phosphorylation events and immediate early gene induction in the nucleus of striatal medium spiny neurons. These events are mediated by crosstalk between protein kinase A and mitogen-activated protein kinase cascades in vivo.
The present study was designed to clarify the role of the NR1, NR2A and NR2B subunits of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in the development of morphine-induced place preference using specific antibodies to N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunits in the mouse. An i.c.v. injection with specific antibodies against the carboxyl-terminal region of either NR1, NR2A or NR2B subunits caused the attenuation of seizures induced by i.v. infusion of N-methyl-D-aspartate in the mouse. Using western blotting, NR1, NR2A and NR2B subunits were found to be highly expressed in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus of the mouse brain, which are key areas in producing seizures regulated by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. These findings indicate that all three subunits of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor in these areas are likely to be critical for the seizure induced by i.v. infusion of N-methyl-D-aspartate. Furthermore, present data provide evidence that these antibodies when given into the brain specifically act on the target sites, resulting in the blockade of the respective N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit. Under these conditions, i.c.v. treatment with the antibody against NR2B subunits abolished the morphine-induced place preference, whereas antibodies against NR1 and NR2A subunits did not affect the rewarding effect of morphine. Furthermore, the NR2B subunit protein was specifically up-regulated in the limbic forebrain of morphine-conditioned mice, whereas the protein levels of either NR1 or NR2A subunits were not altered.From these results, we suggest that the stimulation of the carboxyl-terminal region of NR2B subunits in the limbic forebrain may contribute to the development of morphine-induced rewarding effect.
Latent inhibition (the retarded conditioning to a stimulus following its repeated non-reinforced pre-exposure) and prepulse inhibition (the reduction in the startle response to an intense acoustic stimulus when this stimulus is immediately preceded by a prepulse) reflect cognitive and sensorimotor gating processes, respectively, and are deficient in schizophrenic patients. The disruption of latent inhibition and prepulse inhibition in the rat is used as an animal model for the attentional deficits associated with schizophrenia. The present study tested the extent to which latent inhibition and prepulse inhibition, startle reaction and locomotor activity in the open field were affected by infusing the non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist MK-801 (dizocilpine) into the dorsal hippocampus of Wistar rats. We used the same dose of MK-801 (6.25microg/0.5microl per side) previously found to be effective in the disruption of prepulse inhibition when infused into the dorsal hippocampus of Sprague-Dawley rats [Bakshi V. P. and Geyer M. A. (1998) J. Neurosci. 18, 8394-8401; Bakshi V. P. and Geyer M. A. (1999) Neuroscience 92, 113-121]. Bilateral infusion of MK-801 into the dorsal hippocampus did not disrupt latent inhibition. Furthermore, in contrast to previous studies, we failed to find a significant disruption of prepulse inhibition after MK-801 infusion into the dorsal hippocampus, although MK-801 infusion was effective in increasing the startle amplitude as well as locomotor activity in an open field. From our results, we suggest that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated processes within the dorsal hippocampus are not necessary for the normal maintenance of the attentional processes reflected by latent inhibition and prepulse inhibition.
Developmental changes in GABAergic synaptic transmission were examined in cultured hippocampal neurons using patch-clamp recordings and Ca(2+) imaging. In paired recordings, tetanization of the presynaptic GABAergic neuron with 80 pulses at either 40 or 80Hz was accompanied by tetanic depression of inhibitory postsynaptic responses. In neurons that had been cultured for more than two weeks, asynchronous inhibitory postsynaptic currents often appeared during the tetanus and continued for several seconds following stimulation. There was little asynchronous activity in neurons that had been cultured for shorter times. However, no age-related changes were observed in the amplitude of single synchronous inhibitory postsynaptic currents, paired-pulse depression or post-tetanic potentiation of inhibitory postsynaptic currents. Following equimolar replacement of extracellular Ca(2+) with strontium ions (Sr(2+)), single autaptic inhibitory postsynaptic currents were depressed in amplitude and asynchronous inhibitory postsynaptic currents were present on the decaying phase. Sr(2+)-induced asynchronous inhibitory postsynaptic currents showed no dependence on age in culture. Imaging of Ca(2+) in single GABAergic boutons was performed by including Fluo-3 in the patch pipette. During action potential firing induced by stimulating at 80Hz for 1s, intracellular calcium [Ca(2+)](i) increased rapidly in individual boutons. Following the stimulus, [Ca(2+)](i) decayed back to baseline within 10-15s. The half-time of decay increased from 1. 7+/-0.2s at 15days in vitro to 4.0+/-0.2s at 30days in vitro (P&lt;0. 05), with a developmental profile that closely matched the increase in asynchronous inhibitory postsynaptic currents. We propose that the increase in tetanus-induced asynchronous GABA-release during the first month of synapse maturation in vitro is caused by a slowing of the Ca(2+)-clearing mechanisms in the GABAergic boutons. This results in larger and more prolonged elevations of [Ca(2+)](i) during tetanic stimulation, which leads to enhanced asynchronous transmitter release. We propose that the results of this study demonstrate a potentially important aspect of synapse maturation during development, and also imply that GABA release is up-regulated in conditions of decreased Ca(2+) buffering and clearing.
Corticotropin-releasing hormone, a major neuromodulator of the neuroendocrine stress response, is expressed in the immature hippocampus, where it enhances glutamate receptor-mediated excitation of principal cells. Since the peptide influences hippocampal synaptic efficacy, its secretion from peptidergic interneuronal terminals may augment hippocampal-mediated functions such as learning and memory. However, whereas information regarding the regulation of corticotropin-releasing hormone's abundance in CNS regions involved with the neuroendocrine responses to stress has been forthcoming, the mechanisms regulating the peptide's levels in the hippocampus have not yet been determined. Here we tested the hypothesis that, in the immature rat hippocampus, neuronal stimulation, rather than neuroendocrine challenge, influences the peptide's expression. Messenger RNA levels of corticotropin-releasing hormone in hippocampal CA1, CA3 and the dentate gyrus, as well as in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus, were determined after cold, a physiological challenge that activates the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal system in immature rats, and after activation of hippocampal neurons by hyperthermia. These studies demonstrated that, while cold challenge enhanced corticotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA levels in the hypothalamus, hippocampal expression of this neuropeptide was unchanged. Secondly, hyperthermia stimulated expression of hippocampal immediate-early genes, as well as of corticotropin-releasing hormone. Finally, the mechanism of hippocampal corticotropin-releasing hormone induction required neuronal stimulation and was abolished by barbiturate administration. Taken together, these results indicate that neuronal stimulation may regulate hippocampal corticotropin-releasing hormone expression in the immature rat, whereas the peptide's expression in the hypothalamus is influenced by neuroendocrine challenges.
The objective of this study was to determine the role of mitochondrial superoxide radical-mediated oxidative damage in seizure-induced neuronal death. Using aconitase inactivation as an index of superoxide production, we found that systemic administration of kainate in rats increased mitochondrial superoxide production in the hippocampus at times preceding neuronal death. 8-Hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine, an oxidative lesion of DNA, was also increased in the rat hippocampus following kainate administration. Manganese(III) tetrakis(4-benzoic acid)porphyrin, a catalytic antioxidant, inhibited kainate-induced mitochondrial superoxide production, 8-hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine formation and neuronal loss in the rat hippocampus. Kainate-induced increases of mitochondrial superoxide production and hippocampal neuronal loss were attenuated in transgenic mice overexpressing mitochondrial superoxide dismutase-2. We propose that these results demonstrate a role for mitochondrial superoxide production in hippocampal pathology produced by kainate seizures.
Infusion of the K(+) channel blocker 4-aminopyridine in the hippocampus induces the release of glutamate, as well as seizures and neurodegeneration. Since an imbalance between excitation and inhibition, as well as alterations of ion channels, may be involved in these effects of 4-aminopyridine, we have studied whether they are modified by drugs that block glutamatergic transmission or ion channels, or drugs that potentiate GABA-mediated transmission. The drugs were administered to anesthetized rats subjected to intrahippocampal infusion of 4-aminopyridine through microdialysis probes, with simultaneous collection of dialysis perfusates and recording of the electroencephalogram, and subsequent histological analysis. Ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists clearly diminished the intensity of seizures and prevented the neuronal damage, but did not alter substantially the enhancement of extracellular glutamate induced by 4-aminopyridine. None of the drugs facilitating GABA-mediated transmission, including uptake blockers, GABA-transaminase inhibitors and agonists of the A-type receptor, was able to reduce the glutamate release, seizures or neuronal damage produced by 4-aminopyridine. In contrast, nipecotate, which notably increased extracellular levels of the amino acid, potentiated the intensity of seizures and the neurodegeneration. GABA(A) receptor antagonists partially reduced the extracellular accumulation of glutamate induced by 4-aminopyridine, but did not exert any protective action. Tetrodotoxin largely prevented the increase of extracellular glutamate, the electroencephalographic epileptic discharges and the neuronal death in the CA1 and CA3 hippocampal regions. Valproate and carbamazepine, also Na(+) channel blockers that possess general anticonvulsant action, failed to modify the three effects of 4-aminopyridine studied. The N-type Ca(2+) channel blocker omega-conotoxin, the K(+) channel opener diazoxide, and the non-specific ion channel blocker riluzole diminished the enhancement of extracellular glutamate and slightly protected against the neurodegeneration. However, the two former compounds did not antagonize the 4-aminopyridine-induced epileptiform discharges, and riluzole instead markedly increased the intensity and duration of the disharges. Moreover, at the highest dose tested (8mg/kg, i.p.), riluzole caused a 75% mortality of the rats. We conclude that 4-aminopyridine stimulates the release of glutamate from nerve endings and that the resultant augmented extracellular glutamate is directly related to the neurodegeneration and is involved in the generation of epileptiform discharges through the concomitant overactivation of glutamate receptors. Under these conditions, a facilitated GABA-mediated transmission may paradoxically boost neuronal hyperexcitation. Riluzole, a drug used to treat amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, seems to be toxic when combined with neuronal hyperexcitation.
Following cholinergic denervation of the hippocampus by medial septal lesions, an unusual neuronal reorganization occurs in which peripheral adrenergic fibers arising from superior cervical ganglia grow into the hippocampus (hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth). Recent studies suggest that a similar process, in which sympathetic noradrenergic axons invade the hippocampus, can occur in Alzheimer's disease patients. In the last few years, the occurrence of apoptotic cell death has been studied in Alzheimer's disease patients and in animal models of this disorder. Several studies suggest that the hippocampus is an important area to be considered for apoptotic cell death. In our studies in the rat hippocampus, we have measured the expression of inducers and blockers of apoptosis in membrane, cytosolic and mitochondrial fractions, and the activity of caspases. The level of cytosolic Fas was increased in cholinergic denervation compared to control and hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth groups. The membrane Fas ligand expression was significantly increased in hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth and in cholinergic denervation compared to the control group. The level of caspase-3 (CPP32) was increased in the cholinergic denervation group compared to control and hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth groups. The cytosolic expression of bcl-x was increased in hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth compared to control and cholinergic denervation. The cytosolic activity of caspase-3 appeared to be significantly decreased in hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth and increased in cholinergic denervation groups compared to control and cholinergic denervation/hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth, respectively. From the present results, we suggest that cholinergic denervation may be responsible for pro-apoptotic responses, while hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth may protect neurons from apoptosis in rat dorsal hippocampus.
The aim of this study was to explore the role of endogenous neurotrophins for inhibitory synaptic transmission in the dentate gyrus of adult mice. Heterozygous knockout (+/-) mice or neurotrophin scavenging proteins were used to reduce the levels of endogenous brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3. Patch-clamp recordings from dentate granule cells in brain slices showed that the frequency, but not the kinetics or amplitude, of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents was modulated in brain-derived neurotrophic factor +/- compared to wild-type (+/+) mice. Furthermore, paired-pulse depression of evoked inhibitory synaptic responses was increased in brain-derived neurotrophic factor +/- mice. Similar results were obtained in brain slices from brain-derived neurotrophic factor +/+ mice incubated with tyrosine receptor kinase B-immunoglobulin G, which scavenges endogenous brain-derived neurotrophic factor. The increased inhibitory synaptic activity in brain-derived neurotrophic factor +/- mice was accompanied by decreased excitability of the granule cells. No differences in the frequency, amplitude or kinetics of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents were seen between neurotrophin-3 +/- and +/+ mice. From these results we suggest that endogenous brain-derived neurotrophic factor, but not neurotrophin-3, has acute modulatory effects on synaptic inhibition onto dentate granule cells. The site of action seems to be located presynaptically, i.e. brain-derived neurotrophic factor regulates the properties of inhibitory interneurons, leading to increased excitability of dentate granule cells. We propose that through this mechanism, brain-derived neurotrophic factor can change the gating/filtering properties of the dentate gyrus for incoming information from the entorhinal cortex to hippocampus. This will have consequences for the recruitment of hippocampal neural circuitries both under physiological and pathological conditions, such as epileptogenesis.
To investigate the relationship between markers of sleep homeostasis during waking and sleep, the electroencephalogram of eight young males was recorded intermittently during a 40-h waking episode, as well as during baseline and recovery sleep. In the course of extended waking, spectral power of the electroencephalogram in the 5-8Hz band (theta activity) increased. In non-rapid eye movement sleep, power in the 0.75-4.5Hz band (slow-wave activity) was enhanced in the recovery night relative to baseline. Comparison of individual records revealed a positive correlation between the rise rate of theta activity during waking and the increase in slow-wave activity in the first non-rapid eye movement sleep episode. A topographic analysis based on 27 derivations showed that both effects were largest in frontal areas. From these results, we suggest that theta activity in waking and slow-wave activity in sleep are markers of a common homeostatic sleep process.
The piriform cortex is thought to be involved in temporal lobe seizure propagation, such as that occurring during kindling of the amygdala or hippocampus. A number of observations suggested that the circuits of the piriform cortex might act as a critical pathway for limbic seizure discharges to assess motor systems, but direct evidence for this suggestion is scarce. Furthermore, the piriform cortex is not a homogeneous structure, which complicates studies on its role in limbic epileptogenesis. We have previously reported data indicating that the central part of the piriform cortex might be particularly involved during amygdala kindling. In order to further evaluate the role of different parts of the piriform cortex during kindling development, we bilaterally destroyed either the central, anterior or posterior piriform cortex by microinjections of ibotenate two weeks before onset of amygdala kindling. Lesions of the anterior piriform cortex hardly affected kindling acquisition, except that fewer animals exhibited stage 3 (unilateral forelimb) seizures compared to sham controls. Lesions of the central piriform cortex significantly retarded kindling, which was due to a decreased progression from stage 3 to stage 4/5 seizures, i.e. the lesioned rats needed significantly longer for the acquisition of generalized clonic seizures in the late stages of kindling development. Lesions of the posterior piriform cortex did not significantly affect kindling development. The data demonstrate that different parts of the piriform cortex mediate qualitatively different effects on amygdala kindling. The central piriform cortex seems to be a neural substrate involved in the continuous development of kindling from stage 3 to stages 4/5, indicating that this part of the piriform cortex may have preferred access, either directly or indirectly, to structures capable of supporting generalized kindled seizure expression.
We reviewed epidemiological and experimental studies of female gonadal hormone replacement therapy (HRT) on cognitive function in post-menopausal women and carried out meta-analyses. In healthy ageing women, HRT has small and inconsistent effects that include enhancement of verbal memory, abstract reasoning and information processing. Epidemiological studies show larger effects than experimental studies, which is not related to sample size. Important confounds may be that women who start using HRT are healthier than women who do not. Also, controlling for socio-economic status diminishes the effect of HRT. The effects of HRT may depend on the age and type of menopause and the therapeutic intervention used, with the most widely used drug, Premarin, having least effect. However, the effects are independent of mood and climacteric symptom alleviation. There is a paucity of experimental studies that include healthy elderly women. The evidence for an estrogen deficiency in women with dementia and cognitive dysfunction is inconsistent. Nevertheless, epidemiological studies suggest that HRT protects against the development of clinically diagnosed Alzheimer's disease. However, poor recall of HRT use by patients and altered physician behaviour may have confounded the effects. Surprisingly, both healthy and demented women with low education seem to benefit most from HRT. Three recent controlled experimental studies using Premarin showed no effects of HRT in preventing further cognitive decline in women who already have Alzheimer's disease. Duration of treatment seems to play an important role, with beneficial effects declining-and even reversing-with longer treatment in women with Alzheimer's disease.Future research should further investigate the cognitive effect of different HRT preparations, serum estrogen levels, and the interactions of HRT with age, menopausal status and existing protective (e.g. education) and risk factors (e.g. smoking and apolipoprotein E genotype) for cognitive decline and Alzheimer's disease.
Previous studies established that the populations of neurons that frequently degenerate in Alzheimer's disease exhibit robust up-regulation of the lysosomal system. In this study, we investigated alterations of the lysosomal system during different forms of experimental injury in rat hippocampal neurons in culture, utilizing a combination of immunocytochemical and biochemical methods. Using triple-label immnocytochemistry for activated caspase-3, fragmentation of DNA and the microtubule-associated protein-2, we characterized treatment paradigms as models of the apoptotic (staurosporine, camptothecin), the oncotic (high-dose menadione, glutamate), and the mixed apoptotic and oncotic (low-dose menadione) pathways of neuronal death. Slowly developing apoptotic or slowly developing mixed apoptotic and oncotic forms of neuronal injury were associated with substantial increases in the number and size of cathepsin D-positive vesicles (late endosomes and mature lysosomes) as determined by immunocytochemistry, and elevated levels of cathepsin D by western blotting. In agreement with our previous findings in Alzheimer's disease, where lysosomal system activation was not restricted to overtly degenerating neurons, up-regulation of this system was also detected quite early during the course of experimental neuronal injury, preceding the development of dystrophic neurites, nuclear segmentation or fragmentation of DNA. These findings implicate lysosomal system activation, both in Alzheimer's disease and in experimental models of neuronal injury, as an important event associated with early stages of neurodegeneration.
The translocation of synaptic Zn(2+) from nerve terminals into selectively vulnerable neurons may contribute to the death of these neurons after global ischemia. We hypothesized that cellular Zn(2+) overload might be lethal for reasons similar to cellular Ca(2+) overload and tested the hypothesis that Zn(2+) neurotoxicity might be mediated by the activation of nitric oxide synthase. Although Zn(2+) (30-300microM) altered nitric oxide synthase activity in cerebellar extracts in solution, it did not affect nitric oxide synthase activity in cultured murine neocortical neurons. Cultured neurons exposed to 300-500microM Zn(2+) for 5min under depolarizing conditions developed widespread degeneration over the next 24h that was unaffected by the concurrent addition of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N(G)-nitro-L-arginine. Furthermore, Zn(2+) neurotoxicity was attenuated when nitric oxide synthase activity in the cultures was induced by exposure to cytokines, exogenous nitric oxide was added or nitric oxide production was pharmacologically enhanced. The unexpected protective effect of nitric oxide against Zn(2+) toxicity may be explained, at least in part, by reduction of toxic Zn(2+) entry. Exposure to nitric oxide donors reduced Ba(2+) current through high-voltage activated calcium channels, as well as K(+)-stimulated neuronal uptake of 45Ca(2+) or 65Zn(2+). The oxidizing agents thimerosal and 2,2'-dithiodipyridine also reduced K(+)-stimulated cellular 45Ca(2+) uptake, while akylation of thiols by pretreatment with N-ethylmaleimide blocked the reduction of 45Ca(2+) uptake by a nitric oxide donor.The results suggest that Zn(2+)-induced neuronal death is not mediated by the activation of nitric oxide synthase; rather, available nitric oxide may attenuate Zn(2+) neurotoxicity by reducing Zn(2+) entry through voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels, perhaps by oxidizing key thiol groups.
The parathyroid hormone-2 receptor is a member of the secretin family of guanine nucleotide-binding protein-coupled receptors. The human parathyroid hormone-2 receptor is activated by parathyroid hormone and a recently purified hypothalamic polypeptide, tubero-infundibular peptide of 39 residues, while the rat parathyroid hormone-2 receptor is poorly activated by parathyroid hormone and is potently activated by tubero-infundibular peptide of 39 residues. In order to provide a foundation for studies on the physiological role of the parathyroid hormone-2 receptor and tubero-infundibular peptide of 39 residues, we investigated the cellular distribution of the parathyroid hormone-2 receptor in the rat CNS using both immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization histochemistry. The receptor is found in discrete groups of neurons in many regions. It is present in scattered small cells throughout the cerebral cortex, in small and medium-sized cells in the striatum, and is quite abundant in the septum and the midline thalamic nuclei. Its expression is high in the hypothalamus, particularly in the periventricular and arcuate nuclei. Fibers and terminals in the external zone of the median eminence, and in the superficial layers of the caudal spinal trigeminal tract and the spinal cord dorsal horn, are strongly and dramatically labeled by a parathyroid hormone-2 receptor-selective antibody. The localization of parathyroid hormone-2 receptor suggests a role in the regulation of pituitary hormone secretion, sensory information processing and homeostatic regulation.
Recent evidence suggests that lactate could be a preferential energy substrate transferred from astrocytes to neurons. This would imply the presence of specific transporters for lactate on both cell types. We have investigated the immunohistochemical localization of two monocarboxylate transporters, MCT1 and MCT2, in the adult mouse brain. Using specific antibodies raised against MCT1 and MCT2, we found strong immunoreactivity for each transporter in glia limitans, ependymocytes and several microvessel-like elements. In addition, small processes distributed throughout the cerebral parenchyma were immunolabeled for monocarboxylate transporters. Double immunofluorescent labeling and confocal microscopy examination of these small processes revealed no co-localization between glial fibrillary acidic protein and monocarboxylate transporters, although many glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive processes were often in close apposition to elements labeled for monocarboxylate transporters. In contrast, several elements expressing the S100beta protein, another astrocytic marker found to be located in distinct parts of the same cell when compared with glial fibrillary acidic protein, were also strongly immunoreactive for MCT1, suggesting expression of this transporter by astrocytes. In contrast, MCT2 was expressed in a small subset of microtubule-associated protein-2-positive elements, indicating a neuronal localization. In conclusion, these observations are consistent with the possibility that lactate, produced and released by astrocytes (via MCT1), could be taken up (via MCT2) and used by neurons as an energy substrate.
Target-derived nerve growth factor provides trophic support for adult primary afferent neurons containing calcitonin gene-related peptide and tachykinins. Noxious chemical or thermal stimuli cause the release of these mediators from peripheral afferent nerve endings. However, little is known of the extent to which these mediators, in turn, influence nerve growth factor expression in the innervated tissue. The aim of this study was therefore to investigate the possible effect of exogenous substance P, or neurogenic inflammation on the nerve growth factor concentration in the skin of the rat hindpaw. Our results show that substance P as well as topical application of mustard oil cause a significant increase in detectable nerve growth factor, an effect that was prevented by treatment of rats with the tachykinin NK(1) receptor antagonist SR140333. We did not observe a significant inhibitory effect of SR140333 on the nerve growth factor content in non-treated skin, or the nerve growth factor increase caused by carrageenan or allergic inflammation. The results provide evidence that substance P as well as neurogenic inflammation cause a rapid increase in detectable nerve growth factor in the paw skin and suggest the involvement of NK(1) receptors in this effect. We obtained no evidence for the participation of a NK(1) receptor-mediated nerve growth factor increase in models of inflammation induced by non-neurogenic stimuli.
Single-unit and multiunit activities were recorded from dorsal column nuclei of anesthetized rats in order to study the characteristics of the oscillatory activity expressed by these cells and their neuronal interactions. On the basis of their firing rate characteristics in spontaneous conditions, two types of dorsal column nuclei cell have been identified. Low-frequency cells (74%) were silent or displayed a low firing rate (1.9+/-0.48 spikes/s), and were identified as thalamic-projecting neurons because they were activated antidromically by medial lemniscus stimulation. High-frequency cells (26%) were characterized by higher discharge rates (27.2+/-5.1 spikes/s). None of them was antidromically activated by medial lemniscus stimulation. Low-frequency neurons showed a non-rhythmic discharge pattern spontaneously which became rhythmic under sensory stimulation of their receptive fields (48% of cases; 4.8+/-0.23Hz). All high-frequency neurons showed a rhythmic discharge pattern at 13.8+/- 0.68Hz either spontaneously or during sensory stimulation of their receptive fields. The shift predictor analysis indicated that oscillatory activity is not phase-locked to the stimulus onset in either type of cell, although the stimulus can reset the phase of the rhythmic activity of high-frequency cells. Cross-correlograms between pairs of low-frequency neurons typically revealed synchronized rhythmic activity when the overlapping receptive fields were stimulated. Rhythmic synchronization of high-frequency discharges was rarely observed spontaneously or under sensory stimulation. High-frequency neuronal firing could be correlated with the low-frequency neuronal activity or more often with the multiunit activity during sensory stimulation. Moreover, the presence of oscillatory activity modulated the sensory responses of dorsal column nuclei cells, favoring their responses. These findings indicate that thalamic-projecting and non-projecting neurons in dorsal column nuclei exhibited distinct oscillatory characteristics. However, both types of neuron may be entrained into an oscillatory rhythmic pattern when their overlapping receptive fields are stimulated, suggesting that in those conditions the dorsal column nuclei generate a populational oscillatory output to the somatosensory thalamus which could modulate and amplify the effectiveness of the somatosensory transmission.
Motoneuron axotomy was exploited as a model system for studying functional and morphological changes caused in motoneuron cell bodies by peripheral axon injury. Rodent facial motoneurons express functional nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. We have determined the effect of neonatal unilateral facial nerve transection on these receptors by using electrophysiological and immunohistochemical techniques. To avoid rapid apoptotic cell death of axotomized motoneurons, the study was done in mice overexpressing the human bcl-2 transgene. Intact motoneurons responded to acetylcholine by generating a rapidly rising inward current, which was insensitive to methyllycaconitine, a selective antagonist of alpha7-containing nicotinic receptors, but was suppressed by dihydro-beta-erythroidine, a broad-spectrum antagonist. This indicates that mouse facial motoneurons possess nicotinic receptors which are probably devoid of the alpha7 subunit. In striking contrast, axotomized motoneurons displayed little or no sensitivity to acetylcholine. Axotomy did not affect the sensitivity of facial motoneurons to the selective glutamate receptor agonist alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxaxolepropionic acid. Immunohistochemical studies revealed that the alpha4 nicotinic receptor subunit was present in intact motoneurons but was undetectable in axotomized motoneurons. By contrast, the beta2 subunit was comparable in intact and axotomized motoneurons. alpha3 immunoreactivity was undetectable, both in intact and in axotomized motoneurons.Thus, mouse facial nicotinic receptors are possibly of the alpha4beta2 type and axotomy interferes negatively with the expression of the alpha4 subunit. By down-regulating nicotinic receptors, peripheral nerve injury may facilitate motoneuron degeneration. Alternatively, nicotinic receptor downregulation and motoneuron degeneration may be independent consequences of peripheral axotomy.
The aim of this study was to determine whether neuronal nitric oxide synthase and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors are co-localized in the rat nucleus tractus solitarii. Such co-localization would support the hypothesis that nitric oxide participates in nucleus tractus solitarii-mediated functions, such as cardiovascular regulation, by a link to N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. We used double fluorescent immunohistochemistry using antibodies against neuronal nitric oxide synthase and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1, the fundamental subunit for functional N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Labeled brainstem sections were examined with confocal laser scanning microscopy. Most of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1 immunoreactivity was in cell bodies and proximal dendrites of the numerous labeled cells in the brainstem. High levels of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1 immunoreactivity were present in the dorsal motor nucleus of vagus, hypoglossal nucleus and nucleus ambiguus. All subnuclei of the nucleus tractus solitarii contained moderate levels of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1 immunoreactivity. The distribution of neuronal nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity in the nucleus tractus solitarii was similar to that described in earlier reports. Superimposition of images revealed that almost all neuronal nitric oxide synthase immunoreactive neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarii contained N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1 immunoreactivity, but a lesser portion of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1-immunoreactive cells contained neuronal nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity. Although all nucleus tractus solitarii subnuclei contained double-labeled neurons, the central subnucleus exhibited the highest density of double-labeled neurons.Co-localization of neuronal nitric oxide synthase and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1 in the nucleus tractus solitarii provides anatomical support for the hypothesis that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation can affect nucleus tractus solitarii-controlled functions via actions on neurons that synthesize nitric oxide.
Secretion of neurotrophins is critical for the delivery of neurotrophic support. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor is targeted to a regulated secretory pathway in neurons as well as the neurosecretory AtT-20 cells. Here, we show that pertussis toxin, which inactivates Gi and Go G proteins, inhibits up to 50% of the regulated release of brain derived neurotrophic factor by AtT-20 cells. To determine whether pertussis toxin-sensitive G proteins may regulate brain-derived neurotrophic factor release in vivo, the effect of intraocular pertussis toxin was assessed on the isthmo-optic nucleus in the developing chick visual system. The isthmo-optic nucleus projects axons from the midbrain to innervate retinal amacrine cells and depends on target-derived brain-derived neurotrophic factor between embryonic days 13 and 17 (E13-17). During this period approximately 50% of isthmo-optic neurons are eliminated by programmed cell death. Intraocular pertussis toxin administered at E13 increased cell death of isthmo-optic neurons by 42%, whereas injections at E19 had no effect. Co-injection of brain-derived neurotrophic factor with pertussis toxin rescued approximately 50% of isthmo-optic neurons from enhanced cell death, although overall retinal brain derived neurotrophic factor protein levels were unaffected by pertussis toxin. Retrograde transport of exogenous 125I-labeled brain derived neurotrophic factor from the retina to the midbrain was increased by co-administration of pertussis toxin, possibly owing to diminished competition from endogenously released brain-derived neurotrophic factors for the receptors that mediate retrograde axonal transport. These data suggest that the release of a major fraction of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the secretory pathway in vitro and in vivo is regulated by the activity of pertussis toxin-sensitive G proteins.
Increased activity of the immediate-early gene c-fos can be observed in many areas of the lactating rat brain after dams physically interact with pups and display maternal behaviour. These sites include the medial preoptic area, ventral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and the ventrolateral caudal periaqueductal gray, each of which is critical for the normal performance of particular maternal behaviours. The phenotype of cells in these areas that show increased c-fos activity after maternal behaviour, however, is unknown. Via double-label immunocytochemistry, we determined if the population of cells in these sites that express c-fos after maternal behaviour in lactating rats overlaps with the population that expresses the 67,000 mol. wt isoform of glutamate decarboxlyase, the synthesizing enzyme for the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA. Lactating rats were separated from pups beginning on day 5 postpartum, and 48h later half were allowed to interact with a litter of pups for 60min whereas the other half were not. Dams re-exposed to pups were highly maternal, retrieving and licking them as well as displaying prolonged nursing behaviour that included milk letdown. Both groups of dams had a similar number of 67,000 mol. wt glutamate decarboxylase-immunoreactive cells in each site, although the number of 67,000 mol. wt glutamate decarboxylase-immunoreactive cells per microscopic field was significantly greater in the caudal ventrolateral periaqueductal gray than in the ventral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, which in turn was greater than the medial preoptic area. In pup-stimulated dams, two to fourfold more Fos-immunoreactive cells were found in these three sites compared with non-stimulated controls. Labeling for Fos immunoreactivity and 67,000 mol. wt glutamate decarboxylase immunoreactivity was heterogeneous within each site. In the medial preoptic area, more Fos-immunoreactive and 67,000 mol. wt glutamate decarboxylase-immunoreactive cells (either single or dual-labeled) were found dorsally than ventrally. In the ventral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, more Fos-immunoreactive and 67,000 mol. wt glutamate decarboxylase-immunoreactive cells were found medially than laterally. Within the caudal ventrolateral periaqueductal gray, 67,000 mol. wt glutamate decarboxylase-immunoreactive labeling was greatest ventromedially, while high numbers of Fos-immunoreactive nuclei were found both ventromedially and ventrolaterally. In pup-stimulated dams, more than half (53% in the medial preoptic area, 59% in the ventral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and 61% in the caudal ventrolateral periaqueductal gray) of the total population of Fos-immunoreactive cells also expressed 67,000 mol. wt glutamate decarboxylase. These results suggest that many of the neurons in these sites that show elevated c-fos activity after maternal behaviour are either local inhibitory interneurons or provide inhibitory input to other neural sites. These inhibitory mechanisms may be critical for the display of postpartum nurturance, possibly facilitating maternal behaviour by removing tonic inhibition on sites necessary for maternal responding or by restricting activity in neural sites that inhibit it.
The paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus has efferent connections to autonomic nuclei known to ultimately regulate cardiovascular function. Studies have revealed projections to the sympathetic preganglionic neurons of the spinal cord and presympathetic motor neurons of the rostral ventrolateral medulla. This study set out to establish whether the same neurons in the paraventricular nucleus innervate both these regions. In rats the fluorescent neuroanatomical tracers FluoroGold, Fast Blue or Dextran tetramethyl rhodamine were injected into either the rostral ventrolateral medulla or T2 region of the spinal cord. After a suitable survival period (five to seven days) three populations of neurons could be identified in the paraventricular nucleus, double-labelled neurons and single-labelled neurons resulting from the injections into the spinal cord or injections into the rostral ventrolateral medulla. The neurons were of similar size regardless of the dye content. Most neurons were found in the parvocellular subdivision of the mid rostral paraventricular nucleus. The number of labelled neurons decreased in the caudal sections. This study provides an anatomical basis for three means of influence that the paraventricular nucleus can have on sympathetic activity; a hierarchical in series projection via the rostral ventrolateral medulla; a projection running in parallel with this but bypassing the rostroventrolateral medulla; and a branching population innervating neurons in both the rostral ventrolateral medulla and spinal cord. The paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus is an important brain area concerned with maintaining cardiovascular homeostasis. This anatomical study has not only provided confirmatory evidence that direct projections arising from the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus do project to the rostral ventrolateral medulla and spinal cord, regions known to influence cardiovascular regulation. The study has identified a branching projection originating in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus that projects to both the rostral ventrolateral medulla and the spinal cord. Thus the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus has three pathways in which to influence cardiovascular homeostasis.
The constancy of plasma osmolality demands that salt and water concentration within the extracellular fluid be constantly monitored and regulated within a few percentage points. The circumventricular organs in general, and the subfornical organ in particular, have long been proposed to be the site of the osmosensitivity. Isolated subfornical organ neurons of male rats were studied using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique and both action potential frequency and whole cell currents were measured as bath osmolality was changed, from 240 to 330mOsm, by altering the amount of mannitol and maintaining the concentrations of electrolytes constant. Out of 64 cells, 66% responded to changes in bath osmolality in a predictable manner, exhibiting a hyperpolarization and decrease in spike frequency in hypo-osmotic solutions and a depolarization and increase in action potential frequency during hyperosmotic exposure. Cells (34%) defined as non-responders exhibited no significant modulation during identical changes in extracellular osmolality. The responses to changing extracellular osmolality were dose dependent; the activity of subfornical organ neurons was significantly modulated by changes in extracellular osmolality of less than 10mOsm. By regression analysis, this osmosensitivity was approximately 0. 1Hz/mOsm change throughout a +/-10mOsm range and was maintained throughout the range of osmolalities studied (270-330mOsm). The mechanism underlying this osmosensitivity remains unclear, although the non-selective cation conductance and the volume-activated chloride conductance do not seem to be involved.This intrinsic osmosensitivity of subfornical organ within the normal physiological range supports the view that this circumventricular structure plays a role in normal osmoregulation.
Cocaine self-administration increases dopamine efflux and neuronal activity in the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system compared with experimenter-administered cocaine. Following a prolonged cocaine self-administration binge, dopamine efflux in the nucleus accumbens is attenuated and behaviors emerge that are indicative of anhedonia and anxiety. The neuronal correlates of these behavioral and neurochemical effects of a cocaine binge were assessed using in situ hybridization histochemistry to detect changes in zif268 messenger RNA expression. Rats were fitted with intravenous catheters; one group was trained to self-administer cocaine (0.5mg/injection), then allowed continuous access to cocaine during a 16h binge, while yoked animals received either saline or cocaine according to the same schedule. Measurement of tactile startle responses and ultrasonic distress calls either immediately after termination of cocaine access or one or 14 days later confirmed peak withdrawal at 24h after the binge. The level of zif268 messenger RNA was lower upon termination of cocaine self-administration than in both yoked treatment groups in the ventral tegmental area and hippocampus. In contrast, zif268 messenger RNA expression increased in the periaqueductal gray matter one day after termination of passive cocaine treatment, coincident with enhanced expression of ultrasonic vocalizations. Zif268 messenger RNA expression decreased over time in the nucleus accumbens core and infralimbic cortex, with reduced expression observed in the nucleus accumbens core, caudatoputamen, hippocampus and amygdala 14 days after termination of cocaine self-administration. The results suggest that withdrawal following a cocaine self-administration binge produces a long-lasting reduction of constitutive zif268 messenger RNA expression in mesocorticolimbic brain regions related to the nucleus accumbens. The relatively greater effect in animals that self-administered cocaine implies a relationship of certain regional responses to behavioral conditioning.
A major obstacle in neural transplantation is a severe loss of neurons in grafts soon after implantation. In the present study, we have investigated whether the systemic administration of synthetic fibronectin peptide V can increase the survival of neural grafts. Synthetic fibronectin peptide V is derived from the 33,000 mol. wt carboxyl-terminal heparin-binding domain of fibronectin. Previous studies have shown that these polypeptides possess anti-inflammatory properties. However, it is currently unknown whether this peptide has anti-apoptotic properties. Dissociated neural grafts were prepared from the ventral mesencephalon of pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats and were stereotaxically injected as a cell suspension into the striatum of adult Sprague-Dawley rats. A group of recipient rats received i.v. injections of peptide V (5mg/kg, dissolved in saline) at 24 and 4h prior to transplantation, at the time of transplantation, and 24, 48 and 72h post-transplantation. Saline-treated rats served as controls. The rats were killed at two, four and 42 days post-grafting and the brain tissue was immunologically processed for tyrosine-hydroxylase, major histocompatibility complex class I and class II antigens, complement receptor type 3 and leukocyte common antigen immunocytochemistry, and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling assay. We found a significant increase (approximately twofold) in the number of dopamine neurons in the grafts for the peptide-treated group at four and 42 days compared with the controls. In contrast, there was no significant difference in the patterns of inflammation using different immunocytochemical markers in the two different groups. The levels of expression for these markers, however, were reduced over time. Interestingly, the number of apoptotic cells in the graft areas was significantly smaller in the peptide-treated group than in the control group two days after grafting. The results demonstrate that the systemic administration of synthetic fibronectin peptide V can dramatically increase the survival of nigral grafts in the brain and substantially reduce the number of apoptotic cells in the graft site, suggesting that this peptide may exert a beneficial effect on survival of nigral grafts through an anti-apoptotic mechanism.
Neuroimmunophilin ligands have been shown to enhance neurite outgrowth in several neuronal systems in culture, including primary dopaminergic neurons from fetal ventral mesencephalon. We investigated the ability of neuroimmunophilin ligands to enhance outgrowth of transplanted fetal dopamine neurons in vivo. Rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the nigrostriatal dopamine system were transplanted with rat embryonic day 14 ventral mesencephalon into the striatum, then treated orally with a neuroimmunophilin ligand (15mg/kg) or vehicle once per day for 14 days. All transplanted animals regained dopamine function over a 10 week behavioral test period, as indicated by decrease and reversal of amphetamine-induced rotation. In addition, neuroimmunophilin ligand-treated animals showed a more pronounced motor response during the first 10min after amphetamine injection, possibly reflecting increased striatal reinnervation or increased functional capacity. At post-mortem analyses, neuroimmunophilin ligand-treated rats showed a significantly higher density of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive fibers reinnervating the lesioned striatum, both immediately surrounding the transplant (92% of unlesioned density in neuroimmunophilin-treated rats vs 67% of unlesioned levels in vehicle-treated rats) and at some distance from the transplant/host interface. The number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells within the transplants was not different between groups. This study demonstrates that short-term oral administration of a neuroimmunophilin ligand can enhance neurite outgrowth from fetal dopamine neuronal transplants.
Using dual probe microdialysis, assessment of extracellular neurotransmitter levels in the corpus striatum and globus pallidus was performed in ovariectomized and gonadally intact female, Sprague-Dawley rats following chronic (24 weeks) oral haloperidol administration. Vacuous chewing movements, an animal analog of orofacial dyskinesia, were also recorded at several time points during haloperidol administration and throughout the dialysis sampling session. Basal GABA levels were significantly elevated in the globus pallidus of haloperidol-treated rats compared with vehicle animals. Injection of the dopamine D(1) agonist dihydrexidine (3mg/kg, s.c.) decreased striatal dopamine levels in both vehicle and haloperidol-treated rats, with a larger decrease seen in haloperidol-treated rats. Furthermore, dihydrexidine reduced striatal 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid levels only in haloperidol-treated rats. Gonadal status had no effect on any neurochemical measure. Vacuous chewing movements were significantly elevated in haloperidol-treated groups by the sixth week of treatment, with higher counts seen in gonadally intact rats. Vacuous chewing movements were significantly elevated above baseline in all groups following dihydrexidine, with no differential effect of prior haloperidol treatment or gonadal status. These results indicate a tonic increase in pallidal GABA levels and a hypersensitivity of D(1)-mediated striatal dopamine and dopamine metabolite decreases following chronic haloperidol treatment. While not found to be correlated with neurochemical measures, the heightened vacuous chewing movements in gonadally intact vs ovariectomized rats may serve as a model of hormone-mediated differences in neuroleptic-induced oral dyskinesia.
Intracellular recordings were made from thalamocortical neurons in slices of rat dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus in vitro, where ionotropic glutamate receptors and ionotropic and metabotropic GABA receptors had been blocked. The activation of specific metabotropic glutamate receptors by exogenous agonists and by the electrical stimulation of the corticothalamic pathway was then assessed using selective antagonists. The specific group I agonist (S)-3, 5-dihydoxyphenylglycine and the non-selective agonist (1S, 3R)-1-aminocyclo-pentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid both caused a concentration-dependent depolarization of membrane potential. These effects were associated with an increase in the apparent input resistance, and a more robust expression of both the depolarizing sag of the voltage response and the low-threshold Ca(2+) potential and an increase in thalamocortical neuron excitability. However, group I agonists selective for the mGlu5 receptor and agonists selective for group II and III receptors did not have these effects. Consequently, these data suggested that these actions were mediated specifically by the group I mGlu1 receptor. The activation of cortical fibres, with trains of 50 stimuli at 50Hz, resulted in a two-component depolarizing response. The first part of this synaptic response and the agonist-induced depolarization of membrane potential were depressed by the novel group I receptor antagonists LY367366 and LY367385, which are active at mGlu1 receptors. However, they were not blocked by 6-methyl-2-(phenylethyl)-pyridine, a highly selective mGlu5 receptor antagonist.Thus, the membrane potential depolarization of thalamocortical neurons caused either by exogenous agonists or by the stimulation of cortical fibres resulted from the specific activation of mGlu1 but not mGlu5 receptors. This result is consistent with the location of this receptor type on the distal dendrites of thalamocortical neurons in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus of the thalamus.
Although there is evidence that group I metabotropic glutamate receptors participate in long-term potentiation, the role of these receptors remains unclear. Among antagonists of group I metabotropic glutamate receptors, the mGluR5-selective 6-methyl-2-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine inhibited long-term potentiation in the CA1 region of hippocampal slices from 30-day-old rats, whereas (RS)-1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid and cyclopropan[b]chromen-1a-carboxylic acid ethylester, which are more selective for mGluR1, failed to inhibit long-term potentiation. Evidence also indicates that arachidonic acid is required for long-term potentiation, as inhibition of phospholipase A(2) blocks long-term potentiation. Administration of arachidonic acid immediately after tetanic stimulation restored long-term potentiation that had been inhibited by group I antagonists. Furthermore, arachidonic acid overcame inhibition of long-term potentiation by xestospongin C, an inositol triphosphate receptor channel blocker, or by thapsigargin, an agent that depletes intracellular calcium stores. However, arachidonic acid did not restore long-term potentiation blocked by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists. Although it has been assumed that the source of the arachidonic acid necessary for long-term potentiation is N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation, our results suggest that during long-term potentiation group I metabotropic glutamate receptors cause arachidonic acid release by mobilization of intracellular calcium.
Iron may catalyse the production of reactive oxygen species during post-ischemic reoxygenation and subsequently lead to brain damage. Ferritin, an iron sequestering and storage protein, can also be a source of iron after ischemic insult. However, its role in ischemia-reperfusion has not been carefully investigated. In the present study, we examined the temporal and spatial induction profiles of both H- and L-ferritin messenger RNA and protein in a well-defined focal cerebral ischemia model. Results of northern blot analysis showed a delayed and prolonged induction of both H- and L-ferritin messenger RNA in the ischemic cortex of rats subjected to 60min ischemic insult. A significant induction of both H- and L-ferritin messenger RNA was observed at 12h and remained elevated for up to 336h after the onset of reperfusion. At the peak level, quantitative analysis of the blot indicated a 2.5-fold and a six-fold increase in H- and L-ferritin messenger RNA, respectively, compared with the sham-operated controls. No apparent change in the levels of either messenger RNA was observed in the contralateral side. Results of in situ hybridization studies revealed constitutive expression of both H- and L-ferritin messenger RNA throughout the brain in sham-operated animals, in particular the hippocampus and the piriform cortex. Nevertheless, the signal intensity of H-ferritin messenger RNA was much higher than that of L-ferritin messenger RNA. Seventy-two hours after 60min ischemia, marked expression of H-ferritin messenger RNA was observed in the area surrounding the middle cerebral artery irrigated cortex, the medial part of the caudoputamen and in the subfield of the CA1 hippocampal region of the ipsilateral hemisphere. Similarly, a large induction of L-ferritin messenger RNA was also noted in several areas, including the middle cerebral artery irrigated cortex, the lateral part of the caudoputamen and the stratum pyramidale of the CA1 hippocampal region, which were totally different from areas where H-ferritin messenger RNA was found. At 336h after ischemia, increased expression of H-ferritin messenger RNA was observed in the peri-necrosis and ipsilateral thalamus regions, while L-ferritin messenger RNA was noted exclusively at the edge within the necrosis. Results of immunohistochemical study further revealed that ferritin immunoreactivity was present in the same areas where increased ferritin messenger RNA was found. Sixty-minute ischemia also led to iron deposition in discrete areas. Iron deposition was highly associated with the induction of ferritin, particularly in the macrophage- and microglia-positive areas where cell death or tissue necrosis was noted.In summary, our initial findings indicate that ischemic insult leads to induction of both H- and L-ferritin messenger RNA. In the present study, although the temporal induction profiles were similar, the major expression areas for these two genes were totally different. Ferritin immunoreactivity was observed in the same areas where increased ferritin messenger RNA was found. Ischemia also resulted in iron deposition, which highly associated with the ferritin immunoreactivity. The exact regulatory mechanism and pathological significance for the differential expression of H- and L-ferritin genes following ischemia/reperfusion remain to be clarified.
Many models of induced ischemic and epileptic tolerance have now been described in the brain. Although detailed mechanisms underlying such protections still remain largely unknown, induction of heat shock proteins is amongst the endogenous responses believed to play an important role in cellular defense mechanisms. This study reveals that the development of epileptic tolerance also coincides with the induction of the 70,000 mol. wt heat shock protein expression within the time window of protection. Adenosine agonists or ATP-sensitive potassium channel openers have also been shown to exert strong neuroprotective effects when injected shortly prior to a severe ischemic or epileptic insult. The present work shows that adenosine receptor activation and ATP-sensitive potassium channel opening induce 70,000 mol. wt heat shock protein expression in the rat hippocampus and are able to mimic neuroprotection driven by preconditioning. R-phenylisopropyladenosine, a purine agonist, or (-)cromakalim, an ATP-sensitive potassium channel opener, was administered three days prior to a lethal ischemic or epileptic episode to mimic preconditioning. Neurodegeneration was assessed using Cresyl Violet staining and cellular DNA fragmentation visualized by the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated 2'-deoxyuridine 5'-triphosphate-biotin nick end labeling method. 70, 000 mol. wt heat shock protein expression was analysed by western blotting and immunohistochemistry. The results show a long-lasting neuroprotection induced by activation of adenosine receptors or ATP-sensitive K(+) channels as early as three days prior to induction of a severe ischemic or epileptic challenge. This protective effect is associated with enhanced 70,000 mol. wt heat shock protein expression also occurring three days following administration of R-phenylisopropyladenosine or (-)cromakalim. These findings support the idea that preconditioning doses of R-phenylisopropyladenosine and (-)cromakalim act as mild cellular stresses inducing neuroprotection in a manner similar to a mild kainate treatment prior to a lethal ischemic or severe epileptic insult three days later. They also suggest that a delayed 70,000 mol. wt heat shock protein expression induced by excitatory neuronal stresses such as short ischemia, mild kainic acid treatment or activation of adenosine receptors and ATP-sensitive potassium channels is predictive of neuronal survival against a subsequent lethal injury.
An i.p. injection of kainate resulted in severe losses of neuronal cells stained by Cresyl Violet in the CA1 and CA3 pyramidal layers of the murine hippocampus within two weeks, without affecting those in the dentate granule layer up to six weeks. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed marked and predominant expression of Fos family members, including c-Fos, Fos-B and Fra-2 proteins, in the dentate granule layer of the hippocampus, but not in the pyramidal layers, 2-18h after administration. Immunoblotting experiments showed that kainate induced more potent expression of c-Fos protein in nuclear fractions obtained 2h after injection than those obtained 18h later, with similar expression between cytosolic fractions obtained 2 and 18h after administration. Both Fos-B and Fra-2 proteins were more potently expressed in nuclear and cytosolic fractions 18h after administration than 2h when determined on immunoblotting analysis. Two-dimensional electrophoresis revealed expression of several proteins immunoreactive to the anti-c-Fos antibody with different isoelectric points in response to kainate in nuclear and cytosolic fractions of the hippocampus for 2-18h after a single injection. Immunoprecipitation analysis using the anti-c-Fos antibody showed phosphorylation of c-Fos protein on serine residues in hippocampal nuclear fractions 2h after administration, with additional phosphorylation on tyrosine residues 18h later. Prior treatment of the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide prevented the expression of immunoreactivities to the anti-c-Fos antibody detected on two-dimensional electrophoresis in hippocampal nuclear fractions obtained 2h after administration.These results suggest that in vivo kainate signals may lead to persistent expression of the transcription factor activator protein-1 that consists of different Fos family members, as well as of c-Fos protein phosphorylated on serine and/or tyrosine residues, at an early stage after administration. Such signal consolidation processes could play a role in mechanisms associated with neuronal survival after kainate in the dentate granular layer of murine hippocampus.
The antiepileptic effect of the dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker nifedipine was tested in neocortical slice preparations (n=27) from patients ranging in age from four to 46 years (mean=25) who underwent surgery for the treatment of intractable epilepsy. Epileptiform events consisted of spontaneously occurring rhythmic sharp waves as well as of untriggered epileptiform field potentials induced by omission of Mg(2+) from the superfusate, or epileptiform field potentials elicited by application of bicuculline and triggered by single electrical stimuli. (1) Spontaneous rhythmic sharp waves (n=6): with nifedipine (40micromol/l), the repetition rate was decreased down to 30% of initial value, whereas the area under the field potential remained nearly unchanged. (2) Untriggered low Mg(2+) epileptiform field potentials (n=6): with nifedipine (40micromol/l) the area under the field potentials was reduced while the action on the repetition rate was ambiguous. (3) Triggered bicuculline epileptiform field potentials (n=15): with nifedipine (40micromol/l; n=4), no antiepileptic effect was found. There was, however, a marked increase in the area under the epileptiform field potentials. The area under the field potentials was reduced only at a dosage of 60micromol/l (n=11). This effect was stronger when nifedipine was applied with a K(+) concentration raised from 4 to 8mmol/l. The results show that the calcium channel blocker nifedipine is able to reduce differential epileptiform discharges in human neocortical tissue. These observations are in line with previous findings, suggesting that calcium flux into neurons is involved in epileptogenesis. The present results therefore support the idea that some organic calcium antagonists may be useful in human epilepsy therapy, although the etiology of epileptic seizures seems to be a critical factor for the efficacy of the drug.
Imunocytochemical techniques were used to determine whether agonist-induced activation of mu-opioid receptors alters the number and distribution of mu-opioid receptor-positive cells in the rat cerebral cortex. In untreated rats, mu-opioid receptor immunoreactivity was localized to neuronal perikarya and dendrites and to neuropilar punctate structures. mu-Opioid receptor-positive neurons were mostly in layers II and III and exhibited a bipolar or bitufted morphology. In rats treated with the mu-opioid receptor agonist etorphine (0.1mg/kg intraperitoneally) and perfused after different survival periods, there was an enhancement of immunostaining for mu-opioid receptors observed at 15min, reaching a maximum at 60min, and which returned to normal at 480min. Etorphine-induced effects included an increase in the intensity of cellular and neuropil staining; statistical analysis showed that the number of mu-opioid receptor-positive cells in etorphine-treated groups was significantly higher than in controls or saline-treated rats. In animals that received both etorphine and the mu-opioid receptor antagonist naloxone, the pattern of mu-opioid receptors immunoreactivity was similar to that of untreated animals. This study shows that the number of mu-opioid receptor-positive cells is significantly increased following etorphine treatment and suggests that agonist treatment may be exploited to increased immunostaining of mu-opioid receptors and also of other G-protein coupled receptors.
We examined the interior structure of exocytotic apertures in synaptic vesicles of neuroblastoma x glioma hybrid cells using atomic force microscopy. The atomic force microscopy detected apertures of 50-100nm in diameter at various depths within the varicosities of these cells. We were also able to image a regular radial pattern on the wall and lump-like structures at the bottom of these apertures. In contrast, scanning electron microscopy could only detect the apertures but not the fine details of their interior. The cells examined here exhibited the same electrophysiological properties and expression of synaptophysin and syntaxin 1 as presynaptic terminals, as studied by various electrophysiological and imaging techniques. Our results indicate that atomic force microscopy allows three-dimensional viewing of the fine structures located inside exocytotic apertures in nerve cells.
The aim of this study was to identify the receptor type(s) by which 5-hydroxytryptamine applied to the intestinal mucosa excites the terminals of myenteric AH neurons. The AH neurons have been identified as the intrinsic primary afferent (sensory) neurons in guinea-pig small intestine and 5-hydroxytryptamine has been identified as a possible intermediate in the sensory transduction process. Intracellular recordings were taken from AH neurons located within 1mm of intact mucosa to which 5-hydroxytryptamine was applied. Trains of action potentials and/or slow depolarizing responses were recorded in AH neurons in response to mucosal application of 5-hydroxytryptamine (10 or 20microM) or the 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptor agonist, 2-methyl-5-hydroxytryptamine (1 or 3mM), and to electrical stimulation of the mucosa. The 5-hydroxytryptamine-2 receptor agonist, alpha-methyl-5-hydroxytryptamine (100microM), and the 5-hydroxytryptamine-1,2,4 receptor agonist, 5-methoxytryptamine (10microM), did not elicit such responses. The 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptor-selective antagonist, granisetron (typically 1microM), and the 5-hydroxytryptamine-3,4 receptor antagonist, tropisetron (typically 1microM), each reduced or abolished the responses to 5-hydroxytryptamine, while the selective 5-hydroxytryptamine-4 receptor antagonist, SB 204070 (1microM), did not. It is concluded that application of 5-hydroxytryptamine to the mucosa activates a 5-hydroxytryptamine-3 receptor that triggers action potential generation in the mucosal nerve terminals of myenteric AH neurons.
In lizards, tail loss transects spinal nerves and the cut axons elongate in the regrowing tail, providing a natural paradigm of robust regenerative response of injured spinal motoneurons. We previously ascertained that these events involve nitric oxide synthase induction in the axotomized motoneurons, suggesting a correlation of this enzyme with regeneration-associated gene expression. Here we investigated, in lizards, whether the cell death repressor Bcl-2 protein and growth-associated protein-43 (GAP-43) were also induced in motoneurons that innervate the regenerated tail in the first month post-caudotomy. Single and multiple immunocytochemical techniques, and quantitative image analysis, were performed. Nitric oxide synthase, GAP-43 or Bcl-2 immunoreactivity was very low or absent in spinal motoneurons of control lizards with intact tail. Nitric oxide synthase and GAP-43 were induced during the first month post-caudotomy in more than 75% of motoneurons which innnervate the regenerate. Bcl-2 was induced in approximately 95% of these motoneurons at five and 15days, and in about 35% at one month. The intensity of Bcl-2 and GAP-43 immunostaining peaked at five days, and nitric oxide synthase at 15days; immunoreactivity to these proteins was still significantly high at one month. Immunofluorescence revealed co-localization of nitric oxide synthase, GAP-43 and Bcl-2 in the vast majority of motoneurons at five and 15days post-caudotomy. These findings demonstrate that co-induction of nitric oxide synthase, Bcl-2 and GAP-43 may be part of the molecular repertoire of injured motoneurons committed to survival and axon regeneration, and strongly favor a role of nitric oxide synthase in motoneuron plasticity.
There is some evidence that endothelins may be a signal mediator between neuronal and glial cells, at least in some regions of the brain. To evaluate this possibility, the localization of messenger RNAs for endothelin-converting enzymes and endothelin receptor B in the rat brain were examined using in situ hybridization histochemistry. The messenger RNAs for endothelin-converting enzyme-1 and endothelin-converting enzyme-2 were expressed mainly in neurons located in various brain regions, whereas the messenger RNA for endothelin receptor B was mainly localized in the astrocytes located throughout the brainstem, Bergmann glia, choroid plexus and ependymal cells. The localization patterns of endothelin-converting enzyme and endothelin receptor B messenger RNAs were strikingly different. For instance, in the cerebellum, endothelin-converting enzyme-1 messenger RNA was localized in Purkinje cells, and endothelin-converting enzyme-2 mRNA was expressed in Purkinje cells and granule cells. On the other hand, endothelin receptor B messenger RNA was expressed in Bergmann glia and the astrocytes located in the granule cell layer. This suggests that final cleavages of big endothelins are performed on neuronal cells, and the major target of the processed endothelins could be astrocytes, which express endothelin receptor B most abundantly in the brain. Since evidence that endothelin is implicated in brain injury has also accumulated, we examined whether the expressions of endothelin-converting enzymes and endothelin receptor B are regulated by nerve injury. Following hypoglossal nerve injury, expression of messenger RNA for endothelin-converting enzymes-1 and -2 and endothelin receptor B was enhanced in the injured motor neurons and astrocytes respectively. The up-regulation of these messenger RNAs was also confirmed by a reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction based strategyThese results lead us to suggest that endothelin can be an inducible intercellular mediator between injured neurons and astrocytes in response to nerve injury.
Nociceptin receptors are densely distributed in the nucleus tractus solitarius pre- and postsynaptically. This study tested whether nociceptin receptors in this brain area are involved in the modulation of baroreceptor reflex. In pentobarbital-anesthetized rats, pharmacological activation of nociceptin receptors with bilateral microinjection of a synthetic peptide agonist, nociceptin, into the nucleus tractus solitarius attenuated baroreflex sensitivity as demonstrated by a marked reduction in baroreflex bradycardia induced by a single dose of intravenous phenylephrine. The inhibitory effect of nociceptin was dose dependent (0.04, 0.2 and 1nmol) and was blocked by pretreatment with microinjection of 1nmol nocistatin, a peptide that can functionally reverse the action of nociceptin. In contrast, injection of an opioid receptor antagonist, naloxone (5nmol), did not modify the inhibition of baroreflex sensitivity induced by nociceptin. Neither nocistatin nor naloxone injected into the nucleus alone had any detectable effect on baseline blood pressure and heart rate and baroreflex bradycardia. These data indicate that the newly discovered nociceptin receptors in the central nervous system possess an inhibitory influence on baroreflex transmission at the level of the nucleus tractus solitarius.
Brainstem inferior olivary neurons, through their olivocerebellar efferent projections, dynamically regulate the structure and function of Purkinje neurons. To test the hypothesis that the inferior olive can epigenetically modify adult-onset hereditary Purkinje cell death, olivocerebellar projections were destroyed by 3-acetylpyridine chemoablation of the inferior olive in Shaker mutant rats. Starting around seven weeks of age, mutant Purkinje cells degenerate in a highly predictable spatial and temporal pattern. Chemoablation of the inferior olive at the onset of hereditary Purkinje cell degeneration accelerated the temporal pattern of Purkinje cell death from a natural phenotypic course of six to eight weeks to one and two weeks. When chemoablation of the inferior olive was performed three and a half weeks earlier, the onset of Purkinje cell death was accelerated by seven to 10days, but the spatial pattern and natural rate of temporal degeneration was maintained. Chemoablation of the inferior olive in normal rats did not result in any apparent death of Purkinje cells. These findings indicate that the olivocerebellar system can markedly modify hereditary Purkinje cell death. The accelerated death of Purkinje cells following chemoablation of the inferior olive can result from either the interruption of a trophic signal by climbing fiber deafferentation or parallel fiber excitotoxicity due to cortical disinhibition, but not due to olivocerebellar excitotoxicity.
Different type neurons in the inferior colliculus may have different functions. Recent intracellular studies of the inferior colliculus suggest that intrinsic electrical properties contribute to discharge patterns, but the intrinsic discharge patterns have not been fully characterized in the central nucleus, the main part of the inferior colliculus. Whether different types of neurons are related to different discharge patterns is unclear. We have used intracellular and whole-cell patch clamp-recording techniques in a brain slice preparation to better characterize discharge patterns and cell types in the central nucleus. Several types of discharge pattern were found in the inferior colliculus in response to long pulses of intracellular depolarizations. Rebound and buildup-pauser discharges, together, comprise neurons with a sustained response and are the majority of the neurons in the inferior colliculus. Both of these types of discharge pattern could be adapting or regular. Onset discharges distinguished another group of neurons. Onset neurons can also entrain to higher frequency stimuli than sustained neurons. Discharge patterns are correlated with distinctive current-voltage relationships and with some aspects of dendritic morphology. However, the morphological data demonstrates that the discharge patterns do not correspond simply to disc-shaped (flat) or stellate (less-flat) categories. This is the first extensive analysis of electrophysiological properties of the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus in vitro. We suggest that there may be at least three functional classes of neurons and have implications for signal processing in the inferior colliculus.
The long-term consequences of thoracic spinothalamic tract lesion on the physiological properties of neurons in the ventral posterior lateral nucleus of the thalamus in monkeys were assessed. Neurons responding to both compressive and phasic brush stimuli (multireceptive neurons), but not brush-specific (low-threshold) neurons, in the partially deafferented thalamus showed increased spontaneous activity, increased responses evoked by cutaneous stimuli and larger mean receptive field size than the same types of cells in the thalamus with intact innervation. The spike train properties of both the spontaneous and evoked discharges of cells were also altered so that there was an increased incidence of spike-bursts in cells of deafferented thalamus. These changes were widespread in the thalamus, and included cells in both the fully innervated forelimb representation and the partially denervated hindlimb representation ipsilateral to the lesion. The spontaneous and evoked spike trains in the ipsilateral thalamus also show increased frequency of both spike-burst and non-burst events compared to the intact thalamus. These results indicate that chronic spinothalamic tract lesion produces widespread changes in the physiological properties of a discrete cell population of the thalamus.The findings in this study indicate that the thalamic processing of somatosensory information conveyed by the lemniscal system is altered by transection of the spinothalamic tract. This change in sensory processing in the thalamus would result in altered cortical processing of innocuous somatosensory inputs following deafferentation and so possibly contribute to the generation of the central pain syndrome.
Limbic epilepsy is a chronic condition associated with a broad zone of seizure onset and pathology. Studies have focused mainly on the hippocampus, but there are indications that changes occur in other regions of the limbic system. This study used in vitro intracellular recording and histology to examine alterations to the physiology and anatomy of the basal nucleus of the amygdala in a rat model of chronic limbic epilepsy characterized by spontaneously recurring seizures. Epileptic pyramidal neuron responses evoked by stria terminalis stimulation revealed hyperexcitability characterized by multiple action potential bursts and no evident inhibitory potentials. In contrast, no hyperexcitability was observed in amygdalar neurons from kindled (included as a control for seizure activity) or control rats. Blockade of ionotropic glutamate receptors unmasked inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in epileptic pyramidal neurons. Control, kindled and epileptic inhibitory potentials were predominantly biphasic, with fast and slow components, but a few cells exhibited only the fast component (2/12 in controls, 0/3 in kindled, 3/10 in epileptic). Epileptic fast inhibitory potentials had a more rapid onset and shorter duration than control and kindled. Approximately 40% of control neurons exhibited spontaneous inhibitory potentials; no spontaneous inhibitory potentials were observed in neurons from kindled or epileptic rats. A preliminary histological examination revealed no gross alterations in the basal amygdala from epileptic animals. These results extend previous findings from this laboratory that hyperexcitability is found in multiple epileptic limbic regions and may be secondary to multiple alterations in excitatory and inhibitory efficacy. Because there were no differences between control and kindled animals, the changes observed in the epileptic animals are unlikely to be secondary to recurrent seizures.
Nicotinic cholinergic receptors in the ventral tegmental area are required for the accumbal dopamine response to systemic nicotine. In contrast, the role of nicotinic receptors located within the nucleus accumbens itself has not been clarified for systemically administered nicotine. In the present study, in vivo microdialysis of accumbal dopamine secretion and receptor antagonist blockade in both the ventral striatal nucleus accumbens and the midbrain ventral tegmental area were used to evaluate this question. The nicotinic receptor antagonists methyllycaconitine or mecamylamine were delivered through the accumbal dialysis probe, followed by 0.09mg/kg nicotine (i.v.). The alpha7 subunit antagonist methyllycaconitine inhibited 71% of the dopamine response (P&lt;0.01), whereas mecamylamine was completely ineffective. In addition, the classical alpha7 subunit antagonist alpha-bungarotoxin infused into the nucleus accumbens adjacent to the microdialysis probe, significantly reduced dopamine release by 0.065 or 0.09mg/kg nicotine (i.v.; P&lt;0. 05). Combined, these data indicate the involvement of alpha7 subunit-containing nicotinic receptors in the nucleus accumbens. In contrast, local infusion of mecamylamine into the ventral tegmental area effectively blocked nicotine-induced accumbal dopamine release. Simultaneous infusions of methyllycaconitine into the accumbens and mecamylamine into the ventral tegmental area induced greater blockade of nicotine-stimulated dopamine secretion than methyllycaconitine or mecamylamine alone. In conclusion, the present study demonstrates that different types of nicotinic cholinergic receptors, located in the ventral striatal nucleus accumbens (alpha-bungarotoxin sensitive and mecamylamine insensitive) and the midbrain ventral tegmental area (mecamylamine sensitive), may be required for the full effects of nicotine on the mesostriatal dopaminergic pathway. While activation of nicotinic cholinergic receptors in the ventral tegmentum is required for the accumbal dopamine response to systemic nicotine, accumbal nicotinic receptors themselves act as modulators of this response. This fine tuning of the dopamine reward pathway through alpha7 nicotinic cholinergic receptors in the nucleus accumbens may amplify the secretion of dopamine, allowing a subthreshold brain concentration of nicotine to become an effective stimulus for dopamine secretion.
Spontaneously hypertensive rats are often used as models of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and to investigate the effects of hypertension on cognitive function. Along with the wide variety of cardiovascular anomalies, these animals as young adults also exhibit deficits in memory and attention and central nicotinic-acetylcholine receptor sites. These findings may have particular significance since nicotinic receptors appear to be involved in the regulation of cerebral circulation and mnemonic function. Furthermore, a lack of high affinity nicotinic receptors (in knockout mice) has also been shown to accelerate both the structural and cognitive degeneration associated with age, findings that may be especially relevant to age-related memory disorders such as Alzheimer's Disease where large deficits in nicotinic receptors are observed. Since spontaneously hypertensive rats appear to be both memory-impaired and deficient in nicotinic receptors at a young age (compared to the non-hypertensive phenotype, Wistar-Kyoto rats), we were interested to learn if these conditions were exacerbated in older animals with particular interest in specific nicotinic receptor subtypes in memory areas of the brain. Spatial learning was assessed in 15-month-old subjects of each phenotype (i.e. hypertensive and non-hypertensive) using a two-phase water maze paradigm, and nicotinic receptors were measured via autoradiography with [125I]-alpha-bungarotoxin and [3H]-epibatidine. In the water maze, both groups learned to locate a hidden platform as indicated by progressively shorter latencies across training days, however, Wistar-Kyoto rats were more efficient in both phases. While the number of both bungarotoxin and epibatidine binding sites was lower in the hypertensive rats across several brain regions, in the case of epibatidine binding, the magnitude of the difference and the number of areas affected was generally greater and included areas important for spatial learning (e.g. frontal and entorhinal cortex). In a direct comparison between 3-month-old and 15-month-old rats of each phenotype, epibatidine sites were markedly reduced by age (i.e. by greater than 50% in some cases) across multiple brain regions in both groups, although Wistar-Kyoto rats appeared to be more substantially affected by age. These data further support the use of the spontaneously hypertensive rat as model for studying learning-impairment and reduced central nicotinic receptors and also indicate that these characteristics persist and (in the case of high affinity nicotinic receptor cites) worsen with age.
It is well established that estrogen has positive effects on the density of pyramidal cell spines in the hippocampal CA1 subfield. This study explored whether afferent connections of the hippocampus that come from estrogen-sensitive subcortical structures, including the septal complex, median raphe and supramammillary area, play a role in this estrogen-induced hippocampal synaptic plasticity. These particular subcortical structures have major influences on hippocampal activity, including theta rhythm and long-term potentiation. The latter also promotes the formation of new synapses. All of the rats were ovariectomized; the fimbria/fornix, which contains the majority of subcortical efferents to the hippocampus, was transected unilaterally in each, and half of the animals received estrogen replacement. Using unbiased electron microscopic stereological methods, the CA1 pyramidal cell spine synapse density was calculated. In the estrogen-treated rats, contralateral to the fimbria/fornix transection, the spine density of CA1 pyramidal cells increased dramatically, compared to the spine density values of both the ipsilateral and contralateral hippocampi of non-estrogen-treated animals and to that of the ipsilateral hippocampus of the estrogen replaced rats. These observations indicate that fimbria/fornix transection itself does not considerably influence CA1 area pyramidal cell spine density and, most importantly, that the estrogenic effect on hippocampal morphology, in addition to directly affecting the hippocampus, involves subcortical mediation.
Excitotoxic injury of the dendrites of inhibitory interneurons could lead to decreases in their synaptic activation and explain subsequent local circuit hyperexcitability and epilepsy. A hallmark of dendrotoxicity, at least in principal neurons of the hippocampus and cortex, is focal or varicose swellings of dendritic arbors. In experiments reported here, transient (1h) exposure of hippocampal explant cultures to kainic acid produced marked focal swellings of the dendrites of parvalbumin-immunoreactive pyramidal basket cells in a highly reproducible and dose-dependent manner. At 5mM kainic acid, more than half of the immunopositive apical dendrites in area CA(1) had a beaded appearance. However, the somal volumes of these cells were unaltered by the same treatment. The presence of focal swellings was reversible with kainate washout and was not accompanied by interneuronal cell death. In contrast, exposure to much higher concentrations (300mM) of kainic acid resulted in the total loss of parvalbumin-positive interneurons from explants. Surprisingly, kainic acid-induced dendritic beading does not appear to be mediated by extracellular calcium. Beading was unaltered in the presence of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists, the L-type calcium channel antagonist, nimodipine, cadmium, or by removing extracellular calcium. However, blockade of voltage-gated sodium channels by either tetrodotoxin or lidocaine abolished dendritic beading, while the activation of existing voltage-gated sodium channels by veratridine mimicked the kainic acid-induced dendritic beading. Finally, the removal of extracellular chloride prevented the kainic acid-induced dendritic beading.Thus, we suggest that the movement of Na(+) and Cl(-), rather than Ca(2+), into cells underlies the focal swellings of interneuron dendrites in hippocampus.
Computer simulations and electrophysiological experiments have been performed to test the hypothesis on the existence of an ephaptic interaction in purely chemical synapses. According to this hypothesis, the excitatory postsynaptic current would depolarize the presynaptic release site and further increase transmitter release, thus creating an intrasynaptic positive feedback. For synapses with the ephaptic feedback, computer simulations predicted non-linear amplitude-voltage relations and voltage dependence of paired-pulse facilitation. The deviation from linearity depended on the strength of the feedback determined by the value of the synaptic cleft resistance. The simulations showed that, in the presence of the intrasynaptic feedback, recruitment of imperfectly clamped synapses and synapses with linear amplitude-voltage relations tended to reduce the non-linearity and voltage dependence of paired-pulse facilitation. Therefore, the simulations predicted that the intrasynaptic feedback would particularly affect small excitatory postsynaptic currents induced by activation of electrotonically close synapses with long synaptic clefts. In electrophysiological experiments performed on hippocampal slices, the whole-cell configuration of the patch-clamp technique was used to record excitatory postsynaptic currents evoked in CA3 pyramidal cells by activation of large mossy fibre synapses. In accordance with the simulation results, minimal excitatory postsynaptic currents exhibited &quot;supralinear&quot; amplitude-voltage relations at hyperpolarized membrane potentials, decreases in the failure rate and voltage-dependent paired-pulse facilitation. Composite excitatory postsynaptic currents evoked by activation of a large amount of presynaptic fibres typically bear linear amplitude-voltage relationships and voltage-independent paired-pulse facilitation. These data are consistent with the hypothesis on a strong ephaptic feedback in large mossy fibre synapses. The feedback would provide a mechanism whereby signals from large synapses would be amplified. The ephaptic feedback would be more effective on synapses activated in isolation or together with electrotonically remote inputs. During synchronous activation of a large number of neighbouring inputs, suppression of the positive intrasynaptic feedback would prevent abnormal boosting of potent signals.
Transforming growth factor-beta1 is a multifunctional peptide with increased expression during Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative conditions which involve inflammatory mechanisms. We examined the autoregulation of transforming growth factor-beta1 and transforming growth factor-beta receptors and the effects of transforming growth factor-beta1 on complement C1q in brains of adult Fischer 344 male rats and in primary glial cultures. Perforant path transection by entorhinal cortex lesioning was used as a model for the hippocampal deafferentation of Alzheimer's disease. In the hippocampus ipsilateral to the lesion, transforming growth factor-beta1 peptide was increased &gt;100-fold; the messenger RNAs encoding transforming growth factor-beta1, transforming growth factor-beta type I and type II receptors were also increased, but to a smaller degree. In this acute lesion paradigm, microglia are the main cell type containing transforming growth factor-beta1, transforming growth factor-beta type I and II receptor messenger RNAs, shown by immunocytochemistry in combination with in situ hybridization. Autoregulation of the transforming growth factor-beta1 system was examined by intraventricular infusion of transforming growth factor-beta1 peptide, which increased hippocampal transforming growth factor-beta1 messenger RNA levels in a dose-dependent fashion. Similarly, transforming growth factor-beta1 increased levels of transforming growth factor-beta1 messenger RNA and transforming growth factor-beta type II receptor messenger RNA (IC(50), 5pM) and increased release of transforming growth factor-beta1 peptide from primary microglia cultures. Interactions of transforming growth factor-beta1 with complement system gene expression are also indicated, because transforming growth factor-beta1 decreased C1qB messenger RNA in the cortex and hippocampus, after intraventricular infusion, and in cultured glia. These indications of autocrine regulation of transforming growth factor-beta1 in the rodent brain support a major role of microglia in neural activities of transforming growth factor-beta1 and give a new link between transforming growth factor-beta1 and the complement system. The auto-induction of the transforming growth factor-beta1 system has implications for transgenic mice that overexpress transforming growth factor-beta1 in brain cells and for its potential role in amyloidogenesis.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor, the most abundant of the neurotrophins in the brain, enhances the growth and maintenance of several neuronal systems, serves as a neurotransmitter modulator, and participates in use-dependent plasticity mechanisms such as long-term potentiation and learning. In recent years, evidence has been gathering that brain-derived neurotrophic factor may have an important role in the neuropathology and treatment of depression. It has recently been reported that chronic (at least two weeks) antidepressant treatment leads to an up-regulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA levels in the hippocampus, an important brain area for behavioral regulation, as well as learning and memory. Our laboratory has previously shown that general physical exercise very rapidly increases brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA in this brain area. In this report, we have tested the hypothesis that the combination of these two interventions, general physical activity and antidepressant treatment, leads to increased levels of specific promoter-derived transcripts of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA in a manner that appears to be both additive and accelerated. Our results suggest that these two very different interventions may possibly converge at the cellular level. The induction of brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression by activity/pharmacological treatment combinations could represent an important intervention for further study, to potentially improve depression treatment and management.
Substance P, which modulates synaptic excitability, can be induced by a variety of stimuli. We studied the expression of hippocampal substance P in rats in using lithium-pilocarpine model of status epilepticus during development. Status epilepticus resulted in an age-specific manner of substance P expression that was anatomically distinctive in hippocampal subfields. Maximal induction of substance P immunoreactivity was seen in the CA1 region of the two-week-old rats, and progressively decreased in the three-, four-week-old rats and adults. Meanwhile, the number of substance P-immunoreactive neurons in the CA3 region and dentate granule cell layer was minimal in the two-week-old animals, but approximated the adult level in the three- and four-week-old rats. No substance P-immunoreactive axon terminals were seen in the strata pyramidale and lucidum in the CA3 region of the two-week-old rats, but they were found to progressively increase in the three-, four-week-old rats and adults. To confirm substance P expression after status epilepticus, we studied the expression of preprotachykinin-A mRNA in the hippocampus of the three-week-old rats by in situ hybridization. Two hours following injection of lithium-pilocarpine, preprotachykinin-A mRNA dramatically increased in the granule cells, as well as in the CA3 and CA1 pyramidal cell layers of the hippocampus. To evaluate the relationship between behavioral seizures and substance P induction, we used the NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801. Injection of MK-801 completely blocked lithium-pilocarpine-induced behavioral seizures and SP induction in the two-week-old rats. These results indicate that seizure activity selectively evokes age-dependent and region-selective expression of substance P.
Acute neuropathology following experimental traumatic brain injury results in the rapid necrosis of cortical tissue at the site of injury. This primary injury is exacerbated in the ensuing hours and days via the progression of secondary injury mechanism(s) leading to significant neurological dysfunction. Recent evidence from our laboratory demonstrates that the immunosuppressant cyclosporin A significantly ameliorates cortical damage following traumatic brain injury. The present study extends the previous findings utilizing a unilateral controlled cortical impact model of traumatic brain injury in order to establish a dose-response curve and optimal dosing regimen of cyclosporin A. Following injury to adult rats, cyclosporin A was administrated at various dosages and the therapy was initiated at different times post-injury. In addition to examining the effect of cyclosporin A on the acute disruption of the blood-brain barrier following controlled cortical impact, we also assessed the efficacy of cyclosporin A to reduce tissue damage utilizing the fluid percussion model of traumatic brain injury. The findings demonstrate that the neuroprotection afforded by cyclosporin A is dose-dependent and that a therapeutic window exists up to 24h post-injury. Furthermore, the optimal cyclosporin dosage and regimen markedly reduces disruption of the blood-brain barrier acutely following a cortical contusion injury, and similarly affords significant neuroprotection following fluid percussion injury. These findings clearly suggest that the mechanisms responsible for tissue necrosis following traumatic brain injury are amenable to pharmacological intervention.
The control of arterial vascular tone by acetylcholine contributes to the regulation of cerebral blood flow. We analysed the effects of intraluminal application of acetylcholine (1microM) on the cerebral vascular tone by measuring changes in resistance to perfusion pressure in an isolated guinea-pig brain preparation maintained in vitro by arterial perfusion under constant flow. Acetylcholine induced a reproducible, fast-onset dilation that was prevented by the nitric oxide scavenger Methylene Blue (10microM) and by the muscarinic receptor antagonist atropine (0.1microM). Prolonged arterial perfusion with the nitric oxide synthase inhibitors N-nitro-L-arginine (1mM) and N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (30-100microM) induced a slowly developing increase of 25.9+/-13. 44mmHg in vascular tone and blocked the acetylcholine-induced vasodilation. In these experimental conditions, the dilation determined by the nitric oxide donor nitroprusside (0.1microM) was unaffected. In five experiments, the blockade of dilation unmasked a slow acetylcholine-mediated vasoconstriction (14.40+/-3.85mmHg) that was antagonized by atropine.The results demonstrate that acetylcholine exerts two simultaneous and opposite effects on guinea-pig cerebral vessels, characterized by a slow direct constriction concealed in physiological conditions by a fast vasodilation mediated through the release of nitric oxide by endothelial cells. Acetylcholine-mediated increase in vascular tone may play a role in aggravating cerebral perfusion when endothelial cell damage occurs during brain ischemia.
Eleven healthy tobacco smoking adult male volunteers of mixed race were tobacco abstinent overnight for this study. In each subject, positron emission tomographic images of regional cerebral metabolism of glucose with [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose were obtained in two conditions in the morning on different days: about 3min after approximately 1-2mg of nasal nicotine spray and after an equivalent volume of an active placebo spray of oleoresin of pepper in a random counterbalanced design. A Siemens/CTI 931/08-12 scanner with the capability of 15 horizontal brain slices was used. The images were further converted into a standard uniform brain format in which the mean data of all 11 subjects were obtained. Images were analysed in stereotactic coordinates using pixel-wise t statistics and a smoothed Gaussian model. Peak plasma nicotine levels varied three-fold and the areas under the curve(0-30min) varied seven-fold among the individual subjects. Nicotine caused a small overall reduction in global cerebral metabolism of glucose but, when the data were normalized, several brain regions showed relative increases in activity. Cerebral structures specifically activated by nicotine (nicotine minus pepper, Z score &gt;4.0) included: left inferior frontal gyrus, left posterior cingulate gyrus and right thalamus. The visual cortex, including the right and left cuneus and left lateral occipito-temporal gyrus fusiformis, also showed an increase in regional cerebral metabolism of glucose with Z scores &gt;3. 6. Structures with a decrease in regional cerebral metabolism of glucose (pepper minus nicotine) were the left insula and right inferior occipital gyrus, with Z scores &gt;3.5. Especially important is the fact that the thalamus is activated by nicotine. This is consistent with the high density of nicotinic cholinoceptors in that brain region. However, not all brain regions affected by nicotine are known to have many nicotinic cholinoceptors. The results are discussed in relation to the cognitive effects of nicotine.
During various states of vigilance, brain oscillations are grouped together through reciprocal connections between the neocortex and thalamus. The coherent activity in corticothalamic networks, under the control of brainstem and forebrain modulatory systems, requires investigations in intact-brain animals. During behavioral states associated with brain disconnection from the external world, the large-scale synchronization of low-frequency oscillations is accompanied by the inhibition of synaptic transmission through thalamocortical neurons. Despite the coherent oscillatory activity, on the functional side there is dissociation between the thalamus and neocortex during slow-wave sleep. While dorsal thalamic neurons undergo inhibitory processes due to the prolonged spike-bursts of thalamic reticular neurons, the cortex displays, periodically, a rich spontaneous activity and preserves the capacity to process internally generated signals that dominate the state of sleep. In vivo experiments using simultaneous intracellular recordings from thalamic and cortical neurons show that short-term plasticity processes occur after prolonged and rhythmic spike-bursts fired by thalamic and cortical neurons during slow-wave sleep oscillations. This may serve to support resonant phenomena and reorganize corticothalamic circuitry, determine which synaptic modifications, formed during the waking state, are to be consolidated and generate a peculiar kind of dreaming mentation. In contrast to the long-range coherent oscillations that occur at low frequencies during slow-wave sleep, the sustained fast oscillations that characterize alert states are synchronized over restricted territories and are associated with discrete and differentiated patterns of conscious events.

Glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the CNS. The recent characterization of glutamate as a neurotransmitter in the enteric nervous system opened a new line of investigation concerning the role of glutamate in that system. The present study aimed to further characterize the enteric glutamate release and the calcium channels coupled to it. For this study the myenteric plexus-longitudinal muscle of guinea-pig ileum was stimulated with potassium chloride or with electrical pulses. The released glutamate was detected by spectrofluorimetry. Laser scanning confocal microscopy was used for analysis of immunolabeled enteric tissue for co-localization studies of calcium channels (N- and P/Q-type) and glutamate transporters (EAAC1). Here we report the effects of known Ca(2+)-channel blockers on glutamate release evoked by KCl-depolarization or electrical stimulation in the myenteric plexus. We find that N-type Ca(2+) channels control a major portion of evoked glutamate release from this system, with a very small contribution from L-type Ca(2+) channels. Moreover, alpha(1A)-like (P-type Ca(2+) channel) and alpha(1B)-like (N-type Ca(2+ )channel) immunoreactivity co-localized with glutamate transporters in the myenteric plexus. In addition, KCl-evoked or electrically stimulated glutamate release was sensitive to omega-agatoxin IVA, in a frequency-dependent manner, suggesting that P-type channels are also coupled to the release of glutamate. We, thus, conclude that both N-type and P-type Ca(2+) channels control most of the evoked glutamate release from the enteric nervous system, as also occurs in some parts of the CNS.
Changes in redox state are involved in several physiological and pathophysiological processes. Previous experiments have demonstrated that nitric oxide can function as a reactive oxygen species, inhibiting neuronal sodium currents by nitrosylation of thiol residues. We hypothesized that nitric oxide and thiol oxidizers similarly modulate voltage-dependent sodium currents. Voltage-dependent sodium currents were studied with the whole-cell patch-clamp technique in NB41A3 neuroblastoma cells. The nitric oxide donor 3-(2-hydroxy-2-nitroso-1-propylhydrazino)-1-propanamine did not affect sodium currents. In contrast, the thiol oxidizers thimerosal and 4,4'-dithiopyridine significantly inhibited sodium currents. The effect of thimerosal persisted after washout, but could be fully reversed by the reducing agent dithiothreitol. Reduced glutathione did not restore the sodium current amplitude when given extracellularly, while intracellular glutathione prevented the inhibitory effect of thimerosal. Pretreatment with the alkylating agent N-ethylmaleimide blocked the inhibitory action of thimerosal. Thiol oxidation caused a shift in the voltage dependence of fast and slow inactivation to more hyperpolarized potentials without concomitant effects on the voltage dependence of activation. Mercaptoethanol and reduced glutathione enhanced sodium currents by shifting the voltage dependence of inactivation to depolarized potentials. These results demonstrate that the oxidation and reduction of thiol residues alters the properties of voltage-sensitive sodium channels and may play an important role in the regulation of membrane excitability.
Astrocytic endothelin receptors are involved in the appearance of activated astrocytes upon injury of the brain [Ishikawa N. et al. (1997) Eur. J. Neurosci. 9, 895-901; Koyama Y. et al. (1999) Glia 26, 268-271]. To clarify signal transduction triggered by endothelin receptors, we examined the effects of endothelins on protein tyrosine phosphorylation in cultured rat astrocytes. Endothelin-1 (1 nM) increased tyrosine phosphorylation of focal adhesion kinase and paxillin. The tyrosine phosphorylation was also induced by endothelin-1 (1 nM) and Ala(1,3,11,15)-endothelin-1 (10nM), an endothelin-B receptor agonist. BQ788 (100 nM), an endothelin-B receptor antagonist, inhibited the effects of endothelin-3. Orthovanadate (VO(4)(3-)), a tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor, but not bradykinin (1 microM), angiotensin II (100 nM), A23187 (5 microM) and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (100 nM), increased tyrosine phosphorylation of focal adhesion kinase and paxillin. The tyrosine phosphorylation by endothelin-3 was not prevented by pertussis toxin, Ca(2+) chelation, protein kinase C inhibitors (calphostin C and staurosporine) or wortmannin. Immunocytochemical staining showed that endothelin-3 and VO(4)(3-) induced redistribution of focal adhesion kinase and paxillin to focal adhesions concomitant with stress fiber formation in dibutyryl cyclic-AMP-treated astrocytes. Treatment with endothelin-3 and VO(4)(3-) increased focal adhesion kinase and paxillin associated with astrocytic cytoskeletal fraction. In the presence of cytochalasin B, an actin disrupting agent, endothelin-3 and VO(4)(3-) did not phosphorylate focal adhesion kinase and paxillin. Application of cytochalasin B after treatment with endothelin-3 and VO(4)(3-) stimulated dephosphorylation of focal adhesion kinase and paxillin. These results suggest that the associations of focal adhesion kinase and paxillin with cytoskeletal components are required in the endothelin-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of the astrocytic proteins.
Apolipoprotein E (ApoE), which is genetically polymorphic, is a constituent of different lipoproteins. Two variants, ApoE4(C112R) and ApoE4(L28P; C112R) have been linked to the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. Transgenic mice carrying ApoE4(C112R) (AD71) and ApoE4(L28P; C112R) (AD61) were generated and compared to wild-type mice. The use of glial fibrillary acidic protein as promoter led to transgene expression mainly in glial cells but also in neurons. Transgene protein levels were approximately three-and-a-half-fold that of endogenous ApoE in the glial fibrillary acidic protein-ApoE4(C112R) (AD71) and nearly twofold in the glial fibrillary acidic protein-ApoE4(L28P; C112R) (AD61) mouse lines. Neither transgenic mouse differed from wild-type in cognitive tests at the age of approximately one-and-a-half years. The locomotor activity of AD61 mice was similar to controls, whereas AD71 mice exhibited a clearly reduced level of motor activity. Immunohistological and biochemical brain protein analyses revealed no difference between strains.Thus, in the absence of morphological changes over-expression of ApoE4(C112R) on a background of endogenous mouse ApoE, may result in behavioral deficits while for the ApoE4(L28P; C112R) transgene higher expression might be required or some compensatory mechanisms might protect these animals from the behavioral abnormalities.
The present work investigates the extent to which mature central neurons acutely or chronically axotomized by a spinal lesion still maintained the potential to regenerate an axon following post-traumatic nerve grafting within supra-lesional spinal structures. In adult rats, a C3 cervical hemisection (injury) was made and an autologous segment of the peroneal nerve was implanted 2mm rostrally into the ventrolateral part of the ipsilateral C2 spinal cord. Nerve graft implantations were carried out acutely at the time of injury (group I, acute conditions) or chronically, three weeks post-injury (group II, chronic conditions). Central neurons axotomized by the spinal lesion were labeled by True Blue injected at the lesion site at the time of trauma. Central neurons regenerating axons within the nerve grafts were labeled with either horseradish peroxidase (only in group I, n=4) or Nuclear Yellow (group I, n=3 and group II, n=6) applied two to four months post-grafting to the distal cut end of the nerve grafts. Neurons with dual staining (True Blue/Nuclear Yellow) represented central regenerating neurons which were previously axotomized by the spinal lesion and which had retained the capacity for axonal regeneration for a delayed period after injury. In group I (acute injury conditions), all types of labeled cells were found to be scattered with a clear bimodal distribution within the spinal cord and the brainstem. No labeled cells were found within the motor cortex. There was no statistically significant difference between horseradish peroxidase and all cells containing Nuclear Yellow (Nuclear Yellow and True Blue/Nuclear Yellow). In group II (chronic injury conditions), Nuclear Yellow- and True Blue/Nuclear Yellow-labeled cells had a similar dual distribution to that of group I, but were found to be significantly less represented (P=0.019). These differences are discussed in terms of capacity for cell survival and axonal regrowth after acute and chronic injury. The main conclusion is based on the evidence of dual staining of central neurons in both groups, which demonstrates that brainstem and spinal neurons involved in acute and chronic axotomy after spinal C3 lesion can survive the trauma and still maintain the capacity to regenerate lesioned axons within nerve grafts inserted rostrally (C2 spinal cord) to the primary site of injury. Although exhibited to a lesser extent in chronic than in acute conditions, this capacity was found to occur for as long as three weeks post-injury. These results indicate that supra-lesional post-traumatic nerve grafts may constitute an efficient delayed strategy for inducing axonal regrowth of chronically axotomized adult central neurons. We suggest that surgical intervention, which is not always possible immediately after a spinal cord injury, may be satisfactorily carried out after an appropriate delay.
Spinally released norepinephrine is thought to produce analgesia in part by stimulating alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors, which in turn leads to nitric oxide synthesis. Also, nitric oxide is known to react with norepinephrine in vivo in the brain to form 6-nitro-norepinephrine, which inhibits neuronal norepinephrine reuptake. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that formation of 6-nitro-norepinephrine occurs in the spinal cord and that intrathecal administration of 6-nitro-norepinephrine produces analgesia by stimulating norepinephrine release. 6-Nitro-norepinephrine was present in rat spinal cord tissue and microdialysates of the dorsal horn and intrathecal space. Intrathecal norepinephrine injection increased 6-nitro-norepinephrine. 6-Nitro-norepinephrine also stimulated norepinephrine release in dorsal spinal cord in vitro. Intrathecal injection of 6-nitro-norepinephrine produced antinociception and interacted additively with norepinephrine for antinociception. Spinal noradrenergic nerve destruction increased antinociception from intrathecally injected norepinephrine, but decreased antinociception from 6-nitro-norepinephrine. These results suggest a functional interaction between spinal nitric oxide and norepinephrine in analgesia, mediated in part by formation of 6-nitro-norepinephrine. Stimulation of auto-inhibitory alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors at noradrenergic synapses decreases norepinephrine release. Paradoxically, alpha(2)-adrenergic agonist injection increases and alpha(2)-adrenergic antagonist injection decreases norepinephrine release in the spinal cord. 6-Nitro-norepinephrine may be an important regulator of spinal norepinephrine release and could explain the positive feedback on norepinephrine release after activation of spinal alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors.
In the present study c-fos expression has been used as a marker of neuronal activation following noxious stimuli applied to one of three different sites on the forelimb in rats. In three treatment groups (n=4 animals in each group) rats were anaesthetized with barbiturate and a mechanical pinch was applied to either (i) the most medial digit, (ii) the most lateral digit, or (iii) the shoulder area of one forelimb. An additional control group (n=4) received no pinch. The presence of Fos-like immunoreactivity was used to chart the distribution of cervical spinal cord neurons activated by the stimulus. No significant difference was found in the number of labelled cells between the contralateral side of each treatment group and either side of the control group. By contrast, there was a significant increase in labelled cells between the ipsilateral and contralateral sides within each treatment group. Labelled cells were present mainly in the dorsal horn of the ipsilateral cervical spinal cord where they were clustered in laminae I and II. Clear topographical differences were also evident between treatment groups in the distribution of labelled cells. The most medial digit was represented rostromedially compared to the most lateral digit (cell peak at segmental levels C5/C6 and C7, respectively), while the shoulder stimulus produced a more widespread distribution of labelled cells which was centred rostrolaterally (peak at segmental levels C4/C5).Overall, the findings suggest that forelimb inputs to the cervical cord are organized somatotopically in a similar fashion to hindlimb inputs to the lumbar cord, although the representation of individual forelimb digits may be more extensive in the rostrocaudal axis. This difference could reflect the use of the rats' forepaws in more complex sensorimotor tasks such as grasping and exploring objects.
Intravenous administration of phenylephrine provokes a pattern of cellular activation in the nucleus of the solitary tract that resembles the central distributions of primary baroreceptor afferents supplied by the carotid sinus and aortic depressor nerves. Transganglionic transport and denervation methods were used in an experimental setting to test the dependence of phenylephrine-induced Fos immunoreactivity on the integrity of buffer nerve afferents, and to identify the subregions of the nucleus of the solitary tract supplied by each. Cholera toxin B-horseradish peroxidase injections into either or both nerves revealed terminal labeling concentrated in, but not restricted to, the dorsal commissural part of the nucleus of the solitary tract at the level of the apex of calamus scriptorius, and extending into the dorsal subnucleus at the level of the area postrema. Preferential ramifications of carotid sinus and aortic depressor nerve afferents at the levels of the commissural part of the nucleus and the area postrema, respectively, were reflected in the extent to which labeled fibers comingled with neurons exhibiting phenylephrine-induced Fos in dual labeling experiments. Complete sinoaortic denervation reduced by 90% the number of neurons exhibiting drug-induced Fos expression. Selective carotid and aortic sinus denervations effected partial reductions manifest preferentially in the caudal and rostral foci of the distribution, respectively. Reduced activational responses at the level of the area postrema of aortic sinus-denervated rats were accompanied by a reduction in cellular nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase activity in this region. Animals killed 30 days after complete sinoaortic denervation displayed no evidence of recovery of phenylephrine-induced Fos, while the strength and distribution of the response in rats that received selective carotid sinus denervation were indistinguishable from those seen in controls. These findings (i) support the dependence of phenylephrine-induced Fos expression on the integrity of carotid sinus and aortic depressor nerve afferents, (ii) provide anatomical and functional evidence that the two buffer nerves distribute differentially within the nucleus of the solitary tract, and (iii) implicate central reorganization as a likely basis for functional recovery of baroreflex mechanisms following partial sinoaortic denervation.
In rat brainstem slices, we investigated the role of nitric oxide in long-term potentiation induced in the ventral portion of the medial vestibular nuclei by high-frequency stimulation of the primary vestibular afferents. The nitric oxide scavenger [2-(4-carboxyphenyl)-4,4,5,5-tetramethylimidazoline-1-oxyl-3-oxide ] and the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester were administered before and after induction of potentiation. Both drugs completely prevented long-term potentiation, whereas they did not impede the potentiation build-up, or affect the already established potentiation. These results demonstrate that the induction, but not the maintenance of vestibular long-term potentiation, depends on the synthesis and release into the extracellular medium of nitric oxide. In addition, we analysed the effect of the nitric oxide donor sodium nitroprusside on vestibular responses. Sodium nitroprusside induced long-term potentiation, as evidenced through the field potential enhancement and unit peak latency decrease. This potentiation was impeded by D, L-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid, and was reduced under blockade of synaptosomal platelet-activating factor receptors by ginkgolide B and group I metabotropic glutamate receptors by (R,S)-1-aminoindan-1, 5-dicarboxylic acid. When reduced, potentiation fully developed following the washout of antagonist, demonstrating an involvement of platelet-activating factor and group I metabotropic glutamate receptors in its full development. Potentiation induced by sodium nitroprusside was also associated with a decrease in the paired-pulse facilitation ratio, which persisted under ginkgolide B, indicating that nitric oxide increases glutamate release independently of platelet-activating factor-mediated presynaptic events. We suggest that nitric oxide, released after the activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, acts as a retrograde messenger leading to an enhancement of glutamate release to a sufficient level for triggering potentiation. Once the synaptic efficacy has changed, it becomes a long-lasting phenomenon only through a subsequent action of platelet-activating factor.
The formation of covalent isopeptide cross-links between cell surface protein molecules by the enzyme transglutaminase C influences cell adhesion and morphology. Retinoid-inducible cross-linking activity associated with this enzyme is present in the developing rat cerebellar cortex [Perry M. J. M. et al. (1995) Neuroscience 65, 1063-1076]. A monoclonal antibody was used to localize transglutaminase C to granule neurons in the developing cerebellar cortex. The enzyme was inducible by retinoic acid both in granule neurons cultured from postnatal rat cerebellar cortex and in cells of the embryonic dorsal rhombic lip, which contain granule neuron precursors. A possible biological function for transglutaminase activity was investigated in living granule neurons, cultured on a biomatrix substratum, studied by time-lapse cinematographic analysis using the transglutaminase inactivator RS-48373-007. Inhibition of cross-linking activity did not influence the number of neurites formed by granule neurons, but caused the destabilization of neurites during the initial outgrowth period, seen as an increase in the number of growth cone retractions and the onset of premature axon collateral formation (bifurcation). Inactivation of cross-linking activity prevented the formation of fascicles between neurites only when cells were cultured on a biomatrix surface. Two glial proteins involved in cell-extracellular matrix interactions, midkine and galectin-3, were identified as putative substrates for granule neuron transglutaminase. The results suggest that covalent cross-link formation by transglutaminase C or a related enzyme generates multimeric molecular forms of glial-derived proteins, and plays a role in stabilizing newly formed neurites. A possible non-pathological role for transglutaminase in the control of axon collateral branching by developing granule neurons in the cerebellar cortex is discussed.
Footshock-evoked change in transcriptional activity of tyrosine hydroxylase in neurons of the locus coeruleus was examined using an intron-specific in situ hybridization histochemical technique. A significant increase in the cellular concentration of tyrosine hydroxylase primary transcripts was found in locus coeruleus neurons 3h following 30 min of intermittent footshock. However, the footshock-induced increase in tyrosine hydroxylase transcription was not homogeneously expressed in locus coeruleus neurons. Similarly, administration of the alpha(2)-adrenergic receptor antagonist idazoxan produced a significant increase in the cellular concentration of tyrosine hydroxylase primary transcripts that was heterogeneously distributed among locus coeruleus neurons. Both footshock and idazoxan significantly increased the regional levels of tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA in the locus coeruleus. The time-course of changes in tyrosine hydroxylase transcription rate and messenger RNA levels in the locus coeruleus was examined after a 15 min exposure to footshock. A robust increase in tyrosine hydroxylase transcription rate was found at the end of 15 min of footshock, which remained elevated for 6h and was back to the control levels by 24h. In contrast, in response to a 15 min period of footshock tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA concentrations in the locus coeruleus did not increase until 6h and remained elevated at 24h. These findings demonstrate that transcription of the tyrosine hydroxylase gene in locus coeruleus neurons in response to footshock stress occurs rapidly, is sustained for many hours and is heterogeneously distributed. These data also suggest that the increase in tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA following footshock is mediated, at least in part, by an increase in tyrosine hydroxylase gene transcription.
The corticotropin-releasing factor-binding protein is distinct from known corticotropin-releasing factor receptors, but can bind the peptide and neutralize its biological actions. Recent interest has centered about the therapeutic potential of &quot;ligand inhibitors&quot; of binding protein action, synthetic corticotropin-releasing factor fragments which are inactive at corticotropin-releasing factor receptors, but can displace the peptide from the binding protein, thereby increasing levels of free corticotropin-releasing factor. To identify sites of action of such ligands, the distribution of Fos expression seen following intracerebroventricular administration of rat/human corticotropin-releasing factor(6-33) (5-50 microg) was charted in relation to corticotropin-releasing factor-binding protein and receptor expression. It was expected that Fos induction would mimic aspects of the distribution of the two known corticotropin-releasing factor receptors, but the far greater correspondence was seen with that of the binding protein itself. This included neurons in the isocortex, the olfactory system, amygdala and a number of discrete brainstem cell groups; many Fos-immunoreactive neurons in each were found to co-express corticotropin-releasing factor-binding protein messenger RNA. Subsets of activated neurons co-expressed Type 1 corticotropin-releasing factor receptor messenger RNA, though these were largely limited to cell groups that also express the corticotropin-releasing factor-binding protein, and where binding protein immunoreactivity and Type 1 receptor transcripts were found to co-exist. Responsive neurons displaying Type 2 corticotropin-releasing factor receptor message were seen reliably only in the lateral septal nucleus. These findings support only a limited capacity of the ligand inhibitor to activate neurons bearing corticotropin-releasing factor receptors. The more pervasive activation seen among neurons that express the corticotropin-releasing factor-binding protein may be indicative of an unexpected role for this protein in signaling by corticotropin-releasing factor-related peptides.
In the present study plastic neural responses to N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced excitotoxic lesions and the neuroprotective effects of the L-type voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channel antagonist nimodipine were investigated in the rat magnocellular nucleus basalis. Assessment of spontaneous behaviour in the elevated plus maze and small open-field paradigms on day 5 and day 14 post-surgery indicated anxiety and persistent hypoactivity of N-methyl-D-aspartate-lesioned rats, as compared with sham-operated controls. Nimodipine administration significantly alleviated the behavioural deficits. Quantitative histochemical analysis of acetylcholinesterase-positive fibre innervation of the somatosensory cortex and determination of the numbers of choline-acetyltransferase-positive proximal fibre branches of cholinergic projection neurons in the magnocellular nucleus basalis demonstrated a severe cholinergic deficit as a consequence of the excitotoxic lesion 14 days post-surgery. Nimodipine pre-treatment significantly attenuated the loss of cortical cholinergic innervation and preserved the functional integrity of cholinergic projection neurons in the magnocellular nucleus basalis. Double-labelling immunocytochemistry demonstrated increased amyloid precursor protein expression in shrinking and presumably apoptotic choline-acetyltransferase-positive neurons, whereas surviving cholinergic nerve cells were devoid of excessive amyloid precursor protein immunoreactivity. Moreover, as a consequence of N-methyl-D-aspartate infusion, rim-like accumulation of amyloid precursor protein-positive astrocytes was visualized in a penumbra-like zone of the excitotoxic injury. Furthermore, abundant sprouting of serotonergic projection fibres invading the damaged magnocellular nucleus basalis subdivision was demonstrated. Pharmacological blockade by the Ca(2+) antagonist nimodipine significantly attenuated both neuronal and glial amyloid precursor protein immunoreactivity and serotonergic fibre sprouting following N-methyl-D-aspartate infusion. The present data characterize plastic endogenous glial and neuronal responses in the magnocellular nucleus basalis model of acute excitotoxic brain damage. The increased amyloid precursor protein expression may indicate effective means of intrinsic neuroprotection, as secreted amyloid precursor protein isoforms are suggested to play a role in neuronal rescue following excitotoxic injury. From a pharmacological point of view, extensive sprouting of serotonergic projections in the damaged magnocellular nucleus basalis may also counteract N-methyl-D-aspartate excitotoxicity via serotonin-induced inhibition of Ca(2+) currents and membrane hyperpolarization. Hence, lesion-induced changes in spontaneous animal behaviour, such as anxiety and novelty-induced hypoactivity, may well be attributed to the considerable re-distribution of serotonergic projections in the basal forebrain. In conclusion, our present data emphasize a role of neuron-glia and neurotransmitter-system interactions in functional recovery after acute excitotoxic brain injury, and the efficacy of L-type Ca(2+) channel blockade by the selective 1,4-dihydropyridine antagonist nimodipine.
In the symptomatic treatment of mild to moderately severe dementia associated with Alzheimer's disease, donepezil (E2020) has been introduced for the inhibition of acetylcholinesterase activity in the human brain. However, there is no morphological evidence as to how this chemical agent affects the acetylcholinesterase-positive structures in the various areas of the human and the rat CNS. This study demonstrates by histochemical means that donepezil exerts a dose-dependent inhibitory effect in vitro on acetylcholinesterase activity. The most sensitive areas were the cortex and the hippocampal formation. Within the different layers of the cortex, the cholinoceptive acetylcholinesterase-positive postsynaptic pyramidal cell bodies were more sensitive than the presynaptic cholinergic axonal processes. In the cortex, the cell body staining was already abolished by even 2 x 10(-8)M donepezil, whereas the axonal staining could be eliminated only by at least 5 x 10(-8)M donepezil. In the hippocampus, the axonal acetylcholinesterase reaction end-product was eliminated by 5 x 10(-7)M donepezil. The most resistant region was the putamen, where the staining intensity was moderately reduced by 1 x 10(-6)M donepezil. In the rat brain, the postsynaptic cholinoceptive and presynaptic cholinergic structures were inhibited by nearly the same dose of donepezil as in the human brain. These histochemical results provide the first morphological evidence that, under in vitro circumstances, donepezil is not a general acetylcholinesterase inhibitor in the CNS, but rather selectively affects the different brain areas and, within these, the cholinoceptive and cholinergic structures. The acetylcholinesterase staining in the nerve fibers (innervating the intracerebral blood vessels of the human brain and the extracerebral blood vessels of the rat brain) and at the neuromuscular junction in the diaphragm and gastrocnemius muscle of rat, was also inhibited dose dependently by donepezil. It is concluded that donepezil may be a valuable tool with which to influence both the pre- and the postsynaptic acetylcholinesterase-positive structures in the human and rat central and peripheral nervous systems.
Our objective was to elaborate a functional map of the globus pallidus by correlating the intrapallidal localization of quadripolar electrodes implanted in parkinsonian patients with the clinical effect of the stimulation of each contact. Five patients with L-DOPA-responsive Parkinson's disease presenting severe motor fluctuations and L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias were treated by continuous bilateral high-frequency stimulation of the globus pallidus. The effects of stimulation on parkinsonian disability were tested through each of the four stimulating contacts of each electrode. The anatomical localization of each of the stimulating contacts was determined by confronting the pre- and post-operative magnetic resonance imaging with the anatomical atlas of Schaltenbrand and Wharen.(34) The registration procedure comprised digitization of the atlas, the use of deformation tools to fit atlas sections with magnetic resonance imaging sections, and three-dimensional reconstruction of both the atlas and the magnetic resonance imaging sections. Analysis of the 32 stimulating contacts tested did not reveal a somatotopic organization in the pallidal region investigated but demonstrated that high-frequency stimulation had contrasting effects depending on whether it was applied to the external or the internal pallidum. Akinesia was improved by stimulation of the external pallidum but worsened by stimulation of the internal pallidum. In contrast, parkinsonian rigidity was improved by stimulation of either part of the pallidum. The areas in the internal pallidum where stimulation worsened akinesia were those in which stimulation reduced or suppressed L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias. Conversely, stimulation applied to the external pallidum induced dyskinesias. The fact that rigidity was improved by stimulation of the internal and external pallidum suggests that the neuronal bases of parkinsonian rigidity are different from those of akinesia and dyskinesias. The effect on akinesia and dyskinesias is in agreement with the current model of basal ganglia circuitry(10) if high-frequency stimulation activates rather than inhibits pallidal neurons, a possibility which is very likely since there are marked anatomical, biochemical and electrophysiological differences between the globus pallidus and the subthalamic nucleus. This study demonstrates that high-frequency stimulation of the globus pallidus in parkinsonian patients has contrasting effects depending on whether it is applied to the external or the internal part of this nucleus. The effect on akinesia and dyskinesias suggests that stimulation activates pallidal neurons, a result which challenges the generally accepted concept that high-frequency stimulation inactivates neurons in the region stimulated.
Dopamine may contribute to the loss of dopamine neurons in Parkinson's disease by generating reactive oxygen species and quinones. A previous report from this laboratory showed that intrastriatal injection of dopamine resulted in the selective reduction of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity, accompanied by an increase in indices of dopamine oxidation. However, conclusive proof that decreased tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity represented a loss of dopamine terminals was lacking. In this paper, we demonstrate that injection of dopamine results in a selective loss of dopamine terminals by (i) showing that immunoreactivity for another selective marker for dopamine terminals, the dopamine transporter, is also reduced; and (ii) that amino-cupric-silver stain reveals terminal degeneration within the area of selective loss of dopamine terminals. To determine the dopamine concentration that is selectively toxic to dopamine terminals, we examined changes in extracellular dopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in the area of selective terminal loss following intrastriatal dopamine. Dopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in this region reached peak levels 1-2h after the injection, and then returned towards baseline. The peak level of dopamine in the area of selective dopamine terminal damage was 10(2)-10(3)-fold lower than the injected concentration. Changes in striatal tissue levels of cysteinyl-catechols and glutathione were examined at 2, 4, 8, and 24h after intrastriatal dopamine. Levels of protein cysteinyl-dopamine and cysteinyl-3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid were increased at all time-points following the dopamine injection. High levels of free cysteinyl-catechols and glutathione-dopamine were detected within 2h after the dopamine injection. Glutathione levels were decreased significantly at 4 and 8h after the injection of dopamine, and returned to control levels by 24h. These data indicate that dopamine terminals actively degenerate following a single intrastriatal injection of dopamine, and furthermore that oxidative stress plays a key role in this process. As oxidative stress is thought to play an active role in the pathobiology of Parkinson's disease, these data may be relevant to our understanding of the disorder.
The chloride homeostasis of neurons and non-neuronal cells is maintained in part by a voltage-sensitive inwardly rectifying chloride conductance through the chloride channel-2. This channel is activated by hyperpolarization and extracellular hypotonicity. In the present study, hippocampal sections were immunostained for chloride channel-2, and somata and dendrites of both pyramidal and non-pyramidal cells were found to be immunoreactive. In addition, glial processes in the vicinity of small blood vessels were also immunostained, whereas the neuropil of strata pyramidale and lacunosum-moleculare contained chloride channel-2-positive punctate structures. Electron microscopy and double immunostaining using antibodies against chloride channel-2 and glial fibrillary acidic protein confirmed that the dense network of chloride channel-2-positive processes corresponds to the end feet of astrocytes. The distribution of chloride channel-2-immunoreactive astrocytes was inhomogeneous throughout the hippocampus: strata oriens, pyramidale and lacunosum-moleculare of CA1-CA3 and the outer molecular layer of the dentate gyrus contained the majority of immunoreactive end feet, whereas the other layers showed sparse labeling. Subcellular studies demonstrated that, in addition to astrocytes, chloride channel-2 was localized in the membrane of dendrites, dendritic spines, cell bodies and axon initial segments of neurons, frequently close to, or within active zones of, symmetrical synapses.Thus, chloride channel-2 appears to be involved in transmembrane chloride movements associated with GABAergic synaptic transmission. The specific laminar distribution of chloride channel-2-positive astroglial processes coinciding with that of GABAergic axon terminals suggests that the network of astrocytes may be able to siphon and deliver Cl(-) ions to layers with intense GABAergic transmission, thereby increasing the efficacy of GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibition.
Intrahippocampal injection of a subtoxic dose of kainate in mice has been shown to induce a dispersion of granule cells of the dentate gyrus, which is a characteristic morphological change often seen in human hippocampal sclerosis. In addition, it has been shown recently that such injections lead to recurrent hippocampal seizures and changes in glucose metabolism, which are reminiscent of temporal lobe epilepsy. Previous reports on human hippocampal sclerosis have shown an increase of the expression of the GluR2 alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate subunits in the dispersed granule cell somata. However, no such changes have been observed so far in animal models of epilepsy with hippocampal sclerosis. In this study, the expression of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate receptor subunits was examined by immunohistochemistry following intrahippocampal injection of kainate in mice and rats. In mice, such injection induced a persistent increase of GluR2 immunoreactivity in the granule cells for up to 180 days. By contrast, GluR1 immunoreactivity was transiently increased during the first four days after the injection and progressively decreased thereafter. By contrast, intrahippocampal injection of kainate in rats did not result in granule cell dispersion and no changes in GluR1 immunoreactivity or GluR2 immunoreactivity were observed. These results show that, in addition to morphological, clinical and metabolical similarities, intrahippocampal injection of kainate results in a persistent increase of GluR2 associated with granule cell dispersion, as in human hippocampal sclerosis. These data suggest the existence of common mechanisms between granule cell dispersion and regulation of GluR2 subunits associated with hippocampal sclerosis.
Neurodegenerative diseases, traumatic brain injury and stroke are likely to result in cognitive dysfunctioning. Animal models are needed in which these deficits and recovery of the affected functions can be investigated. In the present study, the entorhinal area was chosen as the target for lesioning and for assessing the lesion-induced deficits in the Morris water maze. The entorhinal cortex is regarded as an interface between the hippocampus and neocortex. Deafferentiating the hippocampus through entorhinal lesions impairs spatial learning. The effects of lesions, induced by either electrocoagulation (experiment 1) or ibotenate excitotoxicity (experiment 2), on spatial orientation behaviour were investigated. Water maze performance after unilateral or bilateral ibotenate injections into the entorhinal cortex was studied in the third experiment. In an additional study, the replicability of the spatial learning deficit after lesions induced by bilateral injections of ibotenic acid into the entorhinal cortex was assessed by comparing the results of nine experiments. We found that spatial learning was impaired after bilateral lesions aimed at the entorhinal cortex. The electrolytic lesion technique produced a relatively large sham effect, whereas the excitotoxic lesioning method did not. Unilateral injections of ibotenic acid into the entorhinal cortex did not affect spatial navigation. The ibotenate-induced lesions replicably produced deficits in the Morris tasks. The degree of the induced spatial learning impairments and the effects on the rate of acquisition during training, however, differed between experiments. This result suggests that the fundamental biological diversity between shipments of rats can account for variation in the effects of parahippocampal damage on spatial learning even in highly standardized experimental set-ups. Rats lesioned by bilateral injections of ibotenic acid into the entorhinal cortex provide an interesting and reliable model for investigating cognitive dysfunctions in neurodegenerative diseases, stroke or traumatic brain injury.
Neuronal process outgrowth has been postulated to be one of the fundamental steps involved in neuronal development. To test whether vasopressin can influence neuronal development by acting on the outgrowth of neuronal processes, we determined the neurotrophic action of the memory-enhancing peptide, vasopressin, in neurons derived from the cerebral cortex, a site of integrative cognitive function and long-term memory. Exposure to V(1) receptor agonist significantly increased multiple features of nerve cell morphology, including neurite length, number of branches, branch length, number of branch bifurcation points and number of microspikes. The dose-response profile of V(1) receptor agonist-induced neurotrophism exhibited a biphasic function, with lower concentrations inducing a significant increase while higher concentrations generally induced no significant effect. The neurotrophic effect of V(1) receptor activation did not require growth factors present in serum. Analysis of the regional selectivity of the vasopressin-induced neurotrophic effect revealed significant V(1) receptor agonist-induced neurotrophism in occipital and parietal neurons, whereas frontal and temporal neurons were unresponsive. Results of experiments to determine the mechanism of vasopressin-induced neurotrophism demonstrated that vasopressin-induced neurotrophism is dependent on V(1)a receptor activation, requires L-type calcium channel activation and activation of both pathways of the phosphatidylinositol signaling cascade, inositol trisphosphate and protein kinase C. These studies are the first to describe a functional cellular response for vasopressin in the cerebral cortex. The findings are discussed with respect to their implications for understanding the role of vasopressin-induced neurotrophism, the associated signaling pathways required for this response, and the ability of vasopressin to enhance memory function.
Synapses of intraglomerular processes of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons in the rat main olfactory bulb were examined by electron microscopic immunocytochemistry. Prominent characteristics of intraglomerular synapses of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive elements were that the vast majority (about 80%) of their synaptic inputs were asymmetrical synapses from olfactory nerve terminals and, though far smaller in proportion, one half of the remaining were asymmetrical synapses from mitral/tufted cell dendrites and the other half were symmetrical synapses from gamma-aminobutyric acid-like immunoreactive elements. So far, we have observed no typical reciprocal synapses between tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive processes and mitral/tufted dendrites; however, we have often identified serial synapses; that is, asymmetrical synapses from olfactory nerve terminals or mitral/tufted cell dendrites to tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive processes, and then symmetrical synapses from the latter to different mitral/tufted cell dendrites. These synaptic connections of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons were very different from those of Calbindin-D(28k)-immunoreactive neurons, which received no synaptic contact directly from olfactory nerve terminals but formed reciprocal synapses with mitral/tufted cells as we analysed previously.Thus, our present and previous electron microscopic studies combined with confocal laser scanning light microscopy clearly indicated for the first time the heterogeneity of periglomerular neurons, not only in their chemical and morphological features, but also in their synaptic organization in the olfactory glomerulus.
Modified dopamine and glutamate neurotransmission in discrete brain regions is implicated in stimulant-induced behavioral sensitization. Release of both neurotransmitters is influenced by GABA(B) metabotropic receptors for the principal inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA. Accordingly, GABA(B) receptors were examined in rats sensitized to amphetamine by measuring receptor density and coupling to G-proteins indicated as [(3)H]baclofen binding and baclofen-mediated [(35)S]GTP gamma S binding. Repeated treatment with (+)-amphetamine (5mg/kg per day, i.p., for five days) sensitized the rats to amphetamine challenge (1mg/kg) at 14 days, but not one day, later. GABA(B) receptor density was not altered at either time. Baclofen-mediated [(35)S]GTP gamma S binding, however, was selectively augmented in the prefrontal cortex and attenuated in the nucleus accumbens at 14 days, but not one day, after amphetamine treatment. Changes in GABA(B) receptor coupling to G-proteins in rats sensitized to amphetamine, but not in similarly treated but unsensitized rats, lead us to suggest that altered GABA(B) receptor functioning may contribute to the expression of amphetamine-induced behavioral sensitization.
Repeated exposure to the psychostimulant drug, amphetamine, results in a persistent increase in the ability of the drug to elicit behavioral activation.(14,19) The development of sensitized responses to amphetamine involves long-lasting neuroadaptations within defined circuitry.(3,6,12,15,23) The behavioral expression of sensitization, however, can come under the control of specific environmental cues. Thus, the sensitized locomotor response to a challenge injection of amphetamine is greater if the drug is given in the environment previously associated with intermittent injections than if given in a different environmental context.(2,13,16,18,20,21) Contrary to the wealth of information on the significance of contextual cues, little is known about the importance of time cues in the expression of sensitized responding to amphetamine. In the present study we, therefore, asked whether time of injection might influence the expression of amphetamine sensitization. We found that time can readily act as a conditioned stimulus to control the expression of behavioral sensitization to amphetamine in rats. This finding is important for understanding the mechanisms underlying sensitization to psychostimulant drugs and its impact on behavior.
To directly monitor the glial activity in the CNS of the pond snail, Lymnaea stagnalis, we optically measured the electrical responses in the cerebral ganglion and median lip nerve to electrical stimulation of the distal end of the median lip nerve. Using a voltage-sensitive dye, RH155, we detected a composite depolarizing response in the cerebral ganglion, which consisted of a fast transient depolarizing response corresponding to a compound action potential and a slow depolarizing response. The slow depolarizing response was observed more clearly in an isolated median lip nerve and also detected by extracellular recording. In the median lip nerve preparation, the slow depolarizing response was suppressed by an L-type Ca(2+) channel blocker, nifedipine, and was resistant to tetrodotoxin and Na(+)-free conditions. Together with the fact that a delay from the compound action potential to the slow depolarizing response was not constant, these results suggested that the slow depolarizing response was not a postsynaptic response. Because the signals of the action potentials appeared on the saturated slow depolarizing responses during repetitive stimulation, the slow depolarizing response was suggested to originate from glial cells. The contribution of the L-type Ca(2+) current to the slow depolarizing response was confirmed by optical recording in the presence of Ba(2+) and also supported by intracellular Ca(2+) measurement. Our results suggested that electrical stimulation directly triggers glial Ca(2+) entry through L-type Ca(2+) channels, providing evidence for the generation of glial depolarization independent of neuronal activity in invertebrates.
The effects of prostaglandin E(2) on axonal transport in cultured mouse dorsal root ganglion neurons were investigated by analysing the number of axonally transported particles under video-enhanced microscopy. Application of prostaglandin E(2) increased the number of particles transported in anterograde and retrograde directions. The EP(2) prostaglandin receptor agonist butaprost mimicked the effect of prostaglandin E(2), but the EP(1)/EP(3) prostaglandin receptor agonist 17-phenyl trinor prostaglandin E(2) and the EP(3) prostaglandin receptor agonist M&amp;B 28767 had no effect. The membrane-permeable cyclic AMP analogue dibutyryl cyclic AMP and the adenylate cyclase activator forskolin mimicked the effect of prostaglandin E(2). The protein kinase A inhibitor H-89 reversibly reduced the number of particles in both anterograde and retrograde directions. The effects of prostaglandin E(2) and dibutyryl cyclic AMP were blocked by H-89. Taken together with previous biochemical studies showing that prostaglandin E(2) increases cyclic AMP levels, the present results suggest that prostaglandin E(2) enhances axonal transport via the EP(2) receptor and cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase A pathway. We further investigated the role of prostaglandin E(2) in neurite growth. Prostaglandin E(2) increased both the number of cells exhibiting neurites and the neurite growth rate, operating by a similar mechanism to stimulation of axonal transport. Prostaglandin E(2) may modulate axonal transport to supply materials for morphogenesis as well as other functions in sensory neurons.
Neutralization of the myelin-associated neurite growth inhibitors NI-35 and NI-250 by IN-1 antibodies can promote axonal regeneration of several types of central nervous neurons. Here, we investigated in adult rats whether IN-1 can promote regeneration of ascending sensory axons across a peripheral nerve bridge back into the spinal cord. IN-1 was administered by hybridoma cells injected in the cerebral cortex or thoracic cord, its presence confirmed in tissue sections and cerebrospinal fluid, and its effectiveness demonstrated in co-cultures of oligodendrocytes and sensory neurons. With a two week infusion of control vehicle into the dorsal spinal cord 3 mm rostral to the nerve graft, only 3+/-2% of the anterogradely labeled sensory fibers present at the rostral end of the nerve graft had grown up to 0.5 mm, but not farther into the spinal cord. A similar limited extent of regeneration was seen with IN-1 or with infusion of Dantrolene, an inhibitor of NI-35/250 activity in vitro. With infusion of nerve growth factor rostral to the nerve graft, 40% of the fibers at the rostral end of the graft were found at 0.5 mm, 34% at 1 mm, 24% at 2 mm and 14% at 3 mm (the infusion site) into the spinal cord. Treatment with IN-l antibodies did not enhance the growth-promoting effects of nerve growth factor. We suggest that the neurite growth inhibitors NI-35 or NI-250 do not play a major inhibitory role in the regeneration of the ascending sensory fibers across a nerve bridge and back into the spinal cord of the adult rat.
The rostral ventromedial medulla contains three physiologically defined classes of pain-modulating neuron that project to the spinal and trigeminal dorsal horns. OFF cells contribute to anti-nociceptive processes, ON cells contribute to pro-nociceptive processes (i.e. hyperalgesia) and neutral cells tonically modulate spinal nociceptive responsiveness. In the setting of noxious peripheral input, the different cell classes in this region permit bi-directional modulation of pain perception (analgesia vs hyperalgesia). It is unclear, however, whether changes in the activity of these neurons are relevant to the behaving animal in the absence of a painful stimulus. Here, we pharmacologically manipulated neurons in the rostral ventromedial medulla and used the place-conditioning paradigm to assess changes in the affective state of the animal. Local microinjection of the alpha(1)-adrenoceptor agonist methoxamine (50.0 microg in 0.5 microl; to activate ON cells, primarily), combined with local microinjection of the kappa-opioid receptor agonist U69,593 (0.178 microg in 0.5 microl; to inhibit OFF cells), produced an increase in spinal nociceptive reactivity (i.e. hyperalgesia on the tail flick assay) and a negative affective state (as inferred from the production of conditioned place avoidance) in the conscious, freely moving rat. Additional microinjection experiments using various concentrations of methoxamine alone or U69, 593 alone revealed that the rostral ventromedial medulla is capable of eliciting a range of affective changes resulting in conditioned place avoidance, no place-conditioning effect or conditioned place preference (reflecting production of a positive affective state). Overall, however, there was no consistent relationship between place-conditioning effects and changes in spinal nociceptive reactivity. This is the first report of bi-directional changes in affective state (i.e. reward or aversion production) associated with pharmacological manipulation of a brain region traditionally associated with bi-directional pain modulation. We conclude that, in addition to its well-described pain-modulating effects, the rostral ventromedial medulla is capable of modifying animal behavior in the absence of a painful stimulus by bi-directionally influencing the animal's affective state.
GABA plays an important role in the processing of gustatory information in the rostral nucleus of the solitary tract. The following study used post-embedment immunohistochemistry in the rat brainstem to localize GABA at both the light and electron microscopic levels to characterize the developmental distribution of GABA and synaptogenesis of GABA-immunoreactive terminals in the rostral nucleus of the solitary tract. During the first postnatal week, GABA is present in the rostral nucleus of the solitary tract, but less of it is synaptic than any time later in development. Of the few synaptic terminals present at postnatal day 1, less than 20% are GABA-immunoreactive. This proportion more than doubles to reach adult levels by postnatal day 10. By weaning (postnatal day 20), GABA-immunoreactive cells are found in nearly the same density as in the adult. Development continues after weaning and is characterized by a disproportionate loss of non-GABA-containing cells. Finally, one previously identified subtype of GABA-immunoreactive terminal matures very late during the postweaning phase of development. The study provides the first analysis of the development of GABA-related circuitry in the rostral nucleus of the solitary tract using anatomical methods. These data provide the background with which to view the emerging physiology of developing taste neurons.
Expression of glycoprotein 130 and the related receptors, including interleukin-6 receptor and leukemia inhibitory factor receptor, was examined in the murine cerebellum at the protein level. Western blot analysis revealed that interleukin-6 receptor, leukemia inhibitory factor receptor and glycoprotein 130 were expressed in the murine cerebellum. Immunoreactivities for interleukin-6 receptor, leukemia inhibitory factor receptor and glycoprotein 130 were strongly localized on the cell body of Purkinje cells, indicating that both interleukin-6 and leukemia inhibitory factor could act directly on Purkinje cells in murine adult mice. The expressions of interleukin-6 receptor, leukemia inhibitory factor receptor and glycoprotein 130 were observed on the cell membranes of Purkinje cells by immunoelectron microscopy. Immunoreactivity for the interleukin-6 receptor was also detected in the cytoplasm of Purkinje cells. Injection of a murine hemopoietic cell line, FDC-P1 cells, transfected with the complementary DNA encoding the leukemia inhibitory factor led to a reduction in calbindin-positive dendrites of the Purkinje cells.The present results suggest that the leukemia inhibitory factor affects cerebellar functions through Purkinje cells.
Several genetic mouse models of differential sensitivity to opioids have been used to investigate the mechanisms underlying individual variation in responses to opioids. The CXBK mice are inbred recombinant mice which have a lower level of mu(1)-opioid receptors than their parental strain. Endomorphin-1 and endomorphin-2 are endogenous opioid peptides that are highly selective for mu-opioid receptors, while beta-endorphin, which is also an endogenous opioid peptide, is non-selective for mu-, delta- and putative epsilon-opioid receptors. The present study was designed to investigate the effects of these endogenous opioid peptides on G-protein activation by monitoring guanosine-5'-o-(3-[35S]thio)triphosphate binding to pons/medulla membranes of CXBK mice and their parental strain C57BL/6 ByJ mice. Endomorphin-1 (0.1-10 microM), endomorphin-2 (0.1-10 microM) and beta-endorphin (0.1-10 microM) increased guanosine-5'-o-(3-[35S]thio)triphosphate binding to the pons/medulla membranes from C57BL/6 ByJ and CXBK mice in a concentration-dependent manner. However, the increases of guanosine-5'-o-(3-[35S]thio)triphosphate binding induced by either endomorphin-1 or endomorphin-2 in CXBK mice were significantly much lower than those in C57BL/6ByJ mice. However, no significant difference was found in the increases of the guanosine-5'-o-(3-[35S]thio)triphosphate binding induced by beta-endorphin in C57BL/6 ByJ and CXBK mice. Moreover, whereas the increase of guanosine-5'-o-(3-[35S]thio)triphosphate binding induced by 10 microM endomorphin-1 or endomorphin-2 were almost completely blocked by a mu-opioid receptor antagonist beta-funaltrexamine (10 microM) in both strains, the increase of guanosine-5'-o-(3-[35S]thio)triphosphate binding induced by 10 microM beta-endorphin was attenuated to approximately 70% of stimulation by co-incubation with 10 microM beta-funaltrexamine in both strains. The residual stimulation of [35S]guanosine-5'-o-(3-thio)triphosphate binding by 10 microM beta-endorphin in the presence of 10 microM beta-funaltrexamine was further attenuated by the addition of putative epsilon-opioid receptor partial agonist beta-endorphin (1-27) (1 microM) in both strains. Like the endomorphins, the synthetic mu-opioid receptor agonist [D-Ala(2),N-MePhe(4), Gly-ol(5)]enkephalin at 10 microM showed lower increases of guanosine-5'-o-(3-[35S]thio)triphosphate binding in CXBK mice than those in C57BL/6ByJ mice. However, there was no strain difference in the stimulation of guanosine-5'-o-(3-[35S]thio)triphosphate binding induced by 10 microM of the selective delta(1)-opioid receptor agonist [D-Pen(2,5)]enkephalin, delta(2)-opioid receptor agonist [D-Ala(2)]deltorphin II or kappa-opioid receptor agonist U50,488H. The results indicate that the G-protein activation by endomorphin-1 and endomorphin-2 in the mouse pons/medulla is mediated by both mu(1)- and mu(2)-opioid receptors. Moreover, beta-endorphin-induced G-protein activation in the mouse pons/medulla is, in part, mediated by mu(2)- and putative epsilon-, but not by mu(1)-opioid receptors.
Synaptic transmission evoked by focal stimulation in the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray was characterized using the whole-cell recording technique in rat brain slices. At resting membrane potential (-62+/-1 mV), focal stimulation (0.05-0.1 ms, 0.03 Hz) usually evoked a 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2, 3-dione-sensitive fast excitatory postsynaptic potential and a DL-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid-sensitive slow excitatory postsynaptic potential with a bicuculline-sensitive inhibitory postsynaptic potential in between. In the presence of kynurenic acid, bicuculline-sensitive inhibitory postsynaptic currents recorded in the voltage-clamp mode displayed a reversal potential of -68+/-3 mV, resembling GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents. However, no GABA(B) receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic current was evoked, even at stronger stimulating intensity. 6-Cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione-sensitive fast excitatory postsynaptic currents were isolated by DL-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid plus bicuculline and DL-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid-sensitive slow fast excitatory postsynaptic currents by bicuculline plus 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione. Both types of excitatory postsynaptic current reversed at potentials near 0 mV. The I-V curve of slow fast excitatory postsynaptic currents or N-methyl-D-aspartate currents displayed a negative slope at potentials more negative than -30 mV in an Mg(2+)-sensitive manner. The control postsynaptic currents reversed at potentials between -50 and -35 mV, inclined to the reversal potential of GABA(A), but not glutamate, receptor channels. It is concluded that, in the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray, focal stimulation elicits both inhibitory and excitatory transmission, while the former is dominant. The inhibitory transmission is mediated by GABA(A) but not GABA(B) receptors. The excitatory transmission is mediated by glutamate acting on alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate/kainate as well as N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors.
Neurons throughout the rat medial geniculate body, including the dorsal and ventral divisions, display a variety of responses to auditory stimuli. To investigate possible structural determinants of this variability, measurements of axon terminal profile area and postsynaptic dendrite diameter were made on inferior colliculus and corticothalamic terminal profiles in the medial geniculate body identified by anterograde tracer labeling following injections into the inferior colliculus or cortex. Over 90% of the synapses observed were axodendritic, with few axosomatic synapses. Small (&lt;0.5 microm(2)) and large (&gt;1.0 microm(2)) collicular profiles were found throughout the medial geniculate, but were smaller on average in the dorsal division (0.49+/-0.49 microm(2)) than in the ventral division (0.70+/-0.64 microm(2)). Almost all corticothalamic profiles were small and ended on small-caliber dendrites (0.57+/-0.25 microm diameter) throughout the medial geniculate. A few very large (&gt;2.0 microm(2)) corticothalamic profiles were found in the dorsal division and in the marginal zone of the medial geniculate. GABA immunostaining demonstrated the presence of GABAergic profiles arising from cells in the inferior colliculus. These profiles were compared with GABAergic profiles not labeled with anterograde tracer, which were presumed to be unlabeled inferior colliculus profiles or thalamic reticular nucleus profiles. The distributions of dendritic diameters postsynaptic to collicular, cortical and unlabeled GABAergic profiles were compared with dendritic diameters of intracellularly labeled medial geniculate neurons from rat brain slices. Our results demonstrate a corticothalamic projection to medial geniculate body that is similar to other sensory corticothalamic projections. However, the heterogeneous distributions of excitatory inferior collicular terminal sizes and postsynaptic dendritic diameters, along with the presence of a GABAergic inferior collicular projection to dendrites in the medial geniculate body, suggest a colliculogeniculate projection that is more complex than the ascending projections to other sensory thalamic nuclei. These findings may be useful in understanding some of the differences in the response characteristics of medial geniculate neurons in vivo.
Rats exposed to a long-term treatment with lithium chloride develop a deficit of avoidance accompanied by a reduction in the basal levels of extraneuronal dopamine and in dopamine accumulation in the nucleus accumbens shell after acute uptake inhibition. Such a condition is similar to that of an experimental model of depression induced by exposing rats to a chronic stress procedure. Rats exposed to chronic stress are also unable to acquire an appetitive behavior sustained by a highly palatable food. Thus, it was studied whether rats fed a diet containing lithium would develop an appetitive behavior induced by a pure hedonic stimulus. Rats on the lithium diet developed a clear-cut escape deficit condition accompanied by a decreased dopamine output in the nucleus accumbens shell; nevertheless, they learned the appetitive behavior within a similar period to controls. The development of the appetitive behavior coincided with the recovery of the capacity to avoid a noxious stimulus and with the return of the dopaminergic transmission in the nucleus accumbens shell to values similar to those of control rats. It may be concluded that the mechanism of action underlying the behavioral and neurochemical sequelae of a chronic stress is distinct from that of the analogous effects produced by lithium.
Cannabinoids have been shown to disrupt memory processes in mammals including humans. Although the CB1 neuronal cannabinoid receptor was identified several years ago, neuronal network mechanisms mediating cannabinoid effects are still controversial in animals, and even more obscure in humans. In the present study, the localization of CB1 receptors was investigated at the cellular and subcellular levels in the human hippocampus, using control post mortem and epileptic lobectomy tissue. The latter tissue was also used for [3H]GABA release experiments, testing the predictions of the anatomical data. Detectable expression of CB1 was confined to interneurons, most of which were found to be cholecystokinin-containing basket cells. CB1-positive cell bodies showed immunostaining in their perinuclear cytoplasm, but not in their somadendritic plasmamembrane. CB1-immunoreactive axon terminals densely covered the entire hippocampus, forming symmetrical synapses characteristic of GABAergic boutons. Human temporal lobectomy samples were used in the release experiments, as they were similar to the controls regarding cellular and subcellular distribution of CB1 receptors. We found that the CB1 receptor agonist, WIN 55,212-2, strongly reduced [3H]GABA release, and this effect was fully prevented by the specific CB1 receptor antagonist SR 141716A. This unique expression pattern and the presynaptic modulation of GABA release suggests a conserved role for CB1 receptors in controlling inhibitory networks of the hippocampus that are responsible for the generation and maintenance of fast and slow oscillatory patterns. Therefore, a likely mechanism by which cannabinoids may impair memory and associational processes is an alteration of the fine-tuning of synchronized, rhythmic population events.
An important contributor to the generation of epileptiform activity is the synchronization of burst firing in a group of neurons. The aim of this study was to investigate whether gap junctions are involved in this synchrony using an in vitro model of epileptiform activity. Hippocampal slices (400 microm) were prepared from female Sprague-Dawley rats (120-170 g). The perfusion of slices with a medium containing no added magnesium and 4-aminopyridine (50 microM) resulted in the generation of spontaneous bursts of population spikes of a fast frequency along with less frequent negative-going bursts. The frequency of the bursts produced was consistent over a 3h period. Carbenoxolone (100 microM), a gap junction blocker and mineralocorticoid agonist, perfused for 75 min, reduced the frequency of both types of spontaneous burst activity. Perfusion of spironolactone (1 microM), a mineralocorticosteroid antagonist, for 15 min prior to and during carbenoxolone perfusion did not alter the ability of carbenoxolone to depress the frequency of spontaneous activity. The incubation of hippocampal slices in carbenoxolone prior to recording increased the time taken for the spontaneous activity to start on change to the zero magnesium/4-aminopyridine medium and decreased the total number of spontaneous bursts over the first 60 min period. The ability of carbenoxolone to delay induction of epileptiform activity and reduce established epileptiform activity suggests that gap junctions contribute to the synchronization of neuronal firing in this model.
Epileptic seizures increase the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the hippocampus. Since this neurotrophin exerts modulatory effects on neuronal excitability in this structure, it may play an important role in hippocampal epileptogenesis. This question was addressed by studying the effects of chronic infusions of recombinant brain-derived neurotrophic factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor antisense in the hippocampus during the first seven days of hippocampal kindling. Infusion with brain-derived neurotrophic factor (6-24 microg/day) significantly delayed the progression of standard hippocampal kindling and strongly suppressed seizures induced by rapid hippocampal kindling. These suppressive effects were dose dependent, long lasting, not secondary to neuronal toxicity and specific to this neurotrophin, as nerve growth factor accelerated hippocampal kindling progression. They also appeared to be specific to the hippocampus, as infusion of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (48 microg/day) in the amygdala only resulted in a slight and transient delay of amygdala kindling. Conversely to the protective effects of exogenous brain-derived neurotrophic factor, chronic hippocampal infusion of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (12 nmol/day), resulting in reduced expression of endogenous brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the hippocampus, aggravated seizures during hippocampal kindling. Taken together, our results lead us to suggest that the seizure-induced increase in brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression in the hippocampus may constitute an endogenous regulatory mechanism able to restrain hippocampal epileptogenesis.
Neuronal nitric oxide synthase and haem oxygenase-2 are postulated to be important enzymes involved in neuronal transmission and modulation of free radical levels in neurons. Hippocampal and cortical neuronal nitric oxide synthase and haem oxygenase-2 expressions were compared in young adult (6 months) and aged (24-26 months) Long-Evans rats. Aged rats were assigned as either cognitively unimpaired or impaired based on their performances in the Morris water maze behavioural task. In situ hybridization revealed increased neuronal nitric oxide synthase messenger RNA levels in selected regions of the hippocampi and cortices of aged rats. Moreover, aged cognitively impaired animals showed significantly higher neuronal nitric oxide synthase messenger RNA expression than aged cognitively unimpaired animals in several brain regions. For haem oxygenase-2 mRNA expressions, both young and aged cognitively impaired rats showed increased expressions in hippocampi compared with aged cognitively unimpaired rats, while no difference was found in cortices between all three animal groups. The increase in neuronal nitric oxide synthase messenger RNA expression levels in the aged animals may be related to increased free radical production occurring in ageing. Alternatively, elevated neuronal nitric oxide synthase and haem oxygenase-2 messenger RNA expressions may represent compensatory responses to oxidative stress and age-related changes in neuronal functions. Regarding cognitive status, aged cognitively impaired rats showed significant spatial memory deficits relative to young and aged cognitively unimpaired rats. Our data suggest a correlation between age-related cognitive impairment and change in messenger RNA expressions for the neuronal nitric oxide synthase and haem oxygenase-2 systems in brain areas implicated in learning and memory processes.
Rearing rats in isolation has been shown to be a relevant paradigm for studying early life stress and understanding the genesis of depression and related affective disorders. Recent studies from our laboratory point to the relevance of studying the social isolation syndrome as a function of home caging conditions. Accordingly, the present series of experiments assessed the contribution of each condition to the expression of the prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle, food hoarding and spontaneous locomotor activity. In addition, ex vivo neurochemical changes in the brains of isolated and grouped rats reared either in sawdust-lined or in grid-floor cages were determined by measuring dopamine and serotonin as well as their major metabolites in a &quot;psychosis circuit&quot; that includes mainly the hippocampus and selected hippocampal efferent pathways projecting towards the anterior cingulate and infralimbic cortices, nucleus accumbens, dorsolateral caudate nucleus, amygdala and entorhinal cortex. The results of the present study demonstrate that rearing rats in isolation (i) produces a syndrome of generalized locomotor hyperactivity; (ii) increases the startle response; (iii) impairs prepulse inhibition; (iv) tends to increase food hoarding behavior; (v) increases basal dopamine turnover in the amygdaloid complex; (vi) decreases basal dopamine turnover in the infralimbic part of the medial prefrontal cortex; and (vii) decreases basal turnover of serotonin in the nucleus accumbens. In the entorhinal cortex, dopamine neurotransmission seemed to be more sensitive to the caging conditions since a decreased basal turnover of dopamine was observed in grid-reared animals. Plasma corticosterone levels were also increased in grid-reared animals compared with rats reared in sawdust cages. Finally, isolates reared on grids showed a significant positive correlation between plasma corticosterone levels and dopamine in the left nucleus accumbens.Altogether, these results support the contention that there is a link between social isolation, attention deficit, spontaneous locomotor hyperactivity and reduced dopamine turnover in the medial prefrontal cortex. Furthermore, our data demonstrate that rearing rats in grid-floor cages represents a form of chronic mild stress associated with increased corticosterone levels, decreased basal turnover of entorhinal dopamine and increased dopamine activity in the left nucleus accumbens. Finally, a significant and selective decrease in the basal turnover of serotonin in the nucleus accumbens of isolated rats may be linked to the isolation-induced locomotor hyperactivity.
We used on-line microdialysis measurements of dopamine and noradrenaline extracellular concentrations in the medial prefrontal cortex of awake, freely moving rats during the dark and the light period of the day to study whether (i) basal efflux would be higher in the active, dark period than in the inactive, light period; (ii) the activation induced by environmental stimuli would be dependent on these conditions. When determined one day after cannula placement, noradrenaline and dopamine levels were higher during the dark. Maximal relative increases induced by novelty and handling were 150% and 175-200%, respectively, and were very similar in the light and the dark, but the net increases were higher in the dark. Separate groups were tested one week after cannula placement to ensure recovery of possibly disturbed circadian rhythms. While basal levels in the dark were now approximately twice those in the light, the maximal relative and net increases after both novelty and handling were very similar. Basal levels of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens (one day after cannula placement) were not different in the light or dark, but were increased by novelty and handling to about 130% only in the light period, not in the dark. Thus, in the prefrontal cortex, dopamine strongly resembles noradrenaline, in that basal efflux was state dependent, whereas activation by stimuli was not. In the nucleus accumbens, basal dopamine efflux was not state dependent, but activation by stimuli was. These results suggest that there are differential effects of circadian phase on basal activity and responsiveness of the mesolimbic vs the mesocortical dopamine system.
Neuropeptide Y displays diverse modes of action in the CNS including the modulation of cortical/limbic function. Some of these physiological actions have been at least partially attributed to actions of neuropeptide Y on the Y5 receptor subtype. We utilized an antibody raised against the Y5 receptor to characterize the distribution of this receptor subtype in the rat cortical/limbic system and brainstem. Y5-like immunoreactivity was located primarily in neuronal cell bodies and proximal dendritic processes throughout the brain. In the cortex, Y5 immunoreactivity was limited to a subpopulation of small gamma-aminobutyric-acid interneurons (approximately 15 microm diameter) scattered throughout all cortical levels. Double label immunofluorescence was also used to demonstrate that all of the Y5 immunoreactive neurons in the cortex displayed intense corticotropin releasing hormone immunoreactivity. The most intense Y5 immunoreactive staining in the hippocampus was located in the pyramidal cell layer of the small CA2 subregion and the fasciola cinerea, with lower levels of staining in the hilar region of the dentate gyrus and CA3 subregion of the pyramidal cell layer. Nearly all of the Y5 immunoreactive neurons in the hilar region of the hippocampus displayed gamma-aminobutyric-acid immunoreactivity. In the brainstem, Y5 immunoreactivity was most intense in the Edinger-Westphal nucleus, locus coeruleus and the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus. The present study provides neuroanatomical evidence for the possible sites of action of the neuropeptide Y/Y5 receptor system in the control of cortical/limbic function. The presence of Y5 immunoreactivity on cell bodies and proximal dendritic processes in specific regions of the hippocampus suggests that this receptor functions to modulate postsynaptic activity. These data also suggest that the neuropeptide Y/Y5 system may play a role in the modulation of a specific population of GABAergic neurons in the cortex, namely those that contain corticotropin-releasing hormone. The location of the Y5 receptor immunoreactivity fits with the known physiological actions of neuropeptide Y and this receptor.
The classical conditioning of the eyelid motor system in alert behaving rabbits has been used to study the expression of Fos in the hippocampus, and in the occipital, parietal, piriform and temporal cortices. Animals were classically conditioned with both delay and trace conditioning paradigms. As conditioned stimulus, both short and long (20 and 100 ms) tones (600 Hz, 90 dB) or short, weak (20 ms, 1kg/cm(2)) air puffs were used. The unconditioned stimulus was always a long, strong (100 ms, 3 kg/cm(2)) air puff that started 250-270 ms after the onset of the conditioned stimulus. The expression of Fos was significantly increased after both delayed and trace conditioning in the hippocampus, and in the parietal and piriform cortices contralateral to the unconditioned stimulus presentation side, compared with equivalent ipsilateral structures in conditioned animals, or with Fos production in the same contralateral structures in pseudo-conditioned and control animals. Fos expression in some cortical sites was specific to tone versus air puff stimuli when used as conditioned stimulus. Thus, Fos expression was significantly increased in the contralateral temporal lobe when tones were used as conditioned stimulus, for both delayed and trace conditioning paradigms, but not when animals were conditioned to short, weak air puffs. The present results indicate a specific Fos activation in several cerebral cortical structures during associative eyelid conditioning.
Vascular endothelial growth factor is an angiogenic peptide that binds to tyrosine kinase receptors on target cells to activate signal transduction pathways involving phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase and the serine-threonine protein kinase, Akt. To determine whether this signaling pathway is activated in cerebral ischemia, we examined the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor receptors 1 and 2, and phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase-activated phospho-Akt, in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus following transient global cerebral ischemia in the rat. Western blot analysis and immunocytochemistry demonstrated induction of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 1 and 2 expression, and of anti-phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase-immunoprecipitated phospho-Akt, in vulnerable regions of the cortex and hippocampus after 15 min of global ischemia and 4-72 h of reperfusion. These findings demonstrate that vascular endothelial growth factor receptors and receptor-coupled signal transduction pathways are induced in ischemic brain in vivo, and could therefore participate in endogenous neuroprotective responses to ischemia.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, initially purified from the rat glial cell line B49, has the ability to promote the survival and differentiation of various types of neurons in the central and peripheral nervous systems. In the present study, to evaluate the physiological role of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor in the central nervous system, we investigated the cellular and regional distribution of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor immunoreactivity in autopsied control human brains and spinal cords using a polyclonal glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor-specific antibody. On western blot analysis, the antibody reacted with recombinant human glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, and recognized a single band at a molecular weight of approximately 34,000 in human brain homogenates. Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor immunoreactivity was observed mainly in the neuronal somata, dendrites and axons. In the telencephalon, diencephalon and brainstem, the cell bodies and proximal processes of several neuronal subtypes were immunostained with punctate dots. Furthermore, immunopositive nerve fibers were also observed, and numerous axons were intensely immunolabeled in the internal segment of the globus pallidus and the pars reticulata of the substantia nigra. In the cerebellum, the most conspicuous immunostaining was found in the Purkinje cells, in which the somata and dendrites were strongly immunolabeled. Intense immunoreactivity was also detected in the posterior horn of the spinal cord. In addition to the neuronal elements, immunopositive glial cell bodies and processes were observed in various regions. Our results suggest that glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor is widely localized, but can be found selectively in certain neuronal subpopulations of the human central nervous system. Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor may regulate the maintenance of neuronal functions under normal circumstances.
In contrast to dopamine D1 receptors, the anatomical distribution of D5 receptors in the CNS is poorly described. Therefore, we have studied the localization of dopamine D5 receptors in the brain of rat and human using our newly prepared subtype-specific antibody. Western blot analysis of brain tissues and membranes of cDNA transfected cells, and immunoprecipitation of brain dopamine receptors suggest that this antibody is highly selective for native dopamine D5 receptors. The D5 antibody labeled dopaminergic neurons of mesencephalon, and cortical and subcortical structures. In neostriatum, the D5 receptors were localized in the medium spiny neurons and large cholinergic interneurons. The D5 labeling in caudate nucleus was predominantly in spines of the projection neurons that were frequently making asymmetric synapses. Occasionally, the D5 receptors were also found at the symmetric synapses. Within the cerebral cortex and hippocampus, D5 antibody labeling was prominent in the pyramidal cells and their dendrites. Dopamine D5 receptors were also prominent in the cerebellum, where dopamine innervation is known to be very modest. Differences in the localization of D5 receptors between both species were generally indistinguishable except in hippocampus. In rat, the hippocampal D5 receptor was concentrated in the cell body, whereas in human it was also associated with dendrites. These results show that D5 receptors are localized in the substantia nigra-pars compacta, hypothalamus, striatum, cerebral cortex, nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercle. Furthermore, the presence of D5 receptors in the areas of dopamine pathways suggests that this receptor may participate actively in dopaminergic neurotransmission.
Expression of cannabinoid 1 (CB1) and vanilloid 1 (VR1) receptor proteins was studied in adult, cultured rat dorsal root ganglion neurons. Immunostaining of CB1 receptors alone produced labelling in 57+/-2% of the cultured dorsal root ganglion neurons (n=3 cultures). The area of the labelled cells was between 200 and 800 microm(2) with an average of 527+/-68 microm(2). VR1 immunolabelling revealed immunopositivity in 42+/-6% of the total population of dorsal root ganglion neurons. Cells showing VR1-like immunopositivity had an area between 200 and 600 microm(2). The mean area of the VR1-like immunopositive neurons was 376+/-61 microm(2). Double immunostaining with antisera raised against the CB1 and VR1 receptor proteins, showed a high degree of co-expression between CB1 and VR1 receptors. An average of 82+/-3% of the CB1-like immunopositive cells also showed VR1-like immunoreactivity (n=3 cultures) while 98+/-2% of the VR1-like immunolabelled neurons showed CB1 receptor-like immunostaining (n=3 cultures). Our data suggests that nociceptive primary sensory neurons co-express CB1 and VR1 receptors to a very high degree. We propose that this may provide an anatomical basis for a powerful combination of VR1 mediated excitation and CB1-mediated inhibition of nociceptive responses at central and peripheral terminals of nociceptive primary afferents.
Antidepressant drugs have been used for decades, but the neurobiological substrate of their efficacy is not completely understood. Although these drugs have well-established effects on monoamines, evidence is emerging that they may also affect other neurotransmitter systems. It has been shown that treatment with a wide range of antidepressants changes the binding characteristics of the N-methyl-D-aspartate type of glutamate receptor. This change is delayed and occurs only in the cortex. The mechanism that triggers it is unknown. We hypothesized that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor alterations may be due to changes in the dynamics of cortical excitatory amino acid release. Such changes are of particular interest in areas such as the prefrontal cortex, a region involved in stress responses and affected in major depression. We investigated the effects of two antidepressants with different modes of action, imipramine and phenelzine, on glutamate and aspartate outflow in rat prefrontal cortex and striatum. We showed that antidepressants significantly decreased stimulated glutamate outflow. The effect had a rapid onset, was sustained during chronic administration and was only seen in the prefrontal cortex. This change may initiate receptor alterations. Furthermore, if antidepressants can dampen states of hyperglutamatergic activity and the subsequent excitotoxicity, their chronic use may have a considerable neuroprotective potential in major depression.
Huntington's disease is a progressive, autosomal dominantly inherited, neurodegenerative disease that is characterized by involuntary movements (chorea), cognitive decline and psychiatric manifestations. This is one of a number of late-onset neurodegenerative disorders caused by expanded glutamine repeats, with a likely similar biochemical basis. Immunohistochemical studies on Huntington's disease tissue, using antibodies raised to the N-terminal region of huntingtin (adjacent to the repeat) and ubiquitin, have recently identified neuronal inclusions within densely stained neuronal nuclei, peri-nuclear and within dystrophic neuritic processes. However, the functional significance of inclusions is unknown. It has been suggested that the disease-causing mechanism in Huntington's disease (and the other polyglutamine disorders) is the ability of polyglutamine to undergo a conformational change that can lead to the formation of very stable anti-parallel beta-sheets; more specifically, amyloid structures. We examined, using Congo Red staining and both polarizing and confocal microscopy, post mortem human brain tissue from five Huntington's disease cases, two Alzheimer's disease cases and two normal controls. Brains from five transgenic mice (R6/2)(12) expressing exon 1 of the human huntingtin gene with expanded polyglutamine, and five littermate controls, were also examined by the same techniques. We have shown that some inclusions in Huntington's disease brain tissue possess an amyloid-like structure, suggesting parallels with other amyloid-associated diseases such as Alzheimer's and prion diseases.
Vascular endothelial growth factor is an angiogenic and neurotrophic peptide whose expression is transcriptionally induced in hypoxic tissues through the action of hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha. To determine if this signaling pathway is activated in the ischemic brain, and might therefore participate in adaptive processes such as angiogenesis and neuroprotection, we examined the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor and hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha in cerebral cortex and hippocampus following transient global cerebral ischemia in the rat. Northern analysis showed ischemia-inducible expression of multiple vascular endothelial growth factor messenger ribonucleic acid splice variants between 4 and 24h. Western analysis and immunocytochemistry demonstrated the concerted induction of vascular endothelial growth factor and hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha in the same, apparently neuronal, cells in vulnerable regions of cortex and hippocampus after 15min of ischemia, which persisted for as long as 4 to 72h of reperfusion. These findings demonstrate that hypoxia-sensitive vascular endothelial growth factor signaling can be induced in neurons in global cerebral ischemia in vivo, and are consistent with the hypothesis that ischemic insults trigger hypoxia-sensing and adaptive downstream molecular responses in central neurons.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus is the site of the primary circadian pacemaker in mammals. The lower sub paraventricular zone that is dorsal to and receives input from the suprachiasmatic nucleus may also play a role in the regulation of circadian rhythms. Calbindin has been described in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of some mammals, and may be important in the control of endogenous rhythms. In the first study we characterized calbindin-expressing cells in the suprachiasmatic nucleus and lower sub-paraventricular zone of nocturnal and diurnal rodents. Specifically, Rattus norvegicus was compared to Arvicanthis niloticus, a primarily diurnal species within which some individuals exhibit nocturnal patterns of wheel running. Calbindin-immunoreactive cells were present in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of Arvicanthis and were most concentrated within its central region but were relatively sparse in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of Rattus. Calbindin-expressing cells were present in the lower sub-paraventricular zone of both species. In the second study we evaluated Fos expression within calbindin-immunoreactive cells in nocturnal Rattus and in Arvicanthis that were either diurnal or nocturnal with respect to wheel-running. All animals were kept on a 12:12 light/dark cycle and perfused at either 4h after lights-on or 4h after lights-off. In the suprachiasmatic nucleus in both species, Fos expression was elevated during the day relative to the night but less than 1% of calbindin cells contained Fos in Arvicanthis, compared with 13-17% in Rattus. In the lower sub-paraventricular zone of both species, 9-14% of calbindin cells expressed Fos, and this proportion did not change as a function of time. Among Arvicanthis, the number of calbindin expressing neurons in the lower sub-paraventricular zone was influenced by an interaction between the wheel running patterns (nocturnal vs diurnal) and time of day. Thus, the number of calbindin-positive cells within the suprachiasmatic nucleus differed in Arvicanthis and Rattus, whereas the number of calbindin-positive cells within the lower sub-paraventricular zone differed in nocturnal and diurnal Arvicanthis. Our examination of R. norvegicus and A. niloticus suggests potentially important relationships between calbindin-containing neurons and whether animals are nocturnal or diurnal. Specifically, rats had more Fos expression in calbindin containing cells in the suprachiasmatic nucleus than Arvicanthis. In contrast, Arvicanthis exhibiting diurnal and nocturnal patterns of wheel-running differed in the number of calbindin-containing cells in the lower sub-paraventricular zone, dorsal to the suprachiasmatic nucleus.
Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) type glutamate receptors are ligand gated ion channels made up of various combinations of four subunits termed GluR1-4. The GluR2 subunit controls several key features of the receptor including calcium permeability and inward rectification. In the present study, we analysed by immunocytochemistry the cellular and subcellular distribution of the GluR2 subunit in neurons of the dorsal vagal complex of the rat. GluR2 immunoreactivity was found both in the neuropile and in neuronal cell bodies. Perikaryal staining was strong in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve and moderate in the medial part of the nucleus tractus solitarii as well as in the area postrema. The lateral part of the nucleus tractus solitarii was almost devoid of immunoreactivity except for the interstitial subnucleus which was filled with numerous strongly immunoreactive perikarya and large cell processes. Ultrastructural examination was carried out in the interstitial subnucleus. Peroxidase staining indicative of GluR2 immunoreactivity was observed in neuronal cell bodies and dendrites. No labeled axon terminal or glial cell body was found. Additional experiments performed using pre-embedding immunogold showed that most of the labeling in immunoreactive dendrites was intracytoplasmic. These results indicate that GluR2 immunoreactivity is differentially distributed among neurons in the dorsal vagal complex, thereby suggesting differences in the functional properties of AMPA receptors between neuronal populations. These results also suggest that AMPA receptors, at least those containing the GluR2 subunit, have no major role as presynaptic receptors within this region. Finally, they indicate the existence of large intracellular pools of GluR2 subunits within dendrites of immunoreactive neurons.
The change in synaptic inputs through primary afferent C- and A-fibers during postnatal development was examined in substantia gelatinosa neurons of a rat spinal cord slice with an attached L5 dorsal root by use of the blind whole-cell patch-clamp technique; the synaptic responses were compared between the slices obtained from immature (postnatal days 21-23) and mature (postnatal days 56-60) male rats. The mono- and/or polysynaptic afferent inputs were monitored by recording glutamatergic excitatory postsynaptic currents and potentials evoked by stimulating C- and A-fibers, the identification of which was based on the values of threshold stimulus intensity and of the conduction velocity of the fibers, determined by intracellular recordings from dorsal root ganglion neurons. Immature substantia gelatinosa neurons received synaptic inputs through Abeta-, Adelta- and C-afferents, with proportions of 51%, 46% and 36%, respectively. In mature substantia gelatinosa neurons, C- and Adelta-afferent inputs were increased in number (to 84% and 86%, respectively), while Abeta-inputs were decreased to 9%. In both immature and mature rats, repetitive stimulation of C-afferents did not elicit any slow responses, which are longer in duration than the monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic currents, although C-fibers are known to contain not only excitatory amino acids, but also neuropeptides such as substance P, which is thought to be involved in the production of slow responses. These results indicate that both C- and Adelta-afferents innervating substantia gelatinosa neurons are reorganized following maturation, accompanied by a withdrawal or elimination of Abeta-fibers from the substantia gelatinosa, probably due to a competition among the fibers during development. In spite of the developmental increase in C-fiber inputs, mature as well as immature substantia gelatinosa neurons did not display any slow synaptic responses, which appear to be mediated by transmitters other than excitatory amino acids.
The aim of the present study was to determine whether or not descending control of spinal dorsal horn neuronal responsiveness following neuronal activation at pressor sites in the rostral ventrolateral medulla is selective for nociceptive information. Extracellular single-unit activity was recorded from 49 dorsal horn neurons in the lower lumbar spinal cord of anaesthetized rats. The 30 Class 2 neurons selected for investigation responded to noxious (pinch and radiant heat) and non-noxious (prod, stroke and/or brush) stimulation within their cutaneous receptive fields on the ipsilateral hindpaw. The excitatory amino acid, DL-homocysteic acid, was microinjected into either the rostral or the caudal rostral ventrolateral medulla at sites that evoked increases in arterial blood pressure. Effects of neuronal activation at these sites were then tested on the responses of Class 2 neurons to noxious and non-noxious stimulation within their excitatory receptive fields. The noxious pinch and radiant heat responses of Class 2 neurons were depressed, respectively to 13+/-3.8% (n=23) and to 16+/-3.7% (n=18) of control, following stimulation at sites in the rostral rostral ventrolateral medulla. In contrast, the low-threshold (prod) responses of eight Class 2 neurons tested were not depressed following neuronal activation at the same sites. When tested, control injections of the inhibitory amino acid, GABA, at the same sites in the rostral rostral ventrolateral medulla had no significant effects on neuronal activity. Neither intravenous administration of noradrenaline (to mimic the pressor responses evoked by DL-homocysteic acid microinjections in the rostral ventrolateral medulla) nor activation at pressor sites in the caudal rostral ventrolateral medulla had any significant effect on neuronal responsiveness. With regard to sensory processing in the spinal cord, these data suggest that descending inhibitory control that originates from neurons in pressor regions of the rostral rostral ventrolateral medulla is highly selective for nociceptive inputs to Class 2 neurons. These data are discussed in relation to the role of the rostral ventrolateral medulla in executing the changes in autonomic and sensory functions that are co-ordinated by higher centres in the CNS.
The mechanism of spinal tolerance to the analgesic effects of opiates is unclear at present. We have reported previously that calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity was significantly increased in primary afferents of the spinal dorsal horn during the development of morphine tolerance, suggesting that changes in the level of pain-related neuropeptides in dorsal root ganglion neurons may be involved [Menard D. P. et al. (1996) J. Neurosci. 16, 2342-2351]. In this study, we investigated if in vitro treatment with morphine can mimic the in vivo findings and induce increases in calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunostaining in cultured dorsal root ganglion neurons from young (three-month-old) and middle-aged (10-month-old) adult rats. Following a repetitive exposure to morphine sulfate (1, 5, 10 microM) for six days, the number of calcitonin gene-related peptide- and substance P-immunoreactive neurons in cultured dorsal root ganglia from three- and 10-month-old rats was significantly increased. A lower concentration (0.5 microM) of morphine induced these increases only in dorsal root ganglion neurons from middle-aged rats. Morphine treatment was also found to increase the number of calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive neurons possessing multiple, long branches (i.e. with at least one branch &gt;0.5mm). This apparent increase in the number of calcitonin gene-related peptide- and substance P-immunoreactive neurons observed following morphine treatment was blocked by naloxone, an opiate antagonist, indicating the involvement of genuine opioid receptors. No significant change in the number of neuropeptide Y- or galanin-immunoreactive neurons in cultured dorsal root ganglia was detected following any of these treatments. These data suggest that repeated exposure to morphine rather selectively increases calcitonin gene-related peptide- and substance P-like immunoreactivity in cultured dorsal root ganglion neurons. Moreover, the sensitivity to morphine-induced changes is greater in cultured dorsal root ganglion neurons from 10- compared to three-month-old rats. Hence, cultured dorsal root ganglion neurons can provide a model to investigate the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying alterations in neuropeptide levels following repeated exposure to opiates and their relevance to the development of opioid tolerance.
The development of serotonergic neurons of the rat raphe was followed in primary neuronal cell cultures taken at embryonic days embryonic day 13 and embryonic day 14 from three different raphe sub-groups, topographically defined with respect to their position to the isthmus as rostral (R1), intermediate (R2) and caudal (R3). In neurons cultivated from embryonic day 13 raphe serotonin, immunoreactivity was detected after only two days in vitro in the rostral R1 and the intermediate R2 sub-groups. Within two weeks of cultivation the number of serotonergic neurons as well as the dendritic branching continuously increased in all three sub-groups. In cultures obtained from embryonic day 13 raphe a specific uptake of [3H]serotonin could not be detected during the first days in vitro. Specific uptake as well as regulated serotonin release, however, was clearly discernible in these cultures after nine days in vitro, indicating developmental differentiation of the initially immature serotonergic neurons in culture. In contrast, serotonergic neurons obtained from the three raphe sub-groups at embryonic day 14 took up and released [3H]serotonin, as early as after two days in culture. Basal as well as stimulated serotonin release was diminished when preincubating the cells with tetanus toxin, which cleaves synaptobrevin thereby blocking exocytosis. Our data indicate that the differential development of serotonergic neurons in the various raphe sub-groups in vivo is also sustained in culture. The differences observed when comparing neurons from embryonic days 13 and 14 suggest that a short time-period of about 24h appears to be crucial for the developmental upregulation of serotonin uptake, storage and release.
Previous data suggested that increases in extracellular adenosine in the basal forebrain mediated the sleep-inducing effects of prolonged wakefulness. The present study sought to determine if the state-related changes found in basal forebrain adenosine levels occurred uniformly throughout the brain. In vivo microdialysis sample collection coupled to microbore high-performance liquid chromatography measured extracellular adenosine levels in six brain regions of the cat: basal forebrain, cerebral cortex, thalamus, preoptic area of hypothalamus, dorsal raphe nucleus and pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus. In all these brain regions extracellular adenosine levels showed a similar decline of 15 to 20% during episodes of spontaneous sleep relative to wakefulness. Adenosine levels during non-rapid eye movement sleep did not differ from rapid eye movement sleep. In the course of 6h of sleep deprivation, adenosine levels increased significantly in the cholinergic region of the basal forebrain (to 140% of baseline) and, to a lesser extent in the cortex, but not in the other regions. Following sleep deprivation, basal forebrain adenosine levels declined very slowly, remaining significantly elevated throughout a 3-h period of recovery sleep, but elsewhere levels were either similar to, or lower than, baseline. The site-specific accumulation of adenosine during sleep deprivation suggests a differential regulation of adenosine levels by as yet unidentified mechanisms. Moreover, the unique pattern of sleep-related changes in basal forebrain adenosine level lends strong support to the hypothesis that the sleep-promoting effects of adenosine, as well as the sleepiness associated with prolonged wakefulness, are both mediated by adenosinergic inhibition of a cortically projecting basal forebrain arousal system.
The locus coeruleus-noradrenergic system exerts an activating influence on forebrain neuronal and behavioral activity states. For example, in the anesthetized rat, unilateral locus coeruleus stimulation elicits bilateral activation of forebrain electroencephalographic activity. Pretreatment with a noradrenergic beta-antagonist blocks this effect, suggesting that beta-receptors play a critical role in locus coeruleus-dependent activation of the forebrain. Consistent with this, stimulation of beta-receptors located in certain basal forebrain structures evokes sustained periods of alert waking in the unanesthetized rat. Similar forebrain and behavioral activating effects are observed with alpha(1)-receptor stimulation within these basal forebrain regions. To assess the extent to which alpha(1)- and beta-receptors contribute to the maintenance of behavioral and forebrain activation, we examined the electroencephalographic and behavioral effects of alpha(1)-, beta- and combined alpha(1)/beta-receptor blockade in the unanesthetized rat. Rats were treated individually or in combination with either varying doses of the alpha(1)-antagonist, prazosin (intraperitoneally), and/or the beta-antagonist, timolol (intracerebroventricularly). Thirty minutes following treatment, animals were placed in a mildly-arousing novel environment, which has been demonstrated previously to elicit activation of central noradrenergic systems and sustained waking in vehicle-treated controls. Behavior and electroencephalographic activity were recorded and later scored. Electroencephalographic activity was analysed using power spectrum analysis. The following were observed: (i) beta-receptor blockade alone does not alter behavioral or electroencephalographic indices of alert waking; (ii) alpha(1)-receptor blockade alone increases high-voltage spindle activity in cortical electroencephalographic activity that was associated with decreased behavioral activity; (iii) combined alpha(1)- and beta-receptor blockade elicits a substantial increase in slow-wave activity (0.33-2.0Hz), also in association with decreased behavioral activity. All of these effects were dependent on the dose administered and time following initiation of testing. These results indicate that the combined actions of alpha(1)- and beta-receptors exert distinct and synergistic actions on cortical neuronal activity patterns that are essential elements of alert waking.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor has been shown to be neuroprotective in models of excitotoxicity, axotomy and cerebral ischemia. The present study evaluated the therapeutic potential of brain-derived neurotrophic factor following traumatic brain injury in the rat. Male Sprague-Dawley rats (N=99) were anesthetized and subjected to lateral fluid percussion brain injury of moderate severity (2.4-2.8 atm) or sham injury. Four hours after injury, the animals were reanesthetized, an indwelling, intraparenchymal cannula was implanted, and infusion of brain-derived neurotrophic factor or phosphate-buffered saline vehicle was initiated from a mini-osmotic pump and continued for two weeks. In Study 1 (N=48), vehicle or 12 microg/day of brain-derived neurotrophic factor was infused into the dorsal hippocampus. In Study 2 (N=51), vehicle or brain-derived neurotrophic factor at a high (12 microg/day) or low dose (1.2 microg/day) was infused into the injured parietal cortex. All animals were evaluated for neurological motor function at two days, one week and two weeks post-injury. Cognitive function (learning and memory) was assessed at two weeks post-injury using a Morris Water Maze. At two weeks post-injury, neuronal loss in the hippocampal CA3 and dentate hilus and in the injured cortex was evaluated. In Study 2, neuronal loss was also quantified in the thalamic medial geniculate nucleus. All of the above outcome measures demonstrated significant deleterious effects of brain injury (P&lt;0.05 compared to sham). However, post-traumatic brain-derived neurotrophic factor infusion did not significantly affect neuromotor function, learning, memory or neuronal loss in the hippocampus, cortex or thalamus when compared to vehicle infusion in brain-injured animals, regardless of the infusion site or infusion dose (P&gt;0.05 for each). In contrast to previous studies of axotomy, ischemia and excitotoxicity, our data indicate that brain-derived neurotrophic factor is not protective against behavioral or histological deficits caused by experimental traumatic brain injury using the delayed, post-traumatic infusion protocol examined in these studies.
In temporal lobe epilepsy, the occurrence of seizures seems to correlate with the presence of lesions underlying the establishment of a hyperexcitable circuit. However, in the lithium-pilocarpine model of epilepsy, neuronal damage occurs both in the structures belonging to the circuit of initiation and maintenance of the seizures (forebrain limbic system) as in the propagation areas (cortex and thalamus) and in the circuit of remote control of seizures (substantia nigra pars reticulata). To determine whether or not we could protect the brain from lesions and epileptogenesis induced by status epilepticus and identify cerebral structures involved in the genesis of epilepsy, we studied the effects of the chronic exposure to non-deleterious seizures, either focalized with secondary generalization (amygdala kindling, kindled-pilocarpine rats), or primary generalized (ear-clip electroshocks, electroshock-pilocarpine rats) on neuronal damage and epileptogenesis induced by lithium-pilocarpine status epilepticus. These animals were compared to rats subjected to status epilepticus but not pretreated with seizures (sham-kindled-pilocarpine or sham-electroshock-pilocarpine rats). Compared to sham-pilocarpine rats, neuronal damage was prevented in the limbic system of the kindled-pilocarpine rats, except in the hilus of the dentate gyrus and the entorhinal cortex, while it was enhanced in rats pretreated with electroshocks, mainly in the entorhinal and perirhinal cortices. Most sham-kindled- and sham-electroshock-pilocarpine rats (92-100%) developed recurrent seizures after a silent period of 40-54days. Likewise, all kindled-pilocarpine rats developed spontaneous seizures after the same latency as their sham controls, while only two of 10 electroshock-pilocarpine rats became epileptic after a delay of 106-151days. The present data show that the apparent antiepileptic properties of electroshocks correlate with extensive damage in midbrain cortical regions, which may prevent the propagation of seizures from the hippocampus and inhibit their motor expression. Conversely, the extensive neuroprotection of the limbic system but not the hilus and entorhinal cortex provided by amygdala kindling does not prevent epileptogenesis. Thus, the hilus, the entorhinal and/or perirhinal cortex may be key structure(s) for the establishment of epilepsy.
Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) with near-complete unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine denervation of the dopaminergic input received a single injection of saline or L-DOPA (15mg/kg plus 6.25mg/kg benserazide). Using in situ hybridization, the effects of these treatments on c-fos messenger RNA expression in the cerebral cortex, the striatal complex and the external layer of the pallidum were studied. Moreover, receptor autoradiography was used to determine the levels of dopamine D(1) and D(2) receptors in these areas. In the cerebral cortex, animals treated with L-DOPA displayed a high expression of c-fos messenger RNA restricted to the dopamine-denervated hemisphere. No changes in the levels of cortical D(1) and D(2) receptors were found in the dopamine-denervated hemisphere. L-DOPA treatment also induced a strong expression of c-fos messenger RNA in the striatal complex in the dopamine-denervated hemisphere. The levels of striatal D(2), but not D(1), receptors were increased in the dopamine-denervated hemisphere. In the external pallidum, the major terminal region for D(2) dopamine receptor-containing striatal projection neurons, L-DOPA treatment induced c-fos messenger RNA expression in both the intact and the dopamine-denervated hemispheres.Thus, using c-fos messenger RNA as a biochemical marker of postsynaptic neuronal activation, these results provide evidence that near-complete dopamine depletion causes a profound supersensitization to L-DOPA treatment in the cerebral cortex and in the striatal complex, but not in the external layer of the pallidum, of the primate brain. The cortical response may be unique to the primate brain, but c-fos messenger RNA activation within the striatum has also been reported in the rodent. The effects of L-DOPA probably depend both on a direct activation of supersensitized dopamine receptors by dopamine produced in the few remaining, but hyperactive, dopaminergic nerve terminals and in serotonergic nerve terminals, as well as on indirect actions of L-DOPA related to activation of circuitries connecting cerebral cortex and basal ganglia structures. These results provide novel information on the mechanisms underlying L-DOPA's action in the cerebral cortex, striatum and external pallidum in a primate model of Parkinson's disease.
The mesoaccumbens projection, formed by ventral tegmental area dopamine neurons synapsing on nucleus accumbens gamma-aminobutyric acid neurons, has been implicated in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia and drug addiction. Despite intensive study, the nature of the signal conveyed by dopamine neurons has not been fully resolved. In addition to several slower, dopamine-mediated, modulatory actions, several lines of evidence suggest that dopamine neurons have fast excitatory actions. To test this, we placed dopamine neurons together with accumbens neurons in microcultures. Surprisingly, most dopamine neurons made excitatory recurrent connections (autapses), which provided a basis for their identification; accumbens gamma-aminobutyric acid neurons were identified by their distinctive size. In 75% of mesoaccumbens cell pairs, stimulation of the dopamine neuron evoked a glutamate-mediated, excitatory synaptic response in the accumbens neuron. Immunostaining revealed dopamine neuron varicosities that were predominantly dopaminergic, ones that were predominantly glutamatergic, and ones that were both dopaminergic and glutamatergic. Despite close appositions of both glutamatergic and dopaminergic varicosities to the dendrites of accumbens neurons, only glutamatergic synaptic responses were seen. In the majority of cell pairs, pharmacologic activation of D2-type dopamine receptors inhibited glutamatergic responses, presumably via immunocytochemically-visualized presynaptic D2 receptors. In some cell pairs, the evoked autaptic and synaptic responses were discordant, suggesting that D2 receptors may be differentially trafficked to different presynaptic varicosities.Thus, dopamine neurons appear to mediate both slow dopaminergic and fast glutamatergic actions via separate sets of synapses. Together with evidence for glutamate cotransmission in serotonergic raphe neurons and noradrenergic locus coeruleus neurons, these results add a new dimension to monoamine neuron signaling that may have important implications for neuropsychiatric disorders.
Up to 31 neurons per animal were simultaneously recorded from the medial prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens in 15 rats during i.v. cocaine self-administration sessions, using a multi-channel, single-unit recording technique. Alterations of neuronal activity (both excitatory and inhibitory) were found a few seconds before each lever press for cocaine infusion; we have called these pre-lever press neuronal activations &quot;anticipatory responses&quot;. A detailed video analysis revealed that these neuronal firing alterations were associated with specific portions of the behavioral sequence performed before each lever press in both recording areas. Some of the simultaneously recorded neurons displayed similar firing patterns in relation to a given behavioral episode within the behavioral sequence (turning, raising head, etc.), while others fired at different times relative to each behavioral event. Cross-correlational analyses revealed inter-regional and intra-regional correlated firing patterns between pairs of simultaneously recorded medial prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens neurons. This correlated firing occurred in the neurons with and without anticipatory responses, although the incidence of correlations between anticipatory neuron pairs was much higher than that between non-anticipatory neuron pairs (18.4% vs 3.6%). Many correlated neuron pairs displayed a time lag in the peak of correlational activity that indicated a temporal sequence in correlated activity. In contradiction to our hypothesis, the temporal pattern of correlation reveals that there are more cases in which nucleus accumbens neurons fired ahead of medial prefrontal cortex neurons. The results suggest that multiple mesocorticolimbic neuronal circuits may code sequential steps during the behavioral sequence performed to obtain an infusion of cocaine. The observed correlated firing between the medial prefrontal cortex and the nucleus accumbens indicates that dynamic, coherent activity occurs within the mesocorticolimbic circuit. Because this circuit is hypothesized to drive drug-seeking behavior, we suggest that this correlated firing between the nucleus accumbens and the medial prefrontal cortex may participate in the control of cocaine self-administration. In addition, the finding that correlated activity within the nucleus accumbens more often precedes that of the medial prefrontal cortex suggests that the nucleus accumbens may play a prime role in the initiation of cocaine self-administration.
Mongolian gerbils are genetically predisposed to develop epileptic seizures in limbic structures. A species-specific property of the Mongolian gerbil is the expression of the calcium-binding protein parvalbumin in the perforant path where it is predominantly concentrated in nerve terminals. To test the hypothesis that this atypical expression of parvalbumin is induced by seizure-correlated hyperactivity in the entorhinohippocampal loop, we investigated whether it is dependent on extrinsic afferents to the entorhinal cortex. We cultivated organotypic slice cultures of neonate gerbil entorhinal cortex, isolated from all regions it is normally connected with in vivo. In these cultures, parvalbumin-expressing neurons demonstrated their characteristic features like in vivo. Blockade of spontaneous local activity with the sodium-channel blocker tetrodotoxin, however, considerably reduced the number of parvalbumin-expressing neurons in culture. These results indicate that spontaneous local activity, but not activity mediated by extrinsic afferents, is an essential factor for the expression of parvalbumin in the entorhinal cortex of the Mongolian gerbil.
Paired intracellular recordings were used to investigate recurrent excitatory transmission in layers II, III and V of the rat entorhinal cortex in vitro. There was a relatively high probability of finding a recurrent connection between pairs of pyramidal neurons in both layer V (around 12%) and layer III (around 9%). In complete contrast, we have failed to find any recurrent synaptic connections between principal neurons in layer II, and this may be an important factor in the relative resistance of this layer in generating synchronized epileptiform activity. In general, recurrent excitatory postsynaptic potentials in layers III and V of the entorhinal cortex had similar properties to those recorded in other cortical areas, although the probabilities of connection are among the highest reported. Recurrent excitatory postsynaptic potentials recorded in layer V were smaller with faster rise times than those recorded in layer III. In both layers, the recurrent potentials were mediated by glutamate primarily acting at alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole receptors, although there appeared to be a slow component mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. In layer III, recurrent transmission failed on about 30% of presynaptic action potentials evoked at 0.2Hz. This failure rate increased markedly with increasing (2, 3Hz) frequency of activation. In layer V the failure rate at low frequency was less (19%), and although it increased at higher frequencies this effect was less pronounced than in layer III. Finally, in layer III, there was evidence for a relatively high probability of electrical coupling between pyramidal neurons. We have previously suggested that layers IV/V of the entorhinal cortex readily generate synchronized epileptiform discharges, whereas layer II is relatively resistant to seizure generation. The present demonstration that recurrent excitatory connections are widespread in layer V but not layer II could support this proposal. The relatively high degree of recurrent connections and electrical coupling between layer III cells may be a factor in it's susceptibility to neurodegeneration during chronic epileptic conditions.
The cortical forepaw representation of adult rats was mapped by using multiunit recordings of layer IV neurons within the primary somatosensory cortex. Electrophysiological maps were based on somatosensory &quot;submodality&quot; (cutaneous vs non-cutaneous), location and size of the receptive fields. Age-related changes in the organizational features of the forepaw representation in the primary somatosensory cortex were analysed in adult rats whose ages ranged from 3.5 to five months (young), about eight months (mature), 15-17months (presenescent) to 24-28months (senescent). Rats were housed from weaning (30days postnatal) in a standard laboratory environment. The organization of the forepaw map was not gradually altered with advancing age, but striking changes occurred in early adulthood (before eight months) and did not progress with further aging. The main alterations consisted of a prominent decrease in, and a fragmentation of, the cutaneous area of the forepaw representation. Representational zones formerly serving cutaneous surfaces became predominantly activated by high-threshold, presumably non-cutaneous, inputs which appeared somatotopically organized. These emergent non-cutaneous zones were interspersed with cutaneous sectors, thereby disrupting the somatotopic organization of the map of the forepaw skin. No significant modification in the size of glabrous or hairy cutaneous receptive fields accompanied these changes. Subjective evaluation of the responses evoked by tactile stimulation suggests that neuronal responsiveness was increased in the eight- to 17-month-old rats, but less so in the 24- to 28-month-old animals. These results indicate that degradation of the somatotopic organization of the cutaneous representation of the forepaw in the rat somatosensory cortex occurs early during the course of adult life.
Recent studies in the hamster have led to the discovery that the expression of the calcium binding protein, calbindin-D28k, is a defining feature of neurons in the suprachiasmatic nucleus involved in the regulation of circadian rhythms by environmental light.(2,18, 19,32) To study further the involvement of calbindin-D28k, we examined the effect of exposure to constant light on calbindin-D28k immunoreactivity in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of intact rats and of rats treated neonatally with the retinal neurotoxin, monosodium glutamate. Exposure to constant light is known to disrupt circadian rhythms in rodents and we found previously that treatment with monosodium glutamate selectively prevents the disruptive effect of constant light on circadian rhythms in rats.(7,9) In the present study we found that exposure to light suppresses calbindin-D28k expression in the ventrolateral retinorecipient region of the suprachiasmatic nucleus of rats and that neonatal treatment with monosodium glutamate blocks the suppressive effect of constant light on calbindin-D28k expression. These findings are consistent with the proposed role of calbindin-D28k in photic signaling in the suprachiasmatic nucleus,(32) and point to the possibility that suppression of calbindin-D28k expression is linked to the mechanism by which constant light disrupts circadian rhythms.
The effects of changes in extra- and intracellular pH in the pathophysiological range (6.0-8.0) on astroglial plasma membrane ionic currents were investigated with the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. In cultured rat neocortical type-1 astrocytes differentiated by a long-term treatment with dibutyryl cyclic-AMP, exposure to an extracellular pH of 6.4 induced, as compared with the control extracellular pH at 7.3, a sustained and reversible increase in the holding current at -60mV. The rise in current was accompanied by a decrease in the apparent input resistance. Ion substitution experiments indicated that extracellular pH 6.4 upregulated the resting Cl(-) conductance, whereas an opposite effect could be observed at extracellular pH 8.0. Recordings of isolated Cl(-) currents showed that this modulation occurred on the previously identified hyperpolarization-activated, inwardly rectifying Cl(-) current, I(Clh). Extracellular acidification to pH 6.4 shifted the voltage dependence of I(Clh) activation by approximately 20mV towards more positive potentials, whereas a approximately 20mV opposite shift was observed upon exposure to extracellular pH 8.0. These effects were paralleled by an increase (extracellular pH 6.4) or decrease (extracellular pH 8.0) in the maximal conductance. Decreasing (6.0) or increasing (8.0) the intracellular pH shifted the steady-state activation of I(Clh) towards more negative or positive potentials, respectively, leaving unchanged the current sensitivity to extracellular pH modifications. The modulation of the inward rectifier Cl(-) current expressed by differentiated cultured neocortical astrocytes indicates that extra- and intracellular changes in pH occurring in a pathophysiological range may contribute to regulating Cl(-) accumulation in astroglial cells.
The Fmr1 gene knockout mouse is a model for the human Fragile X mental retardation syndrome. Fmr1 knockout mice with a C57BL/6-129/OlaHsd hybrid background have been reported to have only a very mild deficiency in learning the Morris water maze task. We compared the effect of this knockout mutation on learning in mice with either an FVB/N-129/OlaHsd hybrid background or a C57BL/6 background. When FVB-129 mice were tested in a cross-shaped water maze task, the knockout mice showed a pronounced deficiency in their ability to learn the position of a hidden escape platform in comparison to normal littermates. In contrast, knockout mice with a C57BL/6 background learned the maze just as well as their normal littermates. Fear conditioning did not reveal differences between knockout and normal mice in either background. These results show that silencing the Fmr1 gene clearly interfered with learning a specific visuospatial task in FVB/N-129 hybrid mice but not in C57BL/6 mice. The strain dependence may model the influence of genetic background in the human Fragile X syndrome.
Whole-cell patch-clamp techniques were used to study the effects of nerve growth factor on voltage-dependent potassium conductance in normal and axotomized identified large cutaneous afferent dorsal root ganglion neurons (48-50 micrometer diameter) many of which probably give rise to myelinated Abeta fibers. K-currents were isolated by blocking Na- and Ca-currents with appropriate ion replacement and channel blockers. Separation of current components was achieved on the basis of response to variation in conditioning voltage. Cutaneous afferents were labeled by the retrograde marker hydroxy-stilbamide (FluoroGold) which was injected into the skin of the foot. The sciatic nerve was either ligated or crushed with fine forceps five to seven days later. Neurons were dissociated 14-17 days after injury. The cut ends of the sciatic nerves were positioned into polyethylene tubes, which were connected to mini-osmotic pumps filled with either nerve growth factor or sterile saline. Control neurons displayed a prominent sustained K-current and the transient potassium currents &quot;A&quot; and &quot;D&quot;. Nerve ligation, which blocks target reconnection resulted in near 50% reduction of total outward current; isolated sustained K-current and transient A-current were reduced by a comparable amount. Nerve crush, which allows regeneration to peripheral targets and exposure of the regenerating nerve to the distal nerve segment, resulted in a small reduction in sustained K-current but no reduction in transient A-current compared to controls. Levels of transient A-current and sustained K-current were maintained at control levels after nerve growth factor treatment. These results indicate that the large reduction in transient A-current, and in sustained K-current, observed in cutaneous afferent cell bodies after nerve ligation is prevented by application of nerve growth factor.
Nerve growth factor stimulated axonal outgrowth from explanted mouse dorsal root ganglia is dependent on mitogen activated protein kinase. PD98059 ([2-(2'amino-3'-methoxyphenyl)-oxanaphthalen-4-one]) blocks mitogen activated protein kinase by inhibiting its immediate upstream activator, mitogen activated protein kinase kinase (also known as MEK). Here we used PD98059 to study the role of mitogen activated protein kinase in the axonal outgrowth of adult dorsal root ganglia explants. Whereas PD98059 at 50 microM left spontaneous axonal outgrowth unaffected, it markedly inhibited nerve growth factor stimulated axon growth when assessed after two days in culture. A mitogen activated protein kinase assay and immunoblotting using antibodies discriminating between activated and inactivated kinase, both confirmed that PD98059 reduced the amount of activated enzyme in nerve growth factor stimulated preparations, while the total amounts of the kinase remained unchanged. Immunohistochemistry revealed the presence of neuronal mitogen activated protein kinase kinase and mitogen activated protein kinase itself. The latter enzyme was found to be activated in the growing axons, as seen by whole-mount labelling. At the ganglionic level activated mitogen activated protein kinase was preferentially detected in satellite cells. The results show that nerve growth factor stimulated axonal outgrowth in vitro from adult mouse dorsal root ganglia utilizes the mitogen activated protein kinase pathway.
The effects of group II and group III metabotropic glutamate receptor agonists on synaptic responses evoked by primary afferent stimulation in the dorsal horn, but mostly substantia gelatinosa, neurons were studied in the spinal cord slice preparation using conventional intracellular recording technique. Bath application of a potent metabotropic glutamate receptor 2- and 3-selective agonist (2S,1'R,2'R,3'R)-2-(2',3'-dicarboxycyclopropyl) glycine reversibly suppressed monosynaptic and polysynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials evoked by A primary afferent fibers stimulation, the effect likely mediated by mGlu3 receptor subtype. This suppressing effect of (2S,1'R,2'R,3'R)-2-(2',3'-dicarboxycyclopropyl) glycine on primary afferent neurotransmission was dose dependent and reduced by (S)-alpha-ethylglutamate, a group II metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist. (2S,1'R,2'R,3'R)-2-(2',3'-dicarboxycyclopropyl) glycine suppressed excitatory postsynaptic potentials without inducing detectable changes of postsynaptic membrane potential and neuronal input resistance in dorsal horn neurons. The paired-pulse depression at excitatory synapses between primary afferent fibers and dorsal horn neurons was reduced by (2S,1'R,2'R,3'R)-2-(2', 3'-dicarboxycyclopropyl) glycine application, suggesting a presynaptic site of action. The selective group III metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist (S)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutanoate also depressed A afferent fibers-evoked monosynaptic and polysynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials in a dose-dependent and reversible manner. The concentration-dependence of (S)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutanoate-mediated depression was most consistent with activation of mGlu receptor subtypes 4 and 7. However, on the basis of anatomical distribution of mGlu 4 and 7 subtypes, it is also possible that the (S)-2-amino-4-phosphonobatanoate effect is due to interaction with mGlu 7 receptor alone. (RS)-alpha-cyclopropyl-4-phosphonophenylglycine a preferential antagonist at group III metabotropic glutamate receptors, completely reversed the depressant effects of (S)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutanoate on both monosynaptic and polysynaptic responses. (S)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutanoate reduced the paired-pulse depression at excitatory synapses between primary afferent fibers and dorsal horn neurons, but did not alter their postsynaptic membrane potential and input resistance. A clear facilitation of the (S)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutanoate-induced depression of monosynaptic and polysynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials in the absence of gamma-aminobutyric acid-subtype A receptor- and glycine-mediated synaptic inhibition was shown. Besides the depressant effect on excitatory synaptic transmission, inhibitory actions of group II and III metabotropic glutamate receptor agonists on the inhibitory postsynaptic potentials evoked by primary afferent stimulation in dorsal horn neurons were observed. These results suggest that group II and group III metabotropic glutamate receptors are expressed at primary afferent synapses in the dorsal horn region, and activation of the receptors suppresses synaptic transmission by an action on the presynaptic site.
Quantitative autoradiography (using [125I]human alpha-calcitonin gene-related peptide as a ligand) and immunofluorescence (using monoclonal antibodies directed against a purified receptor) followed by confocal analysis were applied to analyse the distribution and cellular localization of the calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor in the rat cerebellum during development. From late embryonic days to the end of the second postnatal week, during the time window of calcitonin gene-related peptide expression in climbing fibers, high levels of calcitonin gene-related peptide binding sites were found in the white matter, where immunolabeling was present in oligodendrocytes. Lower levels were found in the cerebellar cortex, where receptor immunolabeling was found in Bergmann glia in a presumptive cell surface location and, during the second postnatal week, also in the cytoplasm of Purkinje cells. From the end of the second postnatal week to adulthood, when calcitonin gene-related peptide is no longer present in climbing fibers, the number of calcitonin gene-related peptide binding sites increased in the molecular layer, where not only Bergmann glia but also Purkinje cell distal dendritic branchlets were immunolabeled in a presumptive cell surface location. Concomitantly, the number of calcitonin gene-related peptide binding sites sharply decreased in the white matter. The developmental expression of the calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor and the previously described proliferating/differentiating effects of the peptide on glial cells suggest that calcitonin gene-related peptide and its receptor may promote a coordinated development of cerebellar glial cells, an effect driven mainly by the calcitonin gene-related peptide released by climbing fibers. As a result of glia-neuron interactions, an indirect effect on the differentiation of the cerebellar neuronal circuitry is also likely to occur.
The nociceptive responses of rat ventrobasal thalamus neurons can be reduced by N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists and by selective metabotropic glutamate receptor mGlu1 antagonists. The recent development of the mGlu5-selective antagonist 6-methyl-2-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine now allows the direct probing of the possible involvement of mGlu5 receptors in thalamic nociceptive responses. Extracellular recordings were made from single neurons in the ventrobasal thalamus and immediately overlying dorsal thalamic nuclei of adult urethane-anaesthetized rats using multi-barrel electrodes. Responses of neurons to iontophoretic applications of the mGlu5-selective agonist (R,S)-2-chloro-5-hydroxyphenylglycine were selectively reduced during continuous iontophoretic applications of 6-methyl-2-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine. Similar applications of 6-methyl-2-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine reduced neuronal responses to noxious thermal stimuli to 53+/-9.5% of control responses. Co- application by iontophoresis of N-methyl-D-aspartate and metabotropic glutamate receptor agonists resulted in a mutual potentiation of excitatory responses. This effect could be reduced by either 6-methyl-2-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine or the mGlu1 antagonist LY367385. These results, taken together with previous data, suggest that acute thalamic nociceptive responses are mediated by a combination of mGlu1, mGlu5 and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation, and that co-activation of these receptors produces a synergistic excitatory effect. Thus blockade of any of these receptor types would have a profound effect on the overall nociceptive response.
We investigated age-related changes in the number and size of neurons positive for the p75 neurotrophin receptor in the cholinergic basal forebrain of female Dark Agouti rats. Since the integrity of these neurons is known to be closely associated with performance in tests of spatial learning ability, we also investigated the incidence of age-related spatial learning impairments, using the Barnes maze. Spatial learning impairments occurred with increasing frequency with age. No rats showed impairment at six months, but 50% were impaired at 14 months and 71% at 26 months. There was no correlation between age and decreased number of p75-positive neurons in the rostral basal forebrain, which consists of the medial septum and vertical limb of the diagonal band of Broca. In the caudal basal forebrain, which consists of the horizontal limb and the nucleus of Meynert, there was a 13% reduction in the number of p75-positive neurons at 17 months compared to six months, and a 30% reduction at 26 months. There was a strong correlation between the presence of spatial learning impairment and a reduction in the number of p75-positive neurons. This correlation was most evident in the rostral basal forebrain, but was also present in the caudal basal forebrain. In the rostral basal forebrain, all learning impaired rats had fewer p75-positive neurons than the average number in unimpaired rats. A close correspondence between the presence of p75 and choline acetyltransferase was evident in basal forebrain neurons of learning-impaired and unimpaired rats. Gross pathological changes to the morphology of p75-positive neurons were relatively frequent in learning-impaired rats. These changes consisted of hypertrophy, appearance of vacuoles, and marginalisation of the cytoplasm. The results indicate the susceptibility of p75-positive neurons to degenerative changes with aging, and show that the loss of these neurons in the basal forebrain was strongly correlated with impairment in spatial learning.
We have shown previously in the rat that biglycan, a recently discovered chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan, has neurotrophic effects which are mediated by its chondroitin/dermatan sulfate chains. Here we report that biglycan has neurochemical effects when injected into the nucleus basalis magnocellularis of the ventral pallidum, a site of dense cholinergic cell bodies. The effects on the cholinergic output in the frontal cortex are long lasting, indicating profound neuroactive function akin to that expected of a long-acting hormone. Injected into the same area of the brain, as well as into the ventricles in behaviorally impaired old animals, we found that biglycan can improve learning and memory in several behavioral paradigms. Furthermore, we show that both the neurochemical effectiveness as well as the promotion of learning is carried not by the proteoglycan per se, but rather by its chondroitin sulfate moiety, thus, demonstrating for the first time memory-promoting and neuroactive effects of a glycosaminoglycan, namely, chondroitin sulfate C. The results suggest that biglycan and other extracellular matrix molecules can have neurobehavioral and pharmacological functions for beyond those traditionally attributed to this class of molecules.
Phosphorylation of the DNA-binding transcription factor, cyclic AMP response element binding protein, has recently been suggested to provide neuroprotective signals in times of cellular stress. Medium-sized striatal neurons are among the cells that are most vulnerable to ischemic stress in the brain. In the present study, phosphorylation of cyclic AMP response element binding protein was immunohistochemically evaluated in rat striatum in order to examine the ischemic vulnerability of each striatal region from the standpoint of cyclic AMP response element binding protein. Rats were subjected to 90-min focal cerebral ischemia followed by various periods of recirculation. Focal ischemia was induced by occlusion of the middle cerebral artery by the intraluminal suture method. Local cerebral blood flow measured by the 14C-iodoantipyrine method in the lateral and the medial striatal regions during occlusion was 5.0+/-7. 1 and 42.5+/-8.1ml/100g/min, respectively. Cerebral blood flow in each region was restored to the control level during the recirculation period. The lateral and the medial regions of the striatum in the sham animals showed hardly any immunoreactivity with the specific antibody against phosphorylated cyclic AMP response element binding protein. By contrast, at 3.5h of recirculation, a number of phosphorylated cyclic AMP response element binding protein-positive neurons were detected in the medial striatal region on the occluded side, and the increase in the number of immunopositive cells continued until two weeks of recirculation with gradual decline. The lateral striatal region on the ischemic side showed only a mild increase in phosphorylated cyclic AMP response element binding protein-positive cells at 3.5h of recirculation, and the immunoreactivity rapidly disappeared during the subsequent recirculation period. Appreciable increase in immunoreactive cells was also noted in the contralateral striatum during the early phase of recirculation, and this increase seemed to be associated with spontaneous circling movements of the animals. Cresyl Violet staining revealed that striatal neurons in the medial region remained intact until two weeks of recirculation, whereas neurons in the lateral striatal region soon showed ischemic damage, followed by complete neuronal loss, and evolution of a frank infarct. Immunoreactivity for bcl-2, apoptosis-suppressive protein, was clearly detected in many neurons in the medial striatal region, but no such immunoreactivity was detected in the lateral striatal region. These findings suggest that persistently activated phosphorylation of cyclic AMP response element binding protein in the striatum during post-ischemic recirculation may be closely associated with protection of striatal neurons on the ischemic side, while it may be associated with spontaneous circling movements on the contralateral side.
Inhibition of the substantia nigra pars reticulata has been shown to suppress seizures in different animal models of epilepsy. The striatum is the main input of the substantia nigra pars reticulata. The aim of the present study was to examine the role of dopaminergic neurotransmission within the striatum in the control of absence seizures in a genetic model in the rat. Injections of mixed dopaminergic D1/D2 or of selective D1 or D2 agonists or antagonists in the dorsal parts of the striatum led to suppression of absence seizures associated with strong behavioral and electroencephalographic side-effects. When injected in the ventral part of the striatum (i.e. the nucleus accumbens core), all these agonists and antagonists respectively decreased and increased absence seizures without behavioral or electroencephalographic side-effects. Combined injections of low doses of a D1 and a D2 agonist in the core of the nucleus accumbens had an additive effect in absence seizures suppression. Furthermore, combined injections of low doses of a GABA(A) agonist and a N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist in the substantia nigra also had cumulative effects in absence seizures suppression. These results show that dopamine neurotransmission in the core of the nucleus accumbens is critical in the control of absence seizures. The modulatory and additive effects on absence seizures of dopaminergic neurotransmission through both the D1 and D2 receptors in the core of the nucleus accumbens further suggest that ventral pathways of the basal ganglia system are involved in the modulation of absence seizures.
Intrauterine growth restriction is a risk factor for neurological and behavioural deficits in children although the precise underlying biological correlate for this is unclear. The present study shows that animals with intrauterine growth restriction, induced by a period of reduced placental blood flow during the second half of pregnancy, demonstrate reduced numbers of neurons in the hippocampus and the cerebellum in conjunction with retarded dendritic and axonal growth within these structures. Intrauterine growth restriction was induced at 30 days gestational age by unilateral uterine artery ligation in pregnant guinea-pigs. At one week of age, the total number of CA1 pyramidal neurons in the hippocampus and the Purkinje neurons in the cerebellum were determined using the combined fractionator/optical disector technique. The Cavalieri Principle was used to determine the volume of specific regions within the hippocampus and cerebellum. The body weight of animals that were classified as intrauterine growth-restricted was reduced by 42% (n=8) compared with control animals (n=8, P&lt;0.001), while there was a smaller effect on brain weight (16% reduction, P&lt;0.01). Estimates of the total number of neurons showed a reduction in CA1 pyramidal neurons in growth-restricted animals (4.19+/-0.43x10(5)) compared with control (5.20+/-0.44x10(5), P&lt;0.01), and the volume of the stratum oriens layer above the CA1 region, which contains the apical dendrites of the CA1 pyramidal neurons, was reduced by 21% (P&lt;0.01) in growth-restricted animals. In the cerebellum there was a reduction in the number of Purkinje neurons in growth-restricted animals (3.97+/-0.50x10(5)) compared with control (5.13+/-0.52x10(5), P&lt;0.01), and in the volume of the molecular layer (17%, P&lt;0.05), the internal granular layer (22%, P&lt;0.01) and in the volume of the cerebellar white matter (23%, P&lt;0.01). These results show that a period of placental insufficiency during the second half of pregnancy can effect brain development in a way which could lead to neurological and behavioural deficits in the postnatal animal.
The long-term consequences of a physiological-range increase of maternal corticosterone during lactation were investigated on the 15-month-old progeny. The offspring of rats drinking water supplemented with corticosterone (200 microgram/ml of corticosterone hemisuccinate) from day 1 postpartum to weaning exhibited: (i) better performance in a conditioned learning test; (ii) reduction of fearfulness in two conflict situations; (iii) lower stress-induced corticosterone secretion and (iv) higher number of corticosteroid receptors in the hippocampus. The results of this study show that the effects of maternal physiological-range hypercorticosteronemia during lactation are lifelong. Moreover, these data suggest that corticosteroids, secreted during neonatal life, may constitute a factor directing the neurobiological development of the infant. In line with this hypothesis, glucocorticoid-induced early events have consequences on the behavioral and physiological status of adulthood. These consequences may be either &quot;beneficial&quot; or &quot;detrimental&quot; depending on the plasma levels of corticosterone induced by the early life occurrences, as well as on the kind of the stimulus and the developmental stage at which the neonate experiences the event. The present study demonstrates that, when the increase of corticosterone in infancy is moderate, the adult rats show reduced anxiety, improved learning and a better coping strategy to deal with stressful situations.
Megencephaly, enlarged brain, is a major sign in several human neurological diseases. The mouse model for megencephaly (mceph/mceph) has an enlarged brain, presumably due to brain cell hypertrophy, and exhibits neurological and motor disturbances with seizure-like activity, as well as disturbances in the insulin-like growth factor system. Here, we report that expression of the neuropeptides cholecystokinin, enkephalin, galanin and neuropeptide Y is dramatically changed in mceph/mceph brains compared to wild type, as revealed by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. The changes were confined to discrete brain regions and occurred in a parallel fashion for peptides and their transcripts. For cholecystokinin, mceph/mceph brains had region-specific up- and down-regulations in several layers of the hippocampal formation and increased levels in, especially ventral, cortical regions. Enkephalin messenger RNA expression was up-regulated in the dentate gyrus granular layer and in ventral cortices, but down-regulated in the CA1 pyramidal layer. Enkephalin-like immunoreactivity was elevated in mossy fibers of the hippocampus and the ventral cortices. Galanin expression was increased in several layers and interneurons of the hippocampal formation, as well as in ventral cortices. Galanin-like immunoreactivity was reduced in nerve terminals in the forebrain. Neuropeptide Y expression was increased in the hippocampal formation and ventral cortices. Whether the mainly increased peptide levels contribute to the excessive growth of the brain or represent a consequence of this growth and/or of the neurological and motor disturbances remains to be elucidated.
In adult brain, the inhibitory GABAergic neurons utilize two distinct molecular forms of the GABA-synthesizing enzyme glutamate decarboxylase (GAD), GAD65 and GAD67. During embryonic development, two truncated forms of GAD67 are also expressed (GAD25 and GAD44), which are translated from two embryonic-specific splice variants of GAD67 messenger RNA. It has recently been established that the excitatory dentate granule cells, in addition to the neurotransmitter glutamate, also contain low levels of GABA and GAD67, which are increased after limbic seizures. To study the seizure-induced activation of glutamate decarboxylase, we investigated the expression of both embryonic and adult glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNAs in the adult rat hippocampus after kainic acid administration by semi-quantitative reverse transcription-coupled polymerase chain reaction, in situ hybridization and immunoblotting. We observed a rapid induction of the embryonic glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA in the granule cells of dentate gyrus. The expression of embryonic glutamate decarboxylase transcripts, identified here as the splice variant that contains exon 7/B, peaked at about 2h after kainic acid injection and gradually returned to nearly basal levels by 24h. Strikingly, this transient induction of embryonic glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA was not accompanied by concomitant synthesis of its corresponding protein product GAD25. In contrast, the adult GAD67 messenger RNA and protein were both clearly up-regulated in granule cells, albeit with a certain delay, reaching a maximum around 4-6h after kainic acid injection and gradually returned to control levels by 24h. GAD65 remained unchanged at both messenger RNA and protein levels during the studied period. These characteristic and highly reproducible changes in the synthesis of glutamate decarboxylases indicate that GAD67 is the predominant form of glutamate decarboxylases involved in the elevated synthesis of GABA during seizures and suggest that the transient induction of the embryonic GAD67 messenger RNA that contains exon 7/B, but not GAD25 protein, may exert a role solely in the subsequent up-regulation of adult GAD67 transcription. Expression of the messenger RNA encoding for an alternatively spliced, truncated form of the GABA-synthesizing enzyme glutamate decarboxylase was detected in dentate granule cells briefly after kainic acid-induced seizures. Just as during embryonic development, expression of the alternatively spliced messenger RNA was transient and followed by transcription of its adult form, indicating a possible recapitulation of an embryonic program of gene expression in adult granule cells after epileptic seizures.
Immunohistochemistry was used to analyse 18- and 26-month-old transgenic mice overexpressing the human beta-amyloid precursor protein under the platelet-derived growth factor-beta promoter with regard to presence and distribution of neuropeptides. In addition, antisera/antibodies to tyrosine hydroxylase, acetylcholinesterase, amyloid peptide, glial fibrillary acidic protein and microglial marker OX42 were used. These mice have been reported to exhibit extensive amyloid plaques in the hippocampus and cortex [Masliah et al. (1996) J. Neurosci. 16, 5795-5811]. The most pronounced changes were related to neuropeptides, whereas differences between wild-type and transgenic mice were less prominent with regard to tyrosine hydroxylase and acetylcholinesterase. The main findings were of two types; (i) involvement of peptide-containing neurites in amyloid beta-peptide positive plaques, and (ii) more generalized changes in peptide levels in specific layers, neuron populations and/or subregions in the hippocampal formation and ventral cortices. In contrast, the parietal and auditory cortices were comparatively less affected. The peptide immunoreactivities most strongly involved, both in plaques and in the generalized changes, were galanin, neuropeptide Y, cholecystokinin and enkephalin. This study shows that there is considerable variation both with regard to plaque load and peptide expression even among homozygotes of the same age. The most pronounced changes, predominantly increased peptide levels, were observed in two 26-month-old homozygous mice, for example, galanin-, enkephalin- and cholecystokinin-like immunoreactivities in stratum lacunosum moleculare, and galanin, neuropeptide Y, enkephalin and dynorphin in mossy fibers. Many peptides also showed elevated levels in the ventral cortices. However, decreases were also observed. Thus, galanin-like immunoreactivity could not any longer be detected in the diffusely distributed (presumably noradrenergic) fiber network in all hippocampal and cortical layers, and dynorphin-like immunoreactivity was decreased in stratum moleculare, cholecystokinin-like immunoreactivity in mossy fibers and substance P-like immunoreactivity in fibers around granule cells. The significance of generalized peptide changes is at present unclear. For example, the increase in the mainly inhibitory peptides galanin, neuropeptide Y, enkephalin and dynorphin and the decrease in the mainly excitatory peptide cholecystokinin in mossy fibers (and of substance P fibers around granule cells) indicate a shift in balance towards inhibition of the input to the CA3 pyramidal cell layer. Moreover, it may be speculated that the increase in levels of some of the peptides represents a reaction to nerve injury with the aim to counteract, in different ways, the consequences of injury, for example by exerting trophic actions. Further studies will be needed to establish to what extent these changes are typical for Alzheimer mouse models in general or are associated with the V717F mutation and/or the platelet-derived growth factor-beta promoter.
The influence of hypertension on the morphology of hippocampus was assessed in spontaneously hypertensive rats of two, four and six months and in age-matched normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats. Values of systolic pressure were slightly increased in two-month-old spontaneously hypertensive rats in comparison with age-matched Wistar-Kyoto rats and augmented progressively with age in spontaneously hypertensive rats. No microanatomical changes were observed in the hippocampus of spontaneously hypertensive rats of two months in comparison with age-matched Wistar-Kyoto rats, whereas a decrease of white matter volume was observed in the CA(1) subfield and in the dentate gyrus of four-month-old spontaneously hypertensive rats. In the hippocampus of six-month-old spontaneously hypertensive rats a reduction of grey matter volume both in the CA(1) subfield and in the dentate gyrus, a loss of neurons affecting to a greater extent the CA(1) subfield and an increase of glial fibrillary acid protein-immunoreactive astrocytes was found. The occurrence of apoptosis and/or necrosis identified using the terminal deoxyribonucleotidyl transferase-mediated biotin-16-dUTP nick end labelling technique was also observed in the CA(1) subfield and to a lesser extent in the dentate gyrus. The only change noticeable in the CA(3) subfield of six-month-old spontaneously hypertensive rats was a slight increase in the number of glial fibrillary acid protein-immunoreactive astrocytes. These findings indicate the occurrence of neuronal loss and of astrocyte changes in the hippocampus of spontaneously hypertensive rats of six months, being the CA(1) subfield the area most affected. The relevance of these neurodegenerative changes in hypertension and the possible occurrence of apoptosis and/or necrosis as expression of hypertensive brain damage is discussed.
It has been proposed that reactive oxygen species and lipid peroxidation have a role in the delayed neuronal death of pyramidal cells in the CA1 region. To explore the in situ localization and serial changes of 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal-modified proteins, which are major products of membrane peroxidation, we used immunohistochemistry of the gerbil hippocampus after transient forebrain ischemia with or without preconditioning ischemia. The normal gerbil hippocampus showed weak immunoreactivity for 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal-modified proteins in the cytoplasm of CA1 pyramidal cells. 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal immunoreactivity showed no marked changes after preconditioning ischemia. In the early period after ischemia and reperfusion, there was a transient increase of nuclear 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal immunoreactivity in CA1 pyramidal neurons. In contrast, cytoplasmic immunoreactivity transiently disappeared during same period and then increased markedly from 8h to seven days. One week after ischemia, 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal immunoreactivity was observed within reactive astrocytes in the CA1 region. Early nuclear accumulation of 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal in CA1 neurons may indicate a possible role in signal transduction between the nucleus and cytoplasm/mitochondria, while delayed accumulation of 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal-modified proteins in the cytoplasm may be related to mitochondrial damage. We conclude that 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal may be a key mediator of the oxidative stress-induced neuronal signaling pathway and may have an important role in modifying delayed neuronal death.
The whole-cell GABA-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents were studied using the patch-clamp technique on synaptically connected cultured hippocampal neurons. The stimulus-evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents were recorded in the tetrodotoxin-containing solution in response to the low-amplitude long (10-20ms) extracellular depolarization of a single presynaptic terminal. During each depolarization the postsynaptic response in a form of several superimposed independent events was recorded. The amplitudes of these responses fluctuated randomly, irrespective of the number of the event. In all the investigated neurons the distributions of delays revealed regularly spaced multiple peaks. The number of peaks increased with the duration of stimulus. The distance between the peaks was on average 2.97+/-0.86ms (n=58). The mean intervals between successive releases were distributed exponentially indicating the independence of the release sites. Thus neurotransmitter release might occur with maximal probability at the most probable times irrespective of the presence or failure of the previous event. The increase in stimulating pulse amplitude led to a decrease in the number of clearly detectable peaks in distributions. The decrease in the number of peaks in the distribution of delays was not accompanied with a decrease in the distance between peaks within the range of reliable resolution of the peaks. The amplitude distribution also revealed regularly spaced multiple peaks. The absence of significant correlation between the amplitude of the first and the second event demonstrated the independence of the succeeding release on the preceding release during long stimulation. Results of statistical analysis of our experimental data supports the hypothesis of multiquantal neurotransmitter release in a single inhibitory hippocampal synapse. Neurotransmitter release during long stimulation may occur at certain times with maximal probability, keeping the mean inter-release interval constant. Thus the interval is not determined directly by the depletion of vesicles and the number of vesicles which may be released at the most probable time is random.
In male rats, long-term potentiation was induced unilaterally in the dentate gyrus, either by high frequency (200Hz) or theta rhythm stimulation. Structural synaptic changes were examined 24h after induction using quantitative electron microscopy. A disector technique was employed in order to estimate the density of synapses (using 70-80-nm sections) and of granule cell nuclei (using 2-microm sections) in the middle, and inner molecular layer in both hemispheres. Synaptic height and total lateral areas of synaptic active zones per unit tissue volume were assessed via assumption-free stereological techniques coupled with image analysis. The results obtained indicated that both synaptic density and number (corrected per neuron) of axo-spinous, but not axo-dendritic, synapses were approximately 40% higher in the middle, but not inner molecular layer of the potentiated hemisphere compared to the contralateral (control hemisphere). No significant inter-hemispheric difference was found in the volume densities of lateral areas of active zones. These data suggest that 24h after long-term potentiation induction, active zones of existing axo-spinous synapses either split forming separate contacts, or decrease in size while new synapses are formed.
Exploration of the nature of the relationship between short-term and long-term synaptic plasticity should aid our understanding of their roles in brain function. The effects of inducing long-term potentiation on short-term facilitation at CA1 synapses in the stratum radiatum of the intact hippocampus were examined by recording the slope of the field excitatory postsynaptic potential in both urethane and freely behaving adult rats. Facilitation of the second synaptic response to paired-pulse stimulation (40ms interstimulus interval) was monitored before and after the induction of long-term potentiation by high-frequency stimulation (10 trains of 20 pulses at 200Hz). The tetanus triggered a rapid overall reduction in paired-pulse facilitation that persisted for at least 2h. In the anaesthetized animals a detailed correlation analysis revealed that initial paired-pulse facilitation level correlated strongly with the subsequent reduction in paired-pulse facilitation and the magnitude of long-term potentiation. The reduction in paired-pulse facilitation also correlated with long-term potentiation magnitude. These relationships were not observed in animals with low initial degrees of paired-pulse facilitation. It was concluded that the relative contribution of different expression mechanisms of long-term potentiation varies depending on the initial facilitation characteristics of the synapses. Furthermore, the temporal selectivity and gain control of synapses can be altered persistently in the intact hippocampus. This suggests that there is considerable variation in the fidelity of temporal information storage at different synapses during learning and memory in the CA1 area.
Limb amputation in urodele amphibia is followed by formation of a blastema, which subsequently develops into a complete limb with normal pattern of innervation. In this study, we investigated the effects of axolotl limb blastemas on axonal growth in gels of collagen and extracellular matrix (matrigel). When peripheral nerves with attached dorsal root ganglia were cultured in collagen gels together with blastemas, axonal outgrowth was markedly increased compared with control preparations. Blastemas contain fibroblast growth factors, and may also contain neurotrophic factors such as nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin 3, neurotrophin 4, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor and hepatocyte growth factor/scatter factor, since these factors are expressed in developing limbs in other vertebrates. In collagen gels the neurotrophins and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor stimulated axonal growth, but outgrowing axons were shorter than in co-cultures with blastemas. The tyrosine kinase inhibitor K252a blocked the stimulatory effects of the neurotrophins on axonal growth but had relatively little effect on axonal growth in co-cultures with blastemas. In experiments in which peripheral nerves, with attached dorsal root ganglia, were cultured in matrigel, axons grew towards blastemas over distances of about 1mm. Directed axonal growth even occurred in these co-cultures after addition of high concentrations of all the above neurotrophic factors, suggesting that blastemas may release a different factor which stimulates axonal growth. The results indicate that during early stages of limb regeneration in amphibia, factor(s) are released which are capable of attracting the growth of peripheral nerves and may play an important role in the development of innervation of regenerated limbs. The identity of the factor(s) remains to be determined.
In the myenteric plexus of rat ileum, NK(1) and NK(3) receptors are co-located almost exclusively on neurons of a single population. This study compares endocytosis of NK(1) and NK(3) receptors in these neurons. In the absence of agonist, 26.2+/-2.8% of NK(1) receptor and 29.1+/-1.1% of NK(3) receptor was located in the cytoplasm of the neurons; the remaining receptor was on the surface. The tachykinin neurotransmitters, substance P (10 pM-10 microM) and neurokinin A (10 pM-100 microM), both induced concentration-dependent endocytosis of NK(1) and NK(3) receptors. The selective NK(1) receptor agonist, [Sar(9),Met(O(2))(11)]-substance P (1 microM), induced endocytosis of NK(1) receptor (64.2+/-1.5% in cytoplasm) but not NK(3) receptor (32.9+/-5.0%). The NK(1) receptor endocytosis was reduced by the selective NK(1) receptor antagonist, CP-99994 (100 nM), but not by the selective NK(3) receptor antagonist, SR-142801 (1 microM). The selective NK(3) receptor agonist, senktide (10 nM), induced endocytosis of NK(3) receptor (61.2+/-5.4%) but not NK(1) receptor (34.0+/-4.5%). The NK(3) receptor endocytosis was blocked by SR-142801 but not by CP-99994. We also investigated the effects of monensin, which generally blocks recycling of endocytosed receptor. In the absence or presence of exogenous agonist, monensin caused a build-up of NK(1) receptor, but not NK(3) receptor, in the cytoplasm of neurons.The results demonstrate independent, agonist-induced endocytosis of NK(1) and NK(3) receptors in neurons of the myenteric plexus of rat ileum and suggest that the mechanisms of recycling of NK(1) and NK(3) receptors differ.
High levels of D-aspartate occur in the brain and endocrine glands, such as pineal, adrenal and pituitary. In the brain, D-aspartate levels are highest in embryonic and early postnatal stages. Notably high levels occur in the early postnatal cortical plate and subventricular zone of the cerebral cortical cultures, implying a role in development. In embryonic neuronal primary culture cells, we detected high levels of endogenous D-aspartate and demonstrated biosynthesis of [14C]D-aspartate using [14C]L-aspartate as precursor. Synthesis of D-aspartate in cell cultures is inhibited by amino-oxyacetic acid, an inhibitor of pyridoxal phosphate-dependent enzymes. In the rat adrenal medulla, D-aspartate is depleted by treatment of the animals with intraperitoneal nicotine injections. In adrenal slices, D-aspartate is released by depolarization with KCl or acetylcholine, implying physiological release by activation of the cholinergic innervation of the adrenal. Our characterization of D-aspartate ontogeny, biosynthesis and depolarization-induced release implies specific physiological roles for this amino acid.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor has previously been shown to promote survival and axonal regeneration in injured spinal motoneurons and, also, to modulate synaptic transmission and regulate the density of synaptic innervation in a variety of neurons. The present light and electron microscopic study demonstrates synaptotrophic effects of exogenously applied brain-derived neurotrophic factor on the synaptic composition of both normal and axonally lesioned adult rat spinal motoneurons. After L5-L6 ventral root avulsion, a massive loss of all types of boutons occurred on the somata of the lesioned motoneurons which persisted for at least 12 weeks postoperatively. We found that (i) intrathecal infusion of brain-derived neurotrophic factor during the first postoperative week did not prevent the synaptic detachment and activation of glial cells; (ii) prolonged treatment for four weeks restored synaptic covering and significantly reduced microglial reaction; (iii) the synaptotrophic effect remained significant for at least eight weeks after cessation of the treatment; (iv) brain-derived neurotrophic factor mainly supported F-type boutons with presumably inhibitory function, while it had little effect on S-type boutons associated with excitatory action; and (v) in normal unlesioned motoneurons, four weeks of treatment with brain-derived neurotrophic factor induced sprouting of F-type boutons, a loss of S-type boutons and motoneuron atrophy. The present data show that exogenous neurotrophins not only help to restore synaptic circuitry in axonally injured motoneurons, but also strongly influence the synaptic composition in normal motoneurons.
GABA(B) receptors are G-protein-coupled receptors that mediate the slow and prolonged synaptic actions of GABA in the CNS via the modulation of ion channels. Unusually, GABA(B) receptors form functional heterodimers composed of GABA(B1) and GABA(B2) subunits. The GABA(B1) subunit is essential for ligand binding, whereas the GABA(B2) subunit is essential for functional expression of the receptor dimer at the cell surface. We have used real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction to analyse expression levels of these subunits, and their associated splice variants, in the CNS and peripheral tissues of human and rat. GABA(B1) subunit splice variants were expressed throughout the CNS and peripheral tissues, whereas surprisingly GABA(B2) subunit splice variants were neural specific. Using novel antisera specific to individual GABA(B) receptor subunits, we have confirmed these findings at the protein level. Analysis by immunoblotting demonstrated the presence of the GABA(B1) subunit, but not the GABA(B2) subunit, in uterus and spleen. Furthermore, we have shown the first immunocytochemical analysis of the GABA(B2) subunit in the brain and spinal cord using a GABA(B2)-specific antibody. We have, therefore, identified areas of non-overlap between GABA(B1) and GABA(B2) subunit expression in tissues known to contain functional GABA(B) receptors. Such areas are of interest as they may well contain novel GABA(B) receptor subunit isoforms, expression of which would enable the GABA(B1) subunit to reach the cell surface and form functional GABA(B) receptors.
The present study examined immunohistochemically the CNS distributions of a splice variant of the mu-opioid receptor, MOR-1D, in both rats and mice. In MOR-1D, exon 4 of MOR-1 is replaced by two additional exons that code for seven amino acids. Using rabbit antisera, we compared immunohistochemically the regional distribution of a C-terminal epitope of MOR-1D to that of a C-terminal epitope from MOR-1 and a C-terminal epitope from another splice variant, MOR-1C. The general distribution of MOR-1D-like immunoreactivity was similar in both mouse and rat. MOR-1D-like immunoreactivity was seen in the dentate gyrus and in the mossy fibers of the hippocampal formation, the nucleus of the solitary tract and the area postrema, the inferior olivary nucleus, the nucleus ambiguous, the spinal trigeminal nucleus and the spinal cord. MOR-1D-like immunoreactivity was not observed in some regions containing dense MOR-1-like immunoreactivity, such as the striatum or the locus coeruleus. In regions containing MOR-1, MOR-1C and MOR-1D, the pattern of each variant was unique.MOR-1D and MOR-1C are splice variants of the cloned mu-opioid receptor MOR-1. Although they differ only at the tip of the carboxy terminus, they show marked differences in their regional distributions, as determined immunohistochemically by epitopes in their unique carboxy termini. Since the splice variants are derived from the same gene, these differences in regional distribution imply region-specific messenger RNA processing.
Since myelination and remyelination both involve investing an axon with a myelin sheath, a plausible hypothesis is that the two processes involve the expression of similar transcription factors. In this study we have addressed this hypothesis by comparing the expression of messenger RNA of Gtx, a homeodomain transcription factor expressed within oligodendrocytes during myelination, with the expression of messenger RNAs of the major myelin proteins, myelin basic protein and proteolipid protein during remyelination of experimentally induced demyelination in the adult rat brain. We have found a close temporal and spatial association between the expression patterns of the three messenger RNA species during remyelination. By comparing the expression patterns in rapidly remyelinating lesions in young adult rats with slowly remyelinating lesions in old adult rats, we have shown that Gtx messenger RNA expression follows the reappearance of myelin basic protein and proteolipid protein messenger RNAs regardless of the rate of remyelination. This observation demonstrates a clear association between the expression of Gtx messenger RNA and myelin repair. We have also shown that there is a decrease in constitutive levels of expression of myelin basic protein, proteolipid protein and Gtx messenger RNA in old adults compared with young adults. Taken together, our results indicate that Gtx, which has multiple binding sites in the promoter regions of both myelin basic protein and proteolipid protein genes, may have a similar role in the regulation of myelin protein gene expression during remyelination as has been proposed in myelination.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide serves as a neuromodulator in several ascending visceral sensory pathways from the parabrachial nucleus to the thalamus, amygdala and the visceral sensory cortex in rats, but these pathways have not been studied in primates. We have examined the distribution of calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactive innervation of the corresponding areas of the human brain, including the cortex, diencephalon and brainstem. We report the finding of three populations of calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactive cells that are homologous to those that have been characterized in the rat: the external lateral and external medial parabrachial subnuclei and the posterior intralaminar thalamic complex, including the subparafascicular, lateral subparafascicular and peripeduncular nuclei. In addition, scattered calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactive cells were found in the periventricular hypothalamus. Calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactive terminals were found in regions homologous to the projection areas of the external medial and external lateral parabrachial subnuclei in the rat, including the ventroposterior parvicellular nucleus of the thalamus, the central nucleus of the amygdala, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the insular cortex; and in the terminal field of the posterior intralaminar thalamic complex, including the amygdalo-striatal transition region and the insular cortex. These results suggest that, similarly to other species, calcitonin gene-related peptide may also serve as a marker for ascending visceral sensory pathways in the human brain.
Whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings from rat brain slice preparation were used to investigate a possible developmental change in the patterns of synaptic interactions among the nucleus tractus solitarii neurons by analysing spontaneous postsynaptic current activity. Three types of patterns of spontaneous postsynaptic current activity were distinguished in the nucleus tractus solitarii neurons which showed high activities in terms of current frequency and amplitude. The first type was characterized by the presence in an individual cell of high frequencies and large amplitudes of both spontaneous glutamatergic and GABAergic postsynaptic currents, and observed exclusively in postnatal day 0-7 rats. The second and third types of cells showed predominant either inhibitory or excitatory postsynaptic currents, respectively. After postnatal day 5, nucleus tractus solitarii neurons with high background activity were shown to differentiate into either the second or the third type, with the latter of about 70% in the adult caudal/intermediate nucleus tractus solitarii. Axon collaterals of some medium to large neurons seemed to be decreased by pruning during postnatal development. The early postnatal differentiation of background synaptic activity observed in the nucleus tractus solitarii presumably reflects the local network reorganization and may be related to maturational changes in cardiovascular and respiratory functions.
Some neurons in the brain and spinal cord will regenerate axons into a living peripheral nerve graft inserted at the site of injury, others will not. We have examined the patterns of expression of four molecules thought to be involved in developmental and regenerative axonal growth, in the cerebellum and brainstem of adult rats, following the implantation into the cerebellum of peripheral nerve grafts. We also determined how the expression patterns observed correlate with the abilities of neurons in these regions to regenerate axons. Three days to 16 weeks after insertion of living tibial nerve autografts, neurons which had regenerated axons into the graft were retrogradely labelled from the distal extremity of the graft with cholera toxin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase, and sections through the cerebellum and brainstem were processed for visualization of transported tracer and/or hybridized with riboprobes to detect messenger RNAs for the cell recognition molecules L1 and CHL1 (close homologue of L1), growth-associated protein-43 and the cellular oncogene c-jun. Retrogradely labelled neurons were present in cerebellar deep nuclei close to the graft and in brainstem nuclei known to project to the cerebellum. Neurons in these same nuclei were found to have up-regulated expression of all four messenger RNAs. Individual retrogradely labelled neurons also expressed high levels of L1, CHL1, c-jun or growth-associated protein-43 messenger RNAs (and vice versa), and every messenger RNA investigated was co-localized with at least one other messenger RNA. Purkinje cells did not regenerate axons into the graft or up-regulate L1, CHL1 or growth-associated protein-43 messenger RNAs, but there was increased expression of c-jun messenger RNA in some Purkinje cells close to the graft. Freeze-killed grafts produced no retrograde labelling of neurons, and resulted in only transient and low levels of up-regulation of the tested molecules, mainly L1 and CHL1. These findings show that cerebellar deep nucleus neurons and precerebellar brainstem neurons, but not Purkinje cells, have a high propensity for axon regeneration, and that axonal regeneration by these neurons is accompanied by increased expression of L1, CHL1, c-jun and growth-associated protein-43. Furthermore, although the patterns of expression of the four molecules investigated are not identical in regenerating neuronal populations, it is probable that all four are up-regulated in all neurons whose axons regenerate into the grafts and that their up-regulation may be required for axon regeneration to occur. Finally, because c-jun up-regulation is seen in Purkinje cells close to the graft, unaccompanied by up-regulation of the other molecules investigated, c-jun up-regulation alone cannot be taken to reliably signify a regenerative response to axotomy.
Basic fibroblast growth factor is expressed in different isoforms which display tissue and species specificity and are differentially regulated during development and after experimental interventions. The differential regulation of the fibroblast growth factor-2 isoforms may indicate specific activities and functions of these molecules. The characterization of fibroblast growth factor-2 effects, however, is almost exclusively based on studies including the 18,000 mol. wt isoform. It is not yet known whether the high molecular weight fibroblast growth factor-2 isoforms (21,000 mol. wt, 23,000 mol. wt) exert similar or distinct activities in the nervous system. In the present study, we investigated the effects of the high molecular weight isoforms on dissociated rat mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons. For this purpose, recombinant fibroblast growth factor-2 isoforms, prepared in a histidine expression system, were administered on dopaminergic neurons in vitro, and Schwann cells over-expressing the high molecular weight isoforms were co-cultured with dopaminergic neurons. This is the first demonstration to show that the high molecular weight isoforms mediate a neurotrophic activity. Exogenous high molecular weight fibroblast growth factor-2 isoforms stimulated the survival of embryonic mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons and protected them from 6-hydroxydopamine neurotoxicity. In addition, co-culture of dopaminergic neurons with high molecular weight fibroblast growth factor-2 over-expressing Schwann cells revealed an increased survival and neurite formation of the mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons. These results suggest that the high molecular weight fibroblast growth factor-2 isoforms may serve as a new tool for the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Our previous studies showed that alpha4, alpha6, alpha7, beta2, beta3 and beta4 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor messenger RNAs are present in monkey substantia nigra, with a particularly intense and localized labelling of the alpha6 and beta3 subunit messenger RNAs to this brain region. Because loss of nigrostriatal neurons is a central feature of Parkinson's disease and evidence suggests that nicotinic agonists potentiate antiparkinsonian effects of L-dopa, experiments were done to determine whether nicotinic receptor subunit messenger RNAs and binding sites were altered in the basal ganglia after nigrostriatal degeneration. Squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus) were rendered parkinsonian by systemic injection of the selective dopaminergic neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3, 6-tetrahydropyridine. Behavioral studies showed that this treatment decreased baseline motor activity to 36+/-11% of control. One month after 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine administration, caudate and putamen dopamine levels were reduced to 51+/-15% and 43+/-6% of control, respectively, while the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons in the substantia nigra was 75+/-6% of control. Despite the reduction in nigral cell number after nigrostriatal degeneration, there were no changes in alpha4, alpha7, beta2 and beta4 messenger RNA levels in the substantia nigra. In contrast, alpha6 mRNA levels were significantly increased (143+/-10%) and the beta3 transcript decreased (62+/-6%) in the substantia nigra after 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. Declines were also observed in [125I]epibatidine binding in both the caudate-putamen and substantia nigra, with no change in alpha7 receptor binding. These results may suggest a dissociation in the regulation of receptor messenger RNA and binding sites, and/or that there are differential alterations in the different receptor subtypes measured using [125I]epibatidine. The changes in the two nicotinic receptor subunit messenger RNAs, alpha6 and beta3, which exhibit a selective localization to the substantia nigra, may indicate that nicotinic receptors containing these subunits are altered after nigrostriatal degeneration.
The ability of adenosine A(2A) receptor antagonists to exhibit antiparkinsonian activity has recently been reported, but the mechanisms of action are still unknown. Since A(2A) receptors have been localized to GABAergic striatopallidal neurons, it is probable that these antagonists affect the activity of these neurons. In the present study, extracellular GABA basal levels were increased in the ipsilateral striatum and globus pallidus following a unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the nigrostriatal pathway. The A(2A) receptor-selective antagonist KW-6002 (3mg/kg, p.o.) caused a marked and sustained decrease of extracellular GABA levels in the globus pallidus of the 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, whereas no changes in GABA levels were observed in the globus pallidus of the non-lesioned rats. Microinjection of the A(2A) receptor agonist CGS21680 (0.005-0.5 microg) into the striatum of non-lesioned animals increased GABA concentrations in the globus pallidus, which was abolished by the voltage-dependent Na(+) channel blocker tetrodotoxin (1 micromol/l) delivered locally to the globus pallidus via the dialysis membrane. Furthermore, intrapallidal infusion of CGS21680 (10 micromol/l) also increased GABA levels in the globus pallidus. These data indicate that GABA release from striatopallidal neurons is regulated through A(2A) receptors in both the striatum and globus pallidus. The reversal of the 6-hydroxydopamine-induced increase in pallidal GABA levels by KW-6002 suggests that the antiparkinsonian effects of A(2A) receptor antagonists occur on the striatopallidal neurons.
The as/agu rat is a spontaneously occurring mutation which exhibits locomotor abnormalities, reduced tyrosine hydroxylase levels in the substantia nigra and lower extracellular levels of dopamine. The animal could represent a model of some human locomotor disorders. High-potassium medium evoked a 460% rise of dopamine levels in control rats but double this in mutants. Amphetamine increased extracellular dopamine by 710% in controls and 1480% in mutants. Clorgyline produced a small increase of dopamine levels in controls but an 1170% increase in mutants. The uptake inhibitor nomifensine increased dopamine levels by 910% in controls but only 270% in mutants. After treatment with benserazide plus L-DOPA, an acute injection of L-DOPA evoked a release of dopamine which was twice as large in the as/agu rats compared with controls. The results show reduced extracellular dopamine in as/agu rats when the locomotor disorder is apparent, but there has been little loss of tyrosine hydroxylase. The responses to drugs are qualitatively different from those obtained using 6-hydroxydopamine.Overall, the effects of compounds affecting aminergic neurons suggest that one possible mechanism for the neuronal abnormality in as/agu rats is a defective regulation of dopamine release from striatal terminals.
Bone morphogenetic proteins belong to the transforming growth factor-beta superfamily and act through serine/threonine kinase type I and type II receptors such as bone morphogenetic protein receptor type I and type II. In order to further understand the roles that these factors exert in the nervous system, we have examined the expression pattern of seven bone morphogenetic proteins and bone morphogenetic protein receptor type I and II transcripts in the brain and spinal cord of rodent. Whereas bone morphogenetic protein receptor type I expression was low in rat brain, in situ hybridization studies performed with specific digoxigenin-labelled riboprobes revealed the presence of bone morphogenetic protein receptor type II-positive cells throughout the brain, with a notable localization in dopaminergic cells of the substantia nigra. Bone morphogenetic protein receptor type II transcripts were also expressed by large motoneuron-like cells located in the ventral horn of the spinal cord and by sensory neurons of dorsal root ganglia. In addition, we observed a significant up-regulation of bone morphogenetic protein receptor type II in the granule cells of the dentate gyrus 48 h after transient global cerebral ischemia in rat suggesting that modulation of this receptor intervenes during neuronal plasticity or repair that occur upon brain injury. Among the potential ligands for this receptor, bone morphogenetic protein-6 and bone morphogenetic protein-7 were expressed in meninges and the choroid plexus, while bone morphogenetic protein-4-expressing cells were spatially and temporally regulated in myelinated structures during development and in the adult suggesting its expression in oligodendrocytes. These data clearly indicate that besides their roles in bone and embryonic tissues, bone morphogenetic proteins and their receptors may have also important functions in adult neural tissues.
The present study was done to determine the possible effects of endogenous adenosine, present in the extracellular fluid of the hippocampal slice, on pyramidal cells in the CA1 region using intracellular recording techniques. Administration of 5 microM of the adenosine receptor antagonist, 8-sulfophenyltheophylline (n=11), induced a depolarization (2.6+/-0.4 mV, mean+/-S.E.M.) with an increase in input resistance (6.7+/-2.1%) in pyramidal cells, and increased the amplitude of the excitatory postsynaptic potentials elicited by stimulation of Schaffer collateral afferents; 50 microM 8-sulfophenyltheophylline (n=68) produced a similar depolarization (3.4+/-1.7 mV) and an increase in input resistance (26+/-3.0%), but also produced spontaneous, synchronized giant excitatory postsynaptic potentials which could generate bursts of spikes. These effects lasted more than 10 min after washout. In the presence of 20 microM 6-cyano-7-nitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione, a non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, and 50 microM D-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, 50 microM 8-sulfophenyltheophylline (n=4) induced only depolarization (3.1+/-1.3 mV) and an increase in input resistance (23+/-3.8%). In the presence of 20 microM 6-cyano-7-nitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione only, 50 microM 8-sulfophenyltheophylline (n=7) induced not only the depolarization with an increase in input resistance, but also the occurrence of small-amplitude (11+/-5.6 mV), fast rising, all-or-none, voltage-sensitive spikes of 2-3 ms duration, which were attributed to a dendritic origin. The latency of these dendritic spikes in response to stimulation of Schaffer collateral afferents lasted up to 21 ms. These dendritic spikes could generate one or more action potentials, depending on the resting membrane potential and the frequency of the dendritic spikes. In the presence of 50 microM 8-sulfophenyltheophylline plus 20 microM 6-cyano-7-nitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione, 50 microM D-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate blocked the spontaneous dendritic spikes (n=4). In the presence of 5 microM 8-sulfophenyltheophylline, 200 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate (n=5) increased the occurrence of dendritic spikes. These data indicate that adenosine present in the extracellular fluid of the hippocampal slice tonically inhibits not only (S)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate-mediated synaptic transmission, but also voltage- and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-sensitive dendritic spikes. Endogenous adenosine acting on adenosine A(1) receptors is thus visualized as a control to prevent the genesis of synchronized giant excitatory postsynaptic potentials. In our experiments, blockade of this tonic activation of adenosine receptors appears to have altered the origins of action potentials and led to epileptiform firing in CA1 pyramidal cells.
The hippocampus has long been considered critical for spatial learning and navigation. Recent theoretical models of the rodent and primate hippocampus consider spatial processing a special case of a more general memory function. These non-spatial theories of hippocampus differ from navigational theories with respect to the role of self-motion representations. The present study presents evidence for a new cell type in the CA1 area of the rat hippocampus that codes for directional heading independent of location information (i.e. the angular component of self-motion). These hippocampal head direction cells are controlled by external and idiothetic cues in a similar way as head direction cells in other brain areas and hippocampal place cells. Convergent head direction information and location information may be an essential component of a neural system that monitors behavioral sequences during navigation. Conflicts between internally generated and external cues have previously been shown to result in new hippocampal place representations, suggesting that head direction information may participate in synaptic interactions when new location codes are formed. Combined hippocampal representations of self-motion and external cues may therefore contribute to path integration as well as spatial memory processing.
Using the technique of intracellular recording in in vitro brain slice preparations, we examined the effects produced by repeated administration of the antipsychotic drugs clozapine, olanzapine and haloperidol, on N-methyl-D-aspartic acid-induced responses in pyramidal cells of the rat medial prefrontal cortex. Rats were anesthetized and decapitated 24h after the conclusion of daily intraperitoneal injection with either clozapine (25mg/kg), olanzapine (1, 5 or 10mg/kg) or haloperidol (0.5mg/kg) for 21 days, and the slices from medial prefrontal cortex were used for electrophysiological recordings. The concentration-response curves for N-methyl-D-aspartic acid to activate cortical cells shifted markedly to the right in rats which received the subchronic antipsychotic drug treatment, compared with those obtained from rats which received repeated injections of vehicle (1ml/kg/day, i.p. for 21 days). In addition, repeated exposure to antipsychotic drugs caused a significant reduction in the ability of these antipsychotic drugs to augment the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid-induced inward current in pyramidal cells of the rat medial prefrontal cortex. Repeated administration of haloperidol, but not clozapine or olanzapine, significantly hyperpolarized the resting membrane potential and increased membrane resistance in pyramidal cells of the medial prefrontal cortex. Moreover, subchronic treatment with haloperidol, but not clozapine or olanzapine, depressed (+/-)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid-induced responses. The desensitized response of medial prefrontal cortex cells to N-methyl-D-aspartic acid could be the result of a compensatory response to the facilitating action of antipsychotic drugs on N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor-mediated transmission. The inhibitory action of haloperidol on (+/-)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid responses may also contribute to the rightward shift of the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid concentration-response curve.Thus, the present study suggests that the atypical antipsychotic drugs, clozapine and olanzapine, as well as the typical antipsychotic drug haloperidol strongly modulate glutamatergic transmission after prolonged treatment. This might be an important factor in the mechanisms by which these drugs alleviate symptoms in schizophrenic patients.
S100A1 and S100B are members of a multigenic family of Ca(2+)-binding proteins of the EF-hand type highly abundant in astrocyte and striated muscle cells that have been implicated in the Ca(2+)-dependent regulation of several intracellular activities including the assembly and disassembly of microtubules and type III intermediate filaments. In the present work we tested S100A1 and S100B for their ability to cause microtubule and/or intermediate filament disassembly in situ using triton-cytoskeletons obtained from U251 glioma cells and rat L6 myoblasts. Our results indicate that: (i) both proteins cause a Ca(2+)-dependent disassembly of cytoplasmic microtubules in a dose-dependent manner; (ii) the S100A1- and S100B-inhibitory peptide, TRTK-12, blocks the S100A1 and S100B effects on microtubules; (iii) S100A1Delta88-93, an S100A1 mutant lacking the C-terminal extension, does not affect microtubule stability; and (iv) no obvious S100A1- or S100B-dependent intermediate filament disassembly could be observed under the experimental conditions used in the present study, but S100A1- and S100B-dependent microtubule disassembly results in a tendency of vimentin intermediate filaments to aggregate into bundles and/or to condense. Together, these results suggest that S100A1 and S100B probably cause microtubule disassembly by interacting with the microtubule wall, and that the two proteins do not affect intermediate filament stability via interaction with preformed intermediate filaments, in agreement with previous biochemical investigation. Our present data lend support to the possibility that S100A1 and S100B might have a role in the in vivo regulation of the state of assembly of microtubules in a Ca(2+)-regulated manner and, potentially, on microtubule-based activities in astrocytes and myoblasts. Also, these data suggest that the both S100 proteins use their C-terminal extension for interacting with microtubules.
The ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor is critically involved in embryonic motor neuron development. Postnatally, it may contribute to neuronal maintenance and regeneration. In addition, pharmacological stimulation of the receptor may slow the progression of several neurodegenerative disorders. The widespread nervous system expression of ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor components and the effects of low ciliary neurotrophic factor concentrations on a wide variety of cells in culture combine to suggest that functional ciliary neurotrophic factor receptors are expressed by many classes of neurons in vivo. However, the in vivo signaling properties and distribution of functional ciliary neurotrophic factor receptors have not been directly determined. We developed a novel in vivo assay of functional ciliary neurotrophic factor receptors which revealed that, in the adult nervous system, cranial and spinal motor neurons are very sensitive to ciliary neurotrophic factor and display a rapid, robust increase in phospho-STAT3 in their dendrites, cell bodies and nuclei, which is specifically blocked by the ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor antagonist, AADH-CNTF. In distinct contrast, several other classes of ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor expressing neurons fail to increase phospho-STAT3 levels following ciliary neurotrophic factor treatment, even when ciliary neurotrophic factor is applied at high concentrations. Leukemia inhibitory factor and epidermal growth factor elicit the same cell-type-dependent pattern of phospho-STAT3 increases. Responsive and non-responsive neurons express comparable levels of STAT3.Therefore, in vivo ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor-initiated STAT3 signal transduction is regulated in a very cell-type-dependent manner. The present data suggest that at least some of this regulation occurs at the STAT3 tyrosine phosphorylation step. These unexpected results also suggest that other forms of receptor-initiated STAT3 signal transduction may be similarly regulated.
Several findings indicate that there is a close interaction between estrogen and insulin-like growth factor I in different brain regions. In adult brain, both estrogen and insulin-like growth factor I have co-ordinated effects in the regulation of neuroendocrine events, synaptic plasticity and neural response to injury. In this study we have qualitatively assessed whether estrogen receptors and insulin-like growth factor I receptor are colocalized in the same cells in the preoptic area, hypothalamus, hippocampus, cerebral cortex and cerebellum of female rat brain using confocal microscopy. Immunoreactivity for estrogen receptors alpha and beta was colocalized with immunoreactivity for insulin-like growth factor I receptor in many neurons from the preoptic area, hypothalamus, hippocampus and cerebral cortex. Furthermore, estrogen receptor beta and insulin-like growth factor I receptor immunoreactivities were colocalized in the Purkinje cells of the cerebellum. Colocalization of estrogen receptor beta and insulin-like growth factor I receptor was also detected in cells with the morphology of astrocytes in all regions assessed. The co-expression of estrogen receptors and insulin-like growth factor I receptor in the same neurons may allow a cross-coupling of their signaling pathways. Furthermore, the colocalization of immunoreactivity for estrogen receptor beta and insulin-like growth factor I receptor in glial cells suggests that glia may also play a role in the interactions of insulin-like growth factor I and estrogen in the rat brain. In conclusion, the co-expression of estrogen receptors and insulin-like growth factor I receptors in the same neural cells suggests that the co-ordinated actions of estrogen and insulin-like growth factor I in the brain may be integrated at the cellular level.
Apoptotic cell death has been implicated in Alzheimer's disease pathology and amyloid peptide induced neurotoxicity. We investigated the survival promoting effects of Propentofylline in two models of apoptotic cell death, nerve growth factor withdrawal and beta-amyloid mediated cell death in nerve growth factor differentiated rat pheochromocytoma cell lines. The increase in cell death as measured by lactate dehydrogenase release in response to nerve growth factor withdrawal was suppressed by nitric oxide donor S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (12.5 to 200 microM) and by 8-bromoguanosine-3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (1.25 to 10mM). Both agents decreased cell death mediated by 25 microM beta-amyloid, suggesting that the protective mechanism involves guanosine -3', 5'-cyclic monophosphate. In support of this hypothesis we can show that S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine increases intracellular levels of guanosine -3',5'-cyclic monophosphate in pheochromocytoma cell lines 3 to 8 fold.Propentofylline, a phosphodiesterase inhibitor, has previously demonstrated neuroprotective activity in stroke models and is a potential candidate for therapeutic treatment in neurodegenerative diseases. The present findings support this claim by providing evidence that Propentofylline has protective effects in both nerve growth factor withdrawal and beta-amyloid mediated cell death. Lactate dehydrogenase release was significantly reduced and caspase-3-like activity was attenuated after cotreatment with Propentofylline. Furthermore Propentofylline dose responsively increases intracellular guanosine-3',5'-cyclic monophosphate levels over the same dose range that provided protection. We hypothesized that guanosine-3',5'-cyclic monophosphate is a key mediator of neuroprotection under these conditions.
We studied N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced cell death in organotypic hippocampal slices from seven-day-old Wistar rat pups cultured for 12-14 days in a medium containing no added glutamate. Propidium iodide fluorescence intensity was used as an indicator of cell death measured with the help of confocal microscopy. Exposure of slices for 2h to L-glutamate (1-500 microM) prior to the N-methyl-D-aspartate challenge significantly reduced N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced cell death. Glutamate at 10 and 500 microM concentrations was highly protective against N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced cell death, but was less protective at the 1 microM concentration. The protection was not blocked by the Na(+) channel blocker tetrodotoxin (1 microM), the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (20 microM) or the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (20 microM). 1S, 3R-1-Aminocyclopentane-trans-1,3-dicarboxylic acid, an agonist at metabotropic glutamate receptor types 1, 2/3 and 5, was protective at 100 microM but not at 50 microM. In contrast, the ionotropic glutamate receptor agonist aspartate (250 microM) facilitated N-methyl-D-aspartate toxicity. Treatment of slices with the protein kinase C inhibitor staurosporine (0.2 microM) or antisense oligonucleotide (10nM, 72 h) that selectively inhibits metabotropic glutamate receptor type 5 synthesis significantly reduced glutamate protection. These results suggest that ambient glutamate may reduce nerve cell susceptibility to injury caused by excessive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation by acting at metabotropic glutamate receptors linked to protein kinase C.
Cerebral histamine H(1) receptor binding was measured in vivo in 11 normal subjects (six young and five old) and 10 patients with Alzheimer's disease by positron emission tomography and [11C]doxepin, a radioligand for H(1) receptors. The parametric images describing the tracer kinetics were generated by either compartmental or graphical analysis, and were examined statistically on region-of-interest and voxel-by-voxel bases. The binding potential of H(1) receptors showed a significant decrease particularly in the frontal and temporal areas of the Alzheimer's disease brain compared to the old, normal subjects. In addition, the receptor binding correlated closely to the severity of Alzheimer's disease assessed by the Mini-Mental State Examination score within several brain areas. The ratio of K1 values between the brain areas and the cerebellum was used as a relative measure of regional cerebral blood flow which decreased in the frontal and temporal areas of the Alzheimer's disease brain. However, the difference in the binding potential (total concentration of receptor/equilibrium dissociation constant) between the Alzheimer's disease patients and the old, normal subjects was greater than that in the cerebral blood flow, and the rate of decrease in the binding potential with the progression of Alzheimer's disease was greater than the rate of decrease in the cerebral blood flow. This study reveals the predominant disruption of the histaminergic neurotransmission in the neurodegenerative processes of Alzheimer's disease. This study suggests that the decline of the histamine receptor binding might play a substantial role in the cognitive deficits of Alzheimer's disease patients.
The caudal hypothalamus is an important CNS site controlling cardiorespiratory integration during systemic hypoxia. Previous findings from this laboratory have identified caudal hypothalamic neurons of anesthetized rats that are stimulated during hypoxia. In addition, patch-clamp recordings in an in vitro brain slice preparation have revealed that there is an age-dependent response to hypoxia in caudal hypothalamic neurons. The present study utilized the expression of the transcription factor Fos as an indicator of neuronal depolarization to determine the hypoxic response of caudal hypothalamic neurons throughout postnatal development in conscious rats. Sprague-Dawley rats, aged three to 56 days, were placed in a normobaric chamber circulated with either 10% oxygen or room air for 3h. Following the hypoxic/normoxic exposure period, tissues from the caudal hypothalamus, periaqueductal gray, rostral ventrolateral medulla and nucleus tractus solitarius were processed immunocytochemically for the presence of the Fos protein. There was a significant increase in the density of neurons expressing Fos in the caudal hypothalamus of hypoxic compared to normoxic adult rats that was maintained in the absence of peripheral chemoreceptors. In contrast, no increase in the density of Fos-expressing caudal hypothalamic neurons was observed during hypoxia in rats less than 12 days old. Increases in Fos expression were also observed in an age-dependent manner in the periaqueductal gray, rostral ventrolateral medulla and nucleus tractus solitarius. These results show an increase in Fos expression in caudal hypothalamic neurons during hypoxia in conscious rats throughout development, supporting the earlier in vitro reports suggesting that these neurons are stimulated by hypoxia.
Motor recovery after unilateral sensorimotor cortex ablation or sham-injury was measured in apolipoprotein E knockout and wild-type mice by testing their abilities to traverse a narrow beam. All mice trained without difficulty. Sham-operated mice performed perfectly regardless of genotype throughout testing. There was no difference in motor scores between lesioned apolipoprotein E knockout and wild-type mice on a first trial 24h after injury (P&gt;0.05). There was a significant overall effect of lesion on motor performance (two-way repeated measures analysis of variance F(1,42)=304, P&lt;0.0001), a significant time effect (F(17,714)=58, P&lt;0.0001) and a lesion by time interaction (F(17,714)=58, P&lt;0.0001). However, there was no effect of apolipoprotein E genotype group on recovery rate (i.e. there was no lesion group by genotype group by time interaction, F(17,714)=0.33, P=1.00) and no effect of genotype on the final level of motor performance 12 days after the lesion (Kruskal-Wallis H=5.79, P=0.12). These data suggest that motor recovery after unilateral injury to the sensorimotor cortex does not vary with apolipoprotein E genotype.
The anatomic distribution of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors was investigated in the squirrel monkey brain using quantitative autoradiography with [125I]MK-801 as the radioligand. A heterogeneous distribution of [125I]MK-801 binding sites was observed, with the most intense expression in the outer cortex, hippocampus, olfactory tubercle, caudate and putamen. High levels were also observed in the thalamus, nucleus accumbens and inner cortex, with moderate levels in the claustrum. Relatively low expression levels were detected in the subthalamic nucleus with no apparent binding in the globus pallidus and the substantia nigra. Characterization of striatal [125I]MK-801 binding yielded a B(max) of 63.5 fmol/mg tissue and K(d) of 0.53 nM in the caudate, with similar values for the putamen. Experiments were subsequently performed to compare striatal [125I]MK-801 binding in the following four experimental groups: (i) control animals injected with saline; (ii) monkeys treated with levodopa; (iii) animals rendered parkinsonian after exposure to the neurotoxicant 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1, 2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine; and (iv) dyskinetic monkeys treated with both 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine and levodopa. No changes were observed in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3, 6-tetrahydropyridine-lesioned animals compared with the saline control group. However, administration of levodopa to either unlesioned or 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated monkeys resulted in a significant decrease in [125I]MK-801 binding in both the caudate and putamen. The data indicate that levodopa exerts a modulatory effect on the striatal glutamatergic system and suggest that a down-regulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors by levodopa, combined with a deficiency in nigrostriatal dopamine function, may play a role in the development of levodopa induced dyskinesias.
Adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) can function as a fast synaptic transmitter through its actions on ionotropic (P2X) and metabotropic (P2Y) receptors in neuronal tissue. The ionotropic receptors have been classified into seven subtypes (P2X(1)-P2X(7)) by molecular cloning. However, they are difficult to distinguish pharmacologically owing to an absence of specific agonists and antagonists. In this study we used neuroanatomical methods to determine the origin and neurochemical phenotype of the P2X(2) subtype of purinoceptor in the dorsal medulla of the rat. Using immunohistochemistry we observed dense networks of P2X(2) receptor immunoreactive labelled fibres and terminals in the dorsal vagal complex and area postrema, as well as labelled cell bodies in the dorsal vagal nucleus and the area postrema. The P2X(2) receptor was localized presynaptically in vagal afferent fibres and terminals in the nucleus tractus solitarius at the ultrastructural level by combining injections of an anterograde tracer (biotin dextran amine) into the nodose ganglion with pre-embedding immunogold visualization of P2X(2) immunoreactivity. Terminals immunoreactive for the P2X(2) receptor in the nucleus tractus solitarius were found to contain glutamate, but not GABA immunoreactivity by post-embedding immunogold-labelling techniques. In cell bodies in the area postrema, dual immunofluorescence also indicated that P2X(2) receptor immunoreactive cells are glutamatergic but not GABAergic. The P2X(2) receptor was localized to vagal preganglionic neurons in the dorsal vagal nucleus that were identified by prior intraperitoneal injections of the retrograde tracer FluoroGold. No cells immunoreactive for the P2X(2) receptor were observed in the nucleus tractus solitarius. The localization of P2X(2) receptor immunoreactivity presynaptically in vagal afferent terminals indicates that the receptor may be involved in modulating transmitter release from vagal afferent fibres. Furthermore, the presence of the P2X(2) receptor in vagal preganglionic cells and in glutamatergic cells of the area postrema implies that it may, respectively, play a role in regulation of vagal efferent cell activity and modulation of excitatory outputs from the area postrema to other brain regions.
Anatomical and electrophysiological evidence has contributed to the hypothesis that microzones in the mammalian flocculus are organized to reflect control of eye movements in the planes of semicircular canals. Adult male Long-Evans rats received iontophoretic injections of FluoroGold and/or tetramethylrhodamine dextran amine (10,000 molecular weight, &quot;FluoroRuby&quot;) into the vestibular nuclei. The distribution of retrogradely labeled Purkinje cells revealed that efferent projections from the dorsal surface of the flocculus and the ventral paraflocculus to the superior vestibular nucleus, rostral medial vestibular nucleus, ventral lateral vestibular nucleus, and caudal aspect of the vestibular nuclear complex (caudal medial vestibular nucleus, inferior vestibular nucleus and nucleus prepositus hypoglossi) tended to correspond to previously identified climbing fiber zones [Ruigrok et al. (1992) J. comp. Neurol. 316, 129-150] in a manner consistent with other mammals. However, vestibular nucleus projections from the ventral surface of the flocculus did not appear to respect climbing fiber zonal boundaries. Rather, climbing fiber zones each contained interdigitated groups of Purkinje cells that project to different vestibular nuclear regions. It is suggested that this pattern of flocculus efferent organization is a specialization for controlling the activity of primary and accessory extraocular muscle pairs to confine vestibulo-ocular reflexes within semicircular canal planes when the &quot;center of regard&quot; is located at different eccentricities.
Cannabinoid compounds have been reported to excite ventral tegmental neurons through activation of cannabinoid CB1 receptors. More recently, biochemical and whole-cell voltage-clamp studies carried out on CB1-transfected AtT20 cells have shown a rapid desensitization of these receptors following activation of protein kinase C by 4-alpha-phorbol. To investigate the possible physiological correlates of this phenomenon, we have studied the effects of repeated cannabinoid treatment on ventral tegmental area dopaminergic neuronal firing in vitro. Rat brain slices containing the ventral tegmental area were used for single-unit extracellular recordings. Only neurons meeting established electrophysiological and pharmacological criteria for dopaminergic neurons were used in the study (firing neurons were detected either using tungsten or glass microelectrodes). The high-affinity cannabinoid agonist HU210 produced a concentration-dependent increase in firing (1-15 microM; EC(50) approximately 7 microM). Initial HU210 exposure produced a significant increase in cell firing rate in the ventral tegmental area, with a maximum approximately 3.5-fold increase over pre-drug basal firing; a subsequent exposure to HU210 produced an approximately threefold increase over basal firing. Nevertheless, the duration and onset of excitation produced by the cannabinoid differed significantly between the first and second exposures; the first excitation lasted significantly longer than the second and required less time to reach a comparable change in firing rate. The increases in firing rate and the time to return to basal firing were not significantly different between exposures. Furthermore, the cannabinoid antagonist SR141716A completely prevented the HU210-induced excitation whilst having no effect on its own, thus indicating a CB1-receptor mediated mechanism for the observed increase in firing. Ventral tegmental area neurons are also excited by the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline. To assess the role of GABA in cannabinoid-mediated excitation, HU210 was added in the presence of bicuculline. HU210 did not affect the initial bicuculline-induced increase in firing, suggesting different sites of action for the two compounds. Our data fail to support previously reported findings using repeated cannabinoid administration and cell preparations. The maintained increase in DA drive elicited by the potent cannabinoid agonist HU210 in the in vitro ventral tegmental circuit could explain some of the behavioural properties of cannabinoids, such as the lack of tolerance for the psychotropic effects of marijuana seen in human users.
Using a canine model of narcolepsy and selective DA and NE uptake inhibitors, we have recently shown that DA uptake inhibition promotes wakefulness, while NE uptake inhibition inhibits rapid eye movement sleep and cataplexy. In order to further delineate the respective roles of the dopaminergic and noradrenergic systems in the pharmacological control of symptoms of narcolepsy, we compared the potency of amphetamine isomers (D- and L-amphetamines) and a derivative (L-methamphetamine) on wakefulness and cataplexy. Their respective effects on these narcolepsy symptoms were then compared with their in vivo effects on extracellular DA levels in the caudate and NE levels in the frontal cortex during local drug perfusion in narcoleptic dogs. Polygraphic recordings demonstrated that D-amphetamine was about twice as potent as L-amphetamine, and was six times more potent than L-methamphetamine in increasing wakefulness and reducing slow-wave sleep. D-Amphetamine and L-amphetamine were equipotent in reducing rapid eye movement sleep and cataplexy, and L-methamphetamine was about half as potent as L- and D-amphetamines. D-Amphetamine was found to be more potent in increasing DA efflux than L-amphetamine, and L-methamphetamine was found to have little effect on DA efflux; there was no significant difference in the potencies of the three derivatives on NE efflux. The potencies of these amphetamines on wakefulness correlated well with DA, but not NE, efflux in the brain of narcoleptic dogs during local drug perfusion. Our current results further exemplify the importance of the DA system for the pharmacological control of electroencephalogram arousal and suggest that increased DA transmission mediates the wake-promoting effects of amphetamine-like stimulants.
Recent pathophysiological models of basal ganglia function in Parkinson's disease predict that specific neurochemical changes in the indirect pathway would follow the lack of stimulation of D(2) dopamine receptors. Post mortem studies of the basal ganglia in genetically modified mice lacking functional copies of the D(2) dopamine receptor gene allowed us to test these predictions. When compared with their congenic N(5) wild-type siblings, mice lacking D(2) receptors show an increased expression of enkephalin messenger RNA in the striatum, and an increased activity and expression of cytochrome oxidase I in the subthalamic nucleus, as expected. In addition, D(2) receptor-deficient mice display a reduced expression of glutamate decarboxylase-67 messenger RNA in the globus pallidus, as the basal ganglia model predicts. This reduction contrasts with the lack of change or increase in glutamate decarboxylase-67 messenger RNA expression found in animals depleted of dopamine after lesions of the mesostriatal dopaminergic system. Furthermore, D(2) receptor-deficient mice show a significant decrease in substance P messenger RNA expression in the striatonigral neurons which form the direct pathway. Finally, glutamate decarboxylase-67 messenger RNA expression in the basal ganglia output nuclei was not affected by mutations in the D(2) receptor gene, a fact that could probably be related to the absence of a parkinsonian locomotor phenotype in D(2) receptor-deficient mice. In summary, these findings provide compelling evidence demonstrating that the lack of endogenous stimulation of D(2) receptors is sufficient to produce subthalamic nucleus hyperactivity, as assessed by cytochrome oxidase I histochemistry and messenger RNA expression, and strongly suggest the existence of interactions between the basal ganglia direct and indirect pathways.
Pre-embedding electron microscopic immunocytochemistry was used to examine the ultrastructure of neurons containing nitric oxide synthase and to evaluate their synaptic relationships with target neurons in the striatum and sensorimotor cerebral cortex. Intense nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity was found by light and electron microscopy in a type of aspiny neuron scattered in these two regions. The intensity of the labeling was uniform in the soma, dendrites and axon terminals of these neurons. In both forebrain regions, nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive neurons received synaptic contacts from unlabeled terminals, which were mostly apposed to small-caliber dendrites. The unlabeled symmetric contacts were generally about four times as abundant as the unlabeled asymmetric contacts on the nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive neurons. Terminals labeled for nitric oxide synthase were filled with synaptic vesicles and were observed to contact unlabeled neurons. Only 54% (in the cerebral cortex) and 44.3% (in the striatum) of the nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive terminals making apposition with the target structures were observed to form synaptic membrane specializations within the plane of the randomly sampled sections. The most common targets of nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive terminals were thin dendritic shafts (54% of the immunoreactive terminals in the cortex and 75.7% of the immunoreactive terminals in the striatum), while dendritic spines were a common secondary target (42% of the immunoreactive terminals in the cortex and 20.6% of the immunoreactive terminals in the striatum). The spines contacted by nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive terminals typically also received an asymmetric synaptic contact from an unlabeled axon terminal. These findings suggest that: (i) nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive neurons in the cortex and striatum preponderantly receive inhibitory input; (ii) nitric oxide synthase-containing terminals commonly make synaptic contact with target structures in the cortex and striatum; (iii) spines targeted by nitric oxide synthase-containing terminals in the cortex and striatum commonly receive an asymmetric contact as well, which may provide a basis for a synaptic interaction of nitric oxide with excitatory input to individual spines.
The central nucleus of the amygdala is involved in the modulation of autonomic, somatic and endocrine functions, as well as behavioural responses to stressful stimuli. Anatomical and physiological studies have suggested that this nucleus sends projections to the nucleus of the solitary tract, the primary site of termination of vagal and glossopharyngeal afferent fibres in the brain stem. To determine the neurochemical nature of the amygdaloid input to the nucleus of the solitary tract, anterograde tracing with biotinylated dextran amine was combined with post-embedding immunogold labelling for GABA and glutamate immunoreactivities and with pre-embedding labelling for the vesicular GABA transporter. Following injection of biotin dextran amine into the central nucleus of the amygdala, anterogradely labelled axons and varicosities were found throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the nucleus of the solitary tract, particularly in the medial, ventral and ventrolateral subnuclei. The anterogradely labelled terminals were found to make predominantly symmetrical synaptic contacts with dendrites, and occasionally onto cell bodies and dendritic spines, and to contain immunoreactivity for GABA and for the vesicular GABA transporter. Immunolabelling of serial sections with antibodies to glutamate showed that none of these axon terminals contained high enough densities of gold particle labelling to suggest that they contained other than low metabolic levels of glutamate immunoreactivity. These results provide conclusive evidence for a GABAergic pathway from the central nucleus of the amygdala to the nucleus of the solitary tract. This GABAergic projection may provide a substrate for inhibition of lower brain stem visceral reflexes, including baroreflex inhibition, through which the central nucleus of the amygdala could participate in cardiovascular regulation related to emotional behaviour and the defence reaction.
Estrogen modulates the morphology and physiology of the rat hippocampus and enhances cognitive function. While estrogen receptor (alpha and beta) messenger RNAs have been detected in the hippocampus, the presence of functional protein remains uncertain. The present study used a new radiolabeled estrogen, [125I]estrogen, and in vivo autoradiography to address this question. Nuclear uptake and retention of [125I]estrogen was detected in the pyramidal cells of CA1-CA3, with the majority of cells in the ventral horn of CA2 and CA3 being labeled. Additional labeled cells were scattered throughout the strata oriens and radiatum and the hilus of the dentate gyrus. Since the number and distribution of labeled cells in the hippocampus was more than expected, in situ hybridization was used to assess the localization of estrogen receptor (alpha and beta) messenger RNAs in this brain region. The results revealed that both estrogen receptors are expressed in regions where [125I]estrogen binding was seen, although the intensity of estrogen receptor-alpha hybridization signal appears to be stronger when compared with estrogen receptor-beta.The results of these studies have demonstrated the presence of estrogen receptors in rat hippocampus and shown that the distribution of binding sites was much greater than expected, particularly in the pyramidal cells of the ventral hippocampus. These observations challenge our current thinking about steroid hormones and their mechanism(s) of action in a region associated with learning and memory and affected by the neurodegenerative conditions of aging.
Excitatory and inhibitory pathways have specific patterns of innervation along the somato-dendritic axis of neurons. We have investigated whether this morphological diversity was associated with variations in the frequencies of spontaneous and miniature GABAergic and glutamatergic synaptic currents along the somato-dendritic axis of rat hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. Using in vitro whole cell recordings from somata, apical dendrites and basal dendrites (for which we provide the first recordings) of CA1 pyramidal neurons, we report that over 90% of the spontaneous currents were GABAergic, &lt;10% being glutamatergic. The frequency of spontaneous GABAergic currents was comparable in the soma and in the dendrites. In both somata and dendrites, the Na(+) channel blocker tetrodotoxin abolished more than 80% of the spontaneous glutamatergic currents. In contrast, tetrodotoxin abolished most dendritic (&gt;90%) but not somatic (&lt;40%) spontaneous GABAergic currents. Computer simulations suggest that in our experimental conditions, events below 40pA are electrotonically filtered to such a degree that they are lost in the recording noise. We conclude that, in vitro, inhibition is massively predominant over excitation and quantitatively evenly distributed throughout the cell. However, inhibition appears to be mainly activity-dependent in the dendrites whereas it can occur in the absence of interneuron firing in the soma. These results can be used as a benchmark to compare values obtained in pathological tissue, such as epilepsies, where changes in the balance between excitation and inhibition would dramatically alter cell behaviour.
Heme oxygenase (HO) cleaves the heme ring to form biliverdin, which is rapidly reduced to bilirubin, carbon monoxide, and iron. HO1, the first form of the enzyme discovered, is an inducible protein, concentrated in tissues that are exposed to degrading red blood cells and stimulated by hemolysis and numerous other toxic perturbations to eliminate potentially toxic heme. By contrast, HO2 is constitutive and most highly concentrated in neural tissues. Carbon monoxide, formed from HO2, is a putative neurotransmitter in the brain and peripheral autonomic nervous system. HO1 regulates the efflux of potentially toxic iron from cells, as iron efflux is deficient in mice with targeted deletion of HO1 (HO1(-/-)), and transfection of HO1 facilitates iron efflux. Bilirubin appears to be a physiologic neuroprotectant. Activation of HO2 by phorbol esters, that stimulate protein kinase C to phosphorylate HO2, augments production of bilirubin which protects brain cultures from oxidative stress. Bilirubin itself in nanomolar concentrations is neuroprotective, while HO2 deletion (HO2(-/-)) leads to increased neurotoxicity in brain cultures and increased neural damage following transient cerebral ischemia in intact mice. Mechanisms whereby HO2 provides neuroprotection have not been clarified including whether protection is primarily associated with apoptotic or necrotic cell death. Moreover, the generality of neurotoxic stimuli influenced by HO2 has been unclear. We now demonstrate increased neuronal death in cerebellar granule cultures of HO2(-/-) mice with a selective augmentation of apoptotic death. We also demonstrate that HO2 transfection rescues apoptotic death. In intact mice, we show an increased incidence of apoptotic morphology in the penumbra area surrounding the infarct core in HO2(-/-) mice undergoing transient focal ischemia.
Biophysical properties of A-type K(+) currents (I(A)) in myenteric neurons from guinea-pig small intestine were studied. I(A) was present in both AH- and S-type myenteric neurons. Reduction of external Ca(2+) did not affect the current. Current density was 13.5+/-10.2 pA/pF in 68 AH-type neurons and 23.4+/-8.2 pA/pF in 31 S-type neurons. S-type neurons appeared to be a homogeneous group based on density of I(A). AH-type neurons were subdivided into two groups with current densities of 9.4+/-4.3 and 25.4+/-4.3 pA/pF. All other biophysical properties of the current were not statistically different for AH- and S-type neurons. Steady-state activation and inactivation curves showed half-activation potentials at -7 mV (k=15. 0 mV) and -86 mV (k=11.5 mV). The curves overlapped at potentials near the resting potential of approximately -55 mV. Time constants for activation ranged from 3.6 to 0.52 ms at test potentials between -20 and 50 mV. Inactivation time constants fell between 41.5 and 11 ms at test potentials between -20 and 50 mV. Time constants for recovery from inactivation fit a double-exponential curve with fast and slow recovery times of 11 and 550 ms. 4-Aminopyridine suppressed I(A) when it was activated at -20 mV following a pre-pulse to -110 mV. Addition of Zn(2+) in the external solution resulted in a concentration-dependent shift of the activation and inactivation curves in the depolarized direction. Zn(2+) slowed the activation and inactivation kinetics of I(A) by factors of 3.3- and 1.2-fold over a wide range of potentials. Elevation of external H(+) suppressed the effect of Zn(2+) with a pK of 7.3-7.4. The effects of Zn(2+) were interpreted as not being due to surface charge screening, because the affinity of Zn(2+) for its binding site on the A-channel was estimated to be between 170 and 312 microM, while the background concentration of Mg(2+) was 10 mM. The enteric nervous system is perceived as an independent integrative nervous system (brain-in-the-gut) that is responsible for local organizational control of motility and secretory patterns of gut behavior. AH- and S-type neurons are synaptically interconnected to form the microcircuits of the enteric nervous system. The results suggest that I(A) is a significant determinant of neuronal excitability for both the firing of nerve impulses and the various synaptic events in the two types of neurons.
The influence of preweaning maternal separation and postweaning social isolation on the development of reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-diaphorase-reactive neurons in prefrontal cortical areas, in subdivisions of the nucleus accumbens and in the corpus callosum was quantitatively investigated in the precocious rodent Octodon degus. Forty-five-day-old degus from three animal groups were compared: (i) degus that were reared under normal undisturbed social conditions; (ii) degus that were repeatedly separated from their mothers during the first three postnatal weeks and thereafter reared with their family; and (iii) degus that remained undisturbed with the family until weaning (postnatal day 21) and thereafter were reared in social isolation. Preweaning maternal separation led to a significant decrease in NADPH-diaphorase-containing neurons in the corpus callosum in both genders (down to 33%) compared with the social control group. No significant changes were found in the subregions of the medial prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens. Postweaning social isolation led to a reduced density of NADPH-diaphorase-containing neurons in the corpus callosum in both genders (down to 52%) compared with the social control group. Furthermore, in the precentral medial cortex of female pups, a significant reduction in NADPH-diaphorase-reactive neurons (down to 72%) was detectable. All other regions of the medial prefrontal cortex and the nucleus accumbens remained unchanged. The observed deprivation-induced changes may reflect either an excessive reduction in NADPH-diaphorase-positive neurons or a down-regulation of the enzyme in neurons that normally express it.Our results indicate a link between early adverse socio-emotional experience and the maturation of NADPH-reactive neurons. Further studies are required to analyse the functional implications of this experience-induced brain pathology.
Mechanisms regulating the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, a member of the neurotrophin family, have been extensively studied in the rat cerebral cortex, hippocampus and cerebellum. In contrast, little is known regarding the regulation of this growth factor in the hypothalamus. Here we present an analysis of the regulation of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA levels in chick embryo hypothalamic slice cultures following exposure to potassium chloride, glutamate agonists and sex steroids. Following a week in chemically-defined media the tissue was depolarized by exposure to 50 mM potassium chloride for 6h, resulting in a significant 4.2-fold increase in the level of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA. This result is consistent with studies of other brain regions. Similar 6-h acute exposures of the hypothalamic cultures to 25 microM N-methyl-D-aspartic acid, 25 microM kainic acid and 25 microM alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionic acid also significantly increased messenger RNA levels 2.5-, 2.1- and 1.4-fold, respectively. It was previously reported that brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels within the rat cerebral cortex, olfactory bulb and hippocampus are altered by exposure to 17beta-estradiol. Here we show that in hypothalamic slice cultures neither acute nor chronic treatments with 10 and 100 nM 17beta-estradiol and 10nM testosterone significantly altered the steady-state level of this growth factor. These findings show that neuronal activity, induced by glutamate agonists and potassium chloride, can regulate brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA levels within embryonic hypothalamic slice cultures. This regulation could play a critical role in the modulation of programmed cell death and synaptic maturation during development of the hypothalamus.
Our in vivo experiments were aimed at studying afferent links of the preoptic/anterior hypothalamus system, which integrates thermal and osmotic homeostasis. Special attention was paid to using stimulation intensities within the normal physiological range. The experiments were carried out on adult cats anesthetized with ketamine (25mg/kg) and inhalation of nitrous oxide (75 vol.%). Short-term shifts in the osmotic pressure within the cerebral vasculature were induced by infusions of 200-500 microl 3.0% or 0.2% NaCl solutions into the homolateral a. carotis (hyper- and hypoosmotic stimulations, respectively). Thermal stimulation was provided by local heating or cooling of the contralateral forelimb pad skin (+/-7.0 degrees C range). Reactions of preoptic/anterior hypothalamus neurons were classified into four types: monophasic activation, monophasic inhibition, and biphasic responses including excitation followed by inhibition or primary inhibition followed by activation. Monophasic activation was a very common occurrence among preoptic/anterior hypothalamus neuronal reactions. The responsiveness of thermosensitive preoptic/anterior hypothalamus neurons to hyperosmotic stimulation turned to be noticeably higher than that to hypoosmotic stimulation. Practically equal proportions of warm- and cold-sensitive neurons demonstrated changes in the firing activity resulting from intracarotid infusions of 3.0% NaCl solution. Infusions of 0.2% NaCl solution induced firing rate modifications in 26% (12/46) of warm-sensitive and in 32% (18/39) of cold-sensitive neurons. Cold-sensitive neurons displayed a higher sensitivity to a short-term osmotic pressure elevation in the cerebral vasculature (63%, 33/52) than warm-sensitive neurons did (43%, 22/52, P&lt;0.05). In our study, a maximum similarity in the response types was observed when hyperosmotic infusion and skin cooling were applied, while a maximum disagreement was found when hyperosmotic stimulations were combined with skin heating. There is no doubt that preoptic/anterior hypothalamus neurons play a crucial role in the maintenance of body temperature. Several studies have also shown that osmoregulation can be affected by shifts in peripheral and hypthalmic temperatures. Information on the neurol mechanisms of interactions between the thermo- and osmoregulatory circuits in the hypothalamus remains limited. We discuss the obtained data considering the &quot;set-point theory&quot; of thermal hameostasis maintenance.
The present study was designed to examine peripheral, in particular noxious visceral, inputs to neurons in the hypothalamus that project to the midbrain periaqueductal gray. The induction of Fos protein was used to localize hypothalamic neurons that were activated by noxious visceral stimulation. This was combined with retrograde transport of fluorescent latex microspheres from identified &quot;pressor&quot; and &quot;depressor&quot; sites in the dorsolateral/lateral or ventrolateral columns of the periaqueductal gray. A second series of electrophysiological experiments examined the receptive field characteristics, including the incidence of viscerosomatic convergence, of neurons in the ventral part of the anterior hypothalamus. Noxious visceral stimulation (intraperitoneal acetic acid) induced Fos-like immunoreactivity in significantly more neurons in the hypothalamus than control stimuli (intraperitoneal saline and intravenous phenylephrine). Particularly high numbers of Fos-positive neurons were found in the paraventricular nucleus, the supraoptic nucleus and ventral regions of the anterior hypothalamus. When combined with retrograde tracing from &quot;depressor&quot; sites in the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray, the highest numbers of double-labelled neurons were localized in the paraventricular nucleus and the lateral area of the anterior hypothalamus. However, the regions that contained the greatest proportions of Fos-positive neurons that projected to &quot;depressor&quot; sites in the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray were the lateral area of the anterior hypothalamus and its rostral extension, the lateral preoptic area. Fewer double-labelled neurons were localized in the hypothalamus after retrograde transport from sites in the dorsolateral/lateral periaqueductal gray compared to the results obtained from injections of tracer in the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray. Furthermore, the numbers of Fos-positive hypothalamic neurons that projected to the dorsolateral/lateral periaqueductal gray were very similar in experimental and control animals. The electrophysiological study confirmed that a large proportion of neurons in and around the lateral area of the anterior hypothalamus can be driven by noxious visceral stimulation and demonstrated a high incidence of viscerosomatic convergence in these cells (66% of cells driven from somatic structures were also driven by electrical stimulation of the splanchnic nerve). Somatic receptive fields of these neurons were generally large, often including all four limbs and the face. The results of the functional anatomical and electrophysiological studies have identified neurons in an area of the ventral anterior hypothalamus that are a focus of nociceptive visceral input and which project to the midbrain periaqueductal gray, in particular to its ventrolateral column. These results are discussed in relation to the roles of the anterior hypothalamus and the different longitudinal columns of the periaqueductal gray in co-ordinating autonomic and sensory functions in response to visceral pain.
Neurogenesis continues throughout adult life in the mammalian olfactory epithelium. This process is a dynamic state of proliferation, differentiation and cell death, probably regulated by autocrine and paracrine signals such as peptide growth factors. Previous investigations have demonstrated roles for some growth factors in olfactory neurogenesis in vitro, but the assay systems used make it difficult to be certain of their effects (proliferation, differentiation, enhanced survival) or their target cells. The present study investigated the effects of growth factors in cultures of purified olfactory epithelium comprising only basal cells and supporting cells in serum-free media. The advantage of this culture system is that proliferation, differentiation and survival of the basal cells and neurons can be examined separately. Under these conditions, three growth factors exerted well-defined effects: (i) fibroblast growth factor-2 stimulated proliferation of the globose basal cells; (ii) transforming growth factor-beta2 induced these cells to differentiate into neurons; and (iii) platelet-derived growth factor promoted survival of the differentiated neurons. We conclude that fibroblast growth factor-2, transforming growth factor-beta2 and platelet-derived growth factor act sequentially on precursor cells and immature neurons during neurogenesis in the adult olfactory epithelium.
Evidence indicates that both necrotic and apoptotic cell death contribute to tissue injury and neurological dysfunction following spinal cord injury. Caspases have been implicated as important mediators of apoptosis following acute central nervous system insults. We investigated whether caspase-1 and caspase-3 are involved in spinal cord injury-mediated cell death, and whether caspase inhibition may reduce tissue damage and improve outcome following spinal cord injury. We demonstrate a 17-fold increase in caspase-1 activity in traumatized spinal cord samples when compared with samples from sham-operated mice. Caspase-1 and caspase-3 activation were also detected by western blot following spinal cord injury, which was significantly inhibited by the broad caspase inhibitor N-benzyloxycarbonyl-Val-Ala-Asp-fluoromethylketone. By immunofluorescence or in situ fluorogenic substrate assay, caspase-1 and caspase-3 expression were detected in neuronal and non-neuronal cells following spinal cord injury. N-Benzyloxycarbonyl-Val-Ala-Asp-fluoromethylketone treated mice, and transgenic mice expressing a caspase-1 dominant negative mutant, demonstrated a significant improvement of motor function and a reduction of lesion size compared with vehicle-treated mice. Our results demonstrate for the first time that both caspase-1 and caspase-3 are activated in neurons following spinal cord injury, and that caspase inhibition reduces post-traumatic lesion size and improves motor performance. Caspase inhibitors may be one of the agents to be used for the treatment of spinal cord injury.
Stimulation of delta-opioid receptors has been shown to activate phospholipase C via the activation of G-proteins in vitro. The present study was designed to determine, with the tail-flick method, whether the stimulatory effect of delta-opioid receptor agonists on phospholipase C and inositol lipid turnover participates in the mechanisms of the delta-opioid receptor-mediated antinociception in the mouse spinal cord. Intrathecal pretreatment with the phospholipase C inhibitors neomycin and U73122, which produced no changes in the basal tail-flick latencies when they were injected alone, significantly attenuated the antinociception induced by intrathecal administration of the selective delta-opioid receptor agonist [D-Ala(2)]deltorphin II in mice. The selective phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C inhibitor ET-18-OCH(3) inhibited the antinociception induced by intrathecal administration of [D-Ala(2)]deltorphin II in a dose-dependent manner. In mice undergoing treatment with LiCl, which impairs phosphatidylinositol synthesis, the antinociception induced by intrathecal administration of [D-Ala(2)]deltorphin II was significantly reduced. Co-administration of D-myo-inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate restored the [D-Ala(2)]deltorphin II-induced antinociception in LiCl-pretreated mice. On the other hand, intrathecal pretreatment with the selective protein kinase C inhibitor calphostin C, but not the protein kinase A inhibitor KT5720, resulted in a dose-dependent enhancement of the [D-Ala(2)]deltorphin II-induced antinociception. These results indicate a potential role for the phospholipase C-inositol-1,4, 5-trisphosphate pathway in the expression of delta-opioid receptor-mediated antinociception in the mouse spinal cord. Furthermore, activation of protein kinase C by the stimulation of delta-opioid receptors may constitute a significant pathway involved in negative modulation of spinal delta-opioid receptor-mediated antinociception.
The beta-amyloid protein deposited in senile plaques and cerebral blood vessels in the Alzheimer's disease brain is derived from the larger transmembrane spanning amyloid precursor protein. The present study investigates the effects of heat shock on the expression and processing of amyloid precursor protein in a normal human fetal astrocytic cell line CC2565 using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, in situ hybridization histochemistry and western blot analysis. Heat shock led to an increase in the messenger RNA encoding Kunitz protease inhibitor isoforms of amyloid precursor protein, which peaked at 4h post-heat shock. This increase was confined to the messenger RNA encoding amyloid precursor protein-751, with a decrease in amyloid precursor protein-770 and no change in amyloid precursor protein-695. This shift in splicing was accompanied by a significant decrease in secreted amyloid precursor protein and an increase in beta-secretase processing within the cell. These findings demonstrate that astrocytes in vitro demonstrate a striking response to heat shock. This is unlikely to be due to a direct action on the promoter region of the gene, since the response is specific for one splice variant; amyloid precursor protein-751 messenger RNA. This increase in expression is further accompanied by a decrease in secretion of amyloid precursor protein, implying a shift in processing towards an intracellular route, possibly via the actions of the beta-secretase enzyme, which is known to be potentially amyloidogenic. Such a mechanism may contribute to amyloidosis in the intact brain in response to cellular stress, such as head injury.
The modulation of tau phosphorylation and localization in response to insulin-like growth factor-1 or insulin was examined in primary cultures of rat cortical neurons. Insulin and insulin-like growth factor-1 treatment resulted in a rapid and transient increase in tau phosphorylation at specific epitopes. These effects were completely inhibited by lithium, revealing that the insulin and insulin-like growth factor-1 induced changes in tau phosphorylation were mediated by glycogen synthase kinase-3beta. In addition, the increase in tau phosphorylation directly correlated with a transient dissociation of tau from the cytoskeleton, indicating that insulin and insulin-like growth factor-1 treatment resulted in a change in tau localization. Using immunocytochemistry, it was also demonstrated that treatment of neurons with insulin-like growth factor-1 for 3 min resulted in a redistribution of tau to the growth cone and the distal segment of the axons. Further, insulin-like growth factor-1 treatment resulted in an increased immunoreactivity with the phospho-dependent antibody AT8 in the same areas of the axons. Thus, the phosphorylation state and distribution of tau can be modulated by insulin and insulin-like growth factor-1 signaling pathways involving glycogen synthase kinase-3beta. We propose that by transiently increasing tau phosphorylation, insulin and insulin-like growth factor-1 may contribute to the reorganization of the cytoskeleton necessary for the development and growth of the neurites.
Ca(2+) currents and their modulation by neurotrophin-4/5 were studied in cultured mesencephalic neurons. Tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons consistently had larger somas than tyrosine hydroxylase-negative neurons. Neurons with larger somas were therefore targeted for recording. In both control and neurotrophin-4/5-treated cultured neurons, isolation of Ca(2+) currents in cultured mesencephalic neurons revealed prominent low- and high-voltage-activated currents. These currents were separable based upon their voltage dependence of activation, the response to replacement of Ca(2+) with Ba(2+) and the response to Ca(2+) channel blockers. Replacement of Ca(2+) with Ba(2+) resulted in a slight reduction of low-voltage-activated currents and a significant enhancement of high-voltage-activated currents. Cd(2+) blocked a larger fraction of the high-voltage-activated current than Ni(2+). The synthetic conotoxins SNX-124 and SNX-230 selectively blocked high-voltage-activated currents. Morphological analysis of mesencephalic cultures pretreated with neurotrophin-4/5 revealed an increase in soma size and dendritic length in tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons. In agreement with the neurotrophin-4/5 induction of growth, neurotrophin-4/5 also increased cell capacitance in whole-cell recordings. Neurotrophin-4/5 significantly enhanced both low- and high-voltage-activated currents, but normalization for changes in capacitance revealed only a significant increase in high-voltage-activated current density. This study demonstrates the existence of low-voltage-activated and multiple classes of high-voltage-activated calcium currents in cultured mesencephalic neurons. Morphological and physiological data demonstrate that the increases in calcium currents due to neurotrophin-4/5 pretreatment are associated with somatodendritic growth, but an increase in high-voltage-activated Ca(2+) channel expression also occurred.
Electrophysiological recordings were made in anaesthetized rats to investigate the mode of function of high-frequency stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus used as a therapeutic approach for Parkinson's disease. High-frequency electrical stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus (130 Hz) induced a net decrease in activity of all cells recorded around the site of stimulation in the subthalamic nucleus. It also caused an inhibition of the majority of neurons recorded in the substantia nigra pars reticulata in normal rats (94%) and in rats with 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the substantia nigra pars compacta (90%) or with ibotenic acid lesions of the globus pallidus (79.5%). The majority of cells recorded in the ventrolateral nucleus of the thalamus responded with an increase in their activity (84%). These results show that high-frequency stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus induces a reduction of the excitatory glutamatergic output from the subthalamic nucleus which results in deactivation of substantia nigra pars reticulata neurons. The reduction in tonic inhibitory drive of nigral neurons induces a disinhibition of activity in the ventrolateral motor thalamic nucleus, which should result in activation of the motor cortical system.
Haloperidol, a non-selective D(2) dopamine antagonist, both in vitro (1 microM) and in vivo (2.5 mg/kg i.p.), induced a long-term potentiation of K(+)-induced Ca(2+)-dependent release of endogenous noradrenaline and dopamine in rat brain cortical slices, by increasing the content of noradrenaline and dopamine known to be controlled by dopamine auto- and heteroreceptors. Haloperidol administration (2.5 mg/kg i.p.) evoked catalepsy and increased the content of noradrenaline and dopamine in the same structures of the brain. Haloperidol catalepsy consolidated without any additional learning and could be retrieved up to two weeks later by placing the animals in the test box. The catalepsy is disordered and retrieved only in the test box. The catalepsy was more intense on day 14 than on day 7. Injection of haloperidol immediately after conditioning evened the reflex retrieval on the following days. Moreover, learning increased the intensity of catalepsy in animals tested on the day of injection. Repeated testing of the reflex on the following days led to specific modifications of catalepsy retrieval. Pre-conditioned rats exhibited maximal catalepsy when tested immediately after being placed in the test box. These results suggest that both the processes of long-term potentiation and catalepsy consolidation are mediated by the same type of receptors, long-term modulation-inducing receptors. Endogenous neuromodulators, acting non-specifically or diffusely via their respective long-term modulation-inducing receptors, can initiate and consolidate generalized states which form the basis for emotional and motivational states.
Our previous studies have shown that stimulation of mu-opioid receptors within the nucleus accumbens preferentially enhances intake of palatable food containing sucrose and fat; thus, opioids in this brain area may mediate the rewarding characteristics of food by modulating taste and macronutrient preference. The present study was designed to further explore the nature of the involvement of striatal opioids in feeding behavior, such as the location of sensitive subregions of the ventral striatum and the brain neural circuits involved in opioid-mediated hyperphagia. In Experiment 1, we conducted a microinfusion mapping study of feeding behavior by microinfusion of the mu receptor agonist, D-Ala(2),NMe-Phe(4), Glyol(5)-enkephalin (0, 0.025 and 0.25 microg/0.5 microl per side; equivalent to 0, 0.04 and 0.40 nmol/0.5 microl per side), into several striatal subregions. In Experiment 2, detection of the expression of the immediate early gene, c-fos, was used to examine brain areas activated following intra-striatal microinfusion of D-Ala(2), NMe-Phe(4),Glyol(5)-enkephalin. The microinjection mapping study demonstrated a broad anatomical gradient within the striatum, with sensitivity highest in relatively more lateral and ventral regions of the striatum (ventrolateral striatum, lateral shell and core). The Fos mapping study demonstrated that circuitry including hypothalamic areas, the ventral tegmental area, the substantia nigra and the nucleus of the solitary tract was recruited by stimulation of mu receptors within the nucleus accumbens. A similar pattern was observed following stimulation of mu receptors in the dorsal striatum; however, the extent of activation was much smaller in magnitude. These results suggest that the role of mu receptors within the striatum in palatable feeding primarily involves ventral and lateral regions. Moreover, the pattern of activation in hypothalamic, midbrain and gustatory-visceral relay areas suggests that striatal mu receptors may participate in integrating motivational, metabolic and autonomic aspects of ingestive behavior.
To investigate the influence of neurotransmitter on G-protein-coupled receptor trafficking and compartimentalization in neurons, we have developed a model of primary neuronal cultures from fetal rat striatum on which we have studied the cellular and subcellular distribution and trafficking of the D(1) dopaminergic receptor. This receptor is known to be somatodendritic and axonal targeted in vivo, mostly to extrasynaptic locations. Immunohistochemical studies at the light and electron microscopic levels showed that, in cultures, the D(1) dopaminergic receptor is expressed in the absence of dopamine stimulation. The pattern of D(1) dopaminergic receptor immunostaining after stimulation by the D(1) dopaminergic receptor agonist SKF 82958 (1 microM) is dramatically modified with a decrease of the number of labeled D(1) dopaminergic receptor puncta (-40%) and an increase of their size in both dendrites (+120%) and axons (+240%). Seven hours after removal of the agonist, return to normal pattern was observed. The D(1) dopaminergic receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (2 microM) abolishes the effect of SKF 82958. Electron microscopy demonstrated, in dendrites, a translocation of the labeling from the plasma membrane to endosomes. Axonal D(1) dopaminergic receptor redistribution after acute stimulation indicates that the D(1) dopaminergic receptor is membrane targeted and responsive to stimulation. These results validate primary culture of striatal neurons to study subcellular localization and intraneuronal trafficking of G-protein-coupled receptors. This preparation will be useful to address various questions concerning the behavior and the trafficking of these receptors in neurons in relation to the neurotransmitter environment.
Fetal hippocampal grafts transplanted to the lesioned CA3 of adult hippocampus can extend axonal projections to many regions of the host brain. However, the identity of grafted cells that project to specific host regions is unknown. We hypothesize that the pattern of long-distance axonal projections from distinct fetal hippocampal cells grafted to lesioned CA3 is specified by the intrinsic nature of respective donor cells rather than characteristics of the host graft region. We grafted fetal hippocampal CA3 or CA1 cells into kainic acid lesioned CA3 of adult hippocampus at four days post-lesion. Neurons projecting to either the contralateral hippocampus or the ipsilateral septum were then measured in these grafts at four months post-grafting using Fluoro-Gold and DiI tract tracing. CA3 grafts located close to the degenerated CA3 cell layer showed a high propensity for establishing projections into the contralateral hippocampus (commissural projections) compared to similarly located CA1 grafts, which exhibited negligible commissural projections. Similar distinction was observed between the two graft types even when they were located only partially in the lesioned CA3. Among CA3 grafts, those placed near the degenerated CA3 cell layer established significantly greater commissural projections than those placed only partially in the CA3 region. Septal projections, in contrast, were robust from both CA3 and CA1 grafts. This differential projection pattern between CA3 and CA1 grafts resembles projections of CA3 and CA1 cells in intact hippocampus.These results demonstrate that the intrinsic character of grafted fetal cells determines the type of efferent projections from fetal grafts into different targets in the lesioned adult host brain. However, the extent of efferent projections from specific grafts is also influenced by the location of grafted cells within the host region. Thus, graft-mediated appropriate reconstruction of damaged circuitry in the lesioned brain may require grafting of homotopic donor cells. Further, the robust and specific projections observed from CA3 grafts is likely beneficial for functional recovery of hippocampus following CA3 injury and hence of significance towards developing a graft-mediated therapy for human temporal lobe epilepsy.
The present study demonstrates that impairments of spatial learning and hippocampal long-term potentiation in rats chronically exposed to lead are associated with changes in gene and protein expression of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunits. Rats exposed to 750 and 1500 ppm lead acetate were found to exhibit deficits in acquisition of a water maze spatial learning task. Furthermore, lead-exposed rats show dose-dependent reductions in the maintenance of in vivo hippocampal long-term potentiation induced in entorhinal cortex-dentate gyrus synapses. We found an unexpected, but significant (P&lt;0.05), correlation between spatial learning and long-term potentiation when control and lead-exposed rats were analysed as a single, combined population. Dentate gyrus NR1 subunit messenger RNA was reduced 18% and 28% by exposure to 750 and 1500 ppm lead acetate, respectively. NR2A subunit messenger RNA was reduced 18% but only in the dentate gyrus of rats exposed to 1500 ppm lead acetate. No significant changes in dentate NR2B messenger RNA expression were measured in either of the lead-exposed groups. NR1 subunit protein was reduced 24% and 58% in hippocampal homogenates from rats exposed to 750 and 1500 ppm lead acetate. In contrast, no changes in NR2A or NR2B subunit protein were observed in the same hippocampal homogenates. These data show that reductions of specific N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunits are associated with deficits of both hippocampal long-term potentiation and spatial learning, induced in rats by chronic exposure to environmentally relevant levels of lead. These findings strongly suggest that the effects of lead on N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors may be the mechanistic basis for lead-induced deficits in cognitive function.
In previous studies, we observed a transient increase in dendritic spine frequency in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus at 6h following passive avoidance training [O'Malley A., O'Connell C. and Regan C. M. (1998) Neuroscience 87, 607-613]. To determine if a similar change is associated with spatial forms of learning, we have estimated time-dependent modulations of spine number in the dentate gyrus of the adult rat following water maze training. All animals exhibited significant reductions in the latency to locate the platform over the five training sessions of the single trial (median and interquartile ranges of 60, 8 versus 8, 3 s for trials 1 and 5, respectively) and this improved performance was retained just prior to killing at the 6h post-training time. The unbiased dissector stereological procedure was used to estimate spine number in serial pairs of ultrathin coronal sections obtained at a point 3.3 mm caudal of Bregma. This analysis revealed a significant learning-associated increase in spine number at the 6h post-training time (1.32+/-0.18 spines/microm(3)) as it was not observed in paired controls exposed to the water maze for a similar swim-time (0.66+/-0.11 spines/microm(3)). The increase was transient as spine number returned to control levels at the 72 h post-training time. These spine frequency changes are proposed to reflect increased synapse turnover rate and concomitant change in connectivity pattern in the processing of information for long-term storage.
The present experiments were undertaken to study whether amygdala kindling induces persistent alterations in the functional status of neurons of the central piriform cortex, a subregion of the piriform cortex identified previously as a site involved in the kindling process. Extracellular, single-unit recordings of piriform cortex neurons were made in anesthetized fully kindled rats at an interval of at least five weeks after the last seizure. Electrode implanted but not kindled rats served as sham controls. An additional group of non-implanted rats was used as naive controls. Spontaneously firing piriform cortex neurons were characterized in all groups by smooth, sharp, biphasic (i.e. positive/negative) action potentials with a duration of 0.8-1.8 ms, and were primarily located at the border between piriform cortex layers II and III. In kindled rats, neurons in the central piriform cortex exhibited a significantly higher firing rate compared to controls. Based on median group values, the increase in basal activity in kindled rats averaged about 90%. The responsiveness of piriform cortex neurons to neurotransmitters was tested by microiontophoretic application of glutamate, N-methyl-D-aspartate and GABA. Piriform cortex neurons of kindled rats exhibited a significantly lower responsiveness to the excitatory effect of glutamate than naive controls. A lowered glutamate responsiveness was also seen in sham controls. No significantly altered transmitter sensitivities of piriform cortex neurons from kindled rats were seen with N-methyl-D-aspartate or GABA. The data indicate that amygdala kindling causes persistent interictal changes in both basal activity and glutamate responsiveness of central piriform cortex neurons which could contribute to the abnormal hyperexcitability characteristic of kindling.
The neuronal calcium sensor proteins are members of the calcium-binding protein superfamily. They control localized calcium signalling on membranes and may make G-protein cascades sensitive to cytosolic calcium. The family members are recoverin (visinin, S-modulin), neuronal calcium sensor-1 (frequenin), hippocalcin, neuronal visinin-like protein-1 (visinin-like protein, neurocalcin-alpha), neuronal visinin-like protein-2 and neuronal visinin-like protein-3. Recoverin is expressed only in the retina and pineal gland. Using in situ hybridization, we mapped the expression of the other neuronal calcium sensor protein genes in the adult rat brain. Neuronal visinin-like protein-1 messenger RNA has a widespread distribution and is abundant in all brain areas except the caudate-putamen. Neuronal calcium sensor-1 gene expression is pan-neuronal. Neuronal calcium sensor-1 messenger RNA is present in the dendrites of hippocampal pyramidal and granule cells, suggesting a specific role in dendritic function. Hippocalcin and neuronal visinin-like protein-2 are mainly expressed in the forebrain and have similar expression patterns (neocortex, hippocampus and caudate-putamen). Neuronal visinin-like protein-3 has the most restricted expression; its highest expression level is in the cerebellum (Purkinje and granule cells). However, the neuronal visinin-like protein-3 gene is also expressed in many ventral nuclei throughout the fore- and midbrain, in the medial habenulae, and in the superior and inferior colliculi. The neuronal calcium sensor proteins are a relatively unexplored family of Ca(2+)-binding proteins. They are likely to be involved in many diverse areas of neuronal signalling. In this paper, we describe their expression in the rat brain as determined by in situ hybridization. As all five neuronal calcium sensor protein genes have distinctive expression patterns, they probably perform specific functions.
The spiny projection neurons of the neostriatum are a site at which dopamine inputs from the substantia nigra converge with excitatory inputs from the cerebral cortex. These two systems interact in certain learning and motor control mechanisms of the brain. We investigated these interactions using intracellular recording from spiny striatal neurons in urethane-anaesthetized rats. We found that acute dopamine depletion was associated with long-term depression of corticostriatal synaptic input. Electrical stimulation of the cortex which mimicked synchronous cortical input to striatal neurons also induced long-term depression of corticostriatal inputs. In intact control animals, but not in dopamine-depleted animals, this depression was prevented or reversed by concomitant stimulation of the substantia nigra. In agreement with previous in vitro studies, our in vivo findings show that long-term depression occurs in the corticostriatal pathway, and in addition show that it is regulated by dopaminergic inputs from the substantia nigra. This form of synaptic plasticity may therefore be important for understanding disturbances of the motor system seen in humans with Parkinson's disease.
Spinal cord injury in rats is known to cause anatomical, physiological and molecular changes within the spinal cord. These changes may account for behavioral syndromes that appear following spinal cord injury, syndromes believed to be related to the clinical condition of chronic pain. Intraspinal injection of quisqualic acid produces an excitotoxic injury with pathological characteristics similar to those associated with ischemic and traumatic spinal cord injury. In addition, recent studies have demonstrated changes in blood flow, neuronal excitability and gene expression in the brain following excitotoxic injury, indicating that behavioral changes may result from modification of neuronal substrates at supraspinal levels of the neuraxis. Because changes in spinal opioid peptide expression have been demonstrated in models of traumatic spinal cord injury and chronic pain, the present study investigated messenger RNA expression of the opioid peptides, preproenkephalin and preprodynorphin, at spinal and supraspinal levels following excitotoxic spinal cord injury. Male, Long-Evans rats were given three intraspinal injections of quisqualic acid (total 1.2 microl, 125mM). After one, three, five, seven or 10days, animals were killed and quantitative in situ hybridization performed on regions of the spinal cord surrounding the lesion site, as well as whole-brain sections through various levels of the thalamus. Preproenkephalin and preprodynorphin expression was increased in spinal cord areas adjacent to the site of quisqualic injection and in cortical regions associated with nociceptive function, preproenkephalin in the cingulate cortex and preprodynorphin in the parietal cortex, both ipsilaterally and contralaterally at various time-points following injury. These results further our knowledge of the secondary events that occur following spinal cord injury, specifically implicating supraspinal opioid systems in the CNS response to spinal cord injury.
Recent work has suggested a potential role for voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels in the pathophysiology of anoxic central nervous system white matter injury. To examine the relevance of these findings to neurotrauma, we conducted electrophysiological studies with inorganic Ca(2+) channels blockers and L- and N-subtype-specific calcium channel antagonists in an in vitro model of spinal cord injury. Confocal immunohistochemistry was used to examine for localization of L- and N-type calcium channels in spinal cord white matter tracts. A 30-mm length of dorsal column was isolated from the spinal cord of adult rats, pinned in an in vitro recording chamber and injured with a modified clip (2g closing force) for 15s. The functional integrity of the dorsal column was monitored electrophysiologically by quantitatively measuring the compound action potential at two points with glass microelectrodes. The compound action potential decreased to 71.4+/-2.0% of control (P&lt;0. 05) after spinal cord injury. Removal of extracellular Ca(2+) promoted significantly greater recovery of compound action potential amplitude (86.3+/-7.6% of control; P&lt; 0.05) after injury. Partial blockade of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels with cobalt (20 microM) or cadmium (200 microM) conferred improvement in compound action potential amplitude. Application of the L-type Ca(2+) channel blockers diltiazem (50 microM) or verapamil (90 microM), and the N-type antagonist omega-conotoxin GVIA (1 microM), significantly enhanced the recovery of compound action potential amplitude postinjury. Co-application of the L-type antagonist diltiazem with the N-type blocker omega-conotoxin GVIA showed significantly greater (P&lt;0.05) improvement in compound action potential amplitude than application of either drug alone. Confocal immunohistochemistry with double labelling for glial fibrillary acidic protein, GalC and NF200 demonstrated L- and N-type Ca(2+) channels on astrocytes and oligodendrocytes, but not axons, in spinal cord white matter. In conclusion, the injurious effects of Ca(2+) in traumatic central nervous system white matter injury appear to be partially mediated by voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels. The presence of L- and N-type Ca(2+) channels on periaxonal astrocytes and oligodendrocytes suggests a role for these cells in post-traumatic axonal conduction failure.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide is involved in the spinal processing of nociceptive input from the knee joint and in the generation and maintenance of joint inflammation-evoked hyperexcitability of spinal cord neurons. The present study examined whether this peptide influences the excitation of nociceptive spinal cord neurons by agonists at the N-methyl-D-aspartate and the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate [(R, S)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA)/kainate] receptors, both of which are essential for the excitation and hyperexcitability of spinal cord neurons. In anaesthetized rats extracellular recordings were made from dorsal horn neurons with knee input, and compounds were administered ionophoretically close to the neurons recorded. When calcitonin gene-related peptide was administered the responses of the neurons to the application of both N-methyl-D-aspartate and AMPA were increased. The coadministration of the antagonist calcitonin gene-related peptide 8-37 had no effect on the responses to N-methyl-D-aspartate, but it prevented the enhancement of the responses to N-methyl-D-aspartate by calcitonin gene-related peptide. By contrast, the administration of calcitonin gene-related peptide 8-37 enhanced the responses of the neurons to AMPA, and it did not antagonize but rather increased the effects of calcitonin gene-related peptide on these responses. The data suggest that the facilitatory role of calcitonin gene-related peptide on the development and maintenance of inflammation-evoked hyperexcitability is caused at least in part by the modulation of the activation of the dorsal horn neurons through their N-methyl-D-aspartate and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. The different effects of calcitonin gene-related peptide 8-37 on the respones to N-methyl-D-aspartate and AMPA suggest that different intracellular pathways may facilitate the activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate and ionotropic non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors.
Microtubule-associated protein 1B is a major constituent of the neuronal cytoskeleton during the early stages of development. This protein and its phosphorylated isoform, microtubule-associated protein 1B-P, defined by the monoclonal antibody 1B-P [Boyne L. J. et al. (1995) J. Neurosci. Res. 40, 439-450], are present in growing axons and concentrated in the distal end near the growth cone. In most regions of the central nervous system, microtubule-associated protein 1B and microtubule-associated protein 1B-P are developmentally down-regulated. They remain, however, at relatively high levels in the adult peripheral nervous system, where microtubule-associated protein 1B-P is localized exclusively in axons. The aim of this study was to examine the levels of microtubule-associated protein 1B and its phosphorylated isoform during regenerative growth of peripheral axons. Following transection and re-apposition of the sciatic nerve at midthigh, the levels of total microtubule-associated protein 1B, microtubule-associated protein 1B-P and microtubule-associated protein 1B messenger RNA were analysed in dorsal root ganglion neurons and sciatic nerve axons using western blots and RNase protection assays. After the lesion, there was a small decrease in the levels of microtubule-associated protein 1B and its messenger RNA in dorsal root ganglion neurons. The proximal axonal stump showed a similar decrease in the levels of microtubule-associated protein 1B 30days after lesion and returned to normal 60-90days post-lesion. In the distal stump of the sciatic nerve, the levels of microtubule-associated protein 1B increased dramatically and rapidly between three and 14days, but the protein was localized mainly in activated Schwann cells and myelin-like structures, and not in axons [Ma D. et al. (1999) Brain Res. 823, 141-153]. With the regeneration of axons into the distal stump, an intense expression of microtubule-associated protein 1B was observed in these axons. Microtubule-associated protein 1B-P, however, disappeared from the degenerated distal axonal stump as early as three days post-operation, and was absent in the regenerating axons and in Schwann cells between three and 14days. The levels of microtubule-associated protein 1B-P recovered slowly and did not reach the normal levels even after 90days post-operation. In contrast to the response following transection, the levels of microtubule-associated protein 1B and microtubule-associated protein 1B-P were much less affected after nerve crush. We propose that the relatively high levels of microtubule-associated protein 1B and its messenger RNA in adult dorsal root ganglions support peripheral neuron regeneration. The presence of microtubule-associated protein 1B in the regenerating axons suggests that microtubule-associated protein 1B is involved in axonal growth during peripheral nerve regeneration. However, the phosphorylated microtubule-associated protein 1B-P isoform, associated with growing axons during development, is not present in the regenerating axons after transection, presumably because of changes in the activities of kinases and phosphatases associated with the injury. These observations underscore the difference between axonal development and regeneration and the importance of injury-related effects that occur locally.
Changes in either plasma sodium concentration or arterial pressure can differentially affect hypothalamic neurons. For instance, increases in plasma NaCl concentration decrease noradrenaline release from nerve terminals in the anterior hypothalamic nucleus, while increases in arterial pressure unrelated to an elevation in plasma NaCl enhance noradrenaline release in anterior hypothalamic nucleus. The present study tests the hypothesis that in the rat the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis (an osmosensitive area of the brain) detects rises in plasma NaCl concentration and conveys this information to anterior hypothalamic nucleus. The axons projecting from the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis to the hypothalamus were unilaterally cut immediately caudal to organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis, and five days later, 3-methoxy-4-hydroxy phenylglycol (the major metabolite of noradrenaline in brain) was continuously monitored in the ipsilateral or contralateral anterior hypothalamic nucleus in response to an intravenous infusion of hypertonic saline. In spontaneously hypertensive rats, the infusion decreased the 3-methoxy-4-hydroxy phenylglycol concentration by 24+/-2% in the anterior hypothalamic nucleus contralateral to the lesion, and in control spontaneously hypertensive rats. In contrast, in the anterior hypothalamic nucleus ipsilateral to the lesion, hypertonic saline infusion caused a 58+/-3% increase in 3-methoxy-4-hydroxy phenylglycol. These data support the hypothesis that the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis is part of the circuit that transmits information concerning plasma NaCl concentration to anterior hypothalamic nucleus.
The neuroendocrine control of the gonad is exerted primarily by the gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons located in the septum and the hypothalamus. Despite their sexually dimorphic activity, tonic in males and phasic in females, these neurons have not appeared qualitatively different between sexes in intrinsic organization or chemical phenotype. Here, by using multiple-label immunocytochemistry, it is demonstrated that the phenotype of gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons is sex specific. In females only, 54.5% of them co-expressed cholecystokinin immunoreactivity and 29.4% additionally expressed neurotensin immunoreactivity. These multipeptidergic neurons were observed in the hypothalamus but not in the septum. During postnatal development, cholecystokinin and neurotensin immunoreactivities were first detected in gonadotropin-releasing hormone-containing axons of the median eminence at vaginal opening, suggesting an involvement of the neuropeptides in peri-ovulatory events. This peptidergic phenotype was not apparent in females ovariectomized as adults but was reinstated by estradiol treatment. In adult males, the testicle does not control this phenotype because orchidectomized adults did not display it, whatever the post-operative delay (one to five weeks) or substitutive chronic steroid treatment (testosterone or estradiol). The testicle may, however, masculinize the phenotype neonatally because estradiol or testosterone treatment in adulthood induced an expression of cholecystokinin immunoreactivity in gonadotropin-releasing hormone-containing axons of the median eminence in both males and females that were gonadectomized at birth. This procedure, however, failed to significantly induce an expression of neurotensin immunoreactivity, suggesting a role of the postnatal ovary on this element of the chemistry of gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons.Thus, the gonad permanently organizes the gonadotropin-releasing hormone neuronal population, resulting, at least in females, in a mosaic of phenotypically distinct, functional subunits.
Properties of (S)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) receptor channels were studied in fluorescence-labelled control and axotomized motoneurons in spinal cord slices using a patch-clamp technique. Axotomy performed on the third postnatal day resulted in motoneuron death. Application of AMPA or kainate induced large whole-cell currents, but outside-out patches isolated from control motoneurons were either unresponsive or displayed only single-channel activity in response to rapid application of AMPA. Measurement of AMPA receptor channel openings in outside-out patches revealed multiple single-channel conductance levels: 12.2+/-1.0, 21. 9+/-1.5 and 32.6+/-3.2pS. In control motoneurons dialysed with spermine, the current-voltage relationship of responses induced by activation of AMPA receptor channels exhibited various degrees of inward rectification. The rectification index, the ratio of responses at +40 and -60mV, was used to compare the degree of inward rectification. The mean values of rectification index of responses to focal application of AMPA and AMPA receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic currents induced by focal electric stimulation were 0. 64+/-0.17 and 0.50+/-0.27, respectively. In axotomized motoneurons, the degree of rectification was significantly less for both responses induced by application of AMPA and for excitatory postsynaptic currents (0.91+/-0.09 and 0.95+/-0.12, respectively). Deactivation of AMPA receptors assessed from motoneuron excitatory postsynaptic currents at -70 mV was independent of postnatal age, with tau(fast)=0.88+/-0.35ms (A(fast)=78.2+/-11.8%) and tau(slow)=6. 3+/-3.2ms. In axotomized motoneurons, the decay time constants of excitatory postsynaptic currents were similar, tau(fast)=0.91+/-0. 42ms (A(fast)=85.8+/-12.6%) and tau(slow)=5.9+/-3.4ms. However, the mean amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic currents was only 43% of the amplitude recorded in control motoneurons. The results show that the current induced by activation of AMPA receptors in neonatal motoneurons is mediated by opening of both Ca(2+)-permeable and Ca(2+)-impermeable channels. As a result of axotomy, an experimental model of neurodegeneration, AMPA receptor channels in injured motoneurons destined to die become predominantly Ca(2+) impermeable. These findings suggest phenotypic control of AMPA receptor channel properties, presumably by affecting their subunit composition.
Aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid), and its main metabolite sodium salicylate, have been shown to protect neurons from excitotoxic cell death in vitro. The objective of our study was to investigate the possible neuroprotective effects of sodium salicylate in vivo in rats with kainic acid-induced seizures, a model for temporal lobe epilepsy in human patients. Male Sprague-Dawley rats received intraperitoneal injections of kainic acid either alone, or with sodium salicylate given before and for 40h after kainic acid injections. The control group received either phosphate-buffered saline or sodium salicylate without co-administration of kainic acid. Animals developed status epilepticus, which was aborted 1.5-2h later with diazepam. On day 3 following kainic acid-induced seizures, animals received bromodeoxyuridine to measure cellular proliferation, and were killed under anesthesia 24h later. Brains were removed, sectioned, and analysed for gross histological changes, evidence of hemorrhage, DNA fragmentation, cellular proliferation, and microglial immunohistochemistry. We report that sodium salicylate did not protect neurons from seizure-induced cell death, and to the contrary, it caused focal hemorrhage and cell death in the hippocampal formation and the entorhinal/piriform cortex of rats with kainic acid-induced seizures. Hemorrhage was never observed in animals that received vehicle, kainic acid or sodium salicylate only, which indicated that sodium salicylate exerted its effect only in animals with seizures, and was confined to select regions of the brain that undergo seizure activity. Large numbers of cells displaying DNA fragmentation were detected in the hippocampal formation, entorhinal/piriform cortex and the dorsomedial thalamic nucleus of rats that received kainic acid or kainic acid in combination with sodium salicylate. Bromodeoxyuridine immunohistochemistry revealed large numbers of proliferating cells in and around the areas with most severe neural injury induced by kainic acid or kainic acid co-administered with sodium salicylate. These same brain regions displayed intense staining with a microglia-specific marker, an indication of microglial activation in response to brain damage. In all cases, the degree of cell death, cell proliferation and microglia staining was more severe in animals that received the combination of kainic acid and sodium salicylate when compared to animals that received kainic acid alone. We hypothesize that our findings are attributable to sodium salicylate-induced blockade of cellular mechanisms that protect cells from calcium-mediated injury. These initial observations may have important clinical implications for patients with epilepsy who take aspirin while affected by these conditions, and should promote further investigation of this relationship.
A weight drop model of brain injury was used to determine the effects of repetitive mild brain injury on motor function, heat shock protein and glial fibrillary acidic protein expression in the anesthetized, adult male, Sprague-Dawley rat. Repetitive mild brain injury was produced when animals received a series of three mild injuries spaced three days apart. A separate group of repetitive mild injured animals also received a subsequent severe brain injury between three and five days after the last mild injury. All animals were trained on a beam-walking test prior to surgery. The mild, repetitive mild and repetitive mild plus severe brain injury groups showed no motor deficits in the beam-walking test, whereas the animals with only severe brain injury showed significant motor deficits (increase in number of footslips) in the beam-walking test that recovered within eight days after injury. Both repetitive mild plus severe injury and severe injury only animals had cortical necrotic cavities of similar size in the region of the hindlimb motor cortex. Both the repetitive mild and severe brain-injured animals had marked heat shock protein 27kDa and glial fibrillary acidic protein staining in the cerebral cortex. Fluoro-Jade, heat shock protein 27kDa and 72kDa labeling indicated that there were widespread effects on cortical, subcortical and spinal neurons and glial cells after repetitive mild brain injury. These results suggest that repetitive mild brain injury conditions the brain so that subsequent brain injury at the same site has no effect on motor function. Furthermore, repetitive mild injury-induced activation of processes distant to the primary injury site may have a role in activation of secondary sites involved in recovery of motor function.
Locomotor stimulation in the perifornical hypothalamus produces a transient facilitation of subsequent locomotion, a priming effect, such that stepping to a second train of stimulation occurs with a shorter latency of onset and increased amplitude. Neurons responsible for the initiation of this facilitated stepping presumably respond to locomotor stimulation with a similar priming effect, i.e. either a shorter latency or a larger change in activity rate. This study used anesthetized rats (urethane, 800mg/kg) to compare brainstem regions in terms of the relative rates of occurrence of single neurons that showed both specific responses to locomotor stimulation and also priming effects. Specific responses were characterized by a progressive increase in activity prior to the first step (a Type I pattern). In that they co-varied in time with the increased probability of stepping onset, Type I responses were more specific than Type II responses, which peaked early in the stimulation train several seconds before the onset of stepping. Regions with high proportions of neurons showing Type I responses and priming effects included the anterior dorsal tegmentum lateral to the central gray, the oral pontine reticular nucleus and the medial gigantocellular nucleus. Few Type I neurons showed a modulation of activity related to the step cycle. Type I primed neurons were uncommon in the cuneiform and the pedunculopontine regions, but neurons showing other patterns (decreases and antidromic responses) were relatively prevalent there. The ventral tegmental area was generally unresponsive. The results indicate that stepping elicited by perifornical stimulation in the anesthetized rat is mediated by circuits that differ at midbrain levels from the circuits implicated in other types of locomotion. Two regions, the anterior dorsal tegmentum and the oral pontine reticular nucleus, warrant further attention to determine their possible roles in the initiation of locomotion.
GABA is one of the most important inhibitory neurotransmitters in the substantia nigra. Functions of GABA are mediated by two major types of GABA receptors, namely the GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors. Subunits of both the GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors have been cloned and functional characteristics of the receptors depend on their subunit compositions. In order to characterize the cellular localization of GABA(B)R1 and GABA(A)alpha1 subunit immunoreactivity in subpopulations of neurons in the rat substantia nigra, double and triple immunofluorescence was employed. Over 90% of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta were found to display immunoreactivity for GABA(B)R1. In contrast, immunoreactivity for GABA(A)alpha1 was found to be primarily displayed by neurons in the substantia nigra pars reticulata. Around 85% of the GABA(A)alpha1-immunoreactive reticulata neurons were found to display parvalbumin immunoreactivity and some GABA(A)alpha1-positive reticulata neurons were found to be parvalbumin negative. In addition, triple-labeling experiments revealed that at the single cell level, the tyrosine hydroxylase-positive, i.e. the dopaminergic neurons in the compacta displayed intense immunoreactivity for GABA(B)R1 but not GABA(A)alpha1 receptors. The parvalbumin-positive neurons in the reticulata displayed intense immunoreactivity for GABA(A)alpha1 but not GABA(B)R1 receptors. The present results demonstrate in the same sections that there is a distinct pattern of localization of GABA(B)R1 and GABA(A)alpha1 receptor immunoreactivity in different subpopulations of the rat substantia nigra and provide anatomical evidence for GABA neurotransmission in the subpopulations of nigral neurons.
The main goal of this study was to provide in vivo neurochemical evidence that mesolimbic alpha- and beta-adrenoceptors direct the release of mesolimbic dopamine. Both high responders to novelty and low responders to novelty were used to study the effects of intra-accumbal administered adrenergic agents on the dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens during two conditions, namely at rest (non-challenge) and when exposed to a &quot;new cage&quot; (challenge). Under non-challenged condition: phenylephrine (alpha-adrenergic agonist) induced a dose-dependent increase in dopamine release that was significantly larger in high responders; phentolamine (alpha-adrenoceptor antagonist) also induced a dose-dependent increase in dopamine that was significantly larger in low responders; isoproterenol (beta-adrenoceptor agonist) induced a dose-dependent increase in dopamine that did not differ between the two types of rat; propranolol (beta-adrenoceptor antagonist) did not change the dopamine release. Under challenged condition: phenylephrine and phentolamine both increased dopamine release without type-specific differences; only in low responders did isoproterenol increase the novelty-induced dopamine release; only in high responders did propranolol decrease the novelty-induced dopamine release. The in vivo neurochemical data are discussed in view of the outcome of earlier reported in vitro studies and pharmaco-behavioral studies. Overall the data reveal that mesolimbic noradrenaline has a dual role in the nucleus accumbens. It is argued that stimulation of alpha-adrenoceptors and beta-adrenoceptors, located postsynaptically on dopamine nerve-endings, inhibits and facilitates, respectively, dopamine release, whereas stimulation of presynaptic alpha-adrenoceptors inhibits the release of noradrenaline and, subsequently, disinhibits the release of dopamine. Moreover, it is argued that non-challenged high responders have a relatively low (alpha/beta) noradrenergic tonus that changes into a relatively high (alpha/beta) noradrenergic tonus during challenge, and that non-challenged low responders have a relatively high (alpha) adrenergic tonus that changes into a relatively low (alpha) noradrenergic tonus during challenge. In general, the present data clearly reveal that both alpha- and beta-adrenoceptors differentially regulate dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens. This regulation is individual-specific and depends on the test-condition (challenged versus non-challenged).
This study characterizes paw reaching, stepping and balance abnormalities in a double lesion rat model of striatonigral degeneration, the core pathology underlying levodopa unresponsive parkinsonism associated with multiple system atrophy. Extensive unilateral nigral or striatal lesions induced by 6-hydroxydopamine or quinolinic acid, respectively, produced a similarly marked contralateral paw reaching deficit without further deterioration following a secondary (complementary) lesion of ipsilateral striatum or substantia nigra. Contralateral stepping rates were reduced by unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions without further deterioration following the secondary striatal lesion. In contrast, initial unilateral striatal quinolinic acid injections induced bilateral stepping deficits that significantly worsened contralaterally following the secondary nigral lesion. Contralateral sidefalling rates were significantly increased following primary nigral and striatal lesions. Secondary nigral but not secondary striatal lesions worsened contralateral sidefalling rates. Histological studies revealed subtotal (&gt;90%) depletion of dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra pars compacta and variable degrees of striatal degeneration depending on the lesion sequence. Animals pre-lesioned with 6-hydroxydopamine showed significantly larger residual striatal surface areas following the secondary striatal quinolinic acid lesion compared to animals with primary striatal quinolinic acid lesions (P&lt;0.001). These findings are in line with previous experimental studies demonstrating that striatal dopamine depletion confers neuroprotection against subsequent excitotoxic injury. Whether loss of dopaminergic neurons protects against the striatal disease process occurring in multiple system atrophy (Parkinson-type) remains to be elucidated. In summary, this is the first experimental study to investigate spontaneous motor behaviour in a unilateral double lesion rat model. Our observations are consistent with a complex interaction of nigral and striatal lesions producing distinct behavioural and histological changes depending on the lesion sequence. Tests of forelimb akinesia and complex motor behaviour appear to provide a reliable tool that will be helpful for monitoring the effects of interventional strategies such as embryonic neuronal transplantation in the rat model of striatonigral degeneration.
The effects of X-irradiation on proliferating cells in the dentate subgranular zone were assessed in young adult Fisher 344 rats exposed to a range of X-ray doses and followed for up to 120 days. Apoptosis was quantified using morphology and end-labeling immunohistochemistry, and cell proliferation was detected using antibodies against the thymidine analog BrdU and the cyclin-dependent kinase p34(cdc2). Radiation-induced apoptosis occurred rapidly, with maximum morphological and end-labeling changes observed 3-6h after irradiation. Twenty-four hours after irradiation cell proliferation was significantly reduced relative to sham-irradiated controls. The number of apoptotic nuclei increased rapidly with radiation dose, reaching a plateau at about 3Gy. The maximum number of apoptotic nuclei was substantially higher than the number of proliferating cells, suggesting that non-proliferating as well as proliferating cells in the subgranular zone were sensitive to irradiation. Subgranular zone cell proliferation was significantly reduced relative to age-matched controls 120 days after doses of 5Gy or higher. These findings suggest that neural precursor cells of the dentate gyrus are very sensitive to irradiation and are not capable of repopulating the subgranular zone at least up to 120 days after irradiation. This may help explain, in part, how ionizing irradiation induces cognitive impairments in animals and humans.
Following cholinergic denervation of the hippocampus by medial septal lesions, an unusual neuronal reorganization occurs in which peripheral adrenergic fibers arising from the superior cervical ganglia grow into the hippocampus (hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth). We have reported previously that cholinergic denervation and hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth differentially affected cholinergically stimulated phosphoinositide hydrolysis, concentration and affinity of muscarinic receptors, Go-protein level and protein kinase C activity. To complete these studies, we determined whether cholinergic denervation and hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth influenced phospholipase C and protein kinase C expression in dorsal hippocampal membranes and cytosol. Using immunoblotting methods, the results showed that the 100,000 mol. wt subunit of phospholipase Cbeta was increased in the membrane fraction in the hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth group by 45% compared to controls and the 150,000 mol.wt subunit was increased by 75% and 59% compared to controls and cholinergic denervation, respectively. For protein kinase C detection, immunoblots were prepared using antibodies selective for &quot;classical&quot; protein kinase C members (alpha, beta, gamma) and for the &quot;novel&quot; protein kinase C subfamily members (delta, &amp;theta;). Membrane protein kinase Cbeta was decreased in hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth by 35% compared to controls and by 41% compared to cytosolic hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth. Membrane protein kinase Cbeta was decreased in cholinergic denervation by 28% compared to controls. When compared to membranes from controls and the cholinergic denervation group, and to cytosolic fractions from the hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth groups, respectively, the following membrane protein kinase isoforms were found to be decreased by hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth: gamma by 55%, 40% and 57%; delta by 91.5%, 70% and 120%; theta; by 95%, 100% and 86%.In conclusion, our results may indicate the connection between the previously reported differential influence of hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth and cholinergic denervation on cholinergically stimulated phosphoinositol hydrolysis. The &quot;normalization&quot; of phosphoinositol hydrolysis found in hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth may be due to the increase in phospholipase Cbeta expression in hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth membrane fractions. Since the activation of protein kinase C is known to block phosphoinositol hydrolysis, hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth &quot;normalization&quot; of phosphoinositol hydrolysis may result from a reduction in protein kinase expression in hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth membranes.
The function of the cholinergic system is known to change during normal aging and in pathological conditions such as Alzheimer's disease. The present study was designed to assess, within the same group of old animals, the behavioral, electrophysiological and neurochemical effects of chronic treatment with agents that increase the function of the cholinergic system through both muscarinic and nicotinic mechanisms. Doses were determined that produced 60% cholinesterase inhibition by donepezil and galantamine for the old rats. This was chosen to be analogous to therapeutic levels achieved for treatment of human Alzheimer's disease patients with these agents. Because of the well-known age-related changes in spatial memory and hippocampal synaptic plasticity, spatial working memory in the radial eight-arm maze and hippocampal long-term potentiation induction and decay, as well as nicotinic receptor density and affinity, were measured in old rats implanted with minipumps that delivered donepezil, galantamine or saline. There was no effect of drug treatment on baseline synaptic transmission or on the threshold or magnitude of long-term potentiation induction. Both drug treatment groups, however, showed significantly extended long-term potentiation decay times at the perforant path-granule cell synapse over the saline control animals, as measured during the week following induction. Both drugs also elevated the number of nicotinic receptors within the hippocampus and neocortex. This is the first demonstration of cholinergic modulation of synaptic plasticity over the time-course of days. Furthermore, the durability of long-term potentiation was significantly, positively correlated with nicotinic receptor binding in the hippocampus. Chronic treatment with donepezil or galantamine had no significant effect on a well-learned spatial working memory task on the radial maze. These data suggest that the therapeutic doses of cholinesterase inhibitors used to treat patients with Alzheimer's disease may have effects on neurophysiology and neurochemistry that are close to the threshold for producing detectable behavioral improvements.
Tactile information acquired through the vibrissae is of high behavioral relevance for rodents. Numerous physiological studies have shown adaptive plasticity of cortical receptive field properties due to stimulation and/or manipulation of the whiskers. However, the cellular mechanisms leading to these plastic processes remain largely unknown. Although genomic responses are anticipated to take place in this sequel, virtually no data so far exist for freely behaving animals concerning this issue. Thus, adult rats were placed overnight in an enriched environment and most of them were also subjected to clipping of different sets of whiskers. This type of stimulation led to a specific and statistically significant increase in the expression of the protein products of the inducible transcription factors c-Fos, JunB, inducible cyclic-AMP early repressor and Krox-24 (also frequently named Zif268 or Egr-1), but not c-Jun. The response was found in columns of the barrel cortex corresponding to the stimulated vibrissae; it displayed a layer-specific pattern. However, no induction of transcription factors was observed in the subcortical relay stations of the whisker-to-barrel pathway, i.e. the trigeminal nuclei and the ventrobasal complex. These results strongly suggest that a coordinated transcriptional response is initiated in the barrel cortex as a consequence of processing of novel environmental stimuli.
The ability to recall past events is a major determinant of survival strategies in all species and is of paramount importance in determining our uniqueness as individuals. In contrast to memory formation, the information about the molecular mechanisms of memory retrieval is surprisingly scarce and fragmentary. Here we show that pretest inhibition of the specific upstream activator of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase, or of protein kinase A in the hippocampus, blocked retrieval of long-term memory for an inhibitory avoidance task, a hippocampal-dependent learning task. An activator of protein kinase A enhanced retrieval. Mitogen-activated protein kinase activation increased in the hippocampus during retrieval, while protein kinase A activity remained unchanged. Pretest intrahippocampal blockade of metabotropic glutamate receptors or alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolone propionic acid/kainate receptors, but not N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors or calcium/calmodulin dependent-protein kinase II, impaired retrieval. Thus, recall of inhibitory avoidance activates mitogen-activated protein kinase, which is necessary, along with metabotropic glutamate receptors, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolone propionic acid/kainate receptors, and protein kinase A, for long-term memory expression. Our results indicate that memory formation and retrieval may share some molecular mechanisms in the hippocampus.
Although considerable evidence exists that spinal neurokinin(1) receptors are involved in central sensitization of nociception, recent evidence from knockout studies indicates that other neurokinin receptors in the spinal cord may mediate a portion of the hyperalgesia caused by substance P and neurokinin A. The present study determined whether the second most abundant class of neurokinin receptors, neurokinin(3) receptors, are regulated during persistent peripheral inflammation. Inflammation in the hind paw of the rat was induced by intraplantar injection of complete Freund's adjuvant. Receptor autoradiography revealed specific binding of [125I]-MePhe(7)-NKB, a selective ligand for neurokinin(3) receptors, in the superficial dorsal horn of the spinal cord. Specific binding of [125I]-MePhe(7)-NKB in the medial dorsal horn was reduced bilaterally two days after unilateral injection of complete Freund's adjuvant. Binding returned to basal levels four days after injection of complete Freund's adjuvant. Neurokinin(3) receptor messenger RNA levels doubled in the dorsal spinal cord at 12h and remained elevated for at least four days. The change in neurokinin(3) receptor binding and messenger RNA during adjuvant-induced inflammation may be a consequence of activation of the receptor. Spinal levels of potential endogenous ligands for spinal neurokinin(3) receptors were measured by radioimmunohistochemistry. Immunoreactive substance P but not neurokinin B peptide 2, a marker for neurokinin B, was reduced bilaterally during adjuvant-induced inflammation.Collectively, these data indicate that spinal neurokinin(3) receptors may play a role in spinal neurotransmission of injured rats and require consideration of other tachykinins as physiologically relevant ligands to spinal neurokinin(3) receptors.
Single unmyelinated axons in the superficial branch of the peroneal nerve of human subjects were recorded (microneurography) and the response patterns during tonic pressure stimulation (14N at 30 mm(2); 120 s) were assessed using the previously described &quot;marking technique&quot;. It was found that tonic pressure stimuli induced augmenting pain responses which were matched by the discharges of initially mechano-insensitive (&quot;silent&quot;) C-units, whereas mechano- and heat-responsive &quot;polymodal&quot; C-nociceptors showed a response pattern incompatible with the stimulus-induced perceptions, namely strong initial excitation, followed by adaptation. Eighteen mechano- and heat-responsive &quot;polymodal&quot; C-fibers and 11 mechano-insensitive units were studied. The former had von Frey thresholds &lt;160 mN, the latter were not excited by a von Frey filament of 750 mN (six of them responded to radiant heat stimulation). However, in the course of pressure stimulation, nine of the 11 mechano-insensitive units were activated after more than 20s. A second, identical pressure stimulus induced a stronger response in mechano-insensitive and a weaker response in mechano-responsive units. The stronger response, indicating sensitization, matched the more intense pain perception during the second pressure stimulus. It is concluded that mechano-insensitive C-nociceptors encode pressure-induced pain in human hairy skin and that they play an important role in static mechanical hyperalgesia.
Within the caudal medulla there are two regions whose activation leads to vasodepression and bradycardia, the caudal ventrolateral medulla and a discrete region of the caudal midline medulla. This study investigated, in the halothane anaesthetized rat, the contribution of these two vasodepressor regions to &quot;homeostatic&quot; and &quot;behaviourally-coupled&quot; cardiovascular regulation. In an initial set of experiments the contribution of each of these two regions to the hypotension and bradycardia evoked by acute hypovolaemia (15% haemorrhage) was investigated. It was found that inactivation of the caudal midline medulla significantly attenuated (cobalt chloride) or completely blunted (lignocaine) the hypotension and bradycardia evoked by acute hypovolaemia. In contrast, inactivation of the caudal ventrolateral medulla using cobalt chloride, although attenuating the magnitude of the hypotension and completely blocking the bradycardia, did not delay the onset of the hypotension evoked by acute hypovolaemia. The caudal ventrolateral medulla is known to be critical in homeostatic cardiovascular control through the expression of the &quot;baroreceptor reflex&quot; and the hypotension and bradycardia evoked by activation of cardiopulmonary afferents. In a second series of experiments we found inactivation of the caudal midline medulla played no role in baroreflex-evoked bradycardia (i.v. phenylephrine) or the hypotension and bradycardia evoked by cardiopulmonary afferent activation (i.v. 5-hydroxytryptamine). These data suggest that the caudal midline medulla and caudal ventrolateral medulla play different roles in cardiovascular control. The caudal ventrolateral medulla is involved in mediating cardiovascular changes associated with a variety of stimuli including &quot;homeostatic&quot; and &quot;behaviourally-coupled&quot; cardiovascular changes, whereas the caudal midline medulla is critical for mediating &quot;behaviourally-coupled&quot; changes in arterial pressure and heart rate.
An antisense oligodeoxynucleotide selective for the rat neuropeptide Y1 receptor gene was given into the left lateral ventricle in the experimental group of rats, whereas a missense oligodeoxynucleotide or saline was given in the control groups. Some rats were decapitated at 1-2h after the last injection of the oligodeoxynucleotides to examine their effects on the Y1 receptor density in the insular cortex. When compared to the Y1 and Y2 binding density of the untreated rats, the antisense-treated rats had reduced Y1 binding in the insular cortex but the Y2 binding was unaffected; treatment with missense oligodeoxynucleotide had no effect. Other rats underwent a right-sided middle cerebral artery occlusion at 1-2h after the last injection of the oligodeoxynucleotides or saline to examine the effect on the infarction volume at three days following stroke. The antisense treatment resulted in a doubling of the mean infarction volume when compared to the missense or saline treatment.Thus, reducing the Y1 receptor density prior to middle cerebral artery occlusion is harmful. Neuropeptide Y may mediate neuroprotection against focal ischemia via the cortical Y1 receptor, since the immunoreactivity for neuropeptide Y has been shown to increase within the peri-infarct cortex after middle cerebral artery occlusion.
It is speculated that specific hindbrain transmitter pathways centred on the periaqueductal gray and locus coeruleus are an important integrative neural substrate for the expression of anxiety and the somatic symptoms and cardiovascular changes that accompany severe anxiety states, such as in panic disorder. Here we investigated the effects of various drugs, known to induce panic in humans and to be anxiogenic in animals, on Fos expression in the periaqueductal gray, locus coeruleus and other parts of the rat hindbrain. The drugs tested were the benozodiazepine inverse agonist FG-7142, the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine, the non-selective 5-hydroxytryptamine(2C) receptor agonist m-chlorophenyl piperazine, the adenosine antagonist caffeine and the cholecystokinin analogue BOC-CCK(4). A clear-cut finding was that administration of each anxiogenic drug caused a striking region-specific pattern of Fos expression within the hindbrain. In particular, the drugs commonly increased Fos-like immunoreactivity in the periaqueductal gray and locus coeruleus. Increased Fos expression in the periaqueductal gray was specific to the rostral dorsolateral and caudal ventrolateral regions. All the anxiogenic drugs also increased Fos-like immunoreactivity in the lateral parabrachial nucleus and nucleus of the solitary tract and all but one (BOC-CCK(4)) increased Fos in the dorsal raphe nucleus. Rats habituated to the test environment and injected with saline vehicle displayed little or no Fos-like immunoreactivity in the hindbrain areas investigated. In summary, each of the anxiogenic drugs tested (FG-7142, yohimbine, m-chlorophenyl piperazine, caffeine and BOC-CCK(4)) increased Fos expression in a restricted number of hindbrain regions, including the periaqueductal gray and locus coeruleus. Previous Fos studies have found that these same regions are activated by various fearful environmental stimuli. Therefore, a specific set of hindbrain circuits may be commonly involved in the processing of anxiety-related information evoked by pharmacological and environmental manipulation. The present findings also raise the possibility that measurement of the effect of anxiogenic drugs on Fos expression might be a useful way to model hindbrain pathways activated by anxiety and possibly panic.
The anatomical subdivision of striatum in patch and matrix compartments plays an important role for the processing of neurotransmission through the basal ganglia in primates and rodents. Here we report that co-administration of D(1)/D(5) and D(2) receptor agonists, which induces a heterogenous and patchy pattern of c-fos messenger RNA expression in striatum, stimulates c-fos messenger RNA expression in cholinergic interneurons. Moreover, this treatment induces c-fos messenger RNA in projection neurons containing D(1)-, rather than D(2)-receptor messenger RNA. The preferential induction of c-fos messenger RNA in patches does not depend upon a higher degree of co-localization between D(1) and D(2) receptors in this area, since double in situ hybridization experiments showed a large segregation of D(1) and D(2) receptor messenger RNAs in the patch as well as the matrix compartments. By contrast, treatment with a full D(1)/D(5) receptor agonist up-regulates striatal c-fos messenger RNA homogenously and in similar proportions of D(1) and D(2) receptor messenger RNA-containing projection neurons in both medial and lateral striatum, but has only minor effects on c-fos messenger RNA expression in cholinergic interneurons. These results provide a neuroanatomical/neurochemical correlate to the well-known behavioral interaction between dopamine D(1)/D(5) agonists and dopamine D(2) agonists. They also suggest that there may be a relation between a heterogenous, patch-enriched c-fos messenger RNA expression and an increased expression of this immediate early gene in cholinergic interneurons.
Previous microdialysis studies have led to the hypothesis that activation of mesolimbic alpha-adrenoceptors inhibits the release of mesolimbic dopamine from alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine-resistant, reserpine-sensitive pools, and that activation of mesolimbic beta-adrenoceptors stimulates the release of mesolimbic dopamine from alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine-sensitive, reserpine-resistant pools. In the present study we analysed the ability of mesolimbic alpha- and beta-adrenoceptors to modulate the release of dopamine from alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine-sensitive pools in the nucleus accumbens of high and low responders to novelty. Under non-challenged conditions, alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine (10(-4)M, 40 min) produced a decrease in dopamine release that did not differ between high and low responders to novelty. The continuous infusion of 10(-6)M isoproterenol (beta-adrenoceptor agonist) diminished the alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine-induced decrease in dopamine, whereas the continuous infusion of 10(-5)M phenylephrine (alpha-adrenoceptor agonist) remained ineffective. It is concluded that the release of mesolimbic dopamine from alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine-sensitive, reserpine-resistant pools is under excitatory control of beta-adrenergic, but not alpha-adrenergic, receptors in both high and low responders to novelty. In general, this study implies that mesolimbic dopamine that is derived from different pools is regulated via different noradrenergic receptors.
A new approach combining fast-scan cyclic voltammetry with iontophoretic dopamine delivery was used in freely behaving rats to evaluate the time-course of dopamine uptake inhibition in nucleus accumbens induced by intravenous cocaine at a dose (1.0mg/kg) known to maintain self-administration behavior. Cocaine significantly increased the decay time of the dopamine response without altering its magnitude or time to peak. An increase in decay time was evident at 2 min, peaked at 6 min (+87%), and decreased to baseline at 18 min after a single cocaine injection. The change in decay time was similar in all rats and remained essentially the same, albeit slightly larger, for subsequent cocaine injections both within a session and over repeated sessions. The change in dopamine decay time did not correlate with cocaine-induced motor activation, which was maximal during the first minute after injection and decreased slowly over the next 20 min. Our data provide direct evidence for a phasic change in dopamine uptake induced by intravenous cocaine under behaviorally relevant conditions. The relatively slow and gradual development of dopamine uptake inhibition, which peaks at times when behaving rats self-inject cocaine, is inconsistent with the suggested role of this mechanism in the acute rewarding (euphoric) effects of self-injected cocaine, but supports its role in the activational and motivational aspects of drug-seeking and drug-taking behavior. Because intravenous cocaine enters the brain rapidly and peaks in neural tissue (1-2 min) long before it effectively inhibits dopamine uptake (6 min), it appears that some of the acute psychoemotional (&quot;rush&quot;), behavioral, autonomic, and neuronal effects of this drug, which are apparently resistant to dopamine receptor blockade, are mediated via rapid central or peripheral mechanisms independent of monoamine uptake.
Extracellular and whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were made from neurons in the ventromedial preoptic area in rat horizontal brain slices. Responses to single-pulse electrical stimulation of the ipsilateral suprachiasmatic nucleus were characterized using peristimulus time histograms or postsynaptic current recordings, and bath application of neurotransmitter receptor antagonists. Extracellular recordings showed that suprachiasmatic nucleus stimulation (50-150 microA) elicited a short-latency suppression in 35 of 64 neurons (55%), with the majority (29/35, 83%) showing a biphasic response consisting of a short-latency suppression followed by a long-duration activation. In addition, 14 cells (22%) showed activation only, while 15 (23%) were unresponsive. The GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline (5-10 microM) reversibly blocked suppressions evoked by suprachiasmatic nucleus stimulation (20/20 cells). In the majority of these neurons (13/20), bicuculline also unmasked an activation in response to stimulation. Activations elicited by suprachiasmatic nucleus stimulation, either in the presence or absence of bicuculline, were blocked by the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate and N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptor antagonists 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione and (+/-)-3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (10/10 cells). 6,7-Dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (10 microM) selectively and reversibly blocked the initial, short-duration (&lt;50 ms) activation, but had no effect on the longer-duration activation. In contrast, (+/-)-3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (10 microM) appeared to inhibit the long-duration activation selectively without affecting the initial rapid activation. Combined applications of the two ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists blocked stimulation-induced activations completely. All the pharmacological effects were concentration dependent. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings showed that suprachiasmatic nucleus stimulation elicited inhibitory postsynaptic currents or a combination of inhibitory and excitatory postsynaptic currents in 25 of 33 neurons tested. The inhibitory postsynaptic currents had short onset latencies (4.9+/-0.3 ms) and a reversal potential of -56.0+/-3.8 mV (n=5), and were reversibly blocked by bicuculline (5-10 microM, 4/4 cells). In the presence of bicuculline (5-10 microM), excitatory postsynaptic currents had short onset latencies (4.7+/-0.5 ms), and had a fast and a slow component. (+/-) 3-(2-Carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid blocked the slow, but not the fast, component, whereas 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2, 3-dione blocked the fast, but not the slow, component (n=7). These results suggest that the projection from the suprachiasmatic nucleus conveys both inhibitory (GABA) and excitatory (glutamate) inputs to the ventromedial preoptic area. GABA(A) receptor and both non-N-methyl-D-aspartate and N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptors mediate these influences. These inputs may be responsible for conveying information related to circadian phase from the suprachiasmatic nucleus to regions of the preoptic area known to be involved in regulation of sleep/waking and other physiological functions.
One of the earliest changes, at the molecular level, that occurs in human Huntington's disease patients is reduction in cannabinoid receptor ligand binding in the substantia nigra pars reticulata compared to neurologically normal controls. The loss of cannabinoid receptor binding is thought to occur early in or prior to the development of Huntington's disease neuropathology. We wish to determine whether cannabinoid receptor messenger RNA levels were altered in a mouse model of Huntington's disease. Transgenic mice hemizygous for the promoter sequence and exon 1 of the human Huntington's disease gene exhibit a progressive neurological phenotype with many of the features of Huntington's disease. This neurological phenotype develops in the absence of neural degeneration making these mice a model system to dissociate changes related to cell dysfunction from changes related to cell loss. We examine the steady-state levels and cellular distribution of the brain-specific cannabinoid receptor messenger RNA by northern blot and in situ hybridization. The cannabinoid receptor messenger RNA was expressed throughout the striatum, cortex and hippocampus of wild-type mice. At four and five weeks of age, there was no difference in the distribution of the cannabinoid receptor messenger RNA between the wild-type and transgenic Huntington's disease mice. At six, seven, eight and 10 weeks of age, however, the Huntington's disease mice exhibit reduced levels of cannabinoid receptor messenger RNA in the lateral striatum compared to age-matched controls. The Huntington's disease mice also showed a loss of cannabinoid receptor messenger RNA within a subset of neurons in the cortex and hippocampus. We did not observe any difference in the expression of cannabinoid receptor between the wild-type and Huntington's disease mice throughout Ammon's horn of the hippocampus or in the medial striatum. The decrease in cannabinoid receptor messenger RNA levels preceded the development of the Huntington's disease phenotype and neuronal degeneration and, therefore, these transgenic mice model early cellular changes observed in human patients. Our results demonstrate that the single copy cannabinoid receptor gene is subjected to cell-specific and time-dependent regulation of the steady-state level of its gene product as a result of the expression of the Huntington's disease gene. As the endogenous cannabinoid receptor agonist, anandimide, has been shown to modulate dopamine neurotransmission within the basal ganglia, the loss of cannabinoid receptors may contribute to the development of motor symptoms or cognitive decline or both seen in Huntington's disease patients.
It has been suggested that the anticonvulsant effects of neuropeptide Y (NPY) could be mediated by the activation of Y(2) and/or Y(5) receptors. NPY Y(1) receptor levels are known to decrease and Y(2) to increase in rat models of epilepsy. By using an autoradiographic approach, we investigated whether epilepsy models (kainic acid and kindling) are also associated with changes in Y(5) receptors. Compared with naive controls, [125I][Leu(31), Pro(34)]PYY/BIBP3226-insensitive (Y(5)) binding sites in the hippocampus (strata oriens and radiatum of CA3 and CA1) and in the neocortex (superficial layers) were unchanged in sham-stimulated rats, but reduced by approximately 50% in kindled rats (seven days after the last stimulus evokes seizure), and further reduced (to approximately -90%) 1h after a kindled seizure. Additionally, Y(5) receptor binding sites in the hippocampus and in the neocortex were unchanged 6h after kainic acid injection, but were highly reduced at 12 and 24h. No changes in Y(5) binding levels were found in the dentate gyrus and the pyramidal cell layer of the hippocampus. The present data suggest that changes in Y(5) receptor levels occur in epilepsy models. These changes may play a role in seizure expression and/or in the maintenance of kindling hyperexcitability.
Chronic exposure to ethanol can induce widespread cell loss in the brain, in some cases even causing dementia. Although the underlying mechanism associated with ethanol toxicity has not yet been established, it is suggested that one of the ways in which ethanol disrupts neuronal functioning/survival is by targeting the actions of mitogenic growth factors. Insulin-like growth factors-I and -II and insulin are structurally related polypeptides with potent mitogenic and metabolic effects on the central and peripheral nervous systems. These growth factors and their respective receptors are widely distributed throughout the brain, including the hippocampus and cerebellum. Evidence indicates that ethanol can decrease plasma levels of insulin-like growth factors and can also inhibit the growth-promoting and cell survival effects of these growth factors under in vitro conditions. The present study was designed to determine if voluntary ethanol consumption over a 21-day period could alter [125I]insulin-like growth factor-I, [125I]insulin-like growth factor-II and [125I]insulin receptor-binding sites in the hippocampus and cerebellum-areas known to be severely affected following chronic exposure to ethanol. C57BL/6 mice were presented with either water only or a choice of water and a 10% v/v ethanol solution. Mice with access to the ethanol solution drank an average of 5.35+/-0.77 g of ethanol/kg body weight per day. [125I]Insulin-like growth factor-I receptor-binding sites were found to be significantly increased in all subfields of the hippocampal formation, but not in the cerebellum, of ethanol-treated mice compared to controls. [125I]Insulin-like growth factor-II and [125I]insulin receptor-binding sites, on the other hand, did not exhibit any alterations either in the hippocampus or cerebellum following chronic exposure to ethanol. These results, in keeping with earlier reports, suggest that hippocampal insulin-like growth factor-I is more sensitive to ethanol treatment than either insulin-like growth factor-II or insulin, and the observed increase in the [125I]insulin-like growth factor-I receptor levels possibly reflects an activity-dependent response to prevent/slow down neuronal degeneration and/or to regulate subtle functional alterations that follow chronic exposure to ethanol.
Mitogen-activated protein kinases are signal transduction mediators that have been implicated in cell survival and cell death. This study characterized the activation of pathways in the hippocampus during reperfusion after global cerebral ischemia, as well as the influence of a regimen of hypothermia that reduces ischemic cell death in the hippocampus. Circulatory arrest was induced in rats by 8 min of asphyxia. Relative levels of phosphorylated and total extracellular signal-regulated kinase, stress-activated protein kinase/c-Jun N-terminal kinase and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase were measured in the hippocampus after 6, 12 or 24h of reperfusion using immunoblotting. Asphyxia induced a progressive increase in phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase and stress-activated protein kinase/c-Jun N-terminal kinase, but no change in phosphorylated p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase. Induction of mild hypothermia (33 degrees C) during reperfusion increased extracellular signal-regulated kinase phosphorylation and produced a smaller increase in stress-activated protein kinase/c-Jun N-terminal kinase phosphorylation at 24h. Hypothermia did not alter extracellular signal-regulated kinase activation in rats not subjected to ischemia. Extracellular signal-regulated kinase activation was associated with an increase in phosphorylation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 1/2, and was inhibited by administration of the specific mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 1/2 inhibitor SL327. Immunohistochemical staining showed an increase in active extracellular signal-regulated kinase in the CA1, CA2, CA3 and dentate gyrus regions of the hippocampus after ischemia and reperfusion. In contrast, active stress-activated protein kinase/c-Jun N-terminal kinase immunoreactivity was most intense in the CA3 and dentate gyrus regions. These data demonstrate that both extracellular signal-regulated kinase and stress-activated protein kinase/c-Jun N-terminal kinase pathways are activated during the first 24h of reperfusion after global cerebral ischemia, and that hypothermia increases the activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase relative to stress-activated protein kinase/c-Jun N-terminal kinase. Thus, an increase in extracellular signal-regulated kinase activation may be associated with improved neuronal survival after ischemic injury.
The anatomical localization and pharmacology of alpha5 subunit-containing GABA type-A receptors in the human hippocampal formation of Alzheimer's disease patients were studied with an alpha5 receptor selective ligand, [3H]L-655,708 and compared to age-matched human controls. Autoradiographic analyses revealed a heterogeneous distribution of [3H]L-655,708 binding sites in CA1-CA3 areas with high levels in stratum oriens, stratum pyramidale and stratum radiatum contrasting with low levels in stratum lacunosum. The highest quantity of alpha5 receptors was found in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. This pattern of expression was identical in both hippocampus from control and Alzheimer's disease subjects. Quantitative studies demonstrated that the number of [3H]L-655,708 binding sites is well preserved in Alzheimer's disease with only a moderate reduction (25-30%) in the CA1 subfield and entorhinal cortex. Furthermore, saturation and competition experiments with [3H]L-655,708 and representative benzodiazepine site ligands revealed that alpha5 receptors in Alzheimer's hippocampus have an alpha5beta2/3gamma2 pharmacology and structure as in control human brain.Overall, the data reported here provide evidence for a specific expression and relative sparing of alpha5 subunit-containing gamma-aminobutyric acid type-A receptors in the hippocampus of Alzheimer's patients.
Nuclei of the medial septum/diagonal band region of the mammalian forebrain contain neurons that give rise to the septohippocampal pathway, which has separate cholinergic and GABAergic components. This pathway is known to influence hippocampal-dependent memory and learning processes, but the precise role of each component is unclear. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that fast-firing, non-bursting medial septum/diagonal band neurons are GABAergic. We used brain slice preparations from young adult guinea-pigs and rats, or from weanling rats, to perform current-clamp recordings from medial septum/diagonal band neurons. Recorded neurons were injected with biocytin for subsequent visualization with fluorescent avidin, and then hybridized with a 35S-labeled riboprobe for glutamate decarboxylase-67 messenger RNA. As a positive control, guinea-pig cerebellar Purkinje cells were labeled and hybridized with the riboprobe. As expected, labeled Purkinje cells were glutamate decarboxylase-67 messenger RNA positive. Slow-firing, cholinergic (choline acetyltransferase-positive) guinea-pig medial septum/diagonal band neurons were glutamate decarboxylase-67 messenger RNA negative. Contrary to our hypothesis, of the guinea-pig neurons, only three of 11 fast-firing neurons were glutamate decarboxylase-67 positive. Of the rat medial septum/diagonal band neurons, three of four were positive for glutamate decarboxylase-67 messenger RNA. These data suggest that fast-firing, non-bursting neurons of the medial septum/diagonal band, as sampled by sharp-electrode intracellular recordings in brain slices, may be a heterogeneous group of neurons, some of which are GABAergic. Together with recent data demonstrating the presence of another GABAergic marker, parvalbumin, in fast-firing septal neurons, we conclude that GABAergic septohippocampal neurons include a population of fast-firing, non-bursting neurons. The influence of these neurons on the hippocampus is likely to occur on a shorter time-scale and over a wider range of firing frequencies as compared to slowly firing cholinergic septohippocampal neurons.
Behavioral and cognitive deficits are one of the most frequent sequelae of childhood epilepsy. Accumulating evidence indicates that epilepsy induces aberrant development of the mossy fibers in the hippocampus, the region that is commonly accepted to play a key role in learning and memory. We have therefore proposed that such abnormal maturation of the central nervous system may cause the adverse prognoses following epilepsy. Based on this hypothesis, using primary cultures of the dentate granule cells, we showed that the L-type Ca(2+) channel blocker nicardipine was neuroprotective against excessive mossy fiber synaptogenesis induced by prolonged depolarization that was assumed to mimic epileptiform conditions. Therefore, we evaluated the in vivo effect of nicardipine on aversive sequelae following epileptiform seizures. We found aberrant sprouting of the mossy fibers and poor performance of spatial and contextual tasks in the mice that had received treatment with pilocarpine at their early postnatal age. Repetitive administration of nicardipine prevented the mossy fiber sprouting and ameliorated the cognitive deterioration, although it did not show anticonvulsant actions against pilocarpine seizures. In the present study, we proposed two in vitro and in vivo models for evaluating epilepsy sequelae and noticed that L-type Ca(2+) channel blocker nicardipine was effective in both models. L-type Ca(2+) channel blocker may be a good candidate for a preventive for childhood epilepsy sequelae. Likewise, these useful systems will disclose additional candidates in future.
In the previous study, we demonstrated that the antisense oligodeoxynucleotides against calcineurin Aalpha and Abeta, catalytic subunits of Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase, produce a facilitatory effect on long-term potentiation induction in the hippocampal CA1 region in rats anesthetized with urethane. Here, we have studied how animals, in which the hippocampal long-term potentiation induction is enhanced by antisense oligodeoxynucleotides against calcineurin, perform in learning tasks that depend on hippocampal function. The rats received antisense oligodeoxynucleotides by bilateral ventricular administration via miniosmotic pumps. We tested four groups of rats, three infused with either antisense oligodeoxynucleotides, scramble oligodeoxynucleotides, or saline, and untreated rats, for two types of hippocampus-dependent learning, water maze and contextual fear conditioning. After the behavioral tests, we conducted a long-term potentiation induction test to determine whether long-term potentiation induction was enhanced. In contextual fear conditioning, rats in which long-term potentiation induction was enhanced by antisense oligodeoxynucleotides displayed significantly more conditioned freezing response than control rats. Rats with enhanced long-term potentiation induction showed no differences in shock sensitivity, general activity, or light-dark choice from control rats. In contrast with contextual fear conditioning, rats with enhanced long-term potentiation induction showed no difference in spatial learning performance on the water maze compared with control rats. These results demonstrate that an enhancement in long-term potentiation induction produced by the inhibition of calcineurin leads to an increase in memory strength in specific forms of hippocampus-dependent learning.
Unipolar brush cells are a class of interneurons in the granular layer of the mammalian cerebellum that receives excitatory mossy fiber synaptic input in the form of a giant glutamatergic synapse. Previously, it was shown that the unipolar brush cell axon branches within the granular layer, giving rise to large terminals. Single mossy fiber stimuli evoke a prolonged burst of firing in unipolar brush cells, which would be distributed to postsynaptic targets within the granular layer. Knowledge of the ultrastructure of the unipolar brush cell terminals and of the cellular identity of its postsynaptic targets is required to understand how unipolar brush cells contribute to information processing in the cerebellar circuit. To investigate the unipolar brush cell axon and its targets, unipolar brush cells were patch-clamped in fresh parasagittal slices from rat cerebellar vermis with electrodes filled with Lucifer Yellow and Biocytin, and examined by confocal fluorescence and electron microscopy. Biocytin was localized with diaminobenzidine chromogen or gold-conjugated, silver-intensified avidin. Light microscopic examination revealed a single thin axon emanating from the unipolar brush cell soma that gave rise to 2-3 axon collaterals terminating in mossy fiber-like rosettes in the granular layer, typically within a few hundred microm of the soma. In some cases, axon collaterals crossed the white matter within the same folium before terminating in the adjacent granular layer. Electron microscopic examination of serial ultrathin sections revealed that proximal unipolar brush cell axons and axon collaterals were unmyelinated and devoid of synaptic contacts. However, the rosette-shaped enlargements of each collateral formed the central component of glomeruli where they were surrounded by dendrites of granule cells and/or other unipolar brush cells, with which they formed asymmetric synaptic contacts. A long-latency repetitive burst of polysynaptic activity was observed in granule cells in this cerebellar region following white matter stimulation. The unipolar brush cell axons, therefore, form a system of cortex-intrinsic mossy fibers. The results indicate that synaptic excitation of unipolar brush cells by mossy fibers will drive a large population of granule cells, and thus will contribute a powerful form of distributed excitation within the basic circuit of the cerebellar cortex.
We used magnetoencephalography to search spatio-temporally for cortical activity related to the perception of shape defined by various visual cues in humans. The visual stimuli were three kinds of two-dimensional figures: two had fixed shapes (Diamond and Cross), the other did not (Noise). These figures were defined by three visual cues: difference of flicker, texture or luminance between the foreground and the background in the random dot pattern. Using this stimulus, we recorded the magnetic responses from the temporo-occipital regions of nine healthy subjects. Additionally, we measured the reaction time for the subjects to detect the figure by button-pressing. A magnetic component was identified in the responses. The properties of the first magnetic component differed for stimulus condition. The peak latency of the first magnetic component was different for the cues (270 ms for flicker, 360 ms for texture and 250 ms for luminance), but not for the figures. In contrast, the peak amplitude of the first magnetic component was different for the figures (96-144 fT for Diamond or Cross and 52-80 fT for Noise), but not for the cues. The signal source of the first magnetic component was estimated to lie on the ventral side of the extrastriate cortex: In the posterior part of the inferior temporal cortex, probably in the fusiform gyrus in four subjects, and in the lateral part of the occipital cortex which was outside of the primary visual cortex (visual area 1) in one subject. The signal source location was different inter-individually, but almost the same within each subject. Reaction time was 471 ms for flicker, 569 ms for texture and 426 ms for luminance, but the interval between the reaction time and the peak latency was constant (about 200 ms) for each cue. The first magnetic component was more clearly recorded from the right hemisphere than from the left.We found that the shape defined by the different visual cues activates the same localized site in the lateral extrastriate cortex. This spatial convergence suggests that there is a restricted locus that processes the visual shape regardless of the difference of the visual cue. The correspondence between the peak latency and the reaction time suggests that the activity of the area is responsible for the perception of visual shape. The inter-hemispheric difference suggests a dominance of the right hemisphere in visual shape processing.
Parkinson's disease is characterized by the progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Symptoms do not appear until most nigral neurons are lost, implying that compensatory mechanisms are present. Sprouting has been proposed as one of these mechanisms. This study quantified the extent of compensatory axonal sprouting following injury of dopaminergic neurons within the substantia nigra pars compacta. Specifically, the extent of the axonal arbour and axonal varicosity morphology was measured after partial destruction (with 6-hydroxydopamine) of the substantia nigra of the adult male rat. Four months later, the substantia nigra was injected with the anterograde neuronal tracer dextran-biotin to trace the full extent of individual axons. An unbiased estimate of neuron number was performed in each animal. This demonstrated nigral neuronal loss ranging from 10 to 90% on the side that received the injection whilst a 7% reduction was observed in the side contralateral to the lesion. Coincident with this loss, some nigral neurons lose tyrosine hydroxylase expression. Vigorous axonal sprouting was observed in the terminal arbours of lesioned animals and was associated with an increased axonal varicosity size. Axonal varicosities and branching points were primarily confined to the dorsal 1.5mm of the caudate-putamen, an area predominantly innervated by nigral neurons. It appears that dopaminergic neurons were responsible for this sprouting because the density of dopamine transporter immunoreactive varicosities in the caudate-putamen was maintained until about a 70% loss of neurons. It was concluded that substantial compensation in the form of sprouting and new dopaminergic synapse formation occurs following lesions of the substantia nigra pars compacta.
The extracellular matrix protein reelin plays an important role in neuronal pattern formation and axonal collateralization during the development of the central nervous system. With the concept that reelin might also be important for axonal growth in the injured nervous system we investigated whether reelin is re-expressed in areas of collateral sprouting after brain injury. The expression of reelin messenger RNA was studied in the denervated fascia dentata of adult rats one, four, seven and 14 days following entorhinal cortex lesion. In adult control animals, in situ hybridization histochemistry with digoxigenin-labeled reelin riboprobes revealed reelin messenger RNA expression in neurons located in the outer molecular layer and beneath the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus. After entorhinal cortex lesion, this expression pattern did not change during the whole post-lesional time period investigated despite a strong glial activation and reactive sprouting in the outer molecular layer of the dentate gyrus as visualized by immunohistochemistry for glial fibrillary acidic protein and acetylcholinesterase histochemistry, respectively. The expression of reelin messenger RNA was also unaffected by entorhinal cortex lesion in the dentate gyrus of young animals (postnatal day seven), where an even stronger sprouting response occurs.
Adrenal chromaffin cells were used to test the role of the peripheral cytoskeleton of F-actin in controlling different vesicle pools. Phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate and calyculin A, two substances affecting phosphorylation-dephosphorylation cycles, produced different degrees of F-actin reorganization, inducing the partial and the almost total disassembly of this structure, respectively, as visualized using rhodamine-phalloidin staining. Consequently, electron microscopy studies revealed the higher efficiency of calyculin-A over phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate in promoting vesicle access to the plasmalemma boundary. Surprisingly, only the phorbol ester enhanced fast kinetics and the population of rapidly releasable vesicle pools as studied by single-cell amperometry, whereas both agents, as well as the F-actin severing compound, Latrunculin A, promoted an increase in the population of vesicles recruited in response to prolonged or repetitive stimulations. Taken together, our data support the notion that the F-actin peripheral barrier controls primary granule recruitment from reserve vesicle pools, whereas the phorbol ester effect on the rapidly releasable pools might be related to the alteration of late secretory stage through protein kinase C-dependent phosphorylation of an unidentified target.
The effect of noradrenaline was studied in principal neurons of the substantia nigra pars reticulata in rat brain slices using patch clamp recordings. Perfusion of noradrenaline or the alpha(1)-adrenoceptor agonist phenylephrine increased the spontaneous firing activity of reticulata cells. The alpha(1)-adrenoceptor antagonist prazosin counteracted the effects of noradrenaline. In contrast, the beta-adrenoceptor agonist isoproterenol did not affect the activity of reticulata cells and the beta-adrenoceptor antagonist pindolol did not prevent noradrenaline's effect. In whole-cell recordings, at -60 mV holding potential, noradrenaline caused a tetrodotoxin-resistant inward current with a time-course similar to the increase in firing activity. Analysis of the reversal potential of this current did not give homogeneous results. The net noradrenaline current could be associated with a conductance decrease or increase, or in some cases it did not reverse over a range from -120 to -30 mV. It is suggested that noradrenaline increases the excitability of substantia nigra reticulata cells through alpha(1)-adrenoceptors. Both a reduction and an increase in membrane conductance may mediate this effect. The increase in the tonic firing of principal reticulata cells caused by noradrenaline may have significant consequences in regulating the final output of the basal ganglia and consequently in motor-related behaviours.
The aim of this investigation was to determine whether murine models of inflammatory, neuropathic and cancer pain are each characterized by a unique set of neurochemical changes in the spinal cord and sensory neurons. All models were generated in C3H/HeJ mice and hyperalgesia and allodynia behaviorally characterized. A variety of neurochemical markers that have been implicated in the generation and maintenance of chronic pain were then examined in spinal cord and primary afferent neurons.Three days after injection of complete Freund's adjuvant into the hindpaw (a model of persistent inflammatory pain) increases in substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide, protein kinase C gamma, and substance P receptor were observed in the spinal cord. Following sciatic nerve transection or L5 spinal nerve ligation (a model of persistent neuropathic pain) significant decreases in substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide and increases in galanin and neuropeptide Y were observed in both primary afferent neurons and the spinal cord. In contrast, in a model of cancer pain induced by injection of osteolytic sarcoma cells into the femur, there were no detectable changes in any of these markers in either primary afferent neurons or the spinal cord. However, in this cancer-pain model, changes including massive astrocyte hypertrophy without neuronal loss, increase in the neuronal expression of c-Fos, and increase in the number of dynorphin-immunoreactive neurons were observed in the spinal cord, ipsilateral to the limb with cancer. These results indicate that a unique set of neurochemical changes occur with inflammatory, neuropathic and cancer pain in C3H/HeJ mice and further suggest that cancer induces a unique persistent pain state. Determining whether these neurochemical changes are involved in the generation and maintenance of each type of persistent pain may provide insight into the mechanisms that underlie each of these pain states.
The apoptotic cell death program is orchestrated by members of the caspase family. Among these caspases, several in vitro and in vivo reports indicate that the interleukin-1 beta-converting enzyme (or caspase 1) may be involved in neurodegenerative processes. In view of these findings, and in order to characterize the role of the interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme in mediating or modulating cell death processes in vivo, we have investigated the effects of its deletion on motoneuron survival after a facial nerve transection in newborn and adult interleukin-1 beta-converting enzyme knock-out mice. During the postnatal period of development, when facial motoneurons are highly vulnerable to axotomy, we did not observe any significant effect of the interleukin-1 beta-converting enzyme-deletion on the percentage of cell death in the lesioned nuclei. In addition, the spontaneous cell death characteristic of the postnatal period was not altered in knock-out mice. In contrast, in adult knock-out mice, a significant reduction (16%) in the number of surviving facial motoneurons was observed six weeks after axotomy. We therefore conclude that the interleukin-1 beta-converting enzyme does not appear to be critical for cell death during the postnatal period but may favor motoneuron survival during adulthood. Given the key role of caspase 3 in neuronal apoptosis during embryonic development of the central nervous system, we also investigated the role of this caspase in cell death following axotomy. Combined immunofluorescence revealed that, at least during the postnatal period, axotomized motoneurons that have apoptotic nuclear morphologies were immunopositive for the active form of caspase 3. Double-stained cells could be also observed on the unlesioned side. These results strongly suggest that caspase 3 may be involved in both the postnatal spontaneous- and axotomy-induced facial motoneuron death processes. Similar results were obtained in interleukin-1 beta-converting enzyme-deficient and wild-type mice, indicating that the interleukin-1 beta-converting enzyme may not be required for caspase 3 activation.
Brain injury-derived neurotrophic peptide is a 13-amino acid peptide derived from a 15,000 mol. wt neurotrophic factor released from sites of mechanical injury in neonatal rat brain. This peptide promotes survival of septal cholinergic neurons and mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons, and protects hippocampal neurons from glutamate-induced neurotoxicity. In this study, we have developed a monoclonal antibody against a brain injury-derived neurotrophic peptide-binding protein by immunizing mice with septal synaptosomes from five-week-old rat brain. Monoclonal antibodies were screened for inhibition of the binding of a 125I-labeled analogue of brain injury-derived neurotrophic peptide to rat brain synaptosomes. The monoclonal antibody 6A22 suppressed the biological activity of brain injury-derived neurotrophic peptide and abolished the protective effect of the neurotrophic peptide against glutamate-induced neurotoxicity. This monoclonal antibody recognized a 40,000 mol. wt brain injury-derived neurotrophic peptide-binding protein, which was also identified by cross-linking experiments. Immunohistochemical studies showed that the 6A22 antibody bound to the cell surfaces of a subpopulation (about 60%) of hippocampal neurons in culture. These results are consistent with the possibility that the 40,000 mol. wt protein belongs to brain injury-derived neurotrophic peptide receptors.
The nucleus preopticus medianus is known to be situated in a key site in pathways regulating the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus. To investigate the innervation pattern to nucleus preopticus medianus neurons by afferent fibers containing beta-endorphin, adrenocorticotrophic hormone and neuropeptide Y, a retrograde tracing method was combined with immunohistochemistry for these peptides in the rat. In the first experiment with injection of a retrograde tracer in the nucleus preopticus medianus, retrogradely labeled neurons were found in many regions throughout the brain. Among these, the arcuate hypothalamic nucleus contained a number of retrogradely labeled neurons showing immunoreactivity to the neuropeptides examined. About 20%, 20% and 40% of retrogradely labeled arcuate hypothalamic nucleus neurons showed beta-endorphin, adrenocorticotrophic hormone and neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity, respectively. About 18% and 57% of retrogradely labeled neurons in the nucleus tractus solitarius and ventrolateral medulla, respectively, were immunoreactive to neuropeptide Y. There were many more neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive projections to the nucleus preopticus medianus from the arcuate hypothalamic nucleus than those from the medulla. None of the retrogradely labeled neurons in the medulla showed immunoreactivity to beta-endorphin or adrenocorticotrophic hormone. In the second experiment with injection of a retrograde tracer in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus, electron microscopic observation revealed that retrogradely labeled neurons in the nucleus preopticus medianus were in synaptic contact with beta-endorphin-, adrenocorticotrophic hormone- and neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive axon terminals. The present finding indicates that nucleus preopticus medianus neurons projecting to the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus are innervated by beta-endorphin-, adrenocorticotrophic hormone- and neuropeptide Y-containing arcuate hypothalamic nucleus neurons in addition to being innervated by neuropeptide Y-containing catecholaminergic medullary neurons which have been reported in our previous study.
This study was undertaken to assess the role of catecholamine fibers, terminating in the preoptic area, in regulating sleep-wakefulness in rats. Sleep-wakefulness was assessed on the basis of 24h electroencephalogram, electromyogram and electro-oculogram recordings before and after destruction of catecholaminergic terminals at the medial preoptic area by bilateral intracerebral injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (8 microg in 0.2 microl). There was a mild reduction in sleep and increase in wakefulness after the lesion. The increase in active wakefulness observed after eight days of lesion persisted even on the 12th day. In spite of the reduction in sleep, the day-night sleep ratio was not affected by 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the preoptic area. The results indicate that the noradrenergic fibers at the preoptic area have a hypnogenic role.
Extensive studies have established that light regulates c-fos gene expression in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, the site of an endogenous circadian clock, but relatively little is known about the expression of genes structurally related to c-fos, including fra-1, fra-2 and fosB. We analysed the photic and temporal regulation of these genes at the messenger RNA and immunoreactive protein levels in rat suprachiasmatic nucleus, and we found different expression patterns after photic stimulation and depending on location in the ventrolateral or dorsomedial subdivisions. In the ventrolateral suprachiasmatic nucleus, c-fos, fra-2 and fosB expression was stimulated after a subjective-night (but not subjective-day) light pulse. Expression of the fra-2 gene was prolonged following photic stimulation, with elevated messenger RNA and protein levels that appeared unchanged for at least a few hours beyond the c-fos peak. Unlike c-fos and fra-2, the fosB gene appeared to be expressed constitutively in the ventrolateral suprachiasmatic nucleus throughout the circadian cycle; immunohistochemical analysis suggested that delta FosB was the protein product accounting for this constitutive expression, while FosB was induced by the subjective-night light pulse. In the dorsomedial suprachiasmatic nucleus, c-fos and fra-2 expression exhibited an endogenous circadian rhythm, with higher levels during the early subjective day, although the relative abundance was much lower than that measured after light pulses in the ventrolateral suprachiasmatic nucleus. Double-label immunohistochemistry suggested that some of the dorsomedial cells responsible for the circadian expression of c-Fos also synthesized arginine vasopressin. No evidence of suprachiasmatic nucleus fra-1 expression was found. In summary, fos family genes exhibit differences in their specific expression patterns in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, including their photic and circadian regulation in separate cell populations in the ventrolateral and dorsomedial subdivisions. The data, in combination with our previous results [Takeuchi J. et al. (1993) Neuron 11, 825-836], suggest that activator protein-1 binding sites on ventrolateral suprachiasmatic nucleus target genes are constitutively occupied by DeltaFosB/JunD complexes, and that c-Fos, Fra-2, FosB and JunB compete for binding after photic stimulation. The differential regulation of fos family genes in the ventrolateral and dorsomedial suprachiasmatic nucleus suggests that their circadian function(s) and downstream target(s) are likely to be cell specific.
The biological actions of the neuromodulator somatostatin are mediated through a family of G-protein-coupled receptors, of which five members, sst(1-5), have been identified. Although the messenger RNA distribution of the sst(4) receptor has been reported, no information about the distribution of the receptor protein in the central nervous system is available. We have therefore raised a polyclonal peptide antibody against a rat carboxy-terminal sst(4) peptide. The selectivity of the affinity-purified antibody was demonstrated by western blotting of membrane proteins isolated from Chinese hamster ovary-K1 cells expressing the recombinant sst(4) receptor and from the rat hippocampus. This resulted in both cases in the identification of a single band of approximately 42,000 mol. wt. Furthermore, the sst(4) receptor antibody selectively labelled Chinese hamster ovary-K1 cells expressing the recombinant sst(4) receptor in immunocytochemistry. No cross-reactivity was observed with other recombinant somatostatin receptors. Immunohistochemistry on adult rat brain sections showed the sst(4) receptor to have a widespread distribution. This included labelling of cell bodies as well as processes in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus and several nuclei in the brainstem. All signals were absent following antibody preabsorption with the synthetic sst(4) peptide. This study provides the first detailed analysis of the distribution of sst(4) receptor protein in the rat brain.
The action of somatostatin on GABA-mediated transmission was investigated in cat and rat thalamocortical neurons of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus and ventrobasal thalamus in vitro. In the cat thalamus, somatostatin (10 microM) had no effect on the passive membrane properties of thalamocortical neurons and on the postsynaptic response elicited in these cells by bath or iontophoretic application of (+/-)baclofen (5-10 microM) or GABA, respectively. However, somatostatin (1-10 microM) decreased by a similar amount (45-55%) the amplitude of electrically evoked GABA(A) and GABA(B) inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in 71 and 50% of neurons in the lateral geniculate and ventrobasal nucleus, respectively. In addition, the neuropeptide abolished spontaneous bursts of GABA(A) inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in 85% of kitten lateral geniculate neurons, and decreased (40%) the amplitude of single spontaneous GABA(A) inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in 87% of neurons in the cat lateral geniculate nucleus. Similar results were obtained in the rat thalamus. Somatostatin (10 microM) had no effect on the passive membrane properties of thalamocortical neurons in this species, or on the outward current elicited by puff-application of (+/-)baclofen (5-10 microM). However, in 57 and 22% of neurons in the rat lateral geniculate and ventrobasal nuclei, respectively, somatostatin (1 microM) reduced the frequency, but not the amplitude, of miniature GABA(A) inhibitory postsynaptic currents by 31 and 37%, respectively. In addition, the neuropeptide (1 microM) decreased the amplitude of evoked GABA(A) inhibitory postsynaptic currents in 20 and 55% of rat ventrobasal neurons recorded in normal conditions and during enhanced excitability, respectively: this effect was stronger on bursts of inhibitory postsynaptic currents(100% decrease) than on single inhibitory postsynaptic currents (41% decrease). These results demonstrate that in the sensory thalamus somatostatin inhibits GABA(A)- and GABA(B)-mediated transmission via a presynaptic mechanism, and its action is more prominent on bursts of GABAergic synaptic currents/potentials.
In a previous study, we described a population of striatal cells in the rat brain containing aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase, the enzyme involved in the conversion of L-DOPA into dopamine. We have also presented evidence that these cells produce dopamine in the presence of exogenous L-DOPA. In this paper, we further characterize these striatal aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase-containing cells in order to determine whether they form a subclass of one of the known categories of striatal neurons or if they represent a novel cell type. Using immunohistochemical methods, we compared the morphology and distribution of the aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase-immunolabeled cells with those of other classes of striatal neurons. Our results show that both the morphology and distribution of aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase-immunolabeled cells are very distinctive and do not resemble those of cells labeled for other striatal neuronal markers. Double-labeling procedures revealed that aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase cells do not co-localize somatostatin or parvalbumin, and only a very small percentage of them co-localize calretinin. However, the population of aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase cells label intensely for GABA.Overall, our results suggest that these aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase-containing cells represent a class of striatal GABAergic neurons not described previously.
In order to investigate the process of gene expression of N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptor (NMDAR) subunits in the rat neostriatum and how this relates to motor behaviors, a single dose of antisense phosphodiester oligodeoxynucleotide specific for NMDAR1 was unilaterally applied in the neostriatum in a stereotaxic apparatus. After one day of antisense treatment, ipsilateral rotation behaviors that were induced by apomorphine were found in the treated animals. Reductions in the levels of expression of NMDAR1 and NMDAR2A messenger RNAs (NMDAR1: 20.6%; NMDAR2A: 19.7%) were found in the antisense-treated striatal tissues by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. There was no change in the levels of NMDAR2B, NMDAR2C and NMDAR2D messenger RNAs. After two days, western blotting experiments showed that there were decreases in the levels of expression of NMDAR1 (decreased 27.6%) and NMDAR2A (decreased 19.2%) proteins in the NMDAR1 antisense-treated striatal tissues. In addition, NMDAR1 immunoreactivity was found to decrease in intensity in the NMDAR1 antisense-treated neostriatum. At the cellular level, the intensity of NMDAR1 immunoreactivity in perikarya of presumed medium spiny neurons was found to decrease. These results indicate that a single dose of NMDAR1 antisense modifies the expression of NMDAR1 messenger RNA and protein in neurons in the neostriatum. The modification in the expression of NMDAR1 has differential effects in the expression of NMDAR2 subunits. Gene expression of the native NMDAR subunits is likely to be a dynamic process. The change in gene expression of the NMDAR subunits in the neostriatum may have a profound effect on the motor behaviors of rats.
Ejections of 10(-5)-10(-3)M neurotensin into the ventral tegmental area increased dopamine efflux measured by electrochemical approaches in the prefrontal cortex of anaesthetized rats. In the same conditions, the effects evoked on dopamine efflux by 10(-5)M neurotensin(8-13) and [D-Tyr(11)]neurotensin were different from each other and depended on the explored area: the prefrontal cortex and the caudal and rostral nucleus accumbens. In the prefrontal cortex, neurotensin(8-13) was as potent as neurotensin, whereas [D-Tyr(11)]neurotensin was ineffective. In the caudal nucleus accumbens, when considering the initial intensity of the effect, neurotensin(8-13) and neurotensin appeared more potent than [D-Tyr(11)]neurotensin. In contrast, in the rostral nucleus accumbens, neurotensin(8-13) was less potent than [D-Tyr(11)]neurotensin and neurotensin. These results support the differential involvement of two pharmacologically distinct neurotensin receptor entities on ventral tegmental area neurons in the modulation of mesolimbic and mesocortical dopaminergic activity.
The ability of full and partial benzodiazepine receptor agonists to prevent DNA fragmentation and neuronal death after transient cerebral ischemia was investigated in the Mongolian gerbil. Diazepam (10mg/kg, i.p.) or the partial agonist imidazenil (3mg/kg, i.p.) was administered 30 and 90min after transient forebrain ischemia produced by occlusion of the carotid arteries for 5min. Treatment with diazepam completely protected CA1b hippocampal pyramidal neurons in 94% of the animals and partially protected pyramidal neurons in 6% of the animals, as assessed with a standard Nissl stain three and four days after ischemia. DNA fragmentation was examined by the terminal dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) reaction. Prior to cell death, there were no TUNEL-positive neurons in area CA1b. By three days after ischemia, when neuronal degeneration was nearly complete, 14 out of 16 gerbils exhibited a positive TUNEL reaction throughout area CA1b stratum pyramidale. In 13 out of 14 gerbils treated with diazepam, no TUNEL-positive neurons were observed in this region. Imidazenil was less effective than diazepam with respect to both neuroprotection and prevention of DNA fragmentation. Three days after ischemia, six out of eight gerbils treated with imidazenil showed partial to complete neuroprotection. Imidazenil completely prevented DNA fragmentation in only one of the animals; varying degrees of TUNEL reaction persisted in the remainder. To determine whether the neurons protected by diazepam had a normal ultrastructure, gerbils were killed two to 30 days after ischemia and the hippocampal neurons in area CA1b were examined by electron microscopy. Within the first 48h after ischemia, early cytoplasmic changes of varying degrees (e.g., vacuolation, rough endoplasmic reticulum stacking, swollen mitochondria) and electron-dense dendrites were observed in gerbils not treated with diazepam. Degeneration was nearly complete by three days after ischemia. In contrast, pyramidal neuron ultrastructure appeared normal in gerbils that exhibited complete area CA1b neuroprotection (defined at the light microscope level) by diazepam when studied two, seven or 30 days after ischemia. In gerbils with partial protection of area CA1b, most of the remaining neurons exhibited varying degrees of necrosis when studied 30 days after ischemia. No apoptotic bodies were observed. We conclude that: (i) diazepam can fully protect CA1 pyramidal cells from the toxic effects of transient cerebral ischemia; (ii) when diazepam affords only partial neuroprotection, the residual CA1 pyramidal cells exhibit ultrastructural abnormalities consistent with necrotic damage; and (iii) diazepam is a more efficacious neuroprotectant than the partial benzodiazepine receptor agonist, imidazenil.
The after-effects of locomotor stimulation are a transient facilitation of locomotor initiation (the priming effect), and a transient increase in hippocampal rhythmic slow activity in the 3-6 Hz band of the theta range. The similar time course of the two effects suggests that hippocampal 3-6 Hz activity may be linked to the excitability of locomotor initiation. This study tested the hypothesis that power in the 3-6 Hz band that is present prior to stimulation would predict the magnitude of elicited stepping. Stimulation electrodes were implanted in 15 locomotor sites of 10 anesthetized rats (urethane, 800 mg/kg). Hindlimb stepping was elicited by a single control train of electrical stimulation presented once every 62 s. On test trials, a test train at the same intensity followed the control train at varying control/test intervals (15-36 s) to assess the priming effect on stepping. The priming pattern determined whether hippocampal 3-6 Hz power predicted the amount of stepping to be elicited by a stimulation train. Positive correlation (0.47&gt;r&gt;0.22) was found for seven out of eight sites showing positive priming effects. Correlation was absent for three other sites that showed non-significant priming effects and were mixed for four sites that showed negative effects. Sites with positive priming patterns, compared to sites with inconsistent or negative priming patterns, had similar trends in post-stimulation 3-6 Hz power, smaller increases in 6-8 Hz power during the control train and lower 1-3 Hz power during the periods immediately before the control stimulation. For six of 15 sites, regardless of the priming pattern, 1-3 Hz power was inversely related to subsequent stepping, and in three cases provided an independent predictor of stepping. Stimulation at two sites produced discrete episodes of post-stimulation stepping. In one of these cases, a 0.5-Hz increase in peak frequency of hippocampal activity preceded stepping. The results show that the association between hippocampal 3-6 Hz activity and the excitability of locomotor initiation is sufficiently specific to allow prediction of the magnitude of stepping by the prior levels of 3-6 Hz power. However, the occurrence of negative priming effects during prominent 3-6 Hz activity indicates that other factors determine the actual stepping and they can suppress the correlation between theta activity and subsequent locomotion.
The periaqueductal gray matter is implicated in the central processing of defensive reactions. We found previously that, when stimulated by N-methyl-D-aspartate, the caudal third of its lateral subdivision elicited an increase in blood flow over widespread cerebral neocortical areas and that a major proportion of the flow increase was inhibited by topical cortical application of scopolamine, an antagonist of muscarinic receptors. The present study was undertaken to elucidate the roles of cortical nicotinic and excitatory amino acid receptors in the mediation of the flow increase in 66 anaesthetized, cervically cordotomized, artificially ventilated rats with open cranial windows. We found that the flow increase (laser-Doppler flowmetry) was resistant to antagonists of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors and of nicotinic receptors. The response was, however, attenuated to a substantial extent by topical and intravenous N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists, MK-801 and topical D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid. Combined topical application of the latter antagonist with scopolamine attenuated the flow increase to a further extent beyond that achieved with either of the antagonists alone. Topical applications of acetylcholine and N-methyl-D-aspartate individually increased the cortical blood flow. A modest synergism was observed between the actions of these two agonists.Overall, we suggest that in the face of stimuli which provoke defensive reactions, the periaqueductal gray matter may elicit an increase in cortical blood flow by utilizing the cortical acetylcholine-muscarinic receptor system and the cortical excitatory amino acid-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor system. The vasomotor actions of these two transmitter-receptor systems may operate independently of each other as well as in harmony with each other.
The spatial and temporal expression of the protein-tyrosine kinase B (TrkB) receptor and its ligands has been correlated with the development of the neocortex. Activation of the receptor has been associated with neocortical neuronal survival, differentiation, connectivity and neurotransmitter release. Although such findings suggest an important role for TrkB signaling in corticogenesis, conclusive evidence from targeted gene deletion (&quot;knockout&quot;; TrkB -/-) mice has been limited, due in part to the neonatal lethality of most of these mutant mice and the confounding variables associated with the poor health of those few surviving slightly longer postnatally. In the present study, the effects of TrkB signaling on the survival, differentiation and integration of neocortical neurons was directly investigated in vitro and in vivo. First, we conducted a neuron-specific immunocytochemical analysis of TrkB -/- mice to determine whether early cortical structure and patterns of histogenesis were normal or perturbed. We then employed in vitro and in vivo approaches to extend the life of TrkB -/- neocortical neurons beyond the period possible in TrkB -/- mutant mice themselves: (i) dissociated cell culture to directly compare the developmental potential of TrkB -/-, +/- and +/+ neurons; and (ii) neural transplantation into homochronic wild-type recipients to investigate the cell-autonomous effects of the receptor knockout on the differentiation, growth and integration of neocortical neurons. These latter experiments allowed, for the first time, study of the survival and differentiation potential of TrkB -/- neocortical neurons beyond the initial stages of corticogenesis. Direct comparison of brains of TrkB -/-, +/- and +/+ littermates immunocytochemically labeled with antibodies to microtubule-associated protein-2, neurofilament and beta-tubulin III revealed subtle anatomical anomalies in the mutant mice. These anomalies include abnormally diffuse microtubule-associated protein-2 positive neurons just dorsal to the corpus callosum, and heterotopic aggregations of postmitotic neurons in the subventricular zones of the ganglionic eminences, both suggesting delayed neuronal migration and differentiation. Cell culture experiments revealed substantially reduced survival by TrkB -/- neocortical neurons, and a significant reduction in neurite outgrowth by surviving TrkB -/- neurons. In experiments where prelabeled embryonic or neonatal TrkB -/- neocortical neurons were transplanted into the cerebral cortices of neonatal wild-type recipients, a similar quantitatively significant defect in the formation of dendrites, as well as reduced integration of TrkB -/- neocortical neurons, was also evident. These findings demonstrate cell-autonomous abnormalities in the development of neocortical neurons from TrkB -/- mice, and the subtle, but potentially critical, role of protein-tyrosine kinase B signaling in neocortical neuronal survival, differentiation and connectivity.
The distribution of zinc-rich synaptic boutons in biopsies of the temporal cortex from epileptic patients who had undergone surgery is described. Unfixed cryostat sections were exposed to H(2)S vapour to precipitate endogenous zinc, which was subsequently shown by silver enhancement. In the temporal cortex, the stain for zinc was arranged in bands: stain was heavy in layers II and VI, moderate-to-heavy in layers I, III and V, and low in layer IV. The white matter was virtually devoid of staining. At the electron microscope level, labelling was found in synaptic boutons that made asymmetric synaptic contacts. Immunohistochemical staining for glutamate receptor subunits GluR2/3 was observed in cell bodies in layers II, III, V and VI, coincident with the layers that showed heavy staining for zinc. Immunostaining for glutamate receptor subunit GluR1 was prominent in non-pyramidal neurons in deep cortical layers. These results support findings in other mammals and indicate that the human neocortex may contain an extensive system of zinc-rich cortico-cortical connections. This system may be altered in pathological conditions.
The hippocampal mossy fiber pathway between the granule cells of the dentate gyrus and the pyramidal cells of area CA3 has been the target of numerous scientific studies. Initially, attention was focused on the mossy fiber to CA3 pyramidal cell synapse because it was suggested to be a model synapse for studying the basic properties of synaptic transmission in the CNS. However, the accumulated body of research suggests that the mossy fiber synapse is rather unique in that it has many distinct features not usually observed in cortical synapses. In this review, we have attempted to summarize the many unique features of this hippocampal pathway. We also have attempted to reconcile some discrepancies that exist in the literature concerning the pharmacology, physiology and plasticity of this pathway. In addition we also point out some of the experimental challenges that make electrophysiological study of this pathway so difficult.Finally, we suggest that understanding the functional role of the hippocampal mossy fiber pathway may lie in an appreciation of its variety of unique properties that make it a strong yet broadly modulated synaptic input to postsynaptic targets in the hilus of the dentate gyrus and area CA3 of the hippocampal formation.
A central question in olfactory learning is how animals become tuned to odor stimuli that gain significance through conditioning. A leading view is that tuning to conditioned odor stimuli involves functional modifications within the primary olfactory pathways, themselves.(7) Here we studied this idea further by investigating responses within the olfactory system to an odor that had previously been paired with footshock in classical fear-conditioning trials in adult rats. Using the transcription factor Fos as a marker of odor-induced neuronal activation,(1,14) we found that in rats that had received forward pairings of odor and footshock during training, presentation of the conditioned odor stimulus, alone, produced an enhanced increase in levels of Fos in the main and accessory olfactory bulbs and anterior olfactory nucleus compared with that found in animals that had received backward presentations of the stimuli or of odor alone. These results demonstrate that Fos responses to an odor within the primary olfactory pathways can be modified through aversive conditioning, and are consistent with other evidence that olfactory conditioning can lead to functional changes within these pathways.(7)
Activation of beta-chemokine receptors, co-receptors for human immunodeficiency virus type-1 (HIV-1), stimulates movement and secretion in microglia, possibly through a Ca(2+)-dependent mechanism. We studied chemokine activation of Ca(2+) signaling processes in microglia. Human fetal microglia were grown in primary culture and chemokine-induced increases in intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) were measured in single cells using indo-1-based microfluorimetry. Application of 50 ng/ml regulated on activation, normal T expressed and secreted (RANTES; 120 s) evoked responses in 26% of the microglia (187/719 cells). [Ca(2+)](i) increased from a basal level of 66+/-6 nM to peak at 268+/-23 nM (n=187). Chemokine-evoked responses rapidly desensitized as indicated by the rapid return to basal [Ca(2+)](i) levels in the maintained presence of RANTES. The removal of extracellular Ca(2+) or stimulation in the presence of Ni(2+) (2mM) or La(3+) (100 microM) blocked the RANTES-elicited [Ca(2+)](i) increase. The L-type calcium channel antagonist nimodipine (10 microM) inhibited the RANTES-mediated increase in [Ca(2+)](i) by 80+/-16%. Thus, the RANTES-evoked calcium transient appears to result from Ca(2+) influx with little if any release from intracellular stores. Application of gp120(clade) (E) and gp120(CM235) (50 ng/ml) neither mimicked nor antagonized the RANTES-evoked response. Application of 50 ng/ml eotaxin (120 s) evoked an increase in [Ca(2+)](i) in 13% of the human microglia in culture (61/469 cells). The HIV-1 regulatory protein Tat (50 ng/ml) increased the [Ca(2+)](i) in a subset of eotaxin-responsive cells (16/30). The L-type calcium channel antagonist nimodipine (3 microM) inhibited eotaxin- and Tat-mediated increases in [Ca(2+)](i) by 88+/-6% and 93+/-6%, respectively. Thus, activation of CCR3 appears to evoke Ca(2+) influx through L-type Ca(2+) channels.These results indicate that beta-chemokines, RANTES and eotaxin, activate a nimodipine sensitive Ca(2+) influx pathway in human fetal microglia. HIV-1 Tat protein mimicked chemokine-mediated Ca(2+) signaling and may modulate the migratory and secretory responses of microglia.
Protein kinases A and C have been postulated to exert multiple effects on different elements of signal transduction pathways in olfactory receptor neurons. However, little is known about the modulation of olfactory responses by protein kinases in intact olfactory receptor neurons. To further elucidate the details of the modulation of odorant responsiveness by these protein kinases, we investigated the action of two protein kinase inhibitors: H89, an inhibitor of protein kinase A, and N-myristoylated EGF receptor, an inhibitor of protein kinase C, on odorant responsiveness in intact olfactory neurons. We isolated individual olfactory neurons from the adult human and rat olfactory epithelium and measured responses of the isolated cells to odorants or biochemical activators that have been shown to initiate cyclic AMP or inositol 1,4,5-trisphospate production in biochemical preparations. We employed calcium imaging techniques to measure odor-elicited changes in intracellular calcium that occur over several seconds. In human olfactory receptor neurons, the protein kinase A and C inhibitors affected the responses to different sets of odorants. In rats, however, the protein kinase C inhibitor affected responses to all odorants, while the protein kinase A inhibitor had no effect. In both species, the effect of inhibition of protein kinases was to enhance the elevation and block termination of intracellular calcium levels elicited by odorants. Our results show that protein kinases A and C may modulate odorant responses of olfactory neurons by regulating calcium fluxes that occur several seconds after odorant stimulation. The effects of protein kinase C inhibition are different in rat and human olfactory neurons, indicating that species differences are an important consideration when applying data from animal studies to apply to humans.
Neural activity, as measured immunohistochemically by the presence of Fos protein, was determined in the lamina terminalis, a thin strip of tissue forming the anterior wall of the third brain ventricle, after adrenalectomy. Several weeks after surgery, the adrenalectomized rats were maintained with access to water and a low sodium diet for five days. In addition, hypertonic (0.5M) NaCl solution was available for the entire five-day period (sodium available) or only during the first four days (sodium unavailable). The number of neurons expressing Fos, determined at the end of the fifth day, was increased in the adrenalectomized rats with or without NaCl solution to drink. Fos activity in the median preoptic nucleus was increased only in adrenalectomized rats without access to NaCl solution. Treatment of adrenalectomized rats with the sodium-retaining mineralocorticoid hormone, deoxycorticosterone, at the end of the fourth day, decreased Fos expression in the subfornical organ and the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis when NaCl solution was available but not when the NaCl solution was unavailable. In the adrenalectomized rats with NaCl solution available, mineralocorticoid treatment decreased both urinary sodium excretion and daily sodium intake. Brain nuclei in the lamina terminalis also became activated in intact rats made sodium deplete by treatment with the diuretic, furosemide. Relative to sodium-deplete intact rats, however, sodium-deplete adrenalectomized rats had a greater number of neurons expressing Fos in the organum vasculosum. Treatment of sodium-deplete rats, adrenalectomized or intact, with the angiotensin II-type 1 receptor antagonist, ZD7155, decreased sodium intake and Fos expression in the subfornical organ but not in the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis or median preoptic nucleus. In conclusion, the results demonstrated that activation of the brain nuclei located in the lamina terminalis of adrenalectomized rats was primarily related to sodium deficit and not to the absence of the mineralocorticoid hormones, although the adrenal hormones may have a role in limiting the activation of organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis during sodium depletion. Furthermore, the results obtained with the administration of the angiotensin receptor antagonist are consistent with the proposal that sodium appetite of the sodium-deplete rat, adrenalectomized or intact, is mediated by circulating angiotensin II acting in the subfornical organ.
Using an in vitro sucrose-gap recording chamber, sealing of cut axons in isolated strips of white matter from guinea pig spinal cord was measured by recording the &quot;compound membrane potential&quot;. This functional sealing was found to correlate well with anatomical resealing, measured by a horseradish peroxidase uptake assay. Near-complete functional and anatomical recovery of the axonal membrane occurred routinely within 60 min following transection at 37 degrees C in regular Krebs' solution. The rate of membrane potential recovery is exponential, with a time-constant of 20+/-5 min. The sealing process at 31 degrees C was similar to that at 37 degrees C, and was effectively blocked at 25 degrees C, under which condition most axons continued to take up horseradish peroxidase for more than 1h, and failed to substantially recover their membrane potential. Seventy-five percent of the cords transected at 40 degrees C had similar sealing behavior to those at 37 degrees C and 31 degrees C. The balance failed to seal the cut end. Two-dimensional morphometric analysis has shown that raising the temperature from 25 degrees C to above 31 degrees C significantly decreases axonal permeabilization to horseradish peroxidase (increases the sealing of transected ends) across all areas of a transverse section of spinal cord. Moreover, this enhancement of sealing exists across all axon calibers. Since severe cooling compromises membrane resealing, caution needs to be taken when hypothermic treatment (below 25 degrees C) is applied within the first 60 min following mechanical injury. In summary, we have found that at normal temperature (37 degrees C), nerve fibers repair their damaged membrane following physical injury with an hour. This is similar at mildly lower (31 degrees C) and relatively higher (40 degrees C) temperature, although some fibers tend to collapse under this febrile temperature. Moreover, severely low temperature (25 degrees C) hindered the repair of damaged membranes. Based on our study, caution is needed in treating spinal cord injury with low temperatures.
Neuron death and neuron degeneration occur in the CNS during the course of aging. Although multiple cellular alterations transpire during the aging process, those that mediate age-associated neuron death have not been identified. Recent evidence implicates oxidative stress as a possible means of neuron death and neuron degeneration during aging. In the present study, we demonstrate a marked decrease in multicatalytic proteasome activity in the spinal cord of Fisher 344 rats at 12, 24 and 28 months, compared with spinal cord tissue from 3-week- and 3-month-old animals. Application of oxidative injury (FeSO(4)) or the lipid peroxidation product 4-hydroxynonenal decreases multicatalytic proteasome activity in a time- and dose-dependent manner in a motor neuron cell line. Loss of multicatalytic proteasome activity occurs before the loss of multicatalytic proteasome immunoreactivity, with FeSO(4)- and 4-hydroxynonenal-mediated decreases ameliorated by the application of a cell permeable form of the antioxidant glutathione. Application of multicatalytic proteasome inhibitors, but not inhibitors of lysosomal proteases, induced neuron death that was attenuated by the caspase inhibitors benzyloxycarbonyl-Val-Ala-Asp-(O-methyl) fluoromethyl ketone or N-acetyl-Asp-Glu-Val-Asp-Cho (aldehyde). Together, these data suggest that multicatalytic proteasome inhibition occurs during aging of the spinal cord, possibly as the result of oxidative stress, and that multicatalytic proteasome inhibition may be causally related to neuron death.
The synaptic strength between primary afferent Adelta-fibers, many of which convey pain-related information, and second order neurons in the spinal dorsal horn can be depressed for prolonged periods of time in a use- and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-dependent fashion. Here, we have used a transverse spinal cord slice-dorsal root preparation of young rat to characterize the nature of this form of long-term depression and the role of metabotropic glutamate receptors. Dorsal roots were bisected and intracellular recordings were made from lamina II neurons with independent excitatory synaptic inputs from both dorsal root halves. Conditioning stimulation of one dorsal root half (1 Hz, 900 pulses) induced long-term depression that was specific for the stimulated pathway, i. e. homosynaptic in nature. The induction of long-term depression was prevented by non-selective group I and group II mGluR antagonist (S)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine, by selective group I receptor antagonist (S)-4-carboxyphenylglycine and by selective group II mGluR antagonist (RS)-alpha-methylserine-O-phosphate monophenyl ester. Group III mGluR antagonist (RS)-alpha-methylserine-O-phosphate was ineffective. Short-term depression was not affected by any of these antagonists.Thus, a homosynaptic form of long-term depression exists at putative nociceptive synapses in the spinal dorsal horn and its induction requires the activation of both group I and II metabotropic glutamate receptors.
The interactions between the inflammatory mediators bradykinin, serotonin, prostaglandin E(2) and acid pH were studied in rat dorsal root ganglion neurons in culture. For this purpose, the cultures were stimulated by inflammatory mediators (bradykinin, serotonin, prostaglandin E(2), 10(-5)M each) or acid solution (pH 6.1) for 5 min and the content of calcitonin gene-related peptide was determined in the supernatant before, during and after stimulation, using an enzyme immunoassay. Acid solution resulted in a threefold increase of the basal calcitonin gene-related peptide release which was entirely dependent on the presence of extracellular calcium. The release could not be blocked by the addition of the capsaicin antagonist capsazepine (10(-5)M). Bradykinin (10(-5)M) caused a 50% increase of the basal calcitonin gene-related peptide release which was again dependent on the presence of extracellular calcium, whereas serotonin and prostaglandin E(2) were each ineffective at 10(-5)M concentration. The combination of bradykinin, serotonin and prostaglandin E(2) led to a fivefold increase of the calcitonin gene-related peptide release which could not be further enhanced by acidification. The competitive capsaicin receptor antagonist capsazepine (10(-5)M) significantly reduced the release induced by the combination of bradykinin, serotonin and prostaglandin E(2). It is suggested that the inflammatory mediators co-operate and together may act as endogenous agonists at the capsaicin receptor to cause calcium influx and consecutive neuropeptide release.
Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings obtained from 36 hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus neurons in explant preparations evaluated a role for GABA(B) receptors in modulating postsynaptic inhibitory and excitatory currents evoked by electrical stimulation in the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis. At a holding current of -65 mV, application of baclofen (1-10 microM) induced a dose-dependent reduction in the amplitude of pharmacologically isolated inhibitory and excitatory postsynaptic currents, converted paired-pulse depression in inhibitory postsynaptic currents to paired-pulse facilitation, and enhanced paired-pulse ratios for excitatory postsynaptic currents. In media containing 2-hydroxysaclofen (200-400 microM), baclofen-associated events were blocked and paired-pulse depression in evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents was abolished. In addition, a progressive increase in the amplitude of inhibitory postsynaptic currents implied that GABA was endogenously active at presynaptic GABA(B) receptors. In contrast, no paired-pulse depression was observed for inhibitory postsynaptic currents evoked in six non-magnocellular neurons. Neither baclofen nor 2-hydroxysaclofen altered holding currents or input resistances in supraoptic neurons, or altered the kinetics of the evoked responses.These observations imply that the terminals of both inhibitory (GABAergic) and excitatory (glutamatergic) afferents to supraoptic nucleus neurons from organum vasculosum lamina terminalis neurons are subject to modulation by presynaptic GABA(B) receptors, and that this modulation is preferentially directed to the inhibitory inputs.
Uniform and non-uniform somato-dendritic distributions of the ion channels carrying the low-threshold Ca(2+) current (I(T)), the hyperpolarization-activated inward current (I(h)), the fast Na(+) current (I(Na)) and the delayed rectifier current (I(K)) were investigated in a multi-compartment model of a thalamocortical neuron for their suitability to reproduce the delta oscillation and the retinal excitatory post-synaptic potential recorded in vitro from the soma of thalamocortical neurons. The backpropagation of these simulated activities along the dendritic tree was also studied. A uniform somato-dendritic distribution of the maximal conductance of I(T) and I(K) (g(T) and g(K), respectively) was sufficient to simulate with acceptable accuracy: (i) the delta oscillation, and its phase resetting by somatically injected current pulses; as well as (ii) the retinal excitatory postsynaptic potential, and its alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole proprionate and/or N-methyl-D-aspartate components. In addition, simulations where the dendritic g(T) and g(K) were either reduced (both by up to 34%) or increased (both by up to 15%) of their respective value on the soma still admitted a successful reproduction of the experimental activity. When the dendritic distributions were non-uniform, models where the proximal and distal dendritic g(T) was up to 1.8- and 1. 2-fold larger, respectively, than g(T(s)) produced accurate simulations of the delta oscillation (and its phase resetting curves) as well as the synaptic potentials without need of a concomitant increase in proximal or distal dendritic g(K). Furthermore, an increase in proximal dendritic g(T) and g(K) of up to fourfold their respective value on the soma resulted in acceptable simulation results. Addition of dendritic Na(+) channels to the uniformly or non-uniformly distributed somato-dendritic T-type Ca(2+) and K(+) channels did not further improve the overall qualitative and quantitative accuracy of the simulations, except for increasing the number of action potentials in bursts elicited by low-threshold Ca(2+) potentials. Dendritic I(h) failed to produce a marked effect on the simulated delta oscillation and the excitatory postsynaptic potential. In the presence of uniform and non-uniform dendritic g(T) and g(K), the delta oscillation propagated from the soma to the distal dendrites with no change in frequency and voltage-dependence, though the dendritic action potential amplitude was gradually reduced towards the distal dendrites. The amplitude and rising time of the simulated retinal excitatory postsynaptic potential were only slightly decreased during their propagation from their proximal dendritic site of origin to the soma or the distal dendrites. These results indicate that a multi-compartment model with passive dendrites cannot fully reproduce the experimental activity of thalamocortical neurons, while both uniform and non-uniform somato-dendritic g(T) and g(K) distributions are compatible with the properties of the delta oscillation and the retinal excitatory postsynaptic potential recorded in vitro from the soma of these neurons. Furthermore, by predicting the existence of backpropagation of low-threshold Ca(2+) potentials and retinal postsynaptic potentials up to the distal dendrites, our findings suggest a putative role for the delta oscillation in the dendritic processing of neuronal activity, and support previous hypotheses on the interaction between retinal and cortical excitatory postsynaptic potentials on thalamocortical neuron dendrites.
To reveal the somatotopy of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus that functions as a brainstem motor center, we examined the distribution patterns of corticotegmental inputs from the somatic motor areas of the frontal lobe in the macaque monkey. Based on the somatotopical map prepared by intracortical microstimulation, injections of the anterograde tracers, biotinylated dextran amine and wheat germ agglutinin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase, were made into the following motor-related areas: the primary motor cortex, the supplementary and presupplementary motor areas, the dorsal and ventral divisions of the premotor cortex, and the frontal eye field. Data obtained from the present experiments were as follows: (i) Corticotegmental inputs from orofacial, forelimb, and hindlimb representations of the primary motor cortex tended to be arranged orderly from medial to lateral in the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus. However, the distribution areas of these inputs considerably overlapped; (ii) The major input zones from distal representations of the forelimb and hindlimb regions of the primary motor cortex were located medial to those from their proximal representations, although there was a substantial overlap between the distribution areas of distal versus proximal limb inputs; (iii) The main terminal zones from the forelimb regions of the primary motor cortex, the supplementary and presupplementary motor areas, and the dorsal and ventral divisions of the premotor cortex appeared to overlap largely in the mediolaterally middle aspect of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus; and (iv) Corticotegmental input from the frontal eye field was scattered over the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus.Thus, the present results indicate that the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus is likely to receive partly separate but essentially convergent cortical inputs not only from multiple motor-related areas representing the same body part, but also from multiple regions representing diverse body parts. This suggests that somatotopical representations are intermingled rather than segregated in the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor and neurturin are neurotrophic factors expressed in the striatum during development and in the adult rat. Both molecules act as target-derived neurotrophic factors for nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons. While glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor has also been described to have local trophic effects on striatal neurons, the effects of neurturin in the striatum have not yet been described. Here we examine whether neurturin protects striatal projection neurons (calbindin-positive) and interneurons (parvalbumin- or choline acetyltransferase-positive) in an animal model of Huntington's disease. A fibroblast cell line engineered to over-express neurturin was grafted into adult rat striatum 24h before quinolinate injection. In animals grafted with a control cell line, intrastriatal quinolinate injection reduced the number of calbindin-, parvalbumin- and choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons, seven days post-lesion. Intrastriatal grafting of neurturin-secreting cells protected striatal projection neurons, but not interneurons, from quinolinate excitotoxicity. This effect was much more robust than that reported previously for a glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor-secreting cell line on striatal calbindin-positive neurons. However, intrastriatal grafting of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor- but not neurturin-secreting cells prevented the decrease in choline acetyltransferase activity induced by quinolinate injection. Taken together, our results show that neurturin- and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor-secreting cell lines have clearly differential effects on striatal neurons. Grafting of the neurturin-secreting cell line showed a more specific and efficient trophic effect on striatal projection neurons, the neuronal population most affected in Huntington's disease. Therefore, our results suggest that neurturin is a good candidate for the treatment of this neurodegenerative disorder.
Striatal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors with high affinity for nicotinic agonists are involved with the release of a number of neurotransmitters, including dopamine. Previous findings as to whether these receptors are changed in Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease are inconsistent and no previous investigations have focused on these receptors in dementia with Lewy bodies and schizophrenia, which are also associated with disorders of movement. The present autoradiographic study of striatal [3H]nicotine binding in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, dementia with Lewy bodies and schizophrenia was conducted with particular reference to the potentially confounding variables of tobacco use and neuroleptic medication. [3H]Nicotine binding in both dorsal and ventral caudate and putamen was significantly reduced in Parkinson's disease (43-67%, n=13), Alzheimer's disease (29-37%, n=13) and dementia with Lewy bodies (50-61%, n=20) compared to age-matched controls (n=42). Although tobacco use in the control group was associated with increased [3H]nicotine binding (21-38%), and neuroleptic treatment in dementia with Lewy bodies and Alzheimer's disease was associated with reduced [3H]nicotine binding (up to 29%), differences between neurodegenerative disease groups and controls persisted in subgroups of Alzheimer's disease cases (26-33%, n=6, in the ventral striatum) and dementia with Lewy body cases (30-49%, n=7, in both dorsal and ventral striatum) who had received no neuroleptic medication compared to controls who had not smoked (n=10). In contrast, striatal [3H]nicotine binding in a group of elderly (56-85 years) chronically medicated individuals with schizophrenia (n=6) was elevated compared with the entire control group (48-78%, n=42) and with a subgroup that had smoked (24-49%, n=8). The changes observed in [3H]nicotine binding are likely to reflect the presence of these receptors on multiple sites within the striatum, which may be differentially modulated in the different diseases. Further study is warranted to explore which nicotinic receptor subunits and which neuronal compartments are involved in the changes in [3H]nicotine binding reported, to aid development of potential nicotinic receptor therapy.
We recently characterized the rat brain homolog of mouse muscle CArG-binding protein A initially identified in C2 myogenic cells and showed an inverse temporal correlation between increased expression levels of this messenger RNA, c-fos and zif268 messenger RNA levels following the addition of nerve growth factor to PC12 cells. In addition, we found an inverse correlation between c-Fos protein and CArG-binding protein A messenger RNA levels in the lateral caudate-putamen of rats treated acutely and chronically with the D2 receptor antagonist fluphenazine (phenothiozine typical psychotic). To determine whether D1 receptor stimulation is also capable of inducing CArG-binding protein A up-regulation, drug naive or dopamine-depleted (i.e. 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned) D1 hypersensitized rats (i.e. rats given repeated daily injections of SKF-82958 for 14days) were acutely injected with the D1 agonist SKF-82958 and examined using a combination of in situ hybridization for CArG binding protein A and immunocytochemistry for c-Fos. Both acutely treated animals and dopamine-depleted hypersensitized animals showed increases in CArG-binding protein A. Moderate increases were found in the medial caudate-putamen and nucleus accumbens core and shell regions following acute treatment whereas large increases in CArG-binding protein A expression levels were found in the medial and lateral caudate-putamen and the shell and core of the nucleus accumbens following hypersensitization. No change in CArG-binding protein A expression level was found in the dopamine-depleted, drug naive animals relative to controls. Regions of the basal ganglia where increases in CArG-binding protein A were detected following each treatment correlated perfectly with c-Fos protein induction. The results demonstrate that CArG-binding protein A responds to SKF-82958 and that the changes in CArG-binding protein A match perfectly with the pattern of c-Fos induction induced by the D1 agonist.
Dyskinesias are abnormal involuntary movements which develop as a side-effect of long-term treatment with levodopa in patients with Parkinson's disease. The pathophysiology underlying these dyskinesias remains unclear, although, it has been suggested that heightened activity of dopamine D(1) receptor-bearing striatonigral neurons may play a key role. Chronic pulsatile levodopa administration to hemiparkinsonian rats results in sensitization of rotational responses to apomorphine. This sensitization is thought to be analogous to levodopa-induced dyskinesias in humans. In these studies, we further clarify the role of the dopamine D(1A) receptor in this rodent model of levodopa-induced dyskinesias using an in vivo oligonucleotide antisense approach. Hemiparkinsonian rats received twice daily injections of levodopa for three weeks followed by intrastriatal infusion of dopamine D(1A) receptor antisense (7nmol/day, three days), a scrambled missense control sequence, or saline. Those animals treated with antisense displayed significantly fewer apomorphine-induced rotations than saline- or missense-treated controls.By reducing dopamine D(1A) receptor expression, we were able to attenuate sensitization of the response to apomorphine resulting from chronic pulsatile levodopa treatment. Thus, the dopamine D(1A) receptor appears to play a significant role in levodopa-induced dyskinesias and warrants further examination. These findings may have important implications for the development of selective treatment strategies designed to alleviate parkinsonian symptoms, while minimizing motor complications.
Sensorimotor gating can be measured as prepulse inhibition of the startle response in humans and rats. Since prepulse inhibition is impaired in schizophrenics there is considerable interest in understanding the neuronal basis of prepulse inhibition. Neuropathological findings indicate a dysfunction of the glutamatergic and GABAergic system in cortico-limbic areas in schizophrenics. We tested whether blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate or GABA(A) receptors in the basolateral amygdala affects prepulse inhibition in rats. Local infusion of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist dizocilpine (0, 6.25 microg/0.5 microl), or of the GABA(A) receptor antagonist picrotoxin (0, 5.0, 10.0 ng/0.5 microl) reduced prepulse inhibition. The prepulse inhibition-disrupting effect of 6.25 microg dizocilpine or 10.0 ng picrotoxin was reversed by systemic co-administration of the dopamine antagonist haloperidol (0.1mg/kg i.p.). These data indicate that sensorimotor gating is regulated in a dopamine-dependent way by N-methyl-D-aspartate and GABA(A) receptors in the basolateral amygdala. Our findings are discussed with respect to neuropathological findings in schizophrenics.
Prolonged seizures (status epilepticus) induced by kainic acid activate programmed cell death mechanisms, and it is believed that kainic acid-induced status epilepticus induces neuronal apoptosis. In order to test this hypothesis, adult rats were subjected to 3-h kainic acid-induced seizures, with 24- or 72-h recovery periods. Neuronal death was assessed by light microscopy with the Hematoxylin and Eosin stain and with in situ terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL stain), by electron microscopy, and by agarose gel electrophoresis of DNA extracted from five vulnerable brain regions. Spontaneous and MK-801-induced apoptotic neurons from retrosplenial cortex of neonatal rats, evaluated by light and electron microscopy, were used as positive controls for apoptosis. Surprisingly, the large chromatin clumps of apoptotic neurons were TUNEL negative, whereas the cytoplasm showed light-to-moderate TUNEL staining, consistent with a lack of identifiable nuclear membranes ultrastructurally, and with intermingling of nuclear and cytoplasmic contents. Ultrastructurally, the acidophilic neurons produced by kainic acid-induced status epilepticus, identified with Hematoxylin and Eosin stain, were dark, shrunken and necrotic, with pyknotic nuclei containing small, dispersed chromatin clumps, and with cytoplasmic vacuoles, some of which were swollen, disrupted mitochondria. No apoptotic cells were seen. Acidophilic neurons were found in up to 20 of 23 brain regions examined and comprised 10-25% of the total number of neurons examined. A subset of these neurons (&lt;10% of the total number of neurons in five of 23 regions) had TUNEL-positive nuclei 72h but not 24h after status epilepticus. Internucleosomal DNA cleavage (DNA &quot;laddering&quot;) occurred in the four most damaged brain regions examined by electron microscopy 24h after SE and the three most damaged regions 72h after status epilepticus. Our results demonstrate that kainic acid-induced status epilepticus produces neuronal necrosis and not apoptosis in adult rats. The necrotic neurons show nuclear pyknosis, chromatin condensation and DNA laddering. Programmed cell death mechanisms activated by kainic acid-induced status epilepticus occur in neurons which become necrotic and could contribute to necrotic, as well as apoptotic, neuronal death.
Repeated electroconvulsive stimulations and other seizure modalities produce an increase in neuropeptide Y synthesis and local release in the rat hippocampus, and perhaps as a consequence, a change in the concentration of neuropeptide Y binding sites in the same region. The aim of the present study was to determine possible changes in the expression of neuropeptide Y receptor subtypes affected by repeated stimulations in the hippocampus. Rats were exposed to 14 daily stimulations, and the brains were removed 24h after the last stimulation. For in vitro receptor autoradiography and in situ hybridisation histochemistry, the brains were frozen, sectioned, and levels of neuropeptide Y binding sites and messenger RNA expressions were determined quantitatively on sections from the same animals. In order to determine the contribution of different neuropeptide Y receptor subtypes, serial sections were incubated with either 125I-labelled peptide YY alone or the same radio-labelled peptide mixed with an excess of a number of displacing compounds with affinity for either neuropeptide Y receptor subtype Y1, Y2, or both. Binding studies revealed that the majority of peptide YY binding sites was represented by Y2, and that electroconvulsive stimulations reduced the binding capacity or the concentration of this receptor. A prominent reduction of Y1-preferring binding sites was determined in the dentate gyrus, and to a lesser extent in the CA1 and CA3 regions. Similarly, the treatment produced a significant reduction of Y2-preferring binding sites in the CA1 and CA3 region, but not in the granular cell layer of the dentate gyrus. Using semi-quantitative in situ hybridization, Y1 receptor messenger RNA level in the granular cell layer of the dentate increased by the stimulations. In the same region, Y2 receptor messenger RNA was expressed in low to undetectable amounts, but after the repeated stimulations, this transcript was found in moderate to high levels. These data suggest that the neuropeptide Yergic system in the dentate gyrus and the pyramidal cell layer are affected by the treatment, and that this includes both Y1 and Y2 receptor subtypes. Because levels of messenger RNA and binding are distinctly regulated, the turnover of both Y1 and Y2 molecules is strongly increased under electroconvulsive stimulations, suggesting that the intrahippocampal neuropeptide Yergic neurotransmission is also increased under the stimulations.
Conventional uptake of neurotrophins takes place at axon terminals via specific receptors, and is followed by retrograde transport. Recent studies demonstrated that, with the exception of nerve growth factor, other neurotrophins may be delivered anterogradely to the region containing the receptor expressing neurons. In this study we used a triple labeling method that combines retrograde tract tracing, in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry to examine whether non-principal cells projecting from the hippocampus to the septum synthesize nerve growth factor. Our results show that, on average, 59% of the horseradish peroxidase-labeled hippocamposeptal nonpyramidal neurons also display nerve growth factor messenger RNA hybridization signal. The ratio was slightly higher in the CA1 stratum oriens and the hilus of the dentate gyrus (64 and 62%, respectively) compared to stratum oriens of the CA3 region (58%). In addition, we demonstrated that many nerve growth factor-positive septally projecting neurons also contain the calcium-binding protein calbindin D-28K, whereas nerve growth factor-negative projecting cells mostly lack this neurochemical marker. In contrast to nerve growth factor, neurotrophin-3 has never been found in hippocamposeptal cells. Hippocamposeptal GABAergic cells are reciprocally connected with the medial septum, thus they are in a key position to regulate nerve growth factor release as a function of the activity level in the septohippocampal system. Furthermore, our results raise the intriguing possibility that nerve growth factor may be transported also in an anterograde manner. Regardless of the direction of transport, the presence of nerve growth factor in hippocamposeptal cells suggests that long distance fast synaptic mechanisms and slow neurotrophin action are coupled in these neurons.
We studied the effects of reversible cooling on synaptic transmission in slices of rat visual cortex. Cooling had marked monotonic effects on the temporal properties of synaptic transmission. It increased the latency of excitatory postsynaptic potentials and prolonged their time-course. Effects were non-monotonic on other properties, such as amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic potentials and generation of spikes. The amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic potentials increased, decreased, or remain unchanged while cooling down to about 20 degrees C, but thereafter it declined gradually in all cells studied. The effect of moderate cooling on spike generation was increased excitability, most probably due to the ease with which a depolarized membrane potential could be brought to spike threshold by a sufficiently strong excitatory postsynaptic potential. Stimuli that were subthreshold above 30 degrees C could readily generate spikes at room temperature. Only at well below 10 degrees C could action potentials be completely suppressed. Paired-pulse facilitation was less at lower temperatures, indicating that synaptic dynamics are different at room temperature as compared with physiological temperatures. These results have important implications for extrapolating in vitro data obtained at room temperatures to higher temperatures. The data also emphasize that inactivation by cooling might be a useful tool for studying interactions between brain regions, but the data recorded within the cooled area do not allow reliable conclusions to be drawn about neural operations at normal temperatures.
We tested the hypothesis that heterogeneity in the frequency of miniature synaptic activity reflects differences in the number of vesicles present in presynaptic terminals. Using imaging techniques, we measured dendritic miniature synaptic calcium transients attributed to the spontaneous release of single transmitter quanta. Following imaging, the identified neurons were processed for serial transmission electron microscopy. At sites of quantal Ca(2+) transients mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, we confirmed the presence of excitatory synapses and measured the total number of vesicles and the number of docked vesicles. We observed no correlation between the frequency of spontaneous miniature activity and either the total vesicle number or the number of docked vesicles. We conclude that the presynaptic vesicle complement as measured by ultrastructural analysis does not necessarily determine the frequency of spontaneous activity at synapses mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors.
Lesch Nyhan syndrome is a neurological paediatric condition characterized by mental retardation, choreathotosis and self-mutilation. Biochemically, this condition has been attributed to a deficiency in the purine enzyme, hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyltransferase, however, the way this affects the development of the nervous system is still unknown. Ma et al.(15) and Stacey et al.(25) found that hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyltransferase-deficient neuroblastoma, differentiated significantly more than cells with this enzyme. Here, we report that adhesion of hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyltransferase-deficient neuroblastoma as well as fibroblasts from patients with Lesch Nyhan syndrome, exhibited dramatically enhanced adhesion compared to control cells. This increase in adhesion was dependent upon the cell type, density of the cells and upon the substrate used. Development of the nervous system is dependent on adhesion, in particular in the processes of migration, nucleation, differentiation and fasciculation. Our results suggest that the increased adhesion of hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyltransferase-deficient neuroblastoma and fibroblasts in vitro underpins the neuropathology of Lesch Nyhan syndrome.
A hypothesis was proposed according to which the switching of descending influences by the corticospinal and corticorubrospinal systems was associated with rubro-olivary projection involvement depending on the context of movement [Kennedy P. R. (1990) Trends Neurosci. 13, 474-479]. Our results confirmed and extended this hypothesis. It was shown that a preliminary transection of the dorsolateral funiculus (containing the rubrospinal tract) accelerated the compensatory rehabilitation process following lesions of the red nucleus and the ventrolateral thalamic nucleus in albino rats with learned instrumental reflexes on equilibrium. A preliminary lesion of the ventrolateral thalamic nucleus considerably hampered the switching process; nevertheless, performance of the reflexes suggested that the switching of cerebellar ascending influences to the cerebral cortex could be completed through other cerebellocortical pathways as well. Comparison of the results of electrolytic and chemical lesions of the red nucleus suggested a similar conclusion. It was established that the conditioning and recovery of already learned instrumental reflexes were impossible after complete neurotoxic destruction of the inferior olive. The data obtained emphasize the role of the inferior olive, ventrolateral thalamic nucleus and red nucleus in the switching of descending influences in operantly motor conditioned rats. Motor deficit and the compensatory rehabilitation process depended on the severity of inferior olive destruction combined with a high transection of the dorsolateral funiculus and a destroyed red nucleus. Long-lasting training improved compensation of motor deficit and stabilized instrumental reflexes to some extent in rats with incomplete destruction of the inferior olive. It has been suggested that these modifications occur because of collateral sprouting in the olivocerebellar system.
We investigated the distribution of N-type voltage-dependent calcium channels that mediate Ca(2+) entry initiating transmitter release in the rat vestibular sensory epithelium. We used confocal microscopy to assess the in vitro labeling by fluorescent specific ligand binding, omega-conotoxin-GVIA and also the immunolabeling of presynaptic soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE) proteins, syntaxin, 25,000 mol. wt synaptosome-associated protein and synaptotagmin: components of the neurotransmitter exocytosis machinery. We found that there was a close anatomical association between the voltage-gated calcium channels, the synaptic vesicle and synaptic membrane-associated proteins on the afferent nerve calyces and probably afferent boutons, which are postsynaptic compartments. Our data suggest that these peripheral afferent endings possess the presynaptic Ca(2+) channels and the components of the presynaptic SNARE proteins involved in synaptic vesicle docking and calcium-dependent exocytosis. They provide additional evidence for a secretory function and efferent role of these endings in hair cell neurotransmission.
Migration of neurons is a key step in the formation of the central nervous system, and an increase in internal Ca(2+) concentration has been shown to increase the rate of migration of granule cells along radial glial processes in slices of postnatal cerebellum. In embryonic spinal cord, the non-radial migration of autonomic motor neurons from the ventral horn dorsally into the region of the intermediolateral nucleus differs from that of granule cells, so it is possible that the role of Ca(2+) may also differ in the migration of these two types of neurons. To investigate this possibility, we made organotypic slice cultures of thoracic spinal cord from rat embryos. In control slices after about one day in vitro, diaphorase-positive autonomic motor neurons had migrated 100 microm at a rate of 3.6 microm/h. In experimental slice cultures, we added pharmacological reagents that are known to either increase or decrease internal Ca(2+) levels, including some reagents used successfully in the aforementioned granule cell studies. None of the nine reagents had a significant effect on migration speed of autonomic motor neurons in slice cultures. Our results suggest that autonomic motor neuron migration is not regulated by internal Ca(2+) levels, and hence this mechanism may not be used universally by all types of neurons.
Myelin-associated oligodendrocytic basic protein is a member of the proteins constituting the central nervous system myelin. By morphometric analysis, we demonstrated that axons of myelin-associated oligodendrocytic basic protein-deficient mice had larger diameters and more myelin lamellae as compared to those of wild-type mice at the same age. It is known that the number of myelin lamellae increases linearly with axonal diameter, and that the rate of radial axonal growth is the factor controlling the rate of myelin formation. In line with these observations, we found that the regression line for axonal diameter and the number of myelin lamellae in myelin-associated oligodendrocytic basic protein-deficient mice appeared to be identical to that in wild-type mice, indicating that the increase in the number of myelin lamellae was the result of the increase in axonal diameter. Furthermore, we generated myelin basic protein/myelin-associated oligodendrocytic basic protein-double-deficient mice through mating myelin-associated oligodendrocytic basic protein-deficient mice with shiverer mice, an autosomal recessive mutant characterized by a lack of all isoforms of myelin basic protein. With these knock-out mice, we showed that axons of the double-deficient mice had larger diameters and smaller form factor, an index of the deformation of the fiber contour, in ensheathed fibers than those of shiverer mice, although there was no difference in axonal diameter of unmyelinated fibers between them. Taken together, myelin-associated oligodendrocytic basic protein seemed to play a role in controlling axonal diameter and in keeping axons round.
The accumulation of tubular aggregates in type II skeletal muscle fibres and fibrillo-granular inclusions in hippocampal protoplasmic astrocytes are characteristic lesions of apolipoprotein E deficient mice. Moreover these inclusions reacted immunocytochemically with an antibody specific to fragment 17-24 of the published sequence of Alzheimer's amyloid peptide. In an effort to evaluate the role of apolipoprotein E in the formation of these abnormal structures, we examined the tibialis anterior muscle and the hippocampus of several groups of animals including: (i) apolipoprotein E &quot;knockout&quot; mice which had been whole body irradiated with 1200 rads and bone marrow replenished with apolipoprotein E sufficient marrow; and (ii) three transgenic murine strains that had been genetically engineered to express either human apolipoprotein E2, E3 or E4 protein on an apoE deficient background. The results of this study showed that the presence of murine apolipoprotein E (even in subnormal levels in the serum) in irradiated bone marrow replenished mice and in all three (E2, E3 or E4) human apoE transgenic strains was sufficient to prevent the aggregation of sarcoplasmic tubules in the tibialis anterior type II muscle fibres. Similarly apolipoprotein E &quot;knockout&quot; bone marrow replenished mice and all three transgenic strains expressing the different human apolipoprotein E alleles reduced the number of the astrocytic inclusions in the hippocampus to levels not significantly different to those observed in control C57Bl6J animals. The data obtained in this study indicate that neurological and neuromuscular abnormalities found in apoE deficient mice are reversed when apoE protein is replaced in the circulation, either by bone marrow transplantation of normal apoE sufficient marrow, or by gene therapy with the apoE gene, albeit of human origin and irrespective of the allele used.
Studies in mice lacking genes encoding for substance P or its receptor (NK1), or with NK1 antagonists, have shown that this system contributes to nociception, but the data are complex. Here, we have further examined the role of NK1 receptors in pain and hyperalgesia by comparing nociceptive responses to mechanical and chemical stimulation of viscera and the resulting hyperalgesia and inflammation in NK1 knockout (-/-) and wild-type (+/+) mice. We concentrated on visceral nociception because substance P is expressed by a much greater proportion of visceral than cutaneous afferents. NK1 -/- mice showed normal responses to visceral mechanical stimuli, measured as behavioural responses to intraperitoneal acetylcholine or hypertonic saline or reflex responses to colon distension in anaesthetized mice, although -/- mice failed to encode the intensity of noxious colon distensions. In contrast, NK1 -/- mice showed profound deficits in spontaneous behavioural reactions to an acute visceral chemical stimulus (intracolonic capsaicin) and failed to develop referred hyperalgesia or tissue oedema. However, in an identical procedure, intracolonic mustard oil evoked normal spontaneous behaviour, referred hyperalgesia and oedema in -/- mice. The inflammatory effects of capsaicin were abolished by denervation of the extrinsic innervation of the colon in rats, whereas those of mustard oil were unchanged, showing that intracolonic capsaicin evokes neurogenic inflammation, but mustard oil does not. Tests of other neurogenic inflammatory stimuli in NK1 -/- mice revealed impaired behavioural responses to cyclophosphamide cystitis and no acute reflex responses or primary hyperalgesia to intracolonic acetic acid. We conclude that NK1 receptors have an essential role mediating central nociceptive and peripheral inflammatory responses to noxious stimuli that evoke neurogenic inflammation, and modulating responses to noxious mechanical stimuli. We propose that two separate hyperalgesia pathways exist, one of which is NK1 receptor dependent, whereas the other does not require intact substance P/NK1 signalling.
Endomorphin-2, a newly discovered endogenous opioid peptide and agonist at the mu-opioid receptor, was injected intrathecally in normal rats and animals with unilateral peripheral inflammation or sciatic nerve section and its effect on the nociceptive flexor reflex was analysed. In normal rats, intrathecal endomorphin-2 induced a strong and dose-dependent depression of the reflex, which was naloxone-reversible. The effect of intrathecal endomorphin-2 was fairly brief, lasting for about 20-30 min at the highest dose, 4 microg. The effect of endomorphin-2 in inflamed rats was not significantly different from that in normals. After nerve section some rats developed autotomy behavior. In these rats endomorphin-2 had significantly reduced effect. However, the reflex depressive effect of intrathecal endomorphin-2 was unchanged in axotomized rats without autotomy. It is suggested that intrathecal endomorphin-2 has antinociceptive effect in the rat spinal cord under normal and inflammatory conditions. After peripheral nerve injury the sensitivity to endmorphin-2 may be reduced in rats that exhibit ongoing neuropathic pain-like behaviors.
We previously reported that GABA-evoked currents of rat retinal ganglion cells were modulated by redox agents. In this study, we further characterized the effects of redox modulation on GABA receptors using recombinant human subunits in the Xenopus oocyte expression system with two-electrode voltage-clamp recording. GABA receptors composed of subunits alpha(1-3), beta(1-3), gamma(1), gamma(2S,) and rho(1) were expressed. The sulfhydryl reducing agent dithiothreitol reversibly potentiated the responses of various combinations of functional recombinant GABA(A) subunits, whether expressed as triplets (alpha(1)beta(1-3)gamma(1,2S)), pairs (alpha(1-3)beta(1-3); beta(1-3)gamma(1,2S)), or singly (beta(2)). These effects of dithiothreitol were rapidly reversible, and the oxidizing agent 5-5'-dithiobis-2-nitrobenzoic acid exerted the opposite effect. In contrast to these effects on GABA(A) receptors, dithiothreitol had no effect on the responses of homomeric GABA rho(1) (GABA(C)) receptors. The degree of dithiothreitol potentiation of GABA(A) receptor responses depended on subunit composition. Co-expression of gamma(2S) with alpha(1)beta(1-3) subunits resulted in markedly less dithiothreitol potentiation of GABA-evoked currents than that observed for alpha(1-3)beta(1-3) subunits in the absence of gamma(2S). None the less, the magnitude of dithiothreitol potentiation could be restored by using a combination of lower GABA concentrations (5-10 microM) and higher dithiothreitol concentrations (5-20mM). N,N,N', N'-tetrakis(2-pyridyl-methyl)ethylenediamine, a high-affinity Zn(2+) chelator, also potentiated GABA(A) receptor currents. However, the potentiation produced by 10mM dithiothreitol was larger than that produced by saturating concentrations of N,N,N', N'-tetrakis(2-pyridyl-methyl)ethylenediamine (100 microM), implying that at least part of the effect of dithiothreitol was due to redox modulation rather than Zn(2+) chelation. Dithiothreitol also potentiated the spontaneous current of homomeric GABA(A) receptors composed of beta subunits. Mutation of a single cysteine residue in the M3 domain, yielding homomeric beta(3)(C313A) receptors, abrogated dithiothreitol potentiation of the spontaneous current. In summary, this study further characterizes the modulatory effects of redox agents on recombinant GABA(A) receptors. The degree of redox modulation of GABA(A) receptors depended on subunit composition. In contrast to their effect on GABA(A) receptors, redox agents were not found to modulate GABA(C) receptors composed of homomeric rho(1) subunits. Using site-directed mutagenesis, a cysteine residue was located in the beta(3) subunit which may comprise one of the redox-active sites that underlies the modulation of heteromeric GABA(A) receptors by reducing and oxidizing agents.
We examined the effects of systemic administration of a GABA(A) receptor agonist, muscimol, or antagonist, bicuculline, on the expression of c-Fos protein induced 3h after electrical stimulation of the trigeminal ganglion at low (0.1 mA) or high intensities (1. 0 mA) in the urethane-anesthetized rat. In saline-treated rats, 10 min stimulation of the trigeminal ganglion induced c-Fos-immunopositive neurons throughout the full extent of the ipsilateral superficial layers of the trigeminal nucleus caudalis, and dorsal or dorsomedial part of the nuclei rostral to obex (trigeminal nucleus principalis, dorsomedial nucleus of trigeminal nucleus oralis, dorsomedial nucleus of trigeminal nucleus interpolaris). Animals stimulated at 1. 0 mA induced a significantly higher number of labeled neurons in all trigeminal sensory nucleus than animals stimulated at 0.1 mA. In rats treated with 1mg/kg i.p. muscimol and stimulated at 0.1 mA, the numbers of Fos-positive neurons in trigeminal nucleus caudalis, dorsomedial nucleus of trigeminal nucleus interpolaris, and dorsomedial nucleus of trigeminal nucleus oralis were significantly decreased. However, after stimulation at 1.0 mA, the numbers of Fos-positive neurons in the superficial layers of trigeminal nucleus caudalis was increased and no changes occurred in the numbers of Fos-positive neurons in the magnocellular zone of trigeminal nucleus caudalis, the dorsomedial nucleus of trigeminal nucleus interpolaris, or dorsomedial nucleus of trigeminal nucleus oralis compared to saline-treated controls. In rats treated with 2mg/kg i.p. bicuculline and stimulated at 0.1 mA, the number of Fos-positive neurons increased in the superficial layers of trigeminal nucleus caudalis and trigeminal nucleus principalis. However, after stimulation at 1.0 mA, the number of Fos-positive neurons was unchanged in superficial layers of trigeminal nucleus caudalis, but decreased in the magnocellular zone of trigeminal nucleus caudalis, dorsomedial nucleus of trigeminal nucleus interpolaris and dorsomedial nucleus of trigeminal nucleus oralis. There was a specific loss of Fos-positive neurons in the maxillary and ophthalmic divisions (ventrolateral half) of trigeminal nucleus caudalis. These results indicate that the expression of c-Fos in the trigeminal nucleus is differentially regulated through GABA(A) receptors in a manner that is dependent on the nucleus and the type of primary afferents that are activated by different stimulus intensities.
We examined the acute expression of c-Fos or Zif/268 by simultaneous activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor and neurokinin-1 receptor of the trigeminal nucleus caudalis in anesthetized rats. A selective N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor agonist, N-methyl-D-aspartate, and/or a selective neurokinin-1 receptor agonist, substance P, was applied topically to the dorsal surface of the spinal trigeminal tract. Immunohistochemically stained nuclei for c-Fos and Zif/268 at laminae I and II of the trigeminal nucleus caudalis were counted. Ipsilateral c-Fos and Zif/268 were increased significantly dose-dependently by N-methyl-D-aspartate (at 136 and 340 microM, and at 68, 136 and 340 microM, respectively). On the contralateral side, only Zif/268 increased significantly (at 68, 136 or 340 microM). These increases were abolished by D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (at 25 mM), a selective N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist. Substance P (at 3.7 or 7. 4 microM) significantly increased dose-dependently ipsilateral c-Fos and Zif/268. On the contralateral side, only c-Fos was significantly increased (at 3.7 and 7.4 microM). These increases were abolished by D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (at 25 mM) and L-703,606 (at 10 microM), a selective neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist. The combined application of N-methyl-D-aspartate 340 microM + substance P (at 0.74 or 3.7 microM) significantly increased ipsilateral c-Fos compared to either agent alone. Combined application of N-methyl-D-aspartate 340 microM + substance P at 0.74, 3.7 or 7.4 microM significantly increased ipsilateral Zif/268 expression compared to either drug alone. Other combinations did not increase c-Fos and Zif/268. Our results indicate that activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate or neurokinin-1 receptor of the trigeminal nucleus caudalis contributes to the acute induction of both c-Fos and Zif/268 on the ipsilateral superficial layer of this nucleus and simultaneous activation of both receptors by their agonists with specific concentrations produces a marked expression of these proteins. Simultaneous activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate and neurokinin-1 receptors under some specific conditions may augment synaptic transmission, contributing to long-term neuronal change.
Microinjection of cholinergic and adenosinergic agonists into the medial pontine reticular formation of rats produces long lasting increases in the time spent in rapid eye movement sleep. Several G-protein-coupled muscarinic and adenosinergic receptors share a common action of inhibition of adenylyl cyclase and inhibition of cyclic adenosine monophosphate. Inhibition of cyclic adenosine monophosphate has been implicated in the mechanism of rapid eye movement sleep induction in the cat. We sought to determine whether a direct inhibitor of adenylyl cyclase microinjected into the rat reticular formation at sites where muscarinic and adenosinergic agonists are effective in producing long lasting elevations in rapid eye movement sleep also result in similar effects on the sleep/wake cycle. The caudal, oral pontine reticular formation was unilaterally infused with 60 nl volumes of carbachol (0.1-1.1mM) and N(6)-cyclohexyladenosine (0.1mM) each within 1h of lights on. Sites effective for significantly elevating rapid eye movement sleep for the 8h following microinjection of both receptor agonists were additionally injected with the adenylyl cyclase inhibitor, SQ22,536 (0.1M). Pontine injections of SQ22,536 resulted in significant mean increases in rapid eye movement sleep time and rapid eye movement sleep period frequency at all of these sites. As with the receptor agonists, SQ22,536 did not alter latency to rapid eye movement sleep onset. Rapid eye movement sleep amounts were observed to be significantly elevated by SQ22,536 at two days, but not at four days, following a single microinjection. These data implicate inhibition of cyclic adenosine monophosphate in the pons of the rat as a mechanism involved in the long-term modulation of rapid eye movement sleep. This mechanism may underlie the homeostatic regulation exhibited by this sleep-state.
Brain serotonin has long been implicated in the regulation of body temperature, although its precise role is not completely understood. The present study examined the effects of environmental cooling (4-8 degrees C for 2 or 4h) on the single-unit activity of serotonergic neurons recorded in the medullary raphe nuclei obscurus and pallidus and in the pontine dorsal raphe nucleus of freely moving cats. These neuronal groups have primarily descending projections to the spinal cord and ascending projections to the forebrain, respectively. Cold exposure induced shivering and piloerection, but no appreciable changes in core temperature. Of the medullary serotonergic cells studied (n=14), seven were activated and seven were unresponsive to cold exposure. For the responsive cells, the mean increase and peak effect in unit activity relative to baseline were 31% and 46%, respectively. Of the seven cold-responsive cells, the activity of four was monitored when the animals were transferred back to room temperature (23 degrees C). Within 15-30 min, the activity of these cells returned to baseline. In contrast, none of the dorsal raphe nucleus cells studied (n=14) displayed a significant change in neuronal activity during cold exposure, suggesting that these neurons do not receive afferent input from cold-sensitive cutaneous receptors or participate in thermoregulatory responses evoked by low ambient temperatures.Overall, these results suggest that a subset of medullary serotonergic neurons play a role in physiological mechanisms underlying cold defense (e.g. increases in motor output and/or autonomic outflow). On the other hand, the lack of responsiveness of serotonergic dorsal raphe nucleus neurons to cold exposure does not support a specific role for these cells in thermoregulation.
We have previously described a population of 5-hydroxytryptamine neurons which repetitively fires bursts of usually two (but occasionally three or four) action potentials, with a short (&lt;20 ms) interspike interval within a regular low-frequency firing pattern. Here we used a paradigm of electrical stimulation comprising twin pulses (with 7- or 10-ms inter-pulse intervals) to mimic this burst firing pattern, and compared the effects of single- and twin-pulse electrical stimulations in models of pre- and postsynaptic 5-hydroxytryptamine function. Firstly, we measured the effect of direct electrical stimulation (2 Hz for 2 min) of rat brain slices on efflux of preloaded [3H]5-hydroxytryptamine. In this in vitro model, twin-pulse stimulation increased the efflux of tritium by about twice as much as did single-pulse stimulation. This effect was evident in the medial prefrontal cortex (area under the curve: 2. 59+/-0.34 vs 1.28+/-0.22% relative fractional release), as well as in the caudate-putamen (3.93+/-0.65 vs 2.17+/-0.51%) and midbrain raphe nuclei (5.42+/-1.05 vs 2.51+/-0.75%). Secondly, we used in vivo microdialysis to monitor changes in endogenous extracellular 5-hydroxytryptamine in rat medial prefrontal cortex in response to electrical stimulation (3 Hz for 10 min) of the dorsal raphe nucleus. In this model, twin-pulse stimulation of the dorsal raphe nucleus increased 5-hydroxytryptamine by approximately twice as much as did single-pulse stimulation at the same frequency (area under the curve: 50.4+/-9.0 vs 24.2+/-4.4 fmol). Finally, we used in vivo extracellular recording to follow the response of postsynaptic neurons in the rat medial prefrontal cortex to 5-hydroxytryptamine released by dorsal raphe stimulation. Electrical stimulation of the dorsal raphe nucleus (1 Hz) induced a clear-cut poststimulus inhibition in the majority of cortical neurons tested. In these experiments, the duration of poststimulus inhibition following twin-pulse stimulation was markedly longer than that induced by single-pulse stimulation (200+/-21 vs 77+/-18.5 ms). Taken together, the present in vitro and in vivo data suggest that in 5-hydroxytryptamine neurons, short bursts of action potentials will propagate along the axon to the nerve terminal and will enhance both the release of 5-hydroxytryptamine and its postsynaptic effect.
We have shown that brief exposure to amphetamine leads to sustained glutamate-dependent increases in expression of the neurotrophic, neuroprotective factor, basic fibroblast growth factor, in astrocytes in dopaminergic cell body regions and that blockade of basic fibroblast growth factor in this region prevents the development of behavioral sensitization to amphetamine. Here we examine the effects of prolonged exposure to an escalating-dose regimen of amphetamine known to induce long-lasting sensitization to amphetamine and leading to increases in neuronal dendritic length and spine density in nucleus accumbens and prefrontal cortex and to decreases in spine density in occipital cortex. Astrocytic basic fibroblast growth factor immunoreactivity was increased in both dopaminergic cell body and terminal regions one week after termination of a two-week amphetamine treatment (1-4mg/kg). These effects were not evident one week after a five-week treatment (1-9mg/kg) and, in fact, one month later basic fibroblast growth factor levels in cell body regions were decreased. In the occipital cortex, basic fibroblast growth factor immunoreactivity was decreased one week after the two-week amphetamine treatment, but was not different from that seen in saline-treated animals after the five-week treatment. Increased astrocytic basic fibroblast growth factor expression appears to be an early, but relatively prolonged, response to amphetamine exposure and seems to parallel structural changes induced by repeated drug exposure.These findings suggest that basic fibroblast growth factor may participate in the development of structural changes brought about by amphetamine. The fact that the basic fibroblast growth factor response is not maintained after prolonged intense exposure to amphetamine suggests that the factors that initially induce basic fibroblast growth factor expression are self-regulating.
Repeated doses of psychoactive drugs often produce adaptive responses that differ from the initial drug application and additional adaptive processes occur following cessation of the drug. The relationship between alterations in calmodulin protein and messenger RNA produced by an initial versus a repeated dose of amphetamine was examined, as well as changes following drug cessation. Calmodulin protein and messenger RNA of the three individual calmodulin genes were measured in rat dopaminergic cell body and terminal areas following acute or repeated amphetamine. Rats were either injected once with 2.5mg/kg amphetamine or saline and decapitated after 3h, or given 10 injections of amphetamine three to four days apart and decapitated 3h after the final injection. Calmodulin messenger RNA and protein were also measured three and seven days after ceasing drug treatment. Acute amphetamine increased calmodulin 1.7-fold in the striatum and threefold in the ventral mesencephalon, with corresponding elevations in calmodulin messenger RNAs. In response to the 10th dose of amphetamine, however, the degree of increase in calmodulin was diminished in the striatum and ablated in the ventral mesencephalon. Correspondingly, select species of calmodulin messenger RNA were decreased from control levels. In the frontal cortex or nucleus accumbens, calmodulin levels were basically unaltered by the first or 10th doses of amphetamine, but both calmodulin and its messenger RNA were altered with time upon cessation of the drug. Three days later, both calmodulin protein and messenger RNA were decreased in select brain areas. By seven days after the 10th injection, calmodulin content was altered compared to saline controls in all areas, but the change in messenger RNA no longer paralleled the change in protein.Our findings demonstrate that both calmodulin protein and select species of calmodulin messenger RNA are altered by acute amphetamine, but this effect is attenuated after repeated, intermittent amphetamine. There are further time-dependent changes after cessation of repeated amphetamine, which may reflect compensatory neuronal responses. The alterations in calmodulin content and synthesis could contribute to changes in patterns or duration of behaviors that occur upon cessation of repeated amphetamine.
D(3) receptors are prominently localized in the primate caudate-putamen, and D(3) receptor agonist properties may offer an advantage in Parkinson's disease therapy. In the present experiments, we investigated the relationship between D(3) receptor mRNA, D(3) receptor sites and the dopamine transporter in monkey basal ganglia by comparing their distribution in the brain of control and 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated monkeys (Samirai sciureus). In control monkeys, D(3) receptor mRNA appears to be widely expressed throughout the brain, with a distribution similar to that observed in both man and rodent. D(3) receptors are present in areas which express mRNA but also in some which do not, an observation which suggests they may be both pre- and postsynaptic in the monkey brain. Chronic MPTP administration, which selectively destroys the nigrostriatal system, resulted in a 70 to 99% depletion of the dopamine transporter in the basal ganglia. Autoradiographic analysis showed that after MPTP treatment there was a significant decline in D(3) receptors in the caudate, but not putamen, globus pallidus, substantia nigra or other dopaminergic regions. D(3) receptor mRNA expression was not changed in any region after nigrostriatal lesioning. Two weeks of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (levodopa, L-DOPA) treatment, which alleviated Parkinsonism but also induced dyskinesias, reversed the MPTP-induced decline in caudate D(3) receptors. These results show that there is a selective decline in D(3) receptors in the caudate after nigrostriatal degeneration, which is reversed by L-DOPA treatment. Since the majority of dopaminergic nerve terminals were destroyed after MPTP lesioning, the reversal in D(3) receptors after L-DOPA treatment may represent an increase in caudate postsynaptic receptors, which could conceivably contribute to an imbalance in striatal circuitry and the development of dyskinesias.
At present, little is known about the mechanisms by which cannabinoids exert their effects on the central nervous system. In this study, fluorescence imaging and electrophysiological techniques were used to investigate the functional relationship between cell surface cannabinoid type 1 (CB(1)) receptors and GABAergic synaptic transmission in cultured hippocampal neurons. CB(1) receptors were labelled on living neurons using a polyclonal antibody directed against the N-terminal 77 amino acid residues of the rat cloned CB(1) receptor. Highly punctate CB(1) receptor labelling was observed on fine axons and at axonal growth cones, with little somatic labelling. The majority of these sites were associated with synaptic terminals, identified either with immunohistochemical markers or by using the styryl dye FM1-43 to label synaptic vesicles that had undergone active turnover. Dual labelling of neurons for CB(1) receptors with either the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA or its synthesising enzyme glutamate decarboxylase, demonstrated a strong correspondence. The immunocytochemical data was supported by functional studies using whole-cell patch-clamp recordings of miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs). The cannabinoid agonist WIN55,212-2 (100nM) markedly inhibited (by 77+/-6.3%) the frequency of pharmacologically-isolated GABAergic mIPSCs. The effects of WIN55,212-2 were blocked in the presence of the selective CB(1) receptor antagonist SR141716A (100nM).In conclusion, the present data show that cell surface CB(1) receptors are expressed at presynaptic GABAergic terminals, where their activation inhibits GABA release. Their presence on growth cones could indicate a role in the targeting of inhibitory connections during development.
Monkeys, with unilateral immunotoxic lesions of the basal nucleus of Meynert that remove cholinergic innervation of the ipsilesional neocortex, and ablations of the contralateral inferotemporal neocortex, were impaired on retention of visual discriminations learnt before surgery and on acquisition of new discriminations. This demonstrates that the cholinergic projection from the basal nucleus supports the functions of its cortical target area. Our previous studies have shown that the impairment on discrimination performance following bilateral lesions of the basal nucleus is transient and that bilateral lesions of the diagonal band of Broca, that remove cholinergic innervation of the hippocampus, are without effect on these tasks. However, the impairment resulting from bilateral lesions of the basal nucleus plus the diagonal band, or from bilateral inferotemporal cortex ablations, is severe and persistent. Bilateral inferotemporal ablations deprive the hippocampus of much of its visual input by producing a discontinuity in cortico-cortical transmission, whereas basal nucleus lesions may merely prevent the modification of visually-derived information in the inferotemporal cortex without depriving the hippocampus of visual input. In the monkeys with crossed unilateral basal nucleus plus inferotemporal cortex lesions, the addition of a diagonal band lesion to the basal nucleus lesion produced an impairment on retention of visual discriminations and sustained the acquisition impairment. This confirms the previous finding that the basal nucleus and diagonal band act synergistically in producing a severe and permanent impairment. Further addition of an excitotoxic hippocampal lesion to the hemisphere with the inferotemporal cortex ablation did not add to the learning impairment. This supports the suggestion that the inferotemporal cortex ablation has deprived the hippocampus of its visual input.Overall, these experiments demonstrate that the cholinergic projections from the basal nucleus and diagonal band participate in the learning and memory functions of the temporal lobes.
Organotypic cultures and ileal neuromuscular preparations were used to determine (i) whether endogenous release of opioids by electrical stimulation induces mu receptor endocytosis, and (ii) whether and under which conditions ligand-induced mu receptor endocytosis influences the responsiveness of neurons expressing native mu receptors. In longitudinal muscle-myenteric plexus preparations, electrical stimulation at 20 Hz induced a prominent endocytosis of mu receptors in enteric neurons, indicating endogenous release of opioids. A similar massive endocytosis was triggered by exogenous application of the mu receptor agonist, [D-Ala(2),MePhe(4), Gly-ol(5)] enkephalin, whereas exogenous application of morphine was ineffective. [D-Ala(2),MePhe(4),Gly-ol(5)] enkephalin and morphine induced a concentration-dependent inhibition of neurogenic cholinergic twitch contractions to electrical stimulation at 0.1 Hz. beta-Chlornaltrexamine shifted to the right the inhibitory curve of both agonists with a concentration-dependent reduction of the maximum agonist response, which is consistent with the existence of spare mu opioid receptors. Under these conditions, the induction of mu receptor endocytosis by exogenously applied [D-Ala(2), MePhe(4),Gly-ol(5)] enkephalin diminished the inhibitory effect of this agonist on twitch contractions and tritiated acetylcholine release. In contrast, there was no reduction of the inhibitory effect of morphine, which failed to induce mu receptor endocytosis, on neurogenic cholinergic response. These results provide the first evidence for the occurrence of mu receptor endocytosis in neurons by endogenously released opioids and show that agonist-dependent mu receptor endocytosis could serve as a mechanism to regulate mu opioid receptor responsiveness to ligand stimulation when the opioid receptor reserve is reduced.
mu-Opioid receptor-expressing neurons in the rat cerebral neocortex were characterized by an immunolabeling method with an antibody to a carboxyl terminal portion of the receptor. They were small, bipolar, vertically elongated, non-pyramidal neurons, and scattered mainly in layers II-IV. We examined chemical characteristics of mu-opioid receptor-expressing neocortical neurons by the double immunofluorescence method. Almost all neuronal cell bodies expressing mu-opioid receptor-like immunoreactivity showed immunoreactivity for GABA, suggesting that they were cortical inhibitory interneurons. mu-Opioid receptor-immunoreactive neurons were further studied by the double staining method with markers for the subgroups of cortical GABAergic neurons. Immunoreactivities for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, corticotropin releasing factor, choline acetyltransferase, calretinin and cholecystokinin were found in 92, 79, 67, 35 and 35% of mu-opioid receptor-immunoreactive cortical neurons, respectively. In contrast, less than 10% of mu-opioid receptor-immunoreactive neurons showed immunoreactivity for parvalbumin, calbindin, somatostatin, neuropeptide Y or nitric oxide synthase. Moreover, mu-opioid receptor-immunoreactive neurons very frequently exhibited preproenkephalin immunoreactivity, but not preprodynorphin immunoreactivity. The present results indicate that mu-opioid receptor-expressing neurons belong to a distinct subgroup of neocortical GABAergic neurons, because vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, corticotropin releasing factor, choline acetyltransferase, calretinin and cholecystokinin have often been reported to coexist with one another in single neocortical neurons. Methionine-enkephalin, which is a major product of the preproenkephalin gene, is known to be one of the most potent endogenous ligands for mu-opioid receptor. Thus, the expression of mu-opioid receptor in preproenkephalin-producing neurons suggested that mu-opioid receptor serves as an autoreceptor for the subpopulation of GABAergic interneurons at a single-neuron or population level.
The rat olfactory bulb is innervated by basal forebrain cholinergic neurons and is endowed with both nicotinic and muscarinic receptors. The development of this centrifugal cholinergic innervation occurs mainly in early postnatal stages. This developmental time-course and the demonstration that acetylcholine can modulate some aspects of neuronal proliferation, differentiation or death, suggests the possible involvement of cholinergic afferents in the morphogenesis and/or plasticity of the olfactory bulb. The purpose of the present work was to assess whether acetylcholine could modulate neuronal morphogenesis in the olfactory bulb. Toward this aim, we developed a primary culture model of rat olfactory bulbs. Three major cell types were identified on the basis of their morphological and immunocytochemical phenotype: neuronal-shaped cells expressing the neuronal markers neuron specific enolase, microtubule associated protein 2, neural cell adhesion molecule and beta-tubulin III; glial-like cells immunoreactive for glial fibrillary acidic protein and flattened cells immunolabelled with antibodies against beta-tubulin III and nestin, most likely neuronal precursors. After three to six days of treatment with 100-microM carbachol, a cholinergic agonist, significant increase in neuritic length was observed in cultured olfactory bulb neurons. The neurite outgrowth effect of carbachol was abolished by co-treatment with 1 microM alpha-bungarotoxin, an alpha 7 subunit nicotinic receptor antagonist, but was not affected by the addition of 10 microM atropine, a general muscarinic antagonist. The effect of carbachol was also mimicked by the nicotinic agonists, nicotine (100 microM) and epibatidine (10 microM). This pharmacological profile suggested the involvement of nicotinic receptors of the alpha 7-like subtype as confirmed using 125I-alpha-bungarotoxin receptor autoradiography.Taken together, these data argue for a role for nicotinic receptors in neuritic outgrowth in the rat olfactory bulb and provide a cellular support to the previously described effects of acetylcholine on olfactory bulb plasticity in vivo.
Here we report that the extended surround outside the classical receptive center (hereafter called the extended surround) of most retinal ganglion cells in the cat exhibit significant orientation bias to grating stimuli, and that the center and the extended surround show different orientation biases at different spatial frequencies. As a result, some retinal ganglion cells possess a complex receptive field structure, which allows them to detect sophisticated image segmentation (e.g. texture segmentation) in addition to simple luminance edges. This property was previously thought to exist primarily in the visual cortex. Moreover, in about one quarter of 128 cells studied the center did not exhibit an orientation bias. Thus, these surrounds alone may determine the cells' orientation bias.In conclusion, the extended surround may play an important role in processing more complex pattern in natural scenes since the classical receptive field is too small to describe all the properties of a retinal ganglion cell.
PSD-95/SAP90, a molecular scaffold protein, attaches the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor to cellular signaling pathways through PSD-95/DLG/Z0-1 domain interactions at neuronal synapses.(5,9) This suggests that PSD-95/SAP90 might be involved in many physiological and pathophysiological actions triggered via the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor in the central nervous system. Here, we present evidence that suppression of the expression of PSD-95/SAP90 in the spinal cord significantly attenuated facilitation of the tail-flick reflex triggered through N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation but not baseline tail-flick reflex latency. Moreover, PSD-95/SAP90's messenger RNA and protein were enriched in the spinal cord and selectively distributed in the superficial dorsal horn, where PSD-95/SAP90 overlapped with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor. In spinal cord neurons, PSD-95/SAP90 interacted with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunits 2A/2B. It is indicated that activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor in spinal hyperalgesia results in association of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor with PSD-95/SAP90 and that PSD-95/SAP90 is required for noxious thermal hyperalgesia triggered via the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor at the spinal cord level. The present findings may provide novel insights into the mechanisms for persistent sensitization of the somatosensory system.
Changes in the compound muscle action potentials of cat gastrocnemius muscle were studied during low- and high-frequency fatigue. Fatiguing session consisted of 25-28 repetitions of the standard single fatigue tests (1.5min interval between the tests) that included the part of continuous frequency-modulated stimulation preceded and followed by single stimuli evoking twitch contractions in the muscle. The rate of the continuous part was changed in accordance with symmetrical double-trapezoidal signal, including three successive phases of constant rate at 10, 40 and 10s(-1); between these phases of 4s duration the rate changed linearly within a 2s interval. During fatigue relative changes in compound muscle action potential waves were usually smaller than changes in tension. Within the same fatigue procedure applied to a fresh muscle, the drop in tension was as much as 35% for high-rate stimulation and 59-71% for low-rate stimulation, whereas the decrease of the peak-to-peak compound muscle action potential waves amplitudes did not exceed 10-20%. Compound muscle action potential waves underwent the most pronounced depression during high-rate stimulation, the decrease proceeding during the following phase of low-rate stimulation. The tension changes during long-lasting activation were different for low- and high-frequency fatigue, with more pronounced depression during low-rate stimulation. As a rule, compound muscle action potential waves changes followed opposite patterns. Compound muscle action potential waves progressively split up, which was probably associated with a continuous slowing of the action potentials in the most fatigable motor units and the subsequent disappearance of the reactions at least in part of the motor units. Hysteresis effects in muscle contraction seem to be able, at least in part, to compensate for some of the depressive effects appearing during conduction of action potentials in muscle fibres. Changes in the compound muscle action potentials were studied during development of the muscle fatigue. These changes showed pronounced dependency on stimulation rate allowing differentiating effects of low- and high-frequency stimulation of the efferents supplying muscle under study. At the same time the fatigue-related changes in the action potentials were noticeably smaller than changes in tension, thus supporting existing concepts in the field arguing that fatigue effects are mainly connected with corresponding activity-dependent changes in muscle contraction machinery.
Effects of low- and high-frequency fatigue were studied on muscle dynamics in isometric conditions of the cat gastrocnemius. Fatiguing sessions consisted of 25-28 repetitions of the standard tests that included an 18-s interval of continuous frequency-modulated stimulation preceded and followed by single stimuli evoking twitch contractions. The rate of the continuous part was changed in accordance with a symmetrical double-trapezoidal signal, including three successive phases of constant rate at 10, 40 and 10s(-1); between these phases, each lasting for 4s, the rate changed linearly within a 2-s interval. The following modes of muscle activation were applied: (i) stimulation of single filaments constituting approximately one-fifth to one-seventh of the total cross-section of the L(7) and S(1) ventral roots; (ii) the distributed stimulation of five similar filaments; and (iii) direct stimulation of muscle through bipolar wire electrodes. A relative drop in tension, the fatigue index, expressed as the ratio at the end of a fatigue session over its value at the beginning of the test, was used to quantify fatigue effects. The fatigue indices during low-rate stimulation were 0.56+/-0.03 (mean+/-S.D.) at the first phase and 0. 64+/-0.02 at the third phase, while during high-rate stimulation this parameter was only 0.32+/-0.02. The high-rate stimulation noticeably increased the mean tension during low-rate stimulation; the ratio between the reactions at the third and the first phases could be as much as two to three times greater than that at the beginning of the fatigue session. It was demonstrated that the potentiation was connected with after-effects of the rate-tension hysteresis. The hysteresis decreased with fatigue, the fatigue index for the rate-tension loop areas ranging from 0.39 to 0.52 (0.45+/-0. 05, mean+/-S.D.). The fatigue processes developed more quickly and intensively in the previously fatigued muscles: the obtained fatigue indices were 0.73+/-0.05 and 0.70+/-0.10 at the first and third phases, and 0.62+/-0.06 (mean+/-S.D.) at the second phase of stimulation, respectively. In the cases of distributed and direct stimulation applied to muscles in a fresh state, fatigue dynamics did not differ significantly from those observed during single-filament stimulation. In experiments with distributed stimulation applied to previously fatigued muscles, a powerful depression of the high-rate components was registered in several cases, which seemed to be connected with depressive effects at the level of nerve-muscle synaptic transmission. The effects of low- and high-frequency fatigue were studied in isometric conditions of muscle contraction. In addition to the well-known differentiation between low- and high-frequency fatigue effects, the complex pattern of efferent stimulation used allowed us to identify additional fatigue-related changes in the rate-tension hysteresis. This hysteresis seems to be one of the possible mechanisms directed to compensate for low-frequency fatigue in the muscle contraction.
The metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 6 is localized on the dendrites of ON bipolar cells in mammalian retina, and is responsible for synaptic transmission from photoreceptors to ON bipolar cells. We have previously provided electrophysiological evidence that metabotropic glutmate receptor subtype 6-deficient mice have an impairment in the ON visual pathway. In this study, we compared, between metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 6-deficient (n=9) and wild-type mice (n=7), their daily wheel-running activity in constant dark and light-dark cycle environments. There was no difference in their free-running rhythmicity in a constant dark environment nor in their ability to entrain their active/rest phase to the phase-shifted light-dark cycle environment, indicating that the circadian system in mutant mice was functioning normally. However, the wheel-running activity was suppressed immediately after light onset of the light-dark cycle in wild-type mice (suppressive effect), whereas that of mutant mice was prolonged for several hours in spite of light onset (very weak suppressive effect). The suppression of activity in wild-type mice is a &quot;masking effect&quot; of the endogenous circadian rhythm in response to light stimuli. The results indicate that the failure of mutant mice to suppress their activity upon light onset is not due to abnormality in their circadian system, but to their lack of response to light stimuli. This study clearly demonstrates that the dysfunction of the ON visual pathway in metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 6-deficient mice impairs their behavioral responsiveness to light and yet preserves their circadian system.
In the olfactory bulb, GABA(B) receptors are selectively located in the glomerular layer. A current hypothesis is that GABAergic inhibition mediated through these receptors would be, at least partly, presynaptic and would exerted by decreasing the release of the olfactory receptor neuron excitatory neurotransmitter. Here, we assessed, in the frog, the in vivo action of baclofen, a GABA(B) agonist, on single-unit mitral cell activity in response to odors. Local application of baclofen in the glomerular region of the olfactory bulb was shown to drastically affect mitral cell spontaneous activity, since they became totally silent. Moreover, under baclofen, mitral cells still responded to odors and still specified odor concentration increases through their temporal response patterns. The pharmacological specificity of the GABA(B) agonist action was confirmed by showing that saclofen, a GABA(B) antagonist, partly prevented the inhibitory action of baclofen and restored the initial rate of mitral cell spontaneous activity. The results show that GABA(B)-mimicked inhibition suppressed mitral cell spontaneous activity while odor responses were maintained. This suggests that olfactory receptor neurons partly drive spontaneous mitral cell activity. Moreover, the effect of GABA(B)-mediated inhibition was seen to be very close to that described previously for dopamine D(2) receptor-mediated inhibition. In conclusion, we propose that these two inhibitory mechanisms would offer the possibility to reduce or suppress mitral cell spontaneous activity so as to make their responses to odor especially salient.
Oscillations of [Ca(2+)](i) which are believed to be important in regulation of cellular behaviour or gene expression, require Ca(2+) entry via capacitative Ca(2+) influx for store refilling. However, the mediator between Ca(2+) store content and activation of Ca(2+) influx is still elusive. There is also controversy about the role of the actin cytoskeleton in this coupling. Therefore, the importance of an intact actin cytoskeleton on ATP- and bradykinin-elicited Ca(2+) signalling was investigated in cultured rat astrocytes by treatment with cytochalasin D which changes the morphology of the cells from an extended to a rounded shape. Cytochalasin D-treated astrocytes were unable, upon prolonged stimulation with the P2Y receptor agonist ATP, to generate oscillations of [Ca(2+)](i) which are, however, seen in 54% of untreated control cells. In cytochalasin D-treated cells, the amplitude of the initial Ca(2+) response was reduced mainly by disturbing the Ca(2+) influx, and, moreover, the total Ca(2+) pool which is sensitive to thapsigargin or cyclopiazonic acid was diminished.Thus, disruption of the cytoskeleton blocks agonist-elicited [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations apparently by reducing the coupling efficiency between intracellular Ca(2+) stores and capacitative Ca(2+) entry.
A sudden increase in extracellular potassium ions (K(+)) often occurs in cerebral ischemia and after brain trauma. This increase of extracellular K(+) constitutes the basis for spreading depression across the cerebral cortex, resulting in the expansion of neuronal death after ischemic and traumatic brain injuries. Besides spreading depression, it has become clear that cerebral inflammation also is a key factor contributing to secondary brain injury in acute neurological disorders. Experiments to validate the relationship between elevated levels of extracellular K(+) and inflammation have not been studied. This study aims to elucidate the roles of high concentrations of extracellular K(+) in bacterial endotoxin lipopolysaccharide-induced production of inflammatory factors. Increased concentration of KCl in the medium (20mM) significantly enhanced neurotoxicity by lipopolysaccharide in glia-neuron mixed cultures. To delineate the underlying mechanisms of increased neurotoxicity, the effects of high extracellular K(+) were examined by using mixed glial cultures. KCl at 20mM significantly enhanced nitrite, an index for nitric oxide, production by about twofold, and was pronounced from 24 to 48h, depending on the concentration of KCl. Besides nitric oxide production of tumor necrosis factor-alpha was also enhanced. The augmentative effects of high KCl on the production of inflammatory factors were probably due to the further activation of microglia, since high KCl also enhanced the production of tumor necrosis factor-alpha in microglia-enriched cultures. The increased production of nitrite by high K(+) was eliminated through use of a K(+)-blocker. Taken together, the results show that increases of extracellular K(+) concentrations in spreading depression augment lipopolysaccharide-elicited neurotoxicity, because production of inflammatory factors such as nitric oxide and tumor necrosis factor-alpha are potentiated. Since spreading depression and cerebral inflammation are important in acute neurological disorders, the present results suggest a biochemical mechanism: elevated extracellular K(+) concentrations augment glial inflammatory responses, and thus the neurotoxicity.
An inflammatory response in the CNS mediated by activation of microglia is a key event in the early stages of the development of neurodegenerative diseases. Using mouse cortical mixed glia cultures, we have previously demonstrated that the bacterial endotoxin lipopolysaccharide induces the activation of microglia and the production of proinflammatory factors. Naloxone, an opioid receptor antagonist, inhibits the lipopolysaccharide-induced activation of microglia and the production of proinflammatory factors. Using neuron-glia co-cultures, we extended our study to determine if naloxone has a neuroprotective effect against lipopolysaccharide-induced neuronal damage and analysed the underlying mechanism of action for its potential neuroprotective effect. Pretreatment of cultures with naloxone (1 microM) followed by treatment with lipopolysaccharide significantly inhibited the lipopolysaccharide-induced production of nitric oxide and the release of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, and significantly reduced the lipopolysaccharide-induced damage to neurons. More importantly, both naloxone and its opioid-receptor ineffective enantiomer (+)-naloxone were equally effective in inhibiting the lipopolysaccharide-induced generation of proinflammatory factors and the activation of microglia, as well as in the protection of neurons. These results indicate that the neuroprotective effect of naloxone is mediated by its inhibition of microglial activity and may be unrelated to its binding to the classical opioid receptors.
Increased spinal cyclooxygenase activity is associated with nociception induced by tissue inflammation. In the present study, we examined the changes of cyclooxygenase-1 and cyclooxygenase-2 protein expression in several regions of the CNS associated with pain perception, and the role of spinal cyclooxygenase activity in the development of allodynia following nerve injury. Allodynia was induced by ligation of the left L5 and L6 spinal nerves in rats. Using western blot analysis, we found that the cyclooxygenase-2 protein levels in the dorsal spinal cord and thalamus (but not in the ventral spinal cord, cingulate cortex and locus coeruleus) increased significantly one day after nerve ligation, compared with those in the sham animals. The cyclooxygenase-2 protein levels in the above tissues were similar in nerve-injured and sham animals three and 14 days after surgery. In contrast, cyclooxygenase-1 protein was not detectable in any of the neural tissues examined one, three, and 14 days after nerve injury. In the behavioral experiments, we observed that intrathecal injection of 100microg of indomethacin immediately or one day after nerve ligation attenuated the development of tactile allodynia. However, intrathecal injection of indomethacin had no effect on established allodynia two weeks after nerve injury.Collectively, our results suggest that cyclooxygenase-2 is preferentially up-regulated in the dorsal spinal cord and thalamus in response to nerve injury in rats. Spinal cyclooxygenase-2 probably plays an important role in the early development, but not in the maintenance, of tactile allodynia caused by the nerve injury in this rat model of neuropathic pain.
The survival of motoneurons is dependent on them receiving continual trophic support from muscle fibres and various other cell types. Numerous putative survival factors have been identified and a set of criteria established by which these candidates can be assessed. These criteria include the need for the factor and its receptors to be in appropriate locations and for the factor or its second message to be retrogradely transported. In this paper, we demonstrate that a multifunctional cytokine, transforming growth factor-beta 2, appears to meet these criteria. The locations of the transforming growth factor-beta 2 and its receptors in the neuromuscular system were determined by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemistry. Motoneurons were shown to synthesize the three proteins involved in transforming growth factor-beta 2 signalling (types I and II transforming growth factor-beta receptor and betaglycan) and to transport them anterogradely, where they were inserted into the axonal membrane and nerve terminal. Transforming growth factor-beta 2 was detected in the synaptic portions of muscle fibres, motoneurons and in injured nerves, indicating that motoneurons may be exposed to multiple and potentially redundant sources of transforming growth factor-beta 2. Double-ligation experiments were used to demonstrate that motoneurons transport transforming growth factor-beta 2 up and down their axons. The anterograde transport of both transforming growth factor-beta 2 and its receptors, coupled with the fact that most of a motoneuron's mitochondria are located in the axon, raises the issue of whether the repression of the initiation of apoptosis is restricted to the cell body or occurs along the entire length of a neuron.
Migration of the granule cells is a major stage of cerebellar maturation. Granule cells express neurotrophins and their receptors; however, their role in cell migration has not been defined. In this study we investigated the effects of exogenous neurotrophins on the movement and neurite extension of granule cells from glial-free cerebellar cell reaggregates in vitro. Our results provide direct evidence that neurotrophin-3 and brain-derived neurotrophic factor differentially affect the granule cells. Neurotrophin-3 significantly affected granule cell movements by decreasing the migration index (the ratio of the number of cells that moved further than half the neurite length) and the speed of cell soma movement, but did not affect neurite length or growth cone migration. In contrast, brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-4 acted on growing neurites and growth cones by significantly increasing neurite length and the speed of growth cone migration, but had no effect either on the migration index or on the speed of the cell soma movement. The results suggest that neurotrophins differentially affect neurite extension and the movements of cerebellar granule cells.
Prion protein (PrP(C)) is a cell membrane-anchored glycoprotein, which is replaced by a pathogenic protease-resistant, beta-sheet-containing isoform (PrP(CJD) or PrP(SC)) in human and animal prion encephalopathies, including sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Cell fractionation methods show that PrP(C) localizes in presynaptic membrane-enriched fractions. Following infection, abnormal PrP accumulates in nerve cell processes and synaptic regions. The present study examines the possible correlation between abnormal PrP deposition and the expression of synaptic proteins controlling neurotransmission in the cerebellum of six 129 Met/Met sporadic cases of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Aggregates of protease-resistant PrP-positive granules, reminiscent of cerebellar glomeruli, were found in the granular cell layer, whereas fine punctate PrP-immunoreactive deposits occurred in the molecular layer. Small numbers of diffuse, irregular plaque-like PrP deposits in the molecular and granular cell layers were present in every case. The somas of Purkinje cells, and stellate, basket and Golgi neurons, were not immunostained. PrP-immunoreactive fibres were found in the album of the cerebellum and hilus of the dentate nucleus. Punctate PrP deposition decorated the neuropil of the dentate nucleus and the surface of dentate neurons. Synaptic protein expression was examined with synaptophysin, synapsin-1, synaptosomal-associated protein of 25,000 mol. wt, syntaxin-1 and Rab3a immunohistochemistry. Reduced synaptophysin, synapsin-1, synaptosomal-associated protein of 25,000 mol. wt, syntaxin-1 and Rab3a immunoreactivity was noted in the granular cell layer in every case, but reduced expression was inconstant in the molecular layer. Synaptophysin accumulated in axon torpedoes, thus indicating abnormal axon transport. Expression of synaptic proteins was relatively preserved in the dentate nucleus, although synaptophysin immunohistochemistry disclosed large coarse pericellular terminals in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, instead of the fine granular terminals in control cases, around the soma of dentate neurons. Finally, Rab3a accumulated in the cytoplasm of Purkinje cells, thus suggesting major anomalies in Rab3a transport. These observations demonstrate, for the first time, abnormal expression of crucial synaptic proteins in the cerebellum of cases with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. However, abnormal PrP deposition is not proportional to the degree of reduction of synaptic protein expression in the different layers of the cerebellar cortex and in the dentate nucleus. Therefore, it remains to be elucidated how abnormal PrP impacts on the metabolism of proteins linked to exocytosis and neurotransmission, and how abnormal PrP deposition results in eventual synaptic loss.
Morphological and electrophysiological characteristics of dopaminergic and non-dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra and their postsynaptic responses to stimulation of the tegmental pedunculopontine nucleus were studied in rat organotypic triple cultures. These cultures consisted of the subthalamic nucleus explant, ventral mesencephalic explant, inclusive of the substantia nigra and the mesopontine tegmentum explant, inclusive of the tegmental pedunculopontine nucleus, prepared from one- to two-day-old rats. Intracellular sharp and whole-cell recordings were obtained from three- to eight-week-old organotypic cultures. Recorded neurons were identified as dopaminergic and non-dopaminergic neurons with tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry. Dopaminergic neurons had long duration action potentials, prominent afterhyperpolarization, time-dependent inward and outward rectification and strong frequency adaptation. Spontaneous firing patterns varied from regular, irregular to burst firing. Non-dopaminergic neurons had short duration action potentials, in general no rectifying currents, and maintained high firing frequencies. Spontaneous firing patterns in these neurons were irregular or burst firing. Morphological analysis of the recorded neurons labeled with neurobiotin revealed that non-dopaminergic neurons had more extensive arborization of higher-order dendrites than dopaminergic neurons. Dopaminergic and non-dopaminergic neurons receive glutamatergic and cholinergic excitatory inputs from the tegmental pedunculopontine nucleus. These results indicate that morphological and electrophysiological characteristics of substantia nigra neurons in the organotypic culture are generally similar to those reported in in vitro slice and in vivo studies. However, spontaneous activities of dopamine neurons observed in the organotypic culture preparation more closely resemble those in in vivo preparation compared to in vitro preparation.
Although the amygdala is known to be crucial for fear conditioning, little is known about the molecular and cellular mechanisms in the amygdala that are important for fear conditioning. One possible mechanism may be the activation of immediate-early genes, which function as regulatory factors of transcriptional processes. To investigate whether one of the major immediate-early gene families is involved in the learning and memory of fear, we examined the effects of fear conditioning on the expression of the four members of the early growth response (EGR) gene family, EGR-1, EGR-2, EGR-3, and EGR-4. Image analysis of in situ hybridization of messenger RNA of the four family members was performed in the amygdala, hippocampus, and neocortex 15, 30 and 60min following one-trial contextual fear conditioning. Rats were either handled, placed within the testing context without receiving the footshock, and received a footshock immediately upon placement within the context, or received a footshock after a 3-min delay (delayed-shock). Of the four groups, only the delayed-shock group exhibited a fear response (freezing). EGR-1 messenger RNA expression in the dorsolateral part of the lateral amygdaloid nucleus was significantly greater in the delayed-shock group compared with the other groups 15 and 30min following the conditioning. The increased expression of EGR-1 was specifically localized to the lateral nucleus of the amygdala; expression in the hippocampus and cortex was not increased by fear conditioning. In contrast, the expression of EGR-2, EGR-3, and EGR-4 messenger RNA was not increased in the amygdala, hippocampus or cortex following fear conditioning. In addition, following a retention test conducted 24h after fear conditioning, no increases were found in the expression of EGR-1 messenger RNA expression in the amygdala, hippocampus or cortex. The results demonstrate that of the four genes of the EGR family of transcription-regulatory factors, only EGR-1 messenger RNA in the dorsolateral portion of the lateral nucleus of the amygdala was specifically increased with contextual fear conditioning. It is suggested that EGR-1 plays a functional role during learning, but not retrieval, of contextual fear within the lateral nucleus of the amygdala.
To investigate the relationship between the three isoforms of apolipoprotein E (E2, E3 and E4) and the integrity of the synaptic circuitry in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, we have estimated the synapse per neuron ratio and mean apposition zone area per synapse at the electron microscope level in the dentate gyrus of apolipoprotein E knockout and human apolipoprotein E transgenic mice aged six to 24months. During ageing, only in human apolipoprotein E4 mice was there a decrease in synapse per neuron ratio, accompanied by an increase in synaptic size. When these mice were compared with human apolipoprotein E2, apolipoprotein E knockout and wild-type mice at old age, they displayed the lowest synapse per neuron ratio, but similar apposition zone area. In contrast, as in our previous study, aged apolipoprotein E knockout mice did not show any sign of synaptic degeneration. The functional consequences of such morphological changes remain to be determined. However, if such age-related loss of synapses occurred in the brain of Alzheimer apolipoprotein E4 patients, they might be additive to pathological processes and could contribute to greater cognitive impairment.
This study reports the effect of repeated electroconvulsive shock on the sprouting of 5-hydroxytryptamine neurons in the partly lesioned rat dorsal hippocampus. We have adopted a 5-hydroxytryptamine homotypic collateral sprouting model to examine whether electroconvulsive shock administration altered the rate of 5-hydroxytryptamine axonal reinnervation of the dorsal hippocampus. The 5-hydroxytryptamine innervation of hippocampus originates from the median raphe via the cingulum bundle and the fimbria-fornix. Lesioning of the cingulum bundle has previously been shown to cause sprouting of intact 5-hydroxytryptamine afferents originating from the unharmed fimbria-fornix. Rats were unilaterally injected with the 5-hydroxytryptamine neurotoxin, 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine, into the right cingulum bundle and 5-hydroxytryptamine immunoreactivity in the dorsal hippocampus was investigated 1, 3, 6 and 12weeks after the injection. The lowest level of 5-hydroxytryptamine-immunoreactivity in the hippocampus was detected at three weeks after the lesion. At six weeks, 5-hydroxytryptamine immunoreactive fibres started to reappear, and at 12weeks the level of 5-hydroxytryptamine immunoreactivity was similar to that observed on the unlesioned side. Based on this time-course, six weeks was chosen as the time-point to investigate the action of a course of repeated electroconvulsive shock administrations. Repeated electroconvulsive shock (five shocks over 10days) doubled the number of sprouting 5-hydroxytryptamine-immunoreactive fibres and significantly increased levels of the 5-hydroxytryptamine metabolite, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid. The present data provide the first direct evidence that electroconvulsive shock enhances 5-hydroxytryptamine axon sprouting in the partly lesioned hippocampus. This is an effect which may contribute to the therapeutic effect of electroconvulsive therapy in major depression.
Effects of cholinergic agents on synaptic transmission and plasticity were examined in entorhinal cortex and hippocampus. Bath application of carbachol (0.25-0.75 microM) induced transient depression of field potential responses in all cases tested (24/24 in layer III of medial entorhinal cortex slices and 24/24 in CA1 of hippocampal slices; 11.0+/-1.9% and 7.8+/-2.5%, respectively) and long-lasting potentiation in some cases (4/24 in entorhinal cortex and 12/24 in hippocampus; 33.7+/-3.7% and 32.1+/-9.9%, respectively, in successful cases). Carbachol (0.5 microM) induced transient depression, but not long-lasting potentiation, of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated responses in entorhinal cortex. At 5 microM, carbachol induced transient depression only (55. 9+/-4.7% in entorhinal cortex and 41.4+/-2.9% in hippocampus), which was blocked by atropine. Paired-pulse facilitation was not altered during carbachol-induced potentiation but enhanced during carbachol-induced depression. These results suggest that the underlying mechanisms of carbachol-induced depression and potentiation are decreased transmitter release and selective enhancement of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated responses, respectively. Long-term potentiation could be induced in the presence of 10 microM atropine by theta burst stimulation. The magnitude was significantly lower (15.2+/-5.2%, n=9) compared with control (37.2+/-6.1%, n=8) in entorhinal cortex, however. These results demonstrate similar, but not identical, cholinergic modulation of synaptic transmission and plasticity in entorhinal cortex and hippocampus.
It is well established that the supramammillary nucleus plays a critical role in hippocampal theta rhythm generation/regulation by its direct and indirect (via the septal complex) connections to the hippocampus. Previous morphological and electrophysiological studies indicate that both the supramammillo-hippocampal and supramammillo-septal efferents contain excitatory transmitter. To test the validity of this assumption, transmitter specific retrograde tracer experiments were performed. [3H]D-aspartate was injected into different locations of the hippocampus (granular and supragranular layers of the dentate gyrus and CA2 and CA3a areas of the Ammon's horn) and septal complex (medial septum and the area between the medial and lateral septum) that are known targets of the supramammillary projection. Consecutive vibratome sections prepared from the entire length of the posterior hypothalamus, including the supramammillary area, were immunostained for calretinin, tyrosine hydroxylase, or calbindin, and further processed for autoradiography. Radiolabeled, radiolabeled plus calretinin-containing, and calretinin-immunoreactive neurons were plotted at six different oro-caudal levels of the supramammillary area. The results demonstrated that following both hippocampal and septal injection of the tracer, the majority of the retrogradely radiolabeled (glutamatergic/aspartatergic) cells are immunoreactive for calretinin. However, non-radiolabeled calretinin-containing neurons and radiolabeled calretinin-immunonegative cells were also seen, albeit at a much lower density. These observations clearly indicate the presence of glutamatergic/aspartatergic projections to both the hippocampus and septal complex. It may be assumed that this transmitter could play a role in hippocampal theta rhythm generation/regulation.
The cat's suprasylvian gyrus was injected iontophoretically with either 4% wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase, 4% dextran-fluororuby or 4% dextran-biotin. The locations of labelled fibres, presumed terminals and cell bodies were determined with the aid of a camera lucida attachment and computer aided stereometry. Cells from the crown of the suprasylvian gyrus project to the dorsal-most portion of the rostral half of the reticular nucleus. The region or 'sector' is distinct, albeit with some overlap, from the visual sector of the reticular nucleus defined by projections from adjacent extrastriate visual cortices. The projection from the suprasylvian gyrus to the reticular nucleus has a rough topography such that the caudal areas project to the more caudal aspects of the sector and rostral areas project to the more rostral areas of the reticular nucleus. There is a large degree of overlap of rostrocaudal projections from the suprasylvian gyrus within the sector, however, the projections originating from rostral sites are situated in a more ventral location compared to the projection originating from the caudal suprasylvian gyrus. Analysis of the distribution of biotin labelled presumptive terminals did not support the notion of 'slabs' or regional variation in terminal density across the mediolateral thickness of the reticular nucleus. In addition, a number of presumptive terminals were found within the internal capsule which coincided with the position of retrogradely labelled cells in the internal capsule following thalamic injections and appears to be part of the perireticular nucleus. The results suggest that the reticular nucleus may be segregated into sectors connected with modality specific cortical areas (e.g. striate and extrastriate visual areas) and nonspecific sectors connected with polymodal (e.g. area 7) cortical regions. The reticular nucleus and its connections with the suprasylvian gyrus may form an important link in binding eye movements to sensory integrative process through visuomotor and auditory thalamic connections.
The specificity and selectiveness of a neuronal message depends in part on the number of recipient neurons that simultaneously receive this message. Hence, projections involved in higher order cognitive processes might be expected to exhibit a lower degree of collateralization than projections that mediate more basic brain functions. This study sought to determine the degree to which neurons projecting from the prefrontal cortex to the nucleus accumbens collateralize to major cortical and subcortical regions: the contralateral prefrontal cortex, the basolateral amygdala or the ventral tegmental area. Fluoro-Gold and cholera toxin-b were used to label prefrontal cortex neurons that project to these targets, and the proportion of neurons singly and dually labeled by immunofluorescence for these tracers was determined. The prefrontal cortex neurons projecting to these regions exhibited a partially complementary laminar distribution. Furthermore, of the neurons projecting to the nucleus accumbens, 13% sent a collateralized projection to the contralateral prefrontal cortex, 7% collateralized to the basolateral amygdala, and 3% sent a branched projection to the ventral tegmental area. No differences were observed in the degree of collateralization of neurons in superficial versus deep layers.Thus, the degree of collateralization of corticoaccumbens neurons was overall limited, but significantly greater to a cortical target than to subcortical regions. These branching patterns provide anatomical substrates for temporal and spatial coordination of activity in limbic circuits.
The receptive field properties of single units were assessed in area 21b of the cat visual cortex. Visual cells in this area were binocular and showed relatively large receptive fields. Most cells were strongly sensitive to the direction of drifting gratings. The mean value of the half-widths of the direction tuning curves (32 degrees ) suggests broader direction tunings than are typically found in other visual areas. The spatial frequency tuning functions were either band-pass or low-pass. Cells responded optimally to low spatial frequencies (mean =0.08c/deg) and also showed low spatial resolution (mean =0.29c/deg.). The estimated values of spatial bandwidths (mean=2.2 octaves) suggest that area 21b cells act as relatively good spatial filters. Although some cells exhibited a low contrast threshold, most cells began to respond at intermediate or high contrast values (mean threshold =15.5%). Temporal frequency tuning functions were mostly band-pass and usually broad (mean temporal bandwidth=3.3 octaves). Cells were found that responded optimally to various temporal frequencies (mean optimal temporal frequency=3.2Hz), although the majority preferred a temporal frequency below 4Hz.These results suggest that visual properties (receptive fields sizes, spatial resolution and orientation/direction selectivity) of cells in area 21b differ from those of cells previously observed in the adjoining area 21a. These differences provide evidence in support of functional distinction between these two visual areas.
The posteromedial lateral suprasylvian cortex represents a point of convergence between the geniculostriate and extrageniculostriate visual pathways. Given its purported role in motion analysis and the conflicting reports regarding the texture sensitivity of this area, we have investigated the response properties of cells in PMLS to moving texture patterns (&quot;visual noise&quot;). In contrast to previous reports, we have found that a large majority of cells (80.1%) responds to the motion of a texture pattern with sustained discharges. In general, responses to noise were more broadly tuned for direction compared to gratings; however, direction selectivity appeared more pronounced in response to noise. The majority of cells was selective for drift velocity of the noise pattern (mean optimal velocity: 26.7 degrees /s). Velocity tuning was comparable to that of its principal thalamic input, the lateral posterior pulvinar nucleus. In general, responsiveness of cells in the posteromedial lateral suprasylvian cortex increased with increasing texture element size, although some units were tuned to smaller element sizes than the largest presented. Finally, the magnitude of these noise responses was dependent on the area of the visual field stimulated. In general, a stimulus corresponding to roughly twice the size of the receptive field was required to elicit an equivalent half-maximal response to that for gratings. The results of this study indicate that the majority of cells in the posteromedial lateral suprasylvian cortex can be driven by the motion of a fine texture field, and highlight the importance of this area in motion analysis.
In crayfish and squid giant nerve fibers, glutamate appears to be an axon-glia signaling agent. We have investigated glutamate transport and metabolism by crayfish central nerve fibers in order to identify possible mechanisms by which glutamate could subserve this non-synaptic signaling function. Accumulation of radiolabeled L-glutamate by desheathed cephalothoracic nerve bundles was temperature and Na(+) dependent, linear with time for at least 8h and saturable at about 0.5-1mM L-glutamate. Most accumulated radiotracer was associated with the periaxonal glial sheath and remained as glutamate. Compounds known to block glutamate transport in invertebrate peripheral nerves or mammalian brain slices or cell cultures were also effective on crayfish central nerve fibers. Tissue radiotracer levels were only 3% of control levels when 1mM p-chloromercuriphenylsulfonate was present, and 13%, 20%, 26%, 38% and 42% of control levels, respectively, when L-cysteate, L-cysteine sulfinate, L-aspartate, D-aspartate or DL-threo-beta-hydroxyaspartate was present. L-Glutamine, GABA, N-methyl-DL-aspartate, alpha-aminoadipate and D-glutamate were without inhibitory effect on tissue tracer accumulation. Radiolabeled D-aspartate was an equivalent non-metabolized substitute for radiolabeled L-glutamate. D-Aspartate, p-chloromercuriphenylsulfonate and GABA had comparable effects on isolated medial giant nerve fibers.These studies indicate that L-glutamate is taken up primarily by the periaxonal glia of crayfish central nerve fibers by a low-affinity, saturable, Na(+)-dependent transport system and is retained by the fibers primarily in that form. Our results suggest that the glia are not only the target of the glutamate signal released from non-synaptic regions of the crayfish medial giant axon during high-frequency stimulation, but that they are also the primary site of its inactivation.
Functional chemokine receptors and chemokines are expressed by glial cells within the CNS, though relatively little is known about the patterns of neuronal chemokine receptor expression and function. We developed monoclonal antibodies to the CCR1, CCR2, CCR3, CCR6, CXCR2, CXCR3 and CXCR4 chemokine receptors to study their expression in human fetal neurons cultured from brain tissue as well as the clonally derived NT2.N human neuronal cell line (NTera 2/cl.D1). Specific monoclonal antibody labeling demonstrated expression of CCR2, CXCR2, CXCR3 and CXCR4 on neurons from both sources. Co-labeling studies revealed strong expression of CXCR3 and CXCR4 on both dendritic and axonal processes, with a weaker expression of CXCR2 and CCR2. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis of pure NT2.N neurons confirmed RNA expression for CCR2, CXCR2, CXCR3 and CXCR4. No changes in the neuronal labeling pattern of chemokine receptor expression were noted when NT2.N neurons were grown on a supporting layer of astrocytes, again consistent with similar patterns seen in primary human fetal brain cultures. Analysis of single-cell calcium transients revealed a robust response to stromal derived factor-1alpha (CXCR4) and melanocyte growth-stimulating activity (CXCR2), and variable response to monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (CCR2) or interferon-gamma inducible protein-10 (CXCR3). Finally, we detected the release of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 from pure cultures of NT2.N neurons, but not undifferentiated NT2 cells. These data indicate that individual neurons may not only co-express multiple functional chemokine receptors, but also that neurons themselves produce chemokines which may influence cellular function within the central nervous system.
We have previously shown that the myristoylated alanine-rich C kinase substrate, a primary protein kinase C substrate in brain that binds and cross-links filamentous actin, is enriched in neuronal growth cones and is developmentally regulated in brain. Here we examined myristoylated alanine-rich C kinase substrate expression in the facial motor nucleus during axonal regeneration following facial nerve axotomy or facial nerve resection lesions, which impede regeneration, or following motor neuron degeneration induced by the retrograde neurotoxin ricin. For comparative purposes, the protein kinase C substrates myristoylated alanine-rich C kinase substrate-like protein and growth-associated protein-43 were examined in parallel. Myristoylated alanine-rich C kinase substrate messenger RNA exhibited a robust increase in both neurons and non-neuronal cells in the facial motor nucleus beginning four days after axotomy, peaked at seven days (2.5-fold), and declined back to baseline levels by 40 days. Myristoylated alanine-rich C kinase substrate protein similarly exhibited a twofold elevation in the facial motor nucleus determined four and 14 days post-axotomy. Following nerve resection, myristoylated alanine-rich C kinase substrate messenger RNA levels increased at seven days and returned to baseline levels by 40 days. Unlike myristoylated alanine-rich C kinase substrate messenger RNA, myristoylated alanine-rich C kinase substrate-like messenger RNA levels did not increase in the facial motor nucleus at any time point following nerve axotomy or resection, whereas growth-associated protein-43 messenger RNA exhibited a rapid (one day) and prolonged (40 days) elevation in facial motor nucleus neurons following either nerve axotomy or resection. Ricin-induced degeneration of facial motor neurons elevated myristoylated alanine-rich C kinase substrate and myristoylated alanine-rich C kinase substrate-like messenger RNAs in both microglia (lectin-positive) and astrocytes (glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive).Collectively, these data demonstrate that myristoylated alanine-rich C kinase substrate exhibits a unique expression profile in the facial motor nucleus following facial nerve lesions, and it is proposed that myristoylated alanine-rich C kinase substrate may serve to mediate actin-membrane cytoskeletal plasticity in both neurons and glial cells in response to protein kinaseC-mediated signaling during nerve regeneration and degeneration.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor is one of the most potent motoneuron survival factors yet identified. Although retrograde transport of trophic factors to the cell body is thought to be an important process in motoneuron survival, the transport pathways that lead to interaction of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor with its receptors is not known. We have used a double ligated hypoglossal nerve preparation to investigate transport of endogenous glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor and its receptors, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor family receptor alpha1 and receptor re-arranged during transfection. Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor was found to accumulate at the distal ligature, indicating retrograde transport and consistent with its motoneuron survival effects. In addition, we observed accumulation of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor and its receptors at the proximal ligature, indicating anterograde transport. This finding is not predicted by neurotrophic theory. Staining for glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor in the motor axons was punctate, suggesting involvement of transport vesicles. Results obtained using immunohistochemistry and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction provide evidence for the synthesis of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor family receptor alpha1 in Schwann cells and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor family receptor alpha1 and receptor re-arranged during transfection in motoneuron cell bodies. When the motor axons were separated from the cell body by avulsion, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor remained in the vicinity of the Schwann cells and did not accumulate at the proximal ligature. Our results indicate anterograde transport of Schwann cell-derived glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, which is dependent on binding to its cell body-derived receptors. These findings suggest a mechanism for collection of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor from multiple Schwann cells which surround motor axons. We propose that in addition to its role in motoneuron survival, glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor may also modulate local neuronal effects in distal regions of the nerve.
The deep cerebellar nuclei project to largely segregated target regions in the contralateral superior colliculus. Single-unit recordings have previously shown that nuclear inactivation normally suppresses spontaneously active collicular target neurons. However, facilitation of activity has also been found in a proportion of collicular units. In the present study we tested the hypothesis that the type of effect is related to the cerebellotectal topography. We recorded simultaneously in the deep cerebellar nuclei and superior colliculus of 53 anaesthetized rats. GABA microinjections produced a complete, reversible, arrest of activity in the deep cerebellar nuclei. We investigated the effect of this inactivation on 292 sensory and non-sensory cells in the collicular intermediate and deep layers. Of these, 29% showed a reduced response to their preferred sensory stimulus or decreased their spontaneous firing rate in the case of non-sensory cells. However, 15% increased their sensory responsiveness and/or spontaneous firing rate following cerebellar inactivation. No effect was seen in the remaining 56% of cells. The distribution of these different effects was highly significantly related to the topography of the cerebellotectal terminal fields. Thus, 68% of the suppressive effects were obtained from cells lying in the terminal fields of the deep cerebellar nucleus inactivated. Conversely, 86% of the excitatory effects and 66% of the cells showing no effect were obtained from cells falling outside the terminal field. The results support the view that the superior colliculus is an important site for the functional integration of primary sensory information, not only with cortical and basal ganglia afferents, but also with cerebellar information. The contrasting physiological responses observed within the terminal cerebellotectal topography appear to map closely on to the known distribution of the cells of origin of the two major descending output pathways of the superior colliculus and are possibly mediated by intrinsic inhibitory connections within its intermediate and deep layers. These results provide evidence for a neural architecture in the superior colliculus whose function is the selection of appropriate actions in response to novel stimuli and the suppression of competing motor programmes.
We examined synaptic connectivity between cholinergic and serotonergic neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus and the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus of the rat. To this purpose we employed two variations (the combination of pre-embedding immunogold-silver intensification with avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex technique and the combination of avidin-biotin-peroxidase/3, 3'-diaminobenzidine/silver-gold intensification with avidin-biotin-peroxidase/3,3'-diaminobenzidine reaction) of a double pre-embedding immunoelectron procedure, using primary antibodies against vesicular acetylcholine transporter and serotonin. At the light-microscopic level, serotonin-like immunoreactive neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus appeared as reddish black and vesicular acetylcholine transporter-like immunoreactive axon terminals were brown colored using a combination of pre-embedding immunogold-silver technique and avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex technique. Serotonin-like immunoreactive fibers projected to the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus. At the electron microscopy level, with both methods we observed in the dorsal raphe nucleus vesicular acetylcholine transporter-immunopositive axon terminals in synaptic contact with serotonin-like immunoreactive dendrites and, to a lesser degree, with serotonin-like immunoreactive cell bodies. These synapses usually were of the symmetrical type. Occasionally we noted, next to vesicular acetylcholine transporter-immunopositive axon terminals, also immunonegative terminals synapsing with the serotonin-like immunoreactive dendrites. In the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus we found serotonin-like immunoreactive axon terminals and immunonegative terminals forming synapses with vesicular acetylcholine transporter-immunoreactive dendrites. Most synapses formed by the serotonin-like immunopositive terminals were of the asymmetrical type. Our results suggest that serotonergic neurons in the dorsal raphe nucleus and cholinergic neurons in the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus may reciprocally influence each other by means of synaptic connectivity. Such connectivity may serve to regulate pain sensation, or be involved in the regulation of the sleeping-waking cycle.
The locus coeruleus-noradrenergic system participates in the modulation of behavioral state. Previous studies demonstrated that beta-receptors located within the general region encompassing the medial septum/vertical limb of the diagonal band of Broca (medial septal area) exert arousal-enhancing actions in both anesthetized and unanesthetized animals. These studies also demonstrated that, under conditions of limited locus coeruleus discharge rates, blockade of beta-receptors within this region decreased forebrain electroencephalographic indices of arousal. The current studies assess the extent to which medial septal area beta-receptors contribute to the maintenance of electroencephalographic and/or behavioral indices of arousal, under conditions associated with elevated locus coeruleus discharge rates. In the halothane-anesthetized rat, bilateral, but not unilateral, blockade of beta-receptors within this area prevented forebrain (cortical and hippocampal) electroencephalographic activation elicited by activation of locus coeruleus neurons. Placement of beta-antagonist immediately adjacent to the medial septal area had no effect on locus coeruleus-dependent cortical and hippocampal electroencephalographic activation. In contrast, in unanesthetized rat, bilateral pretreatment of the medial septal area did not alter either electroencephalographic or behavioral measures in animals tested in an arousal-enhancing, brightly-lit novel environment, which has been demonstrated to elicit an activation of the locus coeruleus-noradrenergic system. The results obtained in anesthetized animals are consistent with previous studies demonstrating potent modulatory actions of noradrenergic systems on actions of general anesthetics, and suggest that beta-receptors may be an appropriate target for pharmacological adjuncts to general anesthetics. In contrast to that observed in anesthetized animals, medial septal beta-receptors alone do not contribute significantly to the maintenance of an activated forebrain in unanesthetized animals. It is presumed that actions of other noradrenergic receptors and/or other neurotransmitter systems located within or outside the medial septal area make the arousal-modulating actions of medial septal area beta-receptors redundant, in the unanesthetized, alert animal.
Elevated levels of extracellular glutamate are neurotoxic. The cytotoxic property of extracellular glutamate is known to mediate two primary mechanisms, excitotoxicity and excitotoxicity-independent processes. The excitotoxicity-independent pathway was investigated in the current study in a mouse hippocampal-derived HT4 cell line. Exposure of HT4 cells to glutamate for 12h induced loss of cell viability preceded by rapid loss of intracellular reduced glutathione followed by accumulation of intracellular reactive oxygen species, elevation of intracellular Ca(2+), progressive loss of mitochondrial membrane potential swelling and loss of mitochondrial outer membrane integrity. Glutamate-induced loss of DNA integrity has been detected. The antioxidants alpha-tocopherol and trolox, mitochondrial calcium uniporter inhibitor Ruthenium Red and protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide all showed protection against glutamate-induced toxicity. None of the protective agents except for alpha-tocopherol controlled the glutamate-induced reactive oxygen species build-up. However, these cell death regulators prevented the glutamate-induced mitochondrial damage and regulated glutamate-induced increase in intracellular Ca(2+). Carbonyl cyanide p-trifluoromethoxyphenyl-hydrazone, a mitochondrial uncoupler, partially protected against glutamate-induced cell death and mitochondrial damage, while the mitochondrial ribosomal inhibitor chloramphenicol and extracellular Ca(2+) chelator ethylene glycol-bis(beta-aminoethyl ether)-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid did not protect the cells against glutamate treatment. The results of this study demonstrated that mitochondrial dysfunction was a key event in the excitotoxicity-independent component of neuronal cell death. Reactive oxygen species accumulation and glutathione depletion were prominent in glutamate-treated cells; however, these events were not direct mediators of cell death.
Chronic systemic treatment with 3-nitropropionic acid in rats produces persistent dystonia and bradykinesia, and striatal lesions reminiscent of Huntington's disease. However, the interpretation of results obtained with this model are complicated by a heterogeneous distribution of the response to a given toxic dose of 3-nitropropionic acid: approximately half of the animals develop selective striatal lesions, which in certain cases are associated with extrastriatal lesions, and the other half are apparently spared. Thus, the chronic 3-nitropropionic acid lesion model can be difficult for neuroprotection studies in which a consistent response to neurotoxic treatment is prerequisite. We hypothesized that some of the variability in the model was related to the use of Sprague-Dawley rats, since inter-individual variability in response to various stressful conditions has been described previously in this rat strain. We therefore compared 3-nitropropionic acid toxicity in rat strains known to be highly (Fisher 344) or poorly (Lewis) responsive to stress and compared the distribution of responses to that of Sprague-Dawley rats. In a protocol of intraperitoneal injection, toxicity of 3-nitropropionic acid was highest in Fisher rats, intermediate in Sprague-Dawley rats and lowest in Lewis rats. In addition, survival curves showed a more heterogeneous response to 3-nitropropionic acid toxicity in Sprague-Dawley rats than that observed in Lewis and Fisher rats. These differences between Sprague-Dawley and Lewis rats were confirmed in a protocol of subcutaneous 3-nitropropionic acid intoxication using osmotic minipumps, where doses up to 36-45mg/kg per day for five days were necessary to induce striatal lesions in Lewis rats as compared to 12-14mg/kg per day for five days in Sprague-Dawley rats. The selectivity of the striatum to lesions, and homogeneous progression of symptoms and neurodegeneration, were more consistently observed in Lewis as compared to Sprague-Dawley rats. These results suggest that vulnerability to 3-nitropropionic acid may depend on genetic factors, which could also influence the physiological response to stress. The present findings also establish an improved model of progressive striatal degeneration in the rat adapted for the testing of new neuroprotective strategies.
In order to investigate the sequence and pattern of neurodegeneration in Huntington's disease, the distribution and density of cannabinoid CB(1), dopamine D(1) and D(2), adenosine A(2a) and GABA(A) receptor changes were studied in the basal ganglia in early (grade 0), intermediate (grades 1, 2) and advanced (grade 3) neuropathological grades of Huntington's disease. The results showed a sequential pattern of receptor changes in the basal ganglia with increasing neuropathological grades of Huntington's disease. First, the very early stages of the disease (grade 0) were characterized by a major loss of cannabinoid CB(1), dopamine D(2) and adenosine A(2a) receptor binding in the caudate nucleus, putamen and globus pallidus externus and an increase in GABA(A) receptor binding in the globus pallidus externus. Second, intermediate neuropathological grades (grades 1, 2) showed a further marked decrease of CB(1) receptor binding in the caudate nucleus and putamen; this was associated with a loss of D(1) receptors in the caudate nucleus and putamen and a loss of both CB(1) and D(1) receptors in the substantia nigra. Finally, advanced grades of Huntington's disease showed an almost total loss of CB(1) receptors and the further depletion of D(1) receptors in the caudate nucleus, putamen and globus pallidus internus, and an increase in GABA(A) receptor binding in the globus pallidus internus. These findings suggest that there is a sequential but overlapping pattern of neurodegeneration of GABAergic striatal efferent projection neurons in increasing neuropathological grades of Huntington's disease. First, GABA/enkephalin striatopallidal neurons projecting to the globus pallidus externus are affected in the very early grades of the disease. Second, GABA/substance P striatonigral neurons projecting to the substantia nigra are involved at intermediate neuropathological grades. Finally, GABA/substance P striatopallidal neurons projecting to the globus pallidus internus are affected in the late grades of the disease. In addition, the finding that cannabinoid receptors are dramatically reduced in all regions of the basal ganglia in advance of other receptor changes in Huntington's disease suggests a possible role for cannabinoids in the progression of neurodegeneration in Huntington's disease.
The present study used mice deficient for dopamine D(2) and D(3) receptors to test whether the expression of these two members of the D(2) class of receptors is essential for the normal expression of three markers that characterize the neurochemical differentiation of the striatum: the calcium-binding protein calbindin, tyrosine hydroxylase and acetylcholinesterase. Results from these experiments revealed that the expression of striatal tyrosine hydroxylase (the rate-limiting enzyme of dopamine synthesis) and acetylcholinesterase is unaffected even by the combined knockout of D(2) and D(3) receptors. However, D(2) and D(3) receptor knockouts differently affect the striatal expression of calbindin-D(28k) immunoreactivity. Prominent changes in the cellular distribution of calbindin are detected in striatal neurons of D(2) mutant mice. Whereas calbindin immunolabeling of wild-type neurons is prominent in the nuclei and the cytoplasm of medium spiny neurons, in D(2) mutant mice, calbindin immunoreactivity is concentrated exclusively in the cytoplasmic rim of these neurons. Such changes in the cellular distribution of calbindin expression are not detected in mice lacking D(3) receptors. In these mutants, however, a lesser density of calbindin-immunoreactive neuropil is detected in the ventral portions of the striatum, i.e. in regions in which D(3) receptors are thought to be expressed at highest levels. Mice lacking both D(2) and D(3) receptors show both phenotypes. The altered cellular distribution of calbindin in D(2) mutants is likely to have functional consequences for some of the Ca(2+)-mediated cellular functions. The topography of the decreased density of striatal calbindin immunorectivity in D(3) mutants suggests a role for D(3) receptors in supporting the expression of striatal calbindin. The observation that mice lacking both D(2) and D(3) receptors show a combination of the D(2) and D(3) mutant phenotypes indicates that each of the different phenotypes detected in the single mutants is indeed related to the lack of the two different D(2)-like receptor subtypes.
The dopamine system plays a major role in responses to potentially rewarding stimuli. An important input to the dopamine neurons is derived from the central nucleus of the amygdala. The central nucleus is a complex structure consisting of several subdivisions with distinct histochemical, morphologic, and connectional features. The central nucleus subdivisions are therefore likely to have specific inputs to the dopamine neurons. The midbrain dopamine cells are divided into dorsal and ventral subpopulations. We determined the organization of inputs from the central nucleus subdivisions to the dopamine subpopulations in monkeys. The dorsal tier neurons receive relatively greater central nucleus input compared to the ventral tier. Within the ventral tier, the central nucleus projects to the densocellular region, but not the cell columns. Furthermore, the midbrain subpopulations receive a differential projection from specific central nucleus subterritories. The medial subdivision of the central nucleus has the greatest input to the dopamine system, and projects throughout the dorsal tier and densocellular regions. This indicates that the medial subdivision influences not only the ventral striatum but also more dorsal striatal areas, through its inputs to these dopamine subpopulations. In contrast, the capsular subdivision of the lateral central nucleus and the amygdalostriatal area project preferentially to the dorsal tier, which selectively modulates the ventral striatum and cortex. The central core of the lateral central nucleus is unique in its restricted projection to the lateral substantia nigra in the region of the nigrotectal pathway. Taken as a whole, the central nucleus-nigral pathway provides a route for affectively significant stimuli to modulate the DA system, influencing the initiation of behavioral responses.
Latent inhibition, the process whereby pre-exposure to a conditioned stimulus without consequence impairs subsequent learning of an association between the conditioned stimulus and an unconditioned stimulus, is reportedly disrupted in both amphetamine-treated rats and in acute schizophrenics. This has led to the suggestion that disruptions in latent inhibition model some of the cognitive impairments associated with hyperactive dopamine transmission as it is expressed in schizophrenic patients. Specifically, fluctuations in dopamine neurotransmission within the nucleus accumbens have been implicated in the mediation of latent inhibition; however, it has not been established whether these dopamine-mediated effects occur in the shell or core subregion of the nucleus. In the present study, 48h after conditioned stimulus-pre-exposed and non-pre-exposed animals experienced 10 pairings of tone and footshock, we measured extracellular levels of dopamine in the shell and core during the expression of latent inhibition to an aversively conditioned tone using in vivo microdialysis. Our results show that pre-exposure to the tone eliminated the conditioned release of dopamine in the shell of the nucleus accumbens and resulted in an attenuated conditioned freezing response to the tone conditioned stimulus. In contrast, dopamine release in the core was not affected by pre-exposure to the tone. These data suggest that it is specifically the shell of the nucleus accumbens in which alterations of dopaminergic tone, whether pharmacologically induced in rodents or the result of disease in humans, may act to disrupt latent inhibition.
Hypofunction of prefrontal cortical regions, such as dorsolateral and orbital regions, has been suggested to contribute to the symptomatology of schizophrenia. In the rat, the medial and the lateral prefrontal cortices are considered as homologs of the primate dorsolateral and orbital prefrontal cortices, respectively. The present study investigated in rats the effects of lesions of the medial and lateral prefrontal cortices on latent inhibition, prepulse inhibition and amphetamine-induced activity. These paradigms are known to be modulated by the mesolimbic dopaminergic system, a system that has been suggested to be involved in the symptomatology of schizophrenia. Latent inhibition and prepulse inhibition are disrupted in schizophrenic patients as well as in rats treated with amphetamine. Amphetamine-induced activity was tested under dim light (low stress) and bright light (high stress) because stressful situations selectively increase mesocortical dopamine activity. Lateral prefrontal cortex lesioned animals did not differ in their behavior from control animals in any of the paradigms used in this study. Medial prefrontal cortex lesions did not affect latent inhibition but increased prepulse inhibition. In the amphetamine-induced activity experiment, prior to drug administration, open field locomotion was reduced under bright illumination for all lesion groups. After amphetamine administration, medial prefrontal cortex lesions attenuated the hyperlocomotor effect of the drug under the dim light condition and potentiated it under the bright light condition. The results indicate that medial and lateral prefrontal cortex can be functionally differentiated by their involvement in the modulation of behavior requiring mesocorticolimbic dopamine activation. The results in amphetamine induced activity suggest that the behavioral outcomes associated with medial prefrontal cortex depend on the background (stress) against which the evaluation is made. The results also support the notion that prepulse inhibition may be a better model than latent inhibition of the symptoms of schizophrenia associated with dysfunctional prefrontal activity.
Previous studies have shown that physiological stimulation of brain activity increases anaerobic glucose consumption, both in humans and in experimental animals. To investigate this phenomenon further, we measured extracellular lactate levels within different rat brain regions, using microdialysis. Experiments were performed comparing the effects of natural, physiological olfactory stimulation of the limbic system with experimental limbic seizures. Olfactory stimulation was carried out by using different odors (i.e. both conventional odors: 2-isobutyl-3-methoxypyrazine, green pepper essence; thymol; and 2-sec-butylthiazoline, a sexual pheromone). Limbic seizures were either induced by systemic injection of pilocarpine (200-400 mg/kg) or focally elicited by microinfusions of chemoconvulsants (bicuculline 118 pmol and cychlothiazide 1.2 nmol) within the anterior piriform cortex. Seizures induced by systemic pilocarpine tripled lactic acid within the hippocampus, whereas limbic seizures elicited by focal microinfusion of chemoconvulsants within the piriform cortex produced a less pronounced increase in extracellular lactic acid. Increases in extracellular lactate occurring during olfactory stimulation with the sexual pheromone (three times the baseline levels) were non-significantly different from those occurring after systemic pilocarpine. Increases in lactic acid following natural olfactory stimulation were abolished both by olfactory bulbectomy and by the focal microinfusion of tetrodotoxin, while they were significantly attenuated by the local application of the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist AP-5. Increases in hippocampal lactate induced by short-lasting stimuli (olfactory stimulation or microinfusion of subthreshold doses of chemoconvulsants, bicuculline 30 pmol) were reproducible after a short delay (1 h) and cumulated when applied sequentially. In contrast, limbic status epilepticus led to a long-lasting refractoriness to additional lactate-raising stimuli and there was no further increase in lactate levels when the olfactory stimulation was produced during status epilepticus. Increases in lactic acid following olfactory stimulation occurred with site specificity in the rhinencephalon (hippocampus, piriform and entorhinal cortex) but not in the dorsal striatum. Site specificity crucially relied on the quality of the stimulus. For instance, other natural stimuli (i.e. tail pinch) produced a similar increase in extracellular lactate in all brain areas under investigation. The major conclusion of this work is that the presentation of an odor known to be a rat pheromone results in lactate production as great as that induced by the systemic convulsant pylocarpine (maximum: 2.286+/-0.195 mM and 1.803+/-0.108 mM, respectively). This supports the notion that the great magnitude of lactate production known to accompany seizures can result from the intensified neural activity per se (&quot;aerobic gycolysis&quot;), not merely from local anoxia or other pathological changes.
In this study we describe the preventive effect of interruption of the supramammillohippocampal afferents on the Fos expression in the forebrain and epileptic discharges in the hippocampal electroencephalogram in rat model of kainic acid-induced limbic seizure. Little was known about the contribution of different degrees of neural activity of hippocampal principal cells to the genesis and spread of limbic seizures in the forebrain structures. Following kainic acid injection to the amygdala with or without concurrent injection of muscimol to the supramammillary nucleus, behavioral changes and electroencephalograms were observed in freely moving rats. The animals were processed for Fos immunocytochemical analysis at several time points. The latest expression of Fos at 2h was seen in hippocampal CA1-CA3, ventrolateral thalamic nuclei and mediodorsal caudate putamen, while the early Fos expression at 0.5h was seen in the piriform, entorhinal and other cortices, the thalamic midline nuclei and hypothalamic nuclei. Muscimol injection to the supramammillary nucleus prevented Fos expression in the CA1-CA3 region and reduced that in the forebrain regions with the latest Fos expression, but did not affect Fos expression in other forebrain regions with early Fos expression. This treatment also eliminated epileptic discharges and attenuated all waves in hippocampus. These findings indicate that an acute interruption of the facilitatory hypothalamic afferents by intrasupramammillary injection of muscimol may cause the inactivation of the disinhibition mechanism for hippocampal throughput at the dentate gyrus, resulting in the blockade of the genesis and spread of limbic seizures in the hippocampus.
Reactive oxygen species have been implicated in the development of seizures under pathological conditions and linked to seizure-induced neurodegeneration. There has been little direct evidence, however, of free radical production resulting from seizures. Using amygdala-kindled rats, we have examined the generation of reactive oxygen species following seizures, and their possible contribution to seizure development and seizure-induced neuronal loss. The concentrations of two products of free radical-induced lipid peroxidation, malonaldehyde and 4-hydroxy-2(E)-nonenal, were measured using colorimetric assays. Lipid peroxidation was increased in both hemispheres of kindled rats as compared to sham-operated controls. Cell death was also significantly increased in all hippocampal areas. Antioxidants (vitamin E and glutathione) prevented the rise in lipid peroxides and hippocampal neuronal death during kindling, but did not arrest the development of seizures.Thus, epileptiform activity can result in free radical production which may be one of the factors leading to cell death.
The release of the inhibitory amino acid taurine is markedly enhanced under ischemic conditions in both adult and developing hippocampus, together with a pronounced increase in the release of excitatory amino acids and the neuromodulator adenosine. We studied the effects of adenosine receptor agonists and antagonists as well as adenosine transport inhibitors on hippocampal [(3)H]taurine release in normoxia and ischemia, using a superfusion system. Under standard conditions the adenosine A(1) receptor agonists N(6)-cyclohexyladenosine and R(-)N(6)-(2-phenylisopropyl)adenosine potentiated basal taurine release in developing mice and depressed the release in adults in a receptor-mediated manner. Adenosine A(2) receptor compounds had only minor effects on the basal release and the K(+)-stimulated release was not affected by these drugs. The adenosine uptake inhibitor dipyridamole enhanced basal taurine release in the developing hippocampus and reduced it in the adult. In ischemia the adenosine compounds had no marked effects on taurine release in immature animals, whereas A(1) receptor activation was still able to evoke taurine release in adults by a receptor-mediated mechanism. The results show that the basal release of taurine is modulated by A(1) receptors in both mature and immature hippocampus, whereas in ischemia these receptors potentiate taurine release only in adults. The elevated taurine levels together with the depression of excitatory amino acid release by adenosine receptor activation could be beneficial under ischemic conditions, protecting neural cells against excitotoxicity and hyperexcitation.
Apolipoprotein E genotype is an important risk factor of Alzheimer's disease, which is associated with the degeneration of distinct brain neuronal systems. In the present study we employed apolipoprotein E-deficient mice and human apolipoprotein E3 and apolipoprotein E4 transgenic mice on a null mouse apolipoprotein E background, to examine the extent to which distinct brain neuronal systems are affected by apolipoprotein E and the isoform specificity of this effect. This was pursued by histological and autoradiographic measurements utilizing neuron specific presynaptic markers. The results thus obtained revealed significant reductions in the levels of brain cholinergic and noradrenergic nerve terminals in young apolipoprotein E-deficient mice and no changes in brain dopaminergic nerve terminals. These cholinergic and noradrenergic presynaptic derangements were ameliorated similarly in human apolipoprotein E3 and apolipoprotein E4 transgenic mice. In the case of the cholinergic system, this resulted in complete reversal of the presynaptic deficits, whereas in the case of the noradrenergic neurons the amelioration was partial. These findings suggest that brain cholinergic and noradrenergic neurons are markedly more dependent on brain apolipoprotein E than brain dopaminergic neurons and that the isoform specificity of these effects is not apparent at a young age under non-challenged conditions.
The varepsilon4 allele of the apolipoprotein E gene constitutes the major genetic risk factor to develop Alzheimer's disease. If and how this protein contributes to the pathological cascade of Alzheimer's disease is not known. The varepsilon4 allele particularly affects the cholinergic defect, which is one of the most consistent neurotransmitter problems in an Alzheimer's disease brain. We have analysed several parameters of the cholinergic system in brain of apolipoprotein E knockout mice as well as in transgenic mice overexpressing human apolipoprotein E4. We analysed the distribution of cholinergic fibers, the number and morphology of cholinergic neurons and the enzymatic activity of acetylcholinesterase and choline acetyltransferase in different brain regions. Finally, we analysed the distribution and the binding parameters of [3H]hemicholinium-3, a specific marker for the high affinity choline transporter in different brain sections and regions. This extensive effort failed to show any consistent difference in the cholinergic parameters studied, in either the apolipoprotein E4 transgenic mice or in the apolipoprotein E knockout mice, compared to age-matched non-transgenic mice. We conclude that the apolipoprotein E4 is not deleterious per se for the cholinergic system in mouse brain.
The effect of dietary protein on hypothalamic GABAergic activity and immune response of rats in relation to age was studied. The age-induced (due to increase of age from three to 18 months) decrease in hypothalamic GABAergic activity and immune response were potentiated with the supplementation of protein rich diet under both short- and long-term conditions. Long-term consumption of protein-poor diet, in contrast, produced activation of hypothalamic GABAergic activity with an immunopotentiation with the increase of age from three to 18 months; whereas, short-term supplementation of low protein diet did not show any effect. The results of the present study may indicate that the activation or inhibition of hypothalamic GABAergic activity by immunopotentiation or immunosuppression during aging depends on the variation of the amount of dietary protein as well as the duration of its supplementation.
The possibility that brain aging in rats exhibits regional variations of the type found in humans was studied using lysosomal chemistry as a marker. Age-related (two vs 12months; male Sprague-Dawley) differences in cathepsin D immunostaining were pronounced in the superficial layers of entorhinal cortex and in hippocampal field CA1, but not in neocortex and field CA3. Three changes were recorded: an increase in the intraneuronal area occupied by labeled lysosomes; clumping of immunopositive material within neurons; more intense cytoplasmic staining. Western blot analyses indicated that the increases involved the active forms of cathepsin D rather than their proenzyme. Shrinkage of cathepsin-D-positive neuronal cell bodies was observed in entorhinal cortex but not in neocortical sampling zones. Age-related lysosomal changes as seen with cathepsin B immunocytochemistry were considerably more subtle than those obtained with cathepsin D antibodies. In contrast, a set of glial and/or vascular elements located in a distal dendritic field of the middle-aged hippocampus was much more immunoreactive for cathepsin B than cathepsin D. The areas exhibiting sizeable changes in the present study are reported to be particularly vulnerable to aging in humans. The results thus suggest that aspects of brain aging common to mammals help shape neurosenescence patterns in humans.
The involvement of nitric oxide in neurodegenerative processes still remains incompletely characterized. Although nitric oxide has been reported to be an important mediator in neuronal degeneration in different models of cell death involving NMDA-receptor activation, increasing evidence for protective mechanisms has been obtained. In this study the role of nitric oxide was investigated in a model of NMDA-independent, delayed apoptotic cell death, induced by the neurotoxin ethylcholine aziridinium ethylcholine aziridinium both in vivo and in vitro. For the in vivo evaluation rats received bilateral intracerebroventricular injections of ethylcholine aziridinium (2nmol/ventricle) or vehicle. In the hippocampus a transient decrease in nitric oxide synthase activity occurred, reaching its lowest levels three days after ethylcholine aziridinium treatment (51.7+/-9.8% of controls). The decrease coincided with the maximal reduction in choline acetyltransferase activity as marker for the extent of cholinergic lesion. The effect of pharmacological inhibition of nitric oxide synthase was tested by application of various nitric oxide synthase inhibitors with different selectivity for the nitric oxide synthase-isoforms. Unspecific nitric oxide synthase inhibition resulted in a significant potentiation of the loss of choline acetyltransferase activity in the hippocampus measured seven days after ethylcholine aziridinium application, whereas the specific inhibition of neuronal or inducible nitric oxide synthase was ineffective. These pharmacological data are suggestive for a neuroprotective role of nitric oxide generated by endothelial nitric oxide synthase. In vitro experiments were performed using serum-free primary neuronal cell cultures from hippocampus, cortex and septum of E15-17 Wistar rat embryos. Ethylcholine aziridinium-application in a range of 5-80microM resulted in delayed apoptotic neurodegeneration with a maximum after three days as confirmed by morphological criteria, life-death assays and DNA laddering. Nitric oxide synthase activity in harvested cells decreased in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Nitric oxide production as determined by measurement of the accumulated metabolite nitrite in the medium was equally low in controls and in ethylcholine aziridinium treated cells (range 0.77-1.86microM nitrite). An expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase messenger RNA could not be detected by semiquantitative RT-PCR 13h after ethylcholine aziridinium application. The present data indicate that in a model of delayed apoptotic neurodegeneration as induced by ethylcholine aziridinium neuronal cell death in vitro and in vivo is independent of the cytotoxic potential of nitric oxide. This is confirmed by a decrease in nitric oxide synthase activity, absence of nitric oxide production and absence of inducible nitric oxide synthase expression. In contrast, evidence for a neuroprotective role of nitric oxide was obtained in vivo as indicated by the exaggeration of the cholinergic lesion after unspecific nitric oxide synthase inhibition by N-nitro-L-arginine methylester.
Sensory circumventricular organs bordering the anterior third cerebral ventricle, the subfornical organ and the organum vasculosum laminae terminalis, lack blood-brain barrier characteristics and are therefore accessible to circulating peptides like endothelins. Astrocytes of the rat subfornical organ and organum vasculosum laminae terminalis additionally showed immunocytochemical localization of endothelin-1/endothelin-3-like peptides, possibly acting as circumventricular organ-intrinsic modulators. Employing [125I]endothelin-1 as radioligand, quantitative autoradiography demonstrated specific binding sites throughout the rat organum vasculosum laminae terminalis and subfornical organ, and competitive displacement studies revealed expression of both ET(A) and ET(B) receptor subtypes for either circumventricular organ. ET(B) receptor binding prevailed for the whole brain and ET(A) receptors could be labelled in the peripheral vascular system. To characterize endothelin-specific receptors in astrocytes of both circumventricular organs, alterations in the intracellular calcium concentration due to endothelin-1/endothelin-3 stimulation were studied in primary culture of subfornical organ and organum vasculosum laminae terminalis cells obtained from early postnatal rat pups. Endothelin-1 and endothelin-3 induced Ca(2+) transients in 9-13% of either subfornical organ or organum vasculosum laminae terminalis astrocytes, respectively, and some glial cells (subfornical organ: 2%, organum vasculosum laminae terminalis: 5%) responded to both endothelin analogues. The antagonistic action of BQ123 specific for ET(A) receptors (74% of all astrocytes tested), and the pronounced responsiveness to the ET(B) receptor agonist [4Ala]ET-1 (subfornical organ: 27%, organum vasculosum laminae terminalis: 35%) demonstrated glial expression of both endothelin receptor subtypes. Agonist-induced elevations in the intracellular calcium concentration proved to be independent of extracellular Ca(2+). In summary, the results indicate that endothelin(s) interact(s) with circumventricular organ astrocytes. Competitive receptor binding techniques using brain tissue sections as well as a fura-2 loaded primary cell culture system of the subfornical organ and organum vasculosum laminae terminalis demonstrate glial expression of functional ET(A) and ET(B) receptors, with calcium as intracellular messenger emerging primarily from intracellular stores. Endothelin(s) of both circulating and circumventricular organ-intrinsic origin may afferently transfer information important for cardiovascular homeostasis to circumventricular organs serving as &quot;windows to the brain&quot;.
The precise molecular events of mitochondrial dysfunction, one of the last steps that irreversibly determines cellular degeneration and death, remain unknown. We introduce a novel strategy to isolate and assess the molecular mechanisms underlying mitochondrial dysfunction. Using an in vitro ischemia model, we obtained evidence for prolonged mitochondrial depolarization in rat organotypic hippocampal brain slices during reperfusion. Then, mitochondria were isolated from brain slices and mitochondrial proteins were purified on a cyclosporin-A affinity column. Cyclosporin-A is the most potent inhibitor of mitochondrial dysfunction, in particular the mitochondrial permeability transition, and therefore we hypothesized that it may interact with proteins involved in the permeability transition after mitochondria were subjected to manipulations that promote this event. Mitochondrial porin was reproducibly eluted from the affinity column using proteins from ischemic brain mitochondria, or from mitochondria exposed to oxidative stress that were used as a positive control. Anti-porin antibodies prevented mitochondrial depolarization and electrophysiological deterioration of hippocampal neurons during hypoxia-reperfusion, as measured by simultaneous fluorescence imaging and whole-cell recordings. These observations provide biochemical and functional evidence that porin is directly involved in mitochondrial dysfunction and neuronal impairment during ischemia-reperfusion, and indicate that porin could be a novel therapeutic target to prevent cellular degeneration.
Motoneurons in neonatal rats die following injury to the peripheral nerve. However, this vulnerability to nerve injury declines rapidly so that nerve injury at five days of age results in little if any motoneuron death. We have proposed that the role of the target during this critical period of development is to up-regulate the release of transmitter from developing motor nerve terminals. Here we show that reducing the release of acetylcholine from nerve terminals in neonatal rats can affect motoneuron maturation and survival. The soleus muscle in neonatal rats was treated with either magnesium or hemicholinium, and the number of motoneurons that survived was established 10 weeks later by retrograde labelling. Following treatment with magnesium, only 58.1% (+/-10.4 S.E.M., n=5) of the motoneurons in the soleus motor pool survived, although hemicholinium had no effect on motoneuron survival. However, those motoneurons that survived following treatment with either magnesium or hemicholinium did not develop normally since they remained susceptible to axotomy-induced cell death for longer than normal. In adult animals in which the sciatic nerve was crushed at five days of age following prior treatment with either magnesium or hemicholinium, only 27.6% (+/-6.2 S.E.M., n=5) and 44% (+/-6.1 S.E.M., n=4) of motoneurons in the sciatic motor pool survived, respectively, although no motoneurons died following injury alone or when injury was preceded by treatment with control implants containing NaCl. These results indicate that the release of acetylcholine from motor nerve terminals plays an important role in the development and survival of motoneurons.
We developed an experimental system to investigate mechanosensitivity of a single neuron, using cultured rat dorsal root ganglion cells. Highly precise mechanical stimulation was applied to various sites of the cells, using a piezo-driven glass microcapillary whose movement was computer-controlled, while whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were made from the cell bodies. When the growth cones and lamillipodia from the cell soma were mechanically stimulated, inward currents were recorded at the holding potential of -60mV. Filopodia were most sensitive to mechanical stimulation. However, when neurites or soma of dorsal root ganglion cells were stimulated in the same way, electrical responses were hardly recorded. Two types of currents varying in time-course were observed: fast type of 100-200ms and slow type of several seconds in duration. When the membrane potential was held at around 0mV, both types of currents were almost abolished or even reversed, and the reversal potential was estimated to be about -2. 2mV. Replacement of extracellular sodium by tetraethylammonium did not significantly change the reversal potential. In the low-chloride solution ([Cl(-)](o)=11.7mM), the reversal potential was about +60mV, as expected from the Nernst equation for chloride. These inward currents were almost completely inhibited by extracellular application of chloride channel blocker, 5-nitro-2-(3-phenylpropylamino) benzoic acid (100microM). These results indicate that the inward currents are due to activation of mechanosensitive chloride channels, preferentially located on the growth cones of cultured dorsal root ganglion neurons.
The morphology of neurons in lamina I of the dorsal horn of the lumbar spinal cord which express neurokinin 1 receptors in the rat has been investigated. On the basis of soma and dendritic measurements, these neurons form two populations. One group consists of large neurons that stain intensely for the neurokinin 1 receptor with the immunochemical methods employed. They have a large soma, typically giving rise to between three and five thick principal dendrites. The dendritic tree, however, is relatively sparse, with the principal dendrites giving rise to small numbers of second- and third-order branches. All these dendrites are almost spine free. The dendritic tree spreads extensively in the rostrocaudal (approximately 550microm) and mediolateral (approximately 30microm) orientations, with few ventrally directed branches. These cells give rise to a single axon from their soma or a principal dendrite that generates a few local branches and also ramifies sparsely in deeper laminae (II-IV). The details of axonal morphology were established from intracellularly labelled material. Ultrastructural analysis of the synaptic input to these neurons reveals that they receive synapses with both clear round, flattened and dense-core vesicles; however, they do not form components of glomerular synapses. The second neuron type stains less intensely and typically has a small fusiform soma, giving rise to dendrites at its rostral and caudal poles. The dendritic tree is long in the rostrocaudal orientation (approximately 350microm), but restricted mediolaterally (approximately 40microm). The primary dendrites of these neurons bifurcate and soon give rise to third-order branches that are spiny. No pattern of organization could be detected for the distribution of either neuron type. These observations are discussed in the light of other recent studies indicating a central role for lamina I neurons expressing neurokinin 1 in the perception of severe pain.
Intracellular recordings were obtained from cuneate neurons of chloralose-anesthetized, paralysed cats to study the synaptic responses induced by electrical stimulation of the contralateral medial lemniscus. From a total of 178 cells sampled, 109 were antidromically fired from the medial lemniscus, 82 of which showed spontaneous bursting activity. In contrast, the great majority (58/69) of the non-lemniscal neurons presented spontaneous single spike activity. Medial lemniscus stimulation induced recurrent excitation and inhibition on cuneolemniscal and non-lemniscal cells. Some non-lemniscal neurons were activated by somatosensory cortex and inhibited by motor cortex stimulation. Some other non-lemniscal cells that did not respond to medial lemniscus stimulation in control conditions were transcortically affected by stimulating the medial lemniscus after inducing paroxysmal activity in the sensorimotor cortex. These findings indicate that different sites in the sensorimotor cortex can differentially influence the sensory transmission through the cuneate, and that the distinct available corticocuneate routes are selected within the cerebral cortex. From a total of 92 cells tested, the initial effect induced by low-frequency stimulation of the sensorimotor cortex was inhibition on most of the cuneolemniscal neurons (32/52) and excitation on the majority of the non-lemniscal cells (25/40). The fact that a substantial proportion of cuneolemniscal and non-lemniscal cells was excited and inhibited, respectively, suggests that the cerebral cortex may potentiate certain inputs by exciting and disinhibiting selected groups of cuneolemniscal cells. Finally, evidence is presented demonstrating that the tendency of the cuneolemniscal neurons to fire in high-frequency spike bursts is due to different mechanisms, including excitatory synaptic potentials, recurrent activation through lemniscal axonal collaterals, and via the lemnisco-thalamo-cortico-cuneate loop.A corticocuneate network circuit to explain the results is proposed.
Glycine is a candidate nociception inhibitory transmitter in specific brain regions, like for example the spinal cord, the thalamic nuclei and the periaqueductal gray matter. However, quantitative changes in glycine released in these brain regions during peripheral inflammation episodes have not been characterized in awake animals. To address this issue, an in vivo microdialysis study was carried out in freely moving rats in order to analyse periaqueductal gray matter extracellular glycine concentration following unilateral formalin injection into the dorsal skin of the right hind-paw. The extracellular concentration of glutamine was also evaluated in order to analyse whether or not a non-neurotransmitter amino acid was equally modified. Intra-periaqueductal gray matter tetrodotoxin perfusion reduced extracellular glycine concentration (-44+/-5%), but did not change the glutamine dialysate values. Peripheral injection of formalin reduced the glycine release during the early phase (-62+/-8%) and the late phase (-36+/-6%) of hyperalgesia, although not during the analgesic period. Perfusion with naloxone (300microM) neither prevented the formalin-induced decreases in extacellular glycine concentration, nor modified the perfusate basal values of glycine and glutamine. These results show that, contrary to what has been recognized on the interactive role of opioids and GABA into the periaqueductal gray matter (i.e. opioid disinhibition), endogenous opioids seem not to modulate the activity of glycinergic neurons in the same midbrain area. In the light of these preliminary data, it is reasonable to suppose that GABA and glycine are probably not co-released at the level of periaqueductal gray matter of the rat.
The dendrites of cerebellar basket/stellate cells show a highly stereotyped orientation relative to granule cell axons (parallel fibers) and Purkinje cell dendrites. This specific morphology is acquired during the early postnatal phase of cerebellar development, when basket/stellate cells become synaptically integrated with Purkinje neurons and granule cells. In the present study, we used primary cerebellar cultures to test how the spatial arrangement of granule cell axons affects basket/stellate cell dendritic morphology. In addition, we sought to determine whether active signals as might be provided by granule cells, i.e. synaptic input and the neurotrophin, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, affect basket/stellate cell development. Our results confirm the critical role of parallel fiber orientation for basket/stellate dendritic morphogenesis. Moreover, we found that both electrical activity and brain-derived neurotrophic factor increased basket and stellate cell dendritic arborization. Together with previously published findings, our data led to the conclusion that both structural cues and active interneuronal signaling collaborate to bring about the precise morphogenesis of cerebellar basket/stellate cells. The distinct responses of various cerebellar phenotypes towards the morphogenetic effects of brain-derived neurotrophic factor suggest that this neurotrophin, within the developing cerebellum, enhances synaptic connectivity by concerting the formation of appropriate pre- and postsynaptic structures.
Recent evidence suggests that some types of neurotensin receptors may be expressed by astrocytes. In order to explore the function of neurotensin receptors in astrocytes, the effect of a neurotensin receptor agonist, neurotensin(8-13), on intracellular Ca(2+) dynamics in mixed neuronal/glial cultures prepared from rat ventral tegmental area was examined. It was found that neurotensin(8-13) induces a long-lasting rise in intracellular Ca(2+) concentration in a subset of glial fibrilary acidic protein-positive glial cells. This response displays extensive desensitization and appears to implicate both intracellular and extracellular Ca(2+) sources. In the absence of extracellular Ca(2+), neurotensin(8-13) evokes only a short-lasting rise in intracellular Ca(2+). The neurotensin-evoked intracellular Ca(2+) accumulation is blocked by the phospholipase C inhibitor U73122 and by thapsigargin, suggesting that it is initiated by release of Ca(2+) from an inositol triphosphate-dependent store. The Ca(2+)-mobilizing action of neurotensin(8-13) in astrocytes is dependent on at least two receptors, because the response is blocked in part only by SR48692, a type 1 neurotensin receptor antagonist, and is blocked completely by SR142948A, a novel neurotensin receptor antagonist. The finding that the type 2 neurotensin receptor agonist levocabastine fails to mimic or alter the effects of neurotensin(8-13) on intracellular Ca(2+) makes it unlikely that the type 2 neurotensin receptor is involved. In summary, these results show that functional neurotensin receptors are present in cultured ventral tegmental area astrocytes and that their activation induces a highly desensitizing rise in intracellular Ca(2+). The pharmacological profile of this response suggests that a type 1 neurotensin receptor is involved but that another, possibly novel, non-type 2 neurotensin receptor is also implicated. If present in vivo, such signalling could be involved in some of the physiological actions of neurotensin.
Resident microglia are involved in immune responses of the central nervous system and may contribute to neuronal degeneration and death. Here, we tested in adult rats whether injection of bacterial lipopolysaccharide (which causes inflammation and microglial activation) just above the substantia nigra, results in the death of dopaminergic substantia nigra pars compacta neurons. Two weeks after lipopolysaccharide injection, microglial activation was evident throughout the nigra and the number of retrogradely-labeled substantia nigra neurons was reduced to 66% of normal. This suggests that inflammation and/or microglial activation can lead to neuronal cell death in a well-defined adult animal model. The opioid receptor antagonist naloxone reportedly reduces release of cytotoxic substances from microglia and protects cortical neurons in vitro. Here, a continuous two-week infusion of naloxone at a micromolar concentration close to the substantia nigra, prevented most of the neuronal death caused by lipopolysaccharide, i.e. 85% of the neurons survived. In addition, with systemic (subcutaneous) infusion of 0. 1mg/d naloxone, 94% of the neurons survived. Naloxone infusions did not obviously affect the morphological signs of microglial activation, suggesting that naloxone reduces the release of microglial-derived cytotoxic substances. Alternatively, microglia might not cause the neuronal loss, or naloxone might act by blocking opioid receptors on (dopaminergic or GABAergic) neurons.Thus, local inflammation induces and the opioid antagonist naloxone prevents the death of dopaminergic substantia nigra neurons in adult rats. This may be relevant to the understanding of the pathology and treatment of Parkinson's disease, where these neurons degenerate.
alpha-Synuclein is a key component of Lewy bodies found in the brains of patients with Parkinson's disease and two point mutations in this protein, Ala53Thr and Ala30Pro, are associated with rare familial forms of the disease. Several lines of evidence suggest the involvement of oxidative stress in the pathogenesis of nigral neuronal death in Parkinson's disease. In the present work we studied the effects of changes in the alpha-synuclein sequence on the susceptibility of cells to reactive oxygen species. Human dopaminergic neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells were stably transduced with various isoforms of alpha-synuclein and their survival following exposure to hydrogen peroxide or to the dopaminergic neurotoxin MPP(+) was assessed. Cells expressing the two point mutant isoforms of alpha-synuclein were significantly more vulnerable to oxidative stress, with the Ala53Thr engineered cells faring the worst. In addition, cells expressing C-terminally truncated alpha-synuclein, particularly the 1-120 residue protein, were more susceptible than control beta-galactosidase engineered cells. The present experiments indicate that point mutations and C-terminal truncation of alpha-synuclein exaggerate the susceptibility of dopaminergic cells to oxidative damage. Thus, these observations provide a pathogenetic link between alpha-synuclein aberrations and a putative cell death mechanism in Parkinson's disease.
Mutant dystonic hamsters (dt(sz)), a model of primary paroxysmal dystonia, display attacks of generalized dystonia in response to mild stress in an age-dependent manner. Recent studies in dystonic hamsters have revealed decreased densities of dopamine D(1) and D(2) in the dorsal striatum. This finding has been interpreted as a down-regulation in response to enhanced dopamine release because systemic treatments with neuroleptics reduced the severity of dystonia while levodopa exerted prodystonic effects. Therefore, in the present study we investigated the effects of amphetamine as well as of selective D(1) or D(2) receptor agonists and antagonists on the severity of dystonia after systemic administrations and after microinjections into the dorsal striatum. Amphetamine and the dopamine D(2) agonist quinpirole increased the severity of dystonia after systemic and striatal injections, while the dopamine D(1) agonist SKF 38393 exerted only moderate prodystonic effects after systemic administration of a high dose but not after striatal injections. These results suggest that a predominant overstimulation of D(2) receptors is pathogenetically involved in the dystonic syndrome. Combined systemic or striatal administrations of the D(1) and D(2) receptor agonists did not reveal synergistic prodystonic effects at the examined doses. The selective D(1) antagonist SCH 23390 as well as the D(2) antagonist raclopride tended to decrease the severity of dystonia after systemic administration but failed to exert significant effects after striatal injection. The coadministration of ineffective doses of the antagonists SCH 23390 and raclopride, however, exerted an enormous antidystonic efficacy after both systemic and striatal injections. Since striatal injections of compounds which enhance dopaminergic activity aggravated dystonia, while coinjections of dopamine D1 and D2 receptor antagonists reduced the severity of dystonia, the present findings clearly support the hypothesis that striatal dopaminergic overactivity plays a crucial role for the manifestation of dystonic attacks in the hamster model of paroxysmal dystonia.
We recently demonstrated that stress-induced cognitive deficits in rats do not correlate with hippocampal neuronal loss. Working on the premise that subtle structural changes may however be involved, we here evaluated the effects of chronic stress on hippocampal dendrite morphology, the volume of the mossy fiber system, and number and morphology of synapses between mossy fibers and CA3 dendritic excrescences. To better understand the mechanisms by which stress exerts its structural effects, we also studied these parameters in rats given exogenous corticosterone. Further, to search for signs of structural reorganization following the termination of the stress and corticosterone treatments, we analysed groups of rats returned to treatment-free conditions. All animals were assessed for spatial learning and memory performance in the Morris water maze. Consistent with previous findings, dendritic atrophy was observed in the CA3 hippocampal region of chronically stressed and corticosterone-treated rats; in addition, we observed atrophy in granule and CA1 pyramidal cells following these treatments. Additionally, profound changes in the morphology of the mossy fiber terminals and significant loss of synapses were detected in both conditions. These alterations were partially reversible following rehabilitation from stress or corticosterone treatments. The fine structural changes, which resulted from prolonged hypercortisolism, were accompanied by impairments in spatial learning and memory; the latter were undetectable following rehabilitation. We conclude that there is an intimate relationship between corticosteroid levels, hippocampal neuritic structure and hippocampal-dependent learning and memory.
Competing enzymatic mechanisms degrade the tryptophan metabolite L-kynurenine to kynurenate, an inhibitory and neuroprotective compound, and to the neurotoxins 3-hydroxykynurenine and quinolinate. Kynurenine 3-hydroxylase inhibitors such as PNU 156561 shift metabolism towards enhanced kynurenate production, and this effect may underlie the recently discovered anticonvulsant and neuroprotective efficacy of these drugs. Using electrophysiological and neurotoxicological endpoints, we now used PNU 156561 as a tool to examine the functional interplay of kynurenate, 3-hydroxykynurenine and quinolinate in the rat hippocampus in vivo. First, population spike amplitude in area CA1 and the extent of quinolinate-induced excitotoxic neurodegeneration were studied in animals receiving acute or prolonged intravenous infusions of L-kynurenine, PNU 156561, (L-kynurenine+PNU 156561) or kynurenate. Only the latter two treatments, but not L-kynurenine or PNU 156561 alone, caused substantial inhibition of evoked responses in area CA1, and only prolonged (3h) infusion of (L-kynurenine+PNU 156561) or kynurenate was neuroprotective. Biochemical analyses in separate animals revealed that the levels of kynurenate attained in both blood and brain (hippocampus) were essentially identical in rats receiving extended infusions of L-kynurenine alone or (L-kynurenine+PNU 156561) (4 and 7microM, respectively, after an infusion of 90 or 180min). However, addition of the kynurenine 3-hydroxylase inhibitor resulted in a significant decrement in the formation of 3-hydroxykynurenine and quinolinate in both blood and brain. These data suggest that the ratio between kynurenate and 3-hydroxykynurenine and/or quinolinate in the brain is a critical determinant of neuronal excitability and viability. The anticonvulsant and neuroprotective potency of kynurenine 3-hydroxylase inhibitors may therefore be due to the drugs' dual action on both branches of the kynurenine pathway of tryptophan degradation.
Under normal conditions, hippocampal slices from newborn rats and rabbits (postnatal days 0-8) show spontaneous synchronous bursts known as giant depolarizing potentials. These bursts are recorded from CA3, CA1 and the fascia dentata in both intact slices and isolated hipocampal regions. Giant depolarizing potentials are network-driven events resulting from the synergistic activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxadepropionate and GABA(A) receptors, the latter playing an excitatory role. Recently, we showed that they spontaneously emerge in an all-or-none manner after the increase of synaptic and cellular activity beyond a threshold frequency [Menendez de la Prida L. and Sanchez-Andres J. V. (1999) J. Neurophysiol. 82, 202-208]. Under this framework, background levels of spontaneous activity at individual neurons build up network synchronization 100-300ms prior to the onset of giant depolarizing potentials. However, the role of distinct cellular populations and connectivity in determining the threshold frequency has not been examined. By performing simultaneous intracellular recordings from pyramidal cells, non-pyramidal cells and interneurons, we investigated their participation in the generation of giant depolarizing potentials. Electrodes containing Neurobiotin were used to examine the cellular morphology. We found that giant depolarizing potentials were not initiated from a single pacemaker cellular group; instead, they involved recurrent cooperation among these groups, which contributed differently according to their intrinsic firing capability. In all the neurons examined, the onset of these bursts took place in an all-or-none frequency-dependent manner, both spontaneously (depending on the frequency of the excitatory postsynaptic potentials) or when triggered by extracellular stimulation. The CA3 threshold of frequency was at 12Hz in both pyramidal cells and interneurons, while in the fascia dentata it was 17Hz. The application of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione increased CA3 threshold of frequency up to 50Hz, suggesting that it is determined by combined synaptic components. We examined the role of postsynaptic summation on the threshold of frequency. Heterogeneity is present among the cellular groups, pyramidal neurons from CA1 and CA3 showing less evidence of postsynaptic summation prior to giant depolarizing potentials. Cells showing stronger evidence of postsynaptic summation were more typically recorded at the hilus, the granule layer of the fascia dentata and the CA3/CA4 area. Nevertheless, for a given cell, not all the giant depolarizing potentials were preceded by summation of postsynaptic potentials. These outcomes, together with the long and variable time delays recorded between different areas, strongly suggest that giant depolarizing potentials are locally generated from different initiation sites and not from a single region. We discuss these results in view of the principles underlying hyperexcitability in hippocampal slices, i.e. the intrinsic firing properties of individual cells and the connectivity patterns.
The release of cortical acetylcholine from the intracortical axonal terminals of cholinergic basal forebrain neurons is closely associated with electroencephalographic activity. One factor which may act to reduce cortical acetylcholine release and promote sleep is adenosine. Using in vivo microdialysis, we examined the effect of adenosine and selective adenosine receptor agonists and antagonists on cortical acetylcholine release evoked by electrical stimulation of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus in urethane anesthetized rats. All drugs were administered locally within the cortex by reverse dialysis. None of the drugs tested altered basal release of acetylcholine in the cortex. Adenosine significantly reduced evoked cortical acetylcholine efflux in a concentration-dependent manner. This was mimicked by the adenosine A(1) receptor selective agonist N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine and blocked by the selective A(1) receptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX). The A(2A) receptor agonist 2-[p-(2-carboxyethyl)-phenethylamino]-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosi ne hydrochloride (CGS 21680) did not alter evoked cortical acetylcholine release even in the presence of DPCPX. Administered alone, neither DPCPX nor the non-selective adenosine receptor antagonist caffeine affected evoked cortical acetylcholine efflux. Simultaneous delivery of the adenosine uptake inhibitors dipyridamole and S-(4-nitrobenzyl)-6-thioinosine significantly reduced evoked cortical acetylcholine release, and this effect was blocked by the simultaneous administration of caffeine. These data indicate that activation of the A(1) adenosine receptor inhibits acetylcholine release in the cortex in vivo while the A(2A) receptor does not influence acetylcholine efflux. Such inhibition of cortical acetylcholine release by adenosine may contribute to an increased propensity to sleep during prolonged wakefulness.
Although the survival of neuronal cells is highly dependent on neural connections with afferents or targets,(10,14,15) little is known about the survival of immature neurons that have not yet encountered the partners. Herein, using cultures of isolated hippocampal neurons of rat embryos, we have attempted to elucidate the contribution of neurite outgrowth to neuron survival and found that neurons died at a certain degree of neurite length with apoptotic characteristics in cases of no contact with other neurons. The threshold was 143.4microm, which was about five times as long as the cell body diameter. It was altered by depolarization or in the presence of basic fibroblast growth factor. Thus, neurons may be designed to kill themselves if they cannot find their targets after exploration within a particular area, the extent of which is variable due to cellular conditions.
Dopamine D(2) receptors are implicated in stimulant-induced behavioral sensitization.(7,10) Studies using selective receptor antagonists also implicate the D(4) receptor, a member of the dopamine D(2)-like receptor family.(3) Accordingly, dopamine D(4) and D(2)-like receptor levels in rat forebrain were examined by computed autoradiography after repeated (+)-amphetamine treatment that induced behavioral sensitization. Receptor binding was quantified in critical brain regions including caudate-putamen, nucleus accumbens septi, medial prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. No significant differences in D(4) or D(2)-like receptor levels were detected among rats sensitized to amphetamine, those exposed to amphetamine but killed before behavioral sensitization emerged or vehicle-treated controls. The findings indicate that expression of amphetamine-induced behavioral sensitization is not associated with altered D(4) (or D(2)) receptor density in rat forebrain.
Apolipoprotein E fulfills fundamental functions in lipid transport and neural tissue repair after injury.(6,8) Its three most common isoforms (E2, E3, and E4) are critical determinants of diverse human diseases, including major cardiovascular and neurodegenerative disorders.(8,14) Apolipoprotein E4 is associated with an increased risk for Alzheimer's disease(3,5) and poor clinical outcome after head injury or stroke.(11,16) The precise role of apolipoprotein E4 in these conditions remains unknown. To characterize the effects of human apolipoprotein E isoforms in vivo, we analysed transgenic Apoe knockout mice that express apolipoprotein E3 or E4 or both in the brain. Hemizygous and homozygous apolipoprotein E3 mice were protected against age-related and excitotoxin-induced neurodegeneration, whereas apolipoprotein E4 mice were not. Apolipoprotein E3/E4 bigenic mice were as susceptible to neurodegeneration as apolipoprotein E4 singly-transgenic mice. At eight months of age neurodegeneration was more severe in homozygous than in hemizygous apolipoprotein E4 mice consistent with a dose effect. Thus, apolipoprotein E4 is not only less neuroprotective than apolipoprotein E3 but also acts as a dominant negative factor that interferes with the beneficial function of apolipoprotein E3. The inhibition of this apolipoprotein E4 activity may be critical for the prevention and treatment of neurodegeneration in APOE varepsilon4 carriers.
Members of the death receptor family may play a prominent role in developmental and pathological neuronal cell death. We report the expression of the TR3 and TR7 death receptors in the adult human and rat central nervous system. Whereas expression of TR3 appears to be high in the human cerebellum, with lower levels in other brain regions, robust expression is observed in many regions of the rat brain. We also analyzed modulation of death receptor expression in an in vivo rat model of acute stroke. In contrast to tumor necrosis factor receptor 1, Fas and p75(NGFR), which all show up-regulation specifically in lesioned cortex of the permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion model of stroke. TR3 shows a rapid global increase in both lesioned and unlesioned brain. In comparison, the recently described death receptor TR7 shows no change in this model. These data indicate that the death receptors show clear differences in patterns of expression in response to ischemic injury.  2000 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Science Ltd.
A(2A) adenosine receptors are highly expressed in the striatum where they modulate dopaminergic activity. The role of A(2A) receptors in psychostimulant action is less well understood because of the lack of A(2A)-selective compounds with access to the central nervous system. To investigate the A(2A) adenosinergic regulation of psychostimulant responses, we examined the consequences of genetic deletion of A(2A) receptors on psychostimulant-induced behavioral responses. The extent of dopaminergic innervation and expression of dopamine receptors in the striatum were indistinguishable between A(2A) receptor knockout and wild-type mice. However, locomotor responses to amphetamine and cocaine were attenuated in A(2A) knockout mice. In contrast, D(1)-like receptor agonists SKF81297 and SKF38393 produced identical locomotor stimulation and grooming, respectively, in wild-type and A(2A) knockout mice. Similarly, the D(2)-like agonist quinpirole produced motor-depression and stereotypy that were indistinguishable between A(2A) knockout and wild-type mice. Furthermore, attenuated amphetamine- (but not SKF81297-) induced locomotion was observed in pure 129-Steel as well as hybrid 129-SteelxC57BL/6 mice, confirming A(2A) receptor deficiency (and not genetic background) as the cause of the blunted psychostimulant responses in A(2A) knockout mice. These results demonstrate that A(2A) receptor deficiency selectively attenuates psychostimulant-induced behavioral responses and support an important role for the A(2A) receptor in modulating psychostimulant effects.
Axonal growth requires insertion of newly synthesized membrane components into the plasmalemma. Imbalance between exocytotic membrane addition and endocytic retrieval at specific axonal sites may lead to the bulk plasma membrane flow along the axon and, thus, contribute to the renewal of plasma membrane components. By using fluorescent lipid analogs incorporated into the plasma membrane, we determined the sites of membrane internalization in growing Xenopus embryo neurons. Vectorial traffic of endocytic membranes from the distal axon to the cell body was observed, suggesting bulk retrieval of plasma membrane at the growth cone. No long-range axonal transport of membrane material internalized at the cell body or along the axon was detected. In addition, we measured the rate of plasma membrane flow in Xenopus neurites. Axonal plasma membrane was found to flow anterogradely with the rate equal to approximately 30% of the rate of neurite elongation. Our results suggest that the &quot;growth from the tip&quot; pattern of neurite elongation may coexist with transport of new membrane components along plasmalemma by anterograde membrane flow.
Enriched environment significantly enhances postischemic functional outcome. We have tested the hypothesis that housing in enriched environment stimulates gene expression for brain-derived neurotrophic factor. After ligation of the middle cerebral artery in male spontaneously hypertensive rats, they were housed in individual cages for 30h, then housed either in standard cages or in an enriched environment. The rats were killed two to 30days after the ischemic event. Cryostat coronal sections through the dorsal hippocampus (Bregma -3.3) were processed for in situ hybridization using a rat-brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA antisense oligonucleotide probe. Postischemic gene expression was significantly higher in standard rats than in enriched rats in contralateral and peri-infarct cortex and in most parts of the hippocampus two, three and 12days after the ischemic event, with a trend for higher-than-baseline levels in standard rats and lower-than-baseline levels in enriched rats. At 20 and 30days the values for both groups were below baseline levels. Contrary to our hypothesis, gene expression in rats postoperatively housed in enriched environment was significantly lower than in standard rats at a time when other studies have reported hyperexcitability in the ipsilateral and contralateral cortex. Should the low messenger RNA levels correspond to low protein synthesis, this might indicate that dampening of the early postischemic hyperexcitability may be beneficial. Low levels in both groups at 20 and 30days may correspond to loss of callosal connections in the opposite hemisphere and to horizontal cortical connections in the lesioned hemisphere.
Nerve growth factor is present in skin in limiting amounts and is known to regulate the plasticity and the sensitivity of nociceptive neurons. Recently, knock-out mouse studies showed that neurotrophin-3 and brain-derived neurotrophic factor are required for the postnatal survival and functional maturation, respectively, of tactile sensory neurons. However, the roles of neurotrophin-3 and brain-derived neurotrophic factor in adult sensory neurons have not been clarified. Here, we report an unexpected and marked acute loss of tactile sense in the rat hind paw after adjuvant-induced inflammation. This loss was shown to be closely correlated with decreases in the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, and to a lesser extent of neurotrophin-3 in the inflamed skin. Administration of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, but not neurotrophin-3, after inflammation accelerated the recovery of tactile sense. These results suggested a role of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the physiological regulation of tactile sense in adulthood.
In order to characterize the localization of the sigma(1) receptor in the adult rat central nervous system, a polyclonal antibody was raised against a 20 amino acid peptide, corresponding to the fragment 143-162 of the cloned sigma(1) receptor protein. Throughout the rostrocaudal regions of the central nervous system extending from the olfactory bulb to the spinal cord, intense to moderate immunostaining was found to be associated with: (i) ependymocytes bordering the entire ventricular system, and (ii) neuron-like structures located within the parenchyma. Double fluorescence studies confirmed that, throughout the parenchyma, sigma(1) receptor-immunostaining was essentially associated with neuronal structures immunostained for the neuronal marker betaIII-tubulin. In all rats examined, high levels of immunostaining were always associated with neurons located within specific regions including the granular layer of the olfactory bulb, various hypothalamic nuclei, the septum, the central gray, motor nuclei of the hindbrain and the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. In contrast, only faint immunostaining was associated with neurons located in the caudate-putamen and the cerebellum. Electron microscope studies indicated that sigma(1) receptor immunostaining was mostly associated with neuronal perikarya and dendrites, where it was localized to the limiting plasma membrane, the membrane of mitochondria and of some cisternae of the endoplasmic reticulum. At the level of synaptic contacts, intense immunostaining was associated with postsynaptic structures including the postsynaptic thickening and some polymorphous vesicles, whereas the presynaptic axons were devoid of immunostaining. These data indicate that the sigma(1) receptor antibody prepared here, represents a promising tool for further investigating the role of sigma(1) receptors.
Sterol regulatory element binding proteins are membrane-bound transcription factors that activate expression of several genes controlling cellular cholesterol and fatty acid homeostasis. The present study aimed to investigate the in vivo expression of sterol regulatory element binding protein-1 in the normal rodent and primate brain, and in the brain in Niemann-Pick type C disease mice. These mutant animals have lysosomal cholesterol accumulation and progressive neurodegeneration caused by an inactivating mutation of the NPC1 gene whose protein product functions in vesicular lipid trafficking. Western blot analysis of rat hippocampal homogenates with an affinity purified rabbit polyclonal antibody directed against an internal epitope of sterol regulatory element binding protein-1 identified a major 68,000 mol. wt protein consistent with the amino-terminal, transcriptionally active fragment of sterol regulatory element binding proteins-1. Immunocytochemically, this antibody revealed dense sterol regulatory element binding protein-1 staining of nuclei and light staining of the cytoplasm of cells in the neocortex and hippocampus in the rat, mouse and monkey brain. By electron microscopy of immunogold-labeled brain sections, these densely labeled cells were found to be neurons. In contrast, normal glial cells had little or no sterol regulatory element binding protein-1 immunoreactivity even at a developmental stage (postnatal day 9) which coincides with active myelination in the rat brain. Also, in contrast to the normal mouse brain, Niemann-Pick type C mice showed reduced staining of cortical and hippocampal neuronal nuclei. Since sterol regulatory element binding protein-1 has been shown to be a transcriptional regulator of fatty acid synthesis in vivo, the current findings of a predominantly neuronal nuclear expression of the 68,000 mol. wt transcriptionally active fragment of sterol regulatory element binding protein-1 highlights the established role of phospholipid metabolites and other fatty-acid containing lipids in neuronal signal transduction and other neuronal functions. Reduced sterol regulatory element binding protein-1 expression in neurons in Niemann-Pick type C may reflect a deficiency in fatty acid synthesis that could contribute to the neuronal dysfunction in this disorder.
Activation of primary afferent C fibers gives rise to spinal release of substance P and glutamate, and these mediators facilitate the cascade of nociceptive processing. We recently showed that intrathecal administration of nociceptin or orphanin FQ (hereafter called nociceptin) induced hyperalgesia to noxious thermal stimuli and allodynia to innocuous tactile stimuli applied to conscious mice. In the present study, we designed experiments to elucidate the pathways and mediators of nociceptin-evoked pain responses. Neonatal capsaicin treatment eliminated the induction of hyperalgesia and allodynia by nociceptin. Whereas this treatment markedly reduced the content of substance P in the spinal cord, it did not affect the nociceptin content or the expression of nociceptin receptors and GluRvarepsilon and GluRzeta subunits of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in it. The substance P antagonists CP96,345 and CP99,994 blocked the nociceptin-induced hyperalgesia, but not the allodynia. In contrast, the nociceptin-evoked allodynia, but not hyperalgesia, disappeared in N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor GluRvarepsilon1 subunit knockout mice. Both nociceptin-evoked hyperalgesia and allodynia were attenuated by morphine in a dose-dependent manner. Taken together, these results demonstrate that capsaicin-sensitive primary afferent fibers are involved not only in thermal hyperalgesia but also in tactile allodynia induced by nociceptin, but in different pathways; the former is mediated by substance P and the latter is mediated by glutamate through the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor comprising the GluRvarepsilon1 subunit.
We carried out a partial ligation of the sciatic nerve in rats to induce nerve injury and neuropathic hyperalgesia. We showed that nitrotyrosine, a marker of peroxynitrite activity, was formed after partial nerve injury. Double-labelling immunohistochemistry showed that nitrotyrosine-immunoreactive cells were mainly macrophages and Schwann cells. Daily treatment with uric acid, a scavenger of peroxynitrite, decreased nitrotyrosine formation in the injured sciatic nerve, and produced concomitant alleviation of thermal hyperalgesia and Wallerian degeneration. These results provide the first evidence that peroxynitrite is formed after partial nerve injury, and contributes to the initiation of thermal hyperalgesia and Wallerian degeneration. We hypothesize that uric acid alleviates hyperalgesia and Wallerian degeneration by inhibiting oxidative damage caused by peroxynitrite and possibly also by decreasing the production of other inflammatory mediators such as prostaglandins.
Intercellular communication via gap junction channels composed of connexin-43 is known to be regulated by phosphorylation of this protein. We investigated whether connexin-43 at astrocytic gap junctions is similarly regulated in response to neural activation. The effect of peripheral nerve stimulation on connexin-43 phosphorylation state in the spinal cord of rats was examined with a monoclonal antibody (designated 13-8300) shown previously to recognize selectively a dephosphorylated form of connexin-43. Immunolabelling with 13-8300 was absent in the lumbar spinal cord in control animals, but was induced in the dorsal horn ipsilateral to sciatic nerve electrical stimulation for 15min or 1h at a frequency of 1 or 100Hz. Immunorecognition of connexin-43 by a polyclonal anti-connexin-43 antibody, shown previously to undergo epitope masking under various conditions, was reduced in the dorsal horn on the stimulated side. These responses were abolished by local anaesthetic or tetrodotoxin application proximal to the site of nerve stimulation. Selective electrical stimulation of A-fibres or activation of cutaneous C-fibres by capsaicin evoked labelling with 13-8300 in deep and superficial laminae of the dorsal horn, respectively. Nerve stimulation increased the number of 13-8300-positive astrocytic gap junctions, as well as the levels of dephosphorylated connexin-43 in the dorsal horn on the stimulated side. Sciatic nerve transection produced results similar to those seen after C-fibre activation with capsaicin.Thus, peripheral nerve stimulation evokes astrocytic connexin-43 dephosphorylation in the spinal cord dorsal horn, suggesting that gap junctional coupling between astrocytes in vivo is subject to regulation by neuronal-glial interactions following neural activation.
The substantia nigra pars reticulata belongs to the brain regions with the highest density of CB(1) cannabinoid receptors. Since the level of CB(1) receptor messenger RNA is very low in the pars reticulata, most of the receptors are probably localized on terminals of afferent axons. The hypothesis was tested that terminals of glutamatergic afferents of substantia nigra pars reticulata neurons possess CB(1) cannnabinoid receptors, the activation of which presynaptically modulates neurotransmission. Rat midbrain slices were superfused and the electrophysiological properties of substantia nigra pars reticulata neurons were studied with the patch-clamp technique. Focal electrical stimulation in the presence of bicuculline evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents mediated by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA)/kainate glutamate receptors. The excitatory postsynaptic currents were reduced by the metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist (+/-)-1-aminocyclopentane-trans-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (trans-ACPD; 10(-4)M). The mixed CB(1)/CB(2) cannabinoid receptor agonists R(+)-[2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-[(morpholinyl)methyl]pyrrolo[1,2, 3-de]-1,4-benzoxazin-yl]-(1-naphthalenyl)methanone (WIN55212-2; 10(-8)-10(-5)M) and (-)-cis-3-[2-hydroxy-4-(1, 1-dimethylheptyl)phenyl]-trans-4-(3-hydroxypropyl)cyclohexanol (CP55940; 10(-6)M) also produced inhibition. The maximal inhibition by WIN55212-2 was 54+/-6%. The CB(1) cannabinoid antagonist N-piperidino-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2, 4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methyl-3-pyrazole-carboxamide (SR141716A; 10(-6)M) prevented the effect of WIN55212-2, but had no effect when superfused alone. WIN55212-2 (10(-6)M) increased the amplitude ratio of two excitatory postsynaptic currents evoked with an interstimulus interval of 100ms. Currents evoked by short ejection of glutamate on to the surface of the slices were not changed by WIN55212-2. The results show that activation of CB(1) cannabinoid receptors inhibits glutamatergic synaptic transmission between afferent axons and neurons in the substantia nigra pars reticulata. The lack of effect of the cannabinoids on glutamate-evoked currents and the increase of the paired-pulse ratio indicate that the mechanism of action is presynaptic inhibition of transmitter release.
Using a combination of metabolic measurement and retrograde tracing, we show that the neurons in the pedunculopontine nucleus and parafascicular nucleus of the thalamus that project to the subthalamic nucleus are hyperactive after nigrostriatal dopaminergic denervation in rats. In Parkinson's disease, the loss of dopaminergic neurons induces a cascade of functional changes in the basal ganglia circuitry including a hyperactivity of the subthalamic nucleus. This hyperactivity is thought to be due to a diminution of the inhibitory pallidal influence. However, recent studies have suggested that other cerebral structures are involved in the subthalamic neuronal hyperactivity. This study was undertaken to identify these cerebral structures. Neurons projecting to the subthalamic nucleus were identified by retrograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase, injected into the subthalamic nucleus of rats with 6-hydroxydopamine unilateral lesion of the substantia nigra pars compacta and sham-lesioned animals. Metabolic activity was determined in the same neurons using in situ hybridization for the first subunit of cytochrome oxidase messenger RNA, a metabolic marker, and image analysis. Horseradish peroxidase-labeled neurons were found in the globus pallidus, parafascicular and pedunculopontine nucleus and sometimes in raphe nuclei and the substantia nigra pars compacta. Measurement of metabolic activity was performed for the globus pallidus, the pedunculopontine and parafascicular nuclei. The expression level of the first subunit of cytochrome oxidase messenger RNA in neurons projecting to the subthalamic nucleus was 62% higher in parafascicular neurons and 123% higher in pedunculopontine neurons in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, compared to sham-lesioned animals. An increase was also observed in the globus pallidus, but did not reach significance. Our results suggest that hyperactivity of subthalamic neurons could be due, at least in part, to an increase of excitatory input arising from the pedunculopontine and parafascicular nuclei. These data also suggest that the latter structures may play an important role in the physiopathology of Parkinson's disease.
The circling rat is an autosomal recessive mutant (homozygous ci2/ci2) that displays lateralized circling behavior, locomotor hyperactivity, hyperexcitability, ataxia, and stereotypic head-movement. These abnormal behaviors are induced or intensified by stress. Heterozygous (ci2/+) littermates display normal spontaneous behaviors. We have previously found that ci2 rats of both genders have a lower tissue content of dopamine in the striatum ipsilateral to the preferred direction of rotation, indicating that the rats turn away from the brain hemisphere with higher striatal dopaminergic activity. For further evaluation as to whether the spontaneous turning behavior of the mutant rats results from specific disturbances within the nigrostriatal circuitry, we used microdialysis in freely moving mutant rats and their unaffected littermates to measure extracellular levels of dopamine and its metabolites in the striatum of both hemispheres. Rats were habituated to the experimental procedures, so that mutant animals behaved as normal during a first phase of microdialysis (&quot;rest phase&quot;), which was followed by a &quot;stress phase&quot; with induction of lateralized circling by handling-stress. During rest, no significant imbalance in striatal dopamine release was observed in mutant rats, their unaffected littermates, and a second control group consisting of normal, unaffected rats from the same Lewis/Ztm strain. Stress induced a significant increase in dopamine release in the contralateral striatum of mutant rats of both genders, whereas no significant alterations in dopamine release were seen in either the left or right striatum of control groups. When amphetamine (100 or 500 microM) was added to the perfusion medium, the evoked dopamine release in the contralateral striatum of female mutant rats was significantly higher than that in the ipsilateral striatum, whereas no such asymmetry was observed in male mutants or unaffected female and male controls. The data further substantiate that mutant circling rats possess a genetically mediated dysfunction of the central dopaminergic system, but it remains to be determined whether neurochemical disturbances in other regions contribute to the behavioral phenotype of the ci2 rat. The continued study of this mutant may provide important new insights into the anatomical, neurochemical and molecular basis of hyperkinetic motor syndromes and other disorders related to dopaminergic dysfunction.
To investigate the progression of cellular injury in a model of hippocampal epileptogenesis, we used two histochemical methods reported to specifically label injured neurons, the Dark Neuron stain and Fluoro-Jade. Pilocarpine was administered systemically (380mg/kg i.p.) to induce status epilepticus. The duration of status epilepticus was controlled to last 1h by stopping it with diazepam (4mg/kg i.p.). The progression of cellular damage was quantified at six specific time points following the initial pilocarpine-induced insult: 3h, 6h, 12h, 24h, one week, and three weeks. To assess, in parallel, neuronal loss in specific hippocampal regions throughout epileptogenesis, the neuronal nuclear protein NeuN was used as a specific marker of neurons. Results revealed a different time-dependent progression of Dark Neuron and Fluoro-Jade labelling following status epilepticus. A significantly greater proportion of silver-impregnated cells labelled by the Dark Neuron stain was quantified in the stratum radiatum and stratum pyramidale of CA1 at the early time point of 3h compared with the proportion of Fluoro-Jade labelling in adjacent sections. In contrast, the maximal staining with Fluoro-Jade appeared at a later stage during epileptogenesis (between 24h and one week), with a significantly greater proportion of neurons labelled compared to the Dark Neuron stain in the stratum radiatum of CA1, stratum pyramidale of CA1, stratum radiatum of CA3 and the polymorphic layer of the dentate gyrus. Neurons from control animals were not significantly labelled by either of the two staining methods. Interestingly, the increase in Fluoro-Jade labelling corresponded in time to neuron loss. The two stains therefore appear to highlight separate processes of neuronal damage. This finding indicates that distinct cellular events take place at different stages of epileptogenesis, which may differ considerably from the permanent changes observed in chronically epileptic tissue.
The functional role of the calcium-binding proteins parvalbumin, calretinin, and calbindin D-28k for epileptogenesis and long-term seizure-related alterations of the hippocampal formation was assessed in single- and double-knockout mice, using a kainate model of mesial temporal lobe epilepsy. The effects of a unilateral intrahippocampal injection of kainic acid were assessed at one day, 30 days, and four months post-injection, using various markers of GABAergic interneurons (GABA-transporter type 1, GABA(A)-receptor alpha1 subunit, calretinin, calbindin D-28k, somatostatin, and neuropeptide Y). Parvalbumin-deficient, parvalbumin/calbindin-deficient, and parvalbumin/calretinin-deficient mice exhibited no difference in cytoarchitecture of the hippocampal formation and in the number, distribution, or morphology of interneurons compared to wild-type mice. Likewise, mutant mice were not more vulnerable to acute kainate-induced excitotoxicity or to long-term effects of recurrent focal seizures, and exhibited the same pattern of neurochemical alterations (e.g., bilateral induction of neuropeptide Y in granule cells) and morphogenic changes (enlargement and dispersion of dentate gyrus granule cells) as wild-type animals. Quantification of interneurons revealed no significant difference in neuronal vulnerability among the genotypes.These results indicate that the calcium-binding proteins investigated here are not essential for determining the neurochemical phenotype of interneurons. Furthermore, they are not protective against kainate-induced excitotoxicity in this model, and do not appear to modulate the overall level of excitability of the hippocampus. Finally, seizure-induced changes in gene expression in granule cells, which normally express high levels of calcium-binding proteins, apparently were not affected by the gene deletions analysed.
Chloride fluxes play a crucial role in synaptic inhibition, cell pH regulation, as well as in cell volume control. In many neuropathological processes, cell swelling is a pivotal parameter, since cell volume changes and the dimension of the interstitial space critically modulate synchronized neuronal activity as well as the tissue's susceptibility to seizures or spreading depression. This study therefore focuses on the effects of different Cl(-) transport inhibitors and Cl(-) substitution on neuronal function and hypoxia-induced changes in rat hippocampal tissue slices. Orthodromically evoked focal excitatory postsynaptic potentials were depressed by furosemide (2mM), 4,4'-diisothiocyanatostilbene-2, 2'-disulfonic acid (1mM) and Cl(-) substitution by methylsulfate, but were enhanced by 4,4'-dinitrostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid (1mM). All four treatments induced multiple population spike firing in response to single orthodromic volleys, suggesting reduced synaptic inhibition. Antidromic population spikes increased following Cl(-) withdrawal, were unaffected in the presence of furosemide and 4, 4'-dinitrostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid, but were abolished by 4, 4'-diisothiocyanatostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid. The amplitude of the hypoxic spreading-depression-like extracellular potential shift was reduced by furosemide, 4,4'-diisothiocyanatostilbene-2, 2'-disulfonic acid and Cl(-) withdrawal, i.e. by the same treatments that depressed orthodromically evoked postsynaptic potentials. Furosemide prolonged the time to onset and the duration of the spreading-depression-like extracellular potential shift, while 4, 4'-dinitrostilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid shortened the time to onset. Spreading-depression-related cell swelling was recorded as the shrinkage of relative interstitial space, which was measured as tetramethylammonium-chloride space. Neither the Cl(-) transport inhibitors nor Cl(-) withdrawal had any detectable effect on spreading-depression-related cell swelling. CA1 pyramidal neurons usually hyperpolarized during drug application and their input resistance decreased. Cl(-) withdrawal increased their input resistance and caused spontaneous burst firing. Hypoxia caused the expected spreading-depression-like rapid, near complete depolarization of single pyramidal neurons and drastically reduced their input resistance. The three Cl(-) transport inhibitors and Cl(-) withdrawal delayed the onset of the hypoxic depolarization. In low Cl(-) solutions, the apparent threshold potential at which spreading depression was triggered shifted to more positive membrane potentials. The final voltage of the hypoxic depolarization was, however, not affected. It appears from these results that the reduction in the hypoxic spreading-depression-like extracellular potential shifts by Cl(-) transport inhibitors is at least partially attributable to desynchronization of depolarization, not to decreased depolarization in individual cells. Other contributing factors could be changes in recording conditions, depression of swelling-induced amino acid release from glial cells and unspecific side-effects of the applied drugs. Desynchronization could also account for the delayed spreading-depression onset. It is concluded that Cl(-) fluxes play a role in the triggering of spreading depression, but the spreading-depression-like depolarization itself or its self-regenerative character is not mediated by Cl(-).
The fluorescence-conjugated N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-selective antagonist, BODIPY-conantokin-G, was employed to label N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in living neurons derived from the visual cortex of embryonic rats. The fluorescent labeling was visualized and analysed using confocal microscopy and digital imaging techniques. BODIPY-conantokin-G binding sites were homogeneously distributed across somata four days after neurons (E17-20) were placed in culture. In five-day-old cultures, BODIPY-conantokin-G binding sites became clusters of fluorescently labeled spots which were arranged irregularly on somata and proximal neurites. Distal neurites displayed fluorescent labeling after 10-15 days in culture. Displacement experiments showed that spermine and unlabeled conantokin-G compete with BODIPY-conantokin-G labeling at the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-associated polyamine site. The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid also depressed the labeling but with a weaker effect, probably due to interactions occurring between the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor agonist binding site and the polyamine modulatory site. The fluorescent dyes FM 1-43 and FM 4-64 were used in double-labeling studies to compare the distribution of nerve terminals with that of BODIPY-conantokin-G binding sites. BODIPY-conantokin-G binding clusters were associated with presynaptic nerve terminals while isolated BODIPY-conantokin-G binding sites were not always opposed to terminals. The aggregation of receptors to form clusters may lead to the functional formation of excitatory synapses. To investigate whether modulation of membrane potentials affected the formation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor clusters, cultured neurons were chronically treated for a week with either tetrodotoxin (to block membrane action potentials) or a high concentration of potassium to depolarize the membrane. While neurons in the tetrodotoxin-treated group showed a similar number of fluorescently labeled clusters compared with the control group, neurons in the high potassium group exhibited a higher number of fluorescently labeled receptor clusters. These results suggest that more active neurons may tend to form more N-methyl-D-aspartate synapses during early development.
Although direction selectivity is a cardinal property of neurons in the visual motion detection system, movement of numerous elements without global direction (incoherent motion) has been shown to activate human and monkey visual systems, as does coherent motion which has global direction. We used magnetoencephalography to investigate the neural process underlying responses to these types of motions in the human extrastriate cortex. Both motions were created using a random dot kinematogram and four speeds (0, 0.6, 9.6 and 25 degrees /s). The visual stimuli were composed of two successive motions at different speeds; a coherent motion at a certain speed that changed to incoherent motion at another speed or vice versa. Magnetic responses to the change in motion consisted of a few components, the first of which was always largest. The peak latency of the first component was inversely related to the speed of the preceding motion, but for both motions it was not affected by the speed of the subsequent motion. For each subject, the estimated origin of the first component was always in the extrastriate cortex, and this changed with the speed of the preceding motion. For both motions, the location for the slower preceding motion was lateral to that for the faster preceding motion. Although the latency changes of the two motions differed, their overall response properties were markedly similar. These findings show that the speed of incoherent motion is represented in the human extrastriate cortex neurons to the same degree as coherent motion. We consider that the human visual system has a distinct neural mechanism to perceive random dots' motion even though they do not move in a specific direction as a whole.
The serotonergic metacerebral giant cell (C1) of Helix pomatia was isolated with its bifurcate axon and plated in culture under five conditions: (i) with no target; (ii) with the appropriate target B2 near the stump of the bigger branch (CBC); (iii) with B2 near the stump of the smaller branch (CC); (iv) with a wrong target (C3) near the stump of the CBC branch and (v) with B2 and C3 positioned near the CBC and CC stump, respectively. The counting of anti-serotonin antibody-labelled varicosities of the C1 neuron showed that the presence of the appropriate target in either axonal domain both down-regulated the number of varicosities of the contralateral neuritic field, and increased their average size, whereas the wrong target induced an overall reduction of the number of C1 neuron varicosities, and inhibited the evoked transmitter release. The action potential-evoked calcium concentration increase in the neuritic terminals of the C1 neuron cultured alone, or in presence of the appropriate target, reached a value significantly higher than that reached in presence of the wrong target. These results provide evidence that the postsynaptic neuron regulates both morphological and functional development of presynaptic terminals.
The learning behavior of female offspring of two strains of mice congenic for the Y-chromosome, BXSX/MpJ-Yaa and BXSB/MpJ-Yaa+, was examined. Significant differences were found in the Morris water maze and the Lashley III maze, demonstrating that the fathers' Y-chromosome can indirectly affect their daughters' behavior. Approximately half the mice had neocortical ectopias, and females from the two paternal groups reacted differently to the presence or absence of ectopias. Since females do not have a Y-chromosome, these effects must be through non-genetic mechanisms. Prenatal factors that could have played a role include possible differences in gonadal growth and the presence of different H-Y antigens. Postnatally, the sires and male siblings of the two strains may not have behaved the same toward the female offspring and/or the dams, creating differences in behavior. In summary, the behavior of female offspring of two groups of males, genetically the same except for their Y-chromosomes, was examined. Since females do not receive a Y-chromosome from their fathers, in theory their behavior should not differ. Significant differences were found, indicating that the Y-chromosome, through some indirect mechanism, can affect females of the next generation.
It is well established that transforming growth factor alpha is involved prenatally in development of the nervous system, but its role in the postnatal brain is less well understood. Here, we document the occurrence of late-onset, morphological and behavioral deficits in the naturally occurring murine mutant, Waved-1 (Wa-1), whose transforming growth factor alpha levels decrease naturally between early postnatal and adolescent ages. Morphological analyses suggest that reduction in the growth factor postnatally is associated temporally with the onset of enlarged lateral ventricles, a reduction in vasculature in the region of the amygdala and a reduction in size of the central nucleus. Onset of the morphological deficits corresponds to the appearance of a performance deficit in contextual fear conditioning. In contrast, the transforming growth factor alpha gene-targeted null mutants exhibit neither morphological nor performance deficits. These data suggest that transforming growth factor alpha during postnatal maturation of the brain may contribute to maintenance of limbic morphology and vasculature, which may in turn affect some behaviors associated with these specific brain structures.
Extracellular guanosine 5' triphosphate (GTP) enhances nerve growth factor-dependent neurite outgrowth from rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells; cultures of PC12 cells exposed to GTP and nerve growth factor together contain significantly more neurite-bearing cells than do those exposed to either nerve growth factor or GTP alone [Gysbers J. W. and Rathbone M. P. (1996) Int. J. devl Neurosci. 14, 19-34]. PC12 cells contain specific cell surface binding sites for extracellular GTP, which do not bind ATP or uridine 5' triphosphate. Exposure of PC12 cells to extracellular GTP (300microM) produced a robust and sustained increase in intracellular Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](i)), different from the transient response to the addition of ATP. The GTP-induced [Ca(2+)](i) increase was blocked by the L-type calcium channel inhibitor, nifedipine. The L-type Ca(2+) channel inhibitors, nifedipine or verapamil, also inhibited the enhancement of neurite outgrowth by GTP, but did not affect neurite outgrowth stimulated by nerve growth factor alone. Pre-treatment of PC12 cells with ryanodine (0.5-50microM) depleted calcium from internal stores and prevented the further release of calcium by GTP. Similarly, pre-treatment of PC12 cells with thapsigargin (an inhibitor of internal store Ca(2+)/ATPase) or dantrolene (which blocks Ca(2+) release from some of these stores) also reduced the enhancement of neurite outgrowth by GTP. Therefore, Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release from specific stores, present in PC12 cells, is involved in the enhancement of nerve growth factor-induced neurite outgrowth by GTP, possibly acting at specific binding sites on the cell surface. GTP is proving to be an important extracellular trophic modulator in the central nervous system. These studies show that the neuritogenic actions of GTP involve moderate but sustained increases in intracellular Ca(2+) which are likely due to activation of L-type Ca(2+) channels and Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release from intracellular stores. These effects of extracellular GTP are likely mediated at the cell surface and may be related to specific GTP binding sites which are distinct from G-proteins and from hitherto described purine nucleotide (P2) receptors. These data indicate a mechanism whereby the neuritogenic effects of GTP are mediated and emphasize the importance of considering GTP as a neurotrophic mediator.
The development of the olfactory bulb, the primary central relay of the olfactory system, is characterized by a striking susceptibility to alterations in the amount of afferent input. For example, blocking airflow through one half of the nasal cavity during early life results in a number of dramatic changes in the bulb, including increased cell death. Previous studies reveal high levels of microglia in the olfactory bulb. Microglia function as phagocytes, aid in synaptogenesis, and produce important trophic and cytotoxic factors. In response to a number of tissue perturbations, microglia undergo an activation process that includes, among other changes, the up-regulation of complement receptor 3. Interestingly, a previous study reported that naris closure had no effect on microglia in the bulb; however, the research did not distinguish the functional activation state of microglia. We further examined the role of microglia in the normally developing and olfactory-deprived rat bulb using immunohistochemical detection of complement receptor 3 as a measure of microglial activation. Expression of the receptor in the bulb is relatively high during postnatal development, in particular when compared to levels in cortical regions caudal to the olfactory bulb. In addition, naris closure performed on the day after birth (but not after the first postnatal month) increases levels of the receptor in an age and laminar-dependent fashion. The presence of an inducible pool of activated microglia in the olfactory bulb may be important for normal development and contribute to the plethora of changes seen after early olfactory deprivation.
Neuronal activity of the medial septal area was recorded extracellularly in brain slices taken from hibernating (winter) and waking (summer) ground squirrels. The effects of neuropeptides identified in the brain tissue of hibernators (Thr-Ser-Lys-Tyr, Thr-Ser-Lys-Tyr-Arg and Asp-Tyr) on the background activity and responses to electrical stimulation of the median forebrain bundle were analysed. For comparison, the effects of bath application of noradrenaline and serotonin were also tested. Spontaneous activity in half of all neurons (47-56%) was changed under the influence of neuropeptides in hibernating ground squirrels, while in waking ground squirrels the proportion of responsive neurons was significantly lower (25-30%). The tendency for higher efficacy in hibernating ground squirrels was observed for serotonin; only noradrenaline was equally effective in both groups of animals. Electrically evoked responses of the medial septal nucleus-nucleus of the diagonal band neurons were also strongly modulated by neuropeptides; their changes could occur in the absence of shifts in the level and pattern of spontaneous activity. All three neuropeptides had differential action on the level of spontaneous activity, as well as on inhibitory and excitatory components of electrically evoked responses. Thus, the character and distribution of the effects were state dependent and differed greatly in hibernating and waking ground squirrels. The experiments confirmed that medial septal nucleus-nucleus of the diagonal band neurons have higher excitability and responsiveness to some neuropeptides and neurotransmitters in hibernating ground squirrels.The data obtained suggest an increased latent excitability and responsiveness of septal neurons during hibernation and their possible active participation in urgent arousal under the influence of sensory signals.
In transgenic mice expressing ectopic substance P fibres in the spinal white matter, a normally innocuous mechanical stimulus induces hyperalgesia and allodynia which are reversed by substance P and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists. This period of enhanced excitation is followed by a rebound overshoot in these animals. As previous evidence indicates opioid mechanisms in a similar rebound in normal animals, the present study was done to determine the effects of systemic administration of morphine and the opiate receptor antagonist, naloxone, on the stimulus-induced responses in the tail withdrawal reflex. Once baseline reaction times had been taken, different combinations of saline, naloxone and morphine were administered intraperitoneally to transgenic and control mice of either sex. A mechanical conditioning stimulus of 450g was then applied to the tip of the tail for 2s. This stimulus was innocuous in control mice given saline or naloxone, but provoked a nociceptive response in transgenic mice given these compounds. In control and transgenic mice, following morphine administration there was an antinociceptive effect. In control mice the subsequent mechanical stimulus had no effect. However, in transgenic mice the mechanical stimulus produced a further antinociception. Naloxone blocked the effect of morphine and the subsequent conditioning stimulus in both control and transgenic mice. The results indicate that while morphine is equally effective on the withdrawal reflex in both types of animal, in the transgenic mice morphine reveals an intrinsic, naloxone-sensitive antinociceptive mechanism. The data are interpreted to suggest that over-expression of substance P or some other factor in the spinal cord of transgenic mice is associated with the up-regulation or facilitation of an opiate-mediated intrinsic antinociceptive mechanism. This is a novel observation because the genetic manipulation in this transgenic mouse results in a transient over-expression of nerve growth factor during development that leads to the formation of ectopic primary afferent fibres in the spinal cord containing substance P. These fibres persist indefinitely after the nerve growth factor levels return to normal. Opioid mechanisms, which are likely of dorsal horn origin, do not fall under the direct influence of nerve growth factor mechanisms and therefore the intriguing possibility is raised that opioid mechanisms in the spinal cord are regulated at least in part by substance P-related mechanisms.
The A7 catecholamine cell group in the dorsolateral pontine tegmentum constitutes an important part of the descending pathways that modulate nociception. Evidence from immunocytochemical studies demonstrate that noradrenergic A7 neurons are densely innervated by GABA terminals arising from GABA neurons that are located in the dorsolateral pontine tegmentum medial to the A7 cell group. GABA(A) receptors are also located on the somata and dendrites of noradrenergic A7 neurons. These findings suggest that noradrenergic neurons in the A7 cell group may be under tonic inhibitory control by GABA neurons. To test this hypothesis, the GABA(A) antagonist bicuculline methiodide in doses of 0.2 or 1.0nmol was microinjected into sites located dorsal to the A7 cell group and the resulting effects on tail flick and nociceptive foot withdrawal responses were measured. Both doses of bicuculline produced significant increases in tail flick latencies and small, but significant, increases in foot withdrawal latencies. Intrathecal injection of the alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine, in a dose of 76.7nmol (30microg), attenuated the antinociceptive effect of bicuculline on both the tail and the feet. In contrast, the alpha(1)-adrenoceptor antagonist WB4101, in a nearly equimolar dose of 78.6nmol (30microg), increased the antinociceptive effect of bicuculline on both the tail and the feet. Intrathecal injection of the antagonists alone did not consistently alter nociceptive responses of either the feet or the tail. These findings suggest that noradrenergic neurons in the A7 cell group are tonically inhibited by local GABA neurons. Furthermore, these findings suggest that inhibition of GABA(A) receptors located on spinally-projecting A7 noradrenergic neurons disinhibits, or activates, two populations of A7 neurons that have opposing effects on nociception. One of these populations facilitates nociception by an action mediated by alpha(1)-adrenoceptors in the spinal cord dorsal horn and the other population inhibits nociception by an action mediated by alpha(2)-adrenoceptors.
The present study was performed in rats with experimentally induced mononeuropathy after left common sciatic nerve ligation. The hindpaw withdrawal latencies to thermal and mechanical stimulation increased significantly after intra-periaqueductal grey injection of 2 or 3nmol, but not 1nmol of galanin in rats with mononeuropathy. Intraperitoneal administration of 4.5mg/kg morphine induced significant increases in hindpaw withdrawal latencies to both noxious stimulation, which were attenuated by following intra-periaqueductal grey injection of 2nmol of the galanin antagonist galantide. Furthermore, the antinociceptive effect induced by intra-periaqueductal grey injection of 26.6nmol of morphine was attenuated significantly by following intra-periaqueductal gray administration of 2nmol of galantide. The results demonstrated that in periaqueductal grey galanin plays an antinociceptive role in rats with mononeuropathy and galanin is involved in the mechanisms of opioid-induced antinociception.
Calcium conductances have been found in neonatal inferior colliculus neurons, however the biophysical and pharmacological profiles of the underlying calcium currents have not yet been characterized. In this study, we examined which types of voltage-activated calcium currents comprise the whole-cell inward current of neonatal inferior colliculus neurons (10-22microm in diameter). On the basis of their voltage-dependence and pharmacological sensitivities, three major components of barium currents were identified. A low threshold voltage-activated current that activated around -70mV, a mid threshold voltage-activated current that activated near -50mV, and a high threshold voltage-activated current that activated around -40mV. Low and mid threshold voltage-activated currents were present in 33% and 41% of the recordings, respectively, whereas high threshold voltage-activated currents were recorded in all inferior colliculus neurons tested. Nickel chloride (50microM) and U-92032 (1microM), which both block low threshold voltage-activated currents, reduced the amplitude of low threshold voltage-activated peak currents at a test potential of -60mV by 72% and 10%, respectively. In addition, 50microM nickel chloride and 1microM U-92032 reduced the amplitude of mid threshold voltage-activated peak currents measured at -20mV by 55% and 21%, respectively. Further pharmacological analysis indicated the presence of multiple types of high threshold voltage-activated currents in neonatal inferior colliculus neurons. The dihydropyridine nimodipine (1microM), a selective L-type current antagonist, reduced the amplitude of high threshold voltage-activated peak currents by 25%. In addition, FPL 64176 (1microM), a non-dihydropyridine L-type current agonist caused a dramatic 534% increase in the amplitude of the slow sustained component of the tail current measured at -40mV. These data indicate that inferior colliculus neurons express L-type channels. omega-Conotoxin GVIA (1microM), a selective blocker of N-type current, inhibited high threshold voltage-activated peak currents by 28% indicating the presence of N-type channels. omega-Agatoxin IVA (300nM), a potent P/Q-type antagonist, reduced high threshold voltage-activated peak currents by 27%, suggesting that inferior colliculus neurons express P/Q-type channels. Concomitant application of nimodipine (1microM), omega-conotoxin GVIA (1microM) and omega-agatoxin IVA (300nM) onto inferior colliculus neurons decreased the control high threshold voltage-activated peak currents only by 62%.Thus, inferior colliculus neurons may express at least one more type of calcium current in addition to low and mid threshold voltage-activated currents and L-type, N-type and P/Q-type high threshold currents.
Noradrenergic projections to the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus have been implicated in the secretory regulation of several anterior pituitary hormones, including adrenocorticotropin, thyroid-stimulating hormone, growth hormone and prolactin. In an attempt to elucidate the effects of norepinephrine on the central control of pituitary hormone secretion, we looked at the actions of norepinephrine on the electrical properties of putative parvocellular neurons of the paraventricular nucleus using whole-cell current-clamp recordings in hypothalamic slices. About half (51%) of the putative parvocellular neurons recorded responded to norepinephrine with either a synaptic excitation or a direct inhibition. Norepinephrine (30-300microM) caused a marked increase in the frequency of excitatory postsynaptic potentials in about 36% of the parvocellular neurons recorded. The increase in excitatory postsynaptic potentials was blocked by prazosin (10microM), but not by propranolol (10microM) or timolol (20microM), indicating that it was mediated by alpha(1)-adrenoreceptor activation. It was also blocked by ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists, suggesting that the excitatory postsynaptic potentials were caused by glutamate release. The increase in excitatory postsynaptic potentials was completely abolished by tetrodotoxin, indicating the spike dependence of the norepinephrine-induced glutamate release. In a separate group comprising 14% of the parvocellular neurons recorded, norepinephrine elicited a hyperpolarization (6.2+/-0.69mV) that was blocked by the beta-adrenoreceptor antagonists, propranolol (10microM) and timolol (20microM), but not by the alpha(1)-receptor antagonist, prazosin (10microM). This response was not blocked by tetrodotoxin (1.5-3microM), suggesting that it was caused by a direct postsynaptic action of norepinephrine. The topographic distribution within the paraventricular nucleus of the norepinephrine-responsive and non-responsive parvocellular neurons was mapped based on intracellular biocytin labeling and neurophysin immunohistochemistry. These data indicate that one parvocellular subpopulation, consisting of about 36% of the paraventricular parvocellular neurons, receives an excitatory input from norepinephrine-sensitive local glutamatergic interneurons, while a second, separate subpopulation, representing about 14% of the parvocellular neurons in the paraventricular nucleus, responds directly to norepinephrine with a beta-adrenoreceptor-mediated inhibition. This suggests that excitatory inputs to parvocellular neurons of the paraventricular nucleus are mediated mainly by an intrahypothalamic glutamatergic relay, and that only a relatively small subset of paraventricular parvocellular neurons receives direct noradrenergic inputs, which are primarily inhibitory.
The objective of this study was to determine whether the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus plays a role in the maintenance of nicotine self-administration, and whether the ascending cholinergic projection from this nucleus to midbrain dopamine neurons in the ventral tegmental area might be involved. Studies were done with rats trained to self-administer nicotine intravenously. Self-administration was examined before and after the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus was lesioned with the ethylcholine mustard aziridinium ion, a selective cholinergic toxin. Lesions were assessed qualitatively and quantitatively in histological sections stained for either nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase histochemistry to identify cholinergic neurons, or for Nissl. Self-administration was also tested after an acute manipulation in which microinfusions of the nicotinic cholinergic antagonist dihydro-beta-erythroidine were made into the pedunculopontine tegmentum. Infusions of neurotoxin into the pedunculopontine tegmentum reduced nicotine self-administration behaviour when tested weeks later. Toxin treatment reduced the number of cholinergic neurons in the tegmentum, while largely sparing the non-cholinergic population in this area. Lesions were limited to the pedunculopontine area and did not extend to the neighboring laterodorsal tegmental nucleus or to the substantia nigra. Acute manipulation of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus with microinfusions of dihydro-beta-erythroidine also produced an attenuation of nicotine self-administration. Collectively these data show that the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus is part of the neuronal circuitry mediating nicotine self-administration, and that the population of cholinergic neurons is likely a critical element.
The mesopontine tegmentum, which contains both cholinergic and non-cholinergic neurons, plays a crucial role in behavioral state control. Using microiontophoresis in unanesthetized cats, we have examined the effect of cholinergic and monoaminergic drugs on two putative cholinergic neurons located mostly in the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus and X area (or the cholinergic part of the nucleus tegmenti pedunculopontinus, pars compacta): one (type I-S) exhibiting slow tonic discharge during both waking and paradoxical sleep, and the other (PGO-on) displaying single spike activity during waking and burst discharges in association with ponto-geniculo-occipital (PGO) waves during paradoxical sleep. We found that: (i) application of carbachol, a potent cholinergic agonist, inhibited single spike activity in both PGO-on and type I-S neurons, but had no effect on the burst activity of PGO-on neurons during paradoxical sleep; the inhibition was associated with either blockade or increased latency of antidromic responses, suggesting membrane hyperpolarization; (ii) application of glutamate, norepinephrine, epinephrine, or histamine resulted in increased tonic discharge in both PGO-on and type I-S neurons; this was state-independent and resulted in a change in the firing mode of PGO-on neurons from phasic to tonic; (iii) application of serotonin had only a weak state-dependent inhibitory effect on a few type I-S neurons; and (iv) application of dopamine had no effect on either type of neuron. The present findings suggest that cholinergic, glutamatergic and monoaminergic (especially noradrenergic, adrenergic and histaminergic) inputs have the capacity to strongly modulate the cholinergic neurons, altering both their rate and mode of discharge, such as to shape their state specific activity, and thereby contribute greatly to their role in behavioral state control.
We examined the expression pattern of the vesicular acetylcholine transporter in the mouse nervous system, using rodent-specific riboprobes and antibodies, prior to comparing it with the distribution of vesicular acetylcholine transporter expressed from a human transgene in the mouse, using riboprobes and antibodies specific for human. Endogenous vesicular acetylcholine transporter expression was high in spinal and brainstem somatomotor neurons, vagal visceromotor neurons, and postganglionic parasympathetic neurons, moderate in basal forebrain and brainstem projection neurons and striatal interneurons, and low in intestinal intrinsic neurons. Vesicular acetylcholine transporter expression in intrinsic cortical neurons was restricted to the entorhinal cortex. The sequence of the mouse cholinergic gene locus to 5.1kb upstream of the start of transcription of the vesicular acetylcholine transporter gene was determined and compared with the corresponding region of the human gene. Cis-regulatory domains implicated previously in human or rat cholinergic gene regulation are highly conserved in mouse, indicating their probable relevance to the regulation of the mammalian cholinergic gene locus in vivo. Mouse lines were established containing a human transgene that included the vesicular acetylcholine transporter gene and sequences spanning 5kb upstream and 1.8kb downstream of the vesicular acetylcholine transporter open reading frame. In this transgene, the intact human vesicular acetylcholine transporter was able to act as its own reporter. This allowed elements within the vesicular acetylcholine transporter open reading frame itself, shown previously to affect transcription in vitro, to be assessed in vivo with antibodies and riboprobes that reliably distinguished between human and mouse vesicular acetylcholine transporters and their messenger RNAs. Expression of the human vesicular acetylcholine transporter was restricted to mouse cholinergic somatomotor neurons in the spinal cord and brainstem, but absent from other central and peripheral cholinergic neurons. The mouse appears to be an appropriate model for the study of the genetic regulation of the cholinergic gene locus, and the physiology and neurochemistry of the mammalian cholinergic nervous system, although differences exist in the distribution of cortical cholinergic neurons between the mouse and other mammals. The somatomotor neuron-specific expression pattern of the transgenic human vesicular acetylcholine transporter suggests a mosaic model for cholinergic gene locus regulation in separate subdivisions of the mammalian cholinergic nervous system.
Intracranial self-stimulation is an operant behavior whereby animals are conditioned to press a lever in order to receive an electrical stimulation of their dopamine neurons. This paradigm is thought to stimulate brain reward pathways and, as such, has been used to clarify the role of dopamine in reward. Striatal extracellular dopamine concentrations were monitored during the acquisition and maintenance of self-stimulation and compared to dopamine release generated by experimenter-delivered and yoked stimulation. Fast-scan cyclic voltammetry in conjunction with carbon-fiber microelectrodes was used to monitor evoked dopamine release in the caudate-putamen during electrical stimulation of the substantia nigra/ventral tegmental area. The sub-second temporal resolution of fast-scan cyclic voltammetry coupled with the micron spatial resolution of the microelectrodes allowed for the measurement of dopamine neurotransmission in real-time. Single experimenter-delivered stimulations, identical to those used during self-stimulation, evoked dopamine release in the caudate-putamen both before and after the self-stimulation sessions. Likewise, yoked stimulations of the substantia nigra/ventral tegmental area delivered to animals untrained to perform self-stimulation resulted in an increase in extracellular dopamine levels. During training sessions, experimenter-delivered stimulations evoked dopamine release. However, as the animals began lever-pressing, extracellular dopamine levels subsequently declined. Taken together, these results suggest that dopamine functions as an alerting device, wherein increases in extracellular dopamine are obtained by unpredicted or novel rewarding stimuli, but not by those which can be anticipated.
The medial prefrontal cortex modulates the nucleus accumbens dopamine response to stress and has been implicated in feedback regulation of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activation by stress. Here we report on the effects of bilateral neonatal (postnatal day 7) ibotenate-induced lesions to the medial prefrontal cortex on nucleus accumbens dopamine and neuroendocrine function in adult rats. Voltammetry was used to monitor the dopamine response to each of five, once-daily exposures to tail-pinch stress whereas alterations in neuroendocrine function were determined from the plasma corticosterone response to a single 20-min episode of restraint stress. Potential lesion-induced deficits in sensory-motor gating were assessed by measuring prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle response before and after repeated stress. Our data show that each daily stress episode elicited larger and longer-lasting dopamine increases in prefrontal cortex-lesioned animals than in sham-lesioned controls. Furthermore, greater stress-induced elevations in plasma corticosterone were seen in lesioned animals than in their sham-lesioned counterparts. However, while repeated stress potentiated startle responses in animals of both groups, there was no effect of lesion on the amplitude or on prepulse inhibition of the startle response.Together, these findings indicate that neonatal prefrontal cortex damage can lead to changes in mesolimbic dopamine and neuroendocrine function during adulthood. They also add to a growing body of experimental and clinical evidence implicating abnormal prefrontal cortex neuronal development in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and other disorders linked to central dopamine dysfunction.
The present experiments tested the hypothesis that the amphetamine-induced increase in dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens represents a necessary and sufficient component of the ability of systemically administered amphetamine to stimulate cortical acetylcholine release. The effects of systemic or intra-accumbens administration of amphetamine on accumbens dopamine release and cortical acetylcholine release were assessed simultaneously in awake animals equipped with dialysis probes inserted into the shell of the nucleus accumbens and the medial prefrontal cortex. Additionally, the ability of intra-accumbens administration of dopamine D(1) and D(2) receptor antagonists to attenuate the effects of systemic amphetamine on cortical acetylcholine was tested. The effects of all treatments were assessed in interaction with a stimulus-induced activation of cortical acetylcholine release to account for the possibility that the demonstration of the trans-synaptic effects of accumbens dopamine requires pre-activation of basal forebrain circuits. Systemic amphetamine resulted in increases in basal cortical acetylcholine and accumbens dopamine efflux. Intra-accumbens administration of amphetamine substantially increased accumbens dopamine efflux, but did not significantly affect cortical acetylcholine efflux. Furthermore, intra-accumbens administration of sulpiride or SCH 23390 did not attenuate the systemic amphetamine-induced increase in cortical acetylcholine efflux. Collectively, the present data suggest that increases in accumbens dopamine release are neither sufficient nor necessary for the effects of systemically administered amphetamine on cortical acetylcholine release. The systemic amphetamine-induced increase in cortical acetylcholine may be mediated via multiple, parallel pathways and may not be attributable to a single afferent pathway of the basal forebrain.
A brief period of sublethal ischemia induces resistance to a subsequent, otherwise lethal, ischemic insult, a process named ischemic tolerance or preconditioning. A persistently disturbed cell signaling during reperfusion after cerebral ischemia has been proposed to contribute to ischemic cell death. Here, we report on the effect of ischemic preconditioning on the levels of the regulatory alpha-subunit of calcium/calmodulin protein kinase II and its phosphorylation in the hippocampal CA1 region. We found that during and following lethal cerebral ischemia, calcium/calmodulin protein kinase II-alpha is persistently translocated to cell membranes, where it becomes phosphorylated at threonine 286. In contrast, in the preconditioned brains the translocation and phosphorylation are transient and return to preischemic values after one day of reperfusion. At this time of reperfusion, the total level of calcium/calmodulin protein kinase II-alpha is significantly lower in preconditioned animals compared to the sham and non-conditioned animals. After one day of reperfusion, the level of calcium/calmodulin protein kinase II-alpha messenger RNA decreases in the non-conditioned brains, whereas it is unchanged in preconditioned brains. We conclude that, during and after ischemia, calcium/calmodulin protein kinase II-alpha is translocated to cell membranes and becomes phosphorylated at threonine 286. This could detrimentally influence cell survival by changing receptor function and ion channel conductance. Ischemic preconditioning prevents the persistent presence of calcium/calmodulin protein kinase II-alpha at cell membranes, presumably by enhancing its degradation, which could be part of a neuroprotective mechanism of ischemic tolerance.
Hypoxia may increase GABA levels in neurons by ATP depletion-induced activation of glutamate decarboxylase and by inhibiting GABA transaminase. Hypoglycemia, which also depletes ATP, reduces neuronal levels of GABA and its precursor glutamate. We examined whether differences in glutamate levels may contribute to these altered GABA levels in hippocampal slices. GABA levels were highly correlated with endogenous glutamate levels during both hypoxia and hypoglycemia (R=0.93 for combined data). Hypoxia maximally increased GABA levels (146+/-6.3% of control, S.E.M.) when glutamate remained above 90% of control levels and ATP was at 30% of control levels. Hypoglycemia with similar ATP levels and glutamate levels at 40% of control decreased GABA levels to 55% of control. Effects of inhibitors of glutamate decarboxylase and GABA transaminase suggested that increased synthesis and decreased catabolism may both contribute to increased hypoxic GABA levels. Immunocytochemical studies suggested that hypoxia increased GABA concentrations primarily in neurons and their processes, but not in glial cells. Severe hypoxic ATP depletion increased the release of both GABA and glutamate. Hypoxia increased GABA levels in neurons, while hypoglycemia with a similar severity of ATP depletion decreased GABA levels. Much of the difference may be related to lower levels of precursor glutamate during hypoglycemia. The twofold higher levels of neuroprotective GABA available for release during hypoxia may contribute to differences in the pathophysiology of these metabolic insults.
While it has previously been assumed that mesolimbic dopamine neurons carry a reward signal, recent data from single-unit, microdialysis and voltammetry studies suggest that these neurons respond to a large category of salient and arousing events, including appetitive, aversive, high intensity, and novel stimuli. Elevations in dopamine release within mesolimbic, mesocortical and nigrostriatal target sites coincide with arousal, and the increase in dopamine activity within target sites modulates a number of behavioral functions. However, because dopamine neurons respond to a category of salient events that extend beyond that of reward stimuli, dopamine levels are not likely to code for the reward value of encountered events. The paper (i) examines evidence showing that dopamine neurons respond to salient and arousing change in environmental conditions, regardless of the motivational valence of that change, and (ii) asks how this might shape our thinking about the role of dopamine systems in goal-directed behavior.
The ultrastructural organization on the fourth day of culture of chromaffin cells isolated from the bovine adrenal medulla was characterized based on electron microscopic and morphological analysis. We established that medullary chromaffin cells could be divided into four morphologically different subtypes. Most cells (49.1% of those examined) had a dense cytoplasm and fine dense granules. Cells with dense cytoplasm and large granules represented a second type of chromaffin cell (21.1%). Cells of the third type had a light cytoplasm, granules with a light halo and a well-developed Golgi apparatus (26.3%). The fourth type of chromaffin cell was characterized by moderately dense cytoplasm with well-expressed varicose rough endoplasmic reticulum (about 3.5%). Among concomitant cell types, cortical adrenal cells from the zona fasciculata and zona glomerulosa, epithelial cells, fibroblasts, lymphocytes, brown lipoblasts and glial Schwann cells were present. Morphological analysis implies that cells with dense cytoplasm and fine granules and those with light cytoplasm and haloed granules (75.4% in total) are adrenaline-containing cells, whereas the cells with dense cytoplasm and large granules (26.3%) contain noradrenaline. Cells with moderately dense cytoplasm and varicose reticulum share common morphological properties with classical glandular cells and, by their properties, were closer to noradrenaline-containing cells. It is concluded that chromaffin cells, which are the main cell type among cultured cells from adult bovine adrenal medulla, are morphologically quite heterogeneous. Other cell types of different nature may also be present in the culture and can locally influence the properties of the investigated medullary chromaffin cells used in electrophysiological experiments.
The developmental expression of the orphan Na(+)/Cl(-)-dependent transporter, Rxt1, was studied in the rat using a specific [(35)S]complementary RNA probe and affinity purified antibodies. Western blotting experiments allowed the detection of Rxt1 in brain as early as on embryonic day 16. After birth, the brain levels of Rxt1 increased dramatically up to a maximum around postnatal day 30 and then decreased slightly to the adult value. In situ hybridization experiments allowed the earliest detection of Rxt1 messenger RNA in the brain and spinal cord at embryonic day 14. In embryonic day 18 embryos, Rxt1 messenger RNA was present not only in the nervous system but also in the pituitary, the thymus and the heart. Immunoautoradiograms of whole embryo at embryonic days 16 and 18 showed high amounts of the Rxt1 protein in the spinal cord and brain. Moreover, at embryonic day 18, the orphan transporter was expressed in the thymus, heart and liver. At these ages, Rxt1 immunolabeling was localized in neurons of the subplate and in the ventricular zone of the brain. During early postnatal stages, Rxt1 messenger RNA expression demonstrated dynamic and complex changes until postnatal day 13. In particular, this transcript was relatively abundant in the striatum at postnatal days 3 and 5 and then decreased to very low levels after postnatal day 10. At the same period, Rxt1 immunostaining in the hippocampus and the cerebral cortex was observed all over the gray matter, in cell bodies as well as in the neuropil. Finally, the adult pattern was reached around postnatal day 13 for Rxt1 messenger RNA, but only at postnatal day 20 for the Rxt1 protein. The presence of Rxt1 messenger RNA and protein at embryonic stages and the high expression of the protein during synaptogenesis suggest that this vesicular &quot;orphan&quot; transporter is involved in the brain maturation process.
The role of lactate in brain energy metabolism has recently received renewed attention. Although blood-borne monocarboxylates such as lactate poorly cross the blood-brain barrier in the adult brain, lactate produced within the brain parenchyma may be a suitable substrate for brain cells. Lactate dehydrogenase is crucial for both the production and utilization of lactate. In this article, we report the regional distribution of the messenger RNAs for lactate dehydrogenase isoforms 1 and 5 in the adult rat brain using in situ hybridization histochemistry with specific [alpha-(35)S]dATP 3' end-labeled oligoprobes. The autoradiographs revealed that the lactate dehydrogenase-1 messenger RNA is highly expressed in a variety of brain structures, including the main olfactory bulb, the piriform cortex, several thalamic and hypothalamic nuclei, the pontine nuclei, the ventral cochlear nucleus, the trigeminal nerve and the solitary tractus nucleus. In addition, the granular and Purkinje cell layers of the cerebellum showed a strong labeling. The neocortex (e.g., cingular, retrosplenial and frontoparietal cortices) often exhibits a marked laminar pattern of distribution of lactate dehydrogenase-1 messenger RNA (layers II/III, IV and VI being most strongly labeled). In contrast, expression of the lactate dehydrogenase-5 messenger RNA generally seemed more diffusely distributed across the different brain regions. Expression was particularly strong in the hippocampal formation (especially in Ammon's horn and dentate gyrus) and in the cerebral cortex, where no laminar pattern of distribution was observed. Overall, these data are consistent with the emerging idea that lactate is an important energy substrate produced and consumed by brain cells.
Autonomic sympathetic postganglionic neurons normally express distinct combinations of neuropeptides which are often highly correlated with the projection of the neurons. When sympathetic postganglionic neurons are axotomized, they can express quite different neuropeptides, notably substance P, vasoactive intestinal peptide or galanin. In this study, we have examined rat sympathetic postganglionic neurons in the superior cervical ganglion that project to the skin, the vasculature of the skeletal muscle or to the submandibular salivary gland, and assessed whether the neuropeptides that they express after axotomy depend on which target tissue they previously innervated. In all three populations, around half of the postganglionic neurons expressed galanin after axotomy. In contrast, only skin-projecting neurons showed a significant increase in the number of neurons that expressed substance P (22%) and vasoactive intestinal peptide (17%) following axotomy. Within the skin-projecting neurons, as judged on the basis of cell body size, substance P and vasoactive intestinal peptide were expressed predominantly in pilomotor neurons, but only rarely were the two neuropeptides present in the same nerve cell body. In conclusion, we have demonstrated that three different neuropeptides, which can be induced by axotomy in postganglionic neurons, follow quite different patterns of expression when they are viewed in relation to the function of the postganglionic neurons in the superior cervical ganglion.
Cells in the nucleus raphe magnus that are inhibited by noxious skin stimuli (off-cells) have been postulated to suppress pain by continuously inhibiting spinal and trigeminal nociceptive neurons. To test this hypothesis, spontaneous activity was simultaneously recorded from off-cells (n = 15) and wide-dynamic range cells (n = 27) of the trigeminal complex (subnucleus interpolaris), in rats anesthetized with pentobarbital. Most off-cells (n = 14) had rhythmic interspike intervals, their modes averaging 106 ms. No trigeminal cell fired rhythmically. Rhythmic firing was defined quantitatively: the autospectrum's peak power had to exceed 1.75 times its asymptote. This formula was obtained by generalizing from a natural cut-off in the theoretical autospectrum for serially uncorrelated, gamma-distributed intervals, whose firing can be varied from Poissonian to highly regular by adjusting one parameter. It encompasses the qualitative judgement of autocorrelograms commonly made in neurophysiology. Cross-correlograms (n = 29) appeared noisy and otherwise featureless. However, their power spectra (cross-periodograms) sometimes showed significant peaks, compared with simulated non-interactive distributions. The latter were generated by interchanging the raphe interval sequences at one random point (as in cutting a deck of cards), thus retaining most of their serial correlation. Of 29 cross-periodograms, 21 were significant at 1 to 13 frequencies (100 points, 0.4 to 39 Hz). These frequencies were often near the peak raphe power, and sometimes near its harmonics too. Furthermore, cross-spectral phase angles at peak power were non-uniform, most falling between 0 and 180 degrees (unit vector sum 60 degrees, n = 20). To understand why the frequency domain gave better detection, cross-spectra and cross-correlations were modeled theoretically by convolving idealized input autocorrelations and synaptic response functions. This demonstrated that rhythmic firing is insufficient for better frequency-domain detection, and that serially correlated input intervals or non-additive synaptic responses are necessary. The conclusion was confirmed by stochastic simulation of a simple non-additive synapse, that required successful input spikes to fall within a specified interval of the preceding spike. Experimentally, serial correlation was found in 12 of the 15 raphe cells, and in 20 of the 27 trigeminal cells. It is proposed that the weak experimental cross-correlograms arise because many asynchronous raphe inputs converge on each trigeminal cell, possibly to optimize the resting suppression of pain. The distribution of cross-spectral phase angles at peak raphe power suggested that raphe spikes arriving at the synapses' preferred interval cause a fall in trigeminal activity. In general, cross-spectral analysis can sometimes uncover influences hidden in cross-correlograms, but the firing of one neuron must be rhythmic and non-renewal, or else certain input intervals must be favored in synaptic transmission.
Here, we demonstrate in a direct electrophysiological experiment that a neuron can form electrical connections to itself. An isolated identified neuron with a long axon was plated in culture and the axon was looped so that its distal end contacted the cell body. After two days in culture, the cell body and the axon were both impaled with microelectrodes and the axon segment between the recording electrodes was cut. Electrotonic coupling was revealed between the separated cell compartments immediately after axon transection. In contrast to an earlier publication [Guthrie P. B. et al. (1994) J. Neurosci. 14, 1477-1485], no constraints on the formation of the electrical connections between different parts of the same neuron were revealed in our experiments.Thus, these experiments demonstrate that in vitro culture of a single neuron can form reflexive electrical connections which may strongly affect the basic properties of the neuron and should be taken into account in both experimental and model electrophysiological studies.
