From recent findings provided by brain stimulation mapping during picture naming, we re-examine the neural basis of language. We studied structural-functional relationships by correlating the types of language disturbances generated by stimulation in awake patients, mimicking a transient virtual lesion both at cortical and subcortical levels (white matter and deep grey nuclei), with the anatomical location of the stimulation probe. We propose a hodotopical (delocalized) and dynamic model of language processing, which challenges the traditional modular and serial view. According to this model, following the visual input, the language network is organized in parallel, segregated (even if interconnected) large-scale cortico-subcortical sub-networks underlying semantic, phonological and syntactic processing. Our model offers several advantages (i) it explains double dissociations during stimulation (comprehension versus naming disorders, semantic versus phonemic paraphasias, syntactic versus naming disturbances, plurimodal judgment versus naming disorders); (ii) it takes into account the cortical and subcortical anatomic constraints; (iii) it explains the possible recovery of aphasia following a lesion within the &quot;classical&quot; language areas; (iv) it establishes links with a model executive functions.
Primary progressive aphasia (PPA) is a rare clinical dementia syndrome with predominant, progressive language impairment. Clinical symptoms, linguistic impairment and the course of the disease may vary considerably between patients. In order to capture these aspects, longitudinal assessments of neurofunctional changes in PPA including their relationship to behaviour and clinical symptoms are mandatory, ideally at intervals shorter than 1 year. Here, we report a longitudinal fMRI study investigating the development of lexical processing and their neural basis in PPA patients over 1year. Four logopenic PPA patients and four matched controls were scanned 3 times (T1, T2, T3, at 6months intervals) while performing a visual lexical decision task on German words and pseudowords. Group differences for the lexicality effect (pseudowords&gt;words) were assessed at time point T1 and its longitudinal changes in the BOLD signal associated with the lexicality effect were analysed. Brain atrophy was assessed with a high-resolution MPRAGE sequence and analysed using deformation based morphometry (DBM). From the very beginning of the study, PPA patients showed reduced left-hemispheric and increased right-hemispheric activations compared to controls. During the progression of the disease, activation increased predominantly in left posterior middle temporal gyrus (pMTG) and inferior frontal junction area, whereas the same regions decreased in activity in control brains. Interestingly, DBM data showed that this increase in activation in PPA patients was accompanied by progressing atrophy in the same regions. At a behavioural level, the accuracy in the lexical decision task was comparably high for both groups during the whole period of examination, despite some large variability between patients. To conclude, the dissociation between (i) maintained high performance, (ii) increased activity in regions involved in lexical access such as pMTG, and (iii) progressive atrophy of the very same regions supports the notion of a compensatory mechanism in brains of PPA patients for maintaining language while brain atrophy is progressing. The activity increase within a left-lateralised fronto-temporal network seems vital for high-level performance, whereas initial right-hemispheric recruitment of homologue language regions, which is reminiscent of that in vascular aphasics, has no continuous impact on lexical performance.
Dreaming is a subjective experience during sleep that is often accompanied by vivid perceptual and emotional contents. Because of its fundamentally subjective nature, the objective study of dream contents has been challenging. However, since the discovery of rapid eye movements during sleep, scientific knowledge on the relationship between dreaming and physiological measures including brain activity has accumulated. Recent advances in neuroimaging analysis methods have made it possible to uncover direct links between specific dream contents and brain activity patterns. In this review, we first give a historical overview on dream researches with a focus on the neurophysiological and behavioral signatures of dreaming. We then discuss our recent study in which visual dream contents were predicted, or decoded, from brain activity during sleep onset periods using machine learning-based pattern recognition of functional MRI data. We suggest that advanced analytical tools combined with neural and behavioral databases will reveal the relevance of spontaneous brain activity during sleep to waking experiences.
Given the vast amount of visual information in visual scenes, the capacity of our brain to processes such scenes is severely limited. The core mechanism of selection is referred to as visual attention, and it has been the topic of intense investigation for over 25 years in experimental psychology and cognitive neuroscience. Visual attention is not a single, unitary mechanism, but consists of multiple subcomponents. Attention can be directed to various aspects of visual information, such as spatial location, features, or objects. Additionally, attention is guided by external factors such as the salience of stimuli, or whether we are able to move our attention volitionally. The purpose of this article is to review the status of these components of attentional guidance and how they interact with each other, with an emphasis on psychophysical studies.
Patients with schizophrenia often experience aberrant bodily self including depersonalization and cenesthopathy, especially in its prodromal and early stage. These symptoms are regarded as the beginning of self-disturbances (i.e. the core psychopathology of the illness). Thus, an understanding of schizophrenic bodily experiences could provide insight into the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Recently, in the field of cognitive neuroscience, research on self-awareness during intentional actions has focused on examining sense of body ownership (SoO) and sense of agency (SoA). The most critical factor for the emergence of those higher-order senses of self is subject's intention for actions. Intentional signals could integrate multiple bodily sensory feedbacks during actions, and lead to develop a coherent sense of self. Empirical studies using behavioral and neuroimaging experiments have demonstrated that schizophrenic patients exhibit specific patterns of abnormal SoO and SoA. Thus, from a clinical standpoint, the detection of specific nature of schizophrenic bodily experiences could provide evidence for early diagnosis and intervention for schizophrenia.
As the prevalence of shift work is increasing, it is important to elucidate the impact that shift work has on health. Because of the alternating work schedules present in rotating shift work and working at night, shift workers are in a chronic state of circadian disruption. Animal models of circadian disruption are useful because they offer more experimental control than the largely correlational human shift work studies. The effects of chronic circadian disruption on food preference, glucose tolerance, corticosterone secretion, and performance in a stress-inducing task were investigated in female Long-Evans rats. A 64-day photoperiod shifting paradigm was used to induce circadian disruption. Surprisingly, neither the photoperiod shifted animals, nor the control animals demonstrated a preference for either an unhealthy or healthy diet. Nor was there a difference between the groups in weight gained during photoperiod shifting. However, the photoperiod shifted rats gained significantly more weight than control animals, without eating more food during discriminative fear conditioning to context (DFCTC). Surprisingly, chronic photoperiod shifting appeared to facilitate retention in the DFCTC task. The photoperiod shifted animals also had increased serum glucose values during fasting and after a glucose challenge test. The photoperiod shifted animals only had elevated corticosterone during the final two phases of photoperiod shifting. This study demonstrates that chronic photoperiod shifting elicits weight gain when exposed to a stressful event and impairs glucose tolerance in the same individual.
Changes in dendritic spines structure and function play a critical role in a number of physiological processes, including synaptic transmission and plasticity, and are intimately linked to cognitive function. Alterations in dendritic spine morphogenesis occur in a number of neuropsychiatric disorders and likely underlie the cognitive and behavioral changes associated with these disorders. The neuronal guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) kalirin is emerging as a key regulator of structural and functional plasticity at dendritic spines. Moreover, a series of recent studies have genetically and functionally linked kalirin signaling to several disorders, including schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease. Kalirin signaling may thus represent a disease mechanism and provide a novel therapeutic target.
Severe childhood epilepsy is commonly associated with intellectual developmental disabilities. The reasons for these cognitive deficits are likely multifactorial and will vary between epilepsy syndromes and even among children with the same syndrome. However, one factor these children have in common is the recurring seizures they experience - sometimes on a daily basis. Supporting the idea that the seizures themselves can contribute to intellectual disabilities are laboratory results demonstrating spatial learning and memory deficits in normal mice and rats that have experienced recurrent seizures in infancy. Studies reviewed here have shown that seizures in vivo and electrographic seizure activity in vitro both suppress the growth of hippocampal pyramidal cell dendrites. A simplification of dendritic arborization and a resulting decrease in the number and/or properties of the excitatory synapses on them could help explain the observed cognitive disabilities. There are a wide variety of candidate mechanisms that could be involved in seizure-induced growth suppression. The challenge is designing experiments that will help focus research on a limited number of potential molecular events. Thus far, results suggest that growth suppression is NMDA receptor-dependent and associated with a decrease in activation of the transcription factor CREB. The latter result is intriguing since CREB is known to play an important role in dendrite growth. Seizure-induced dendrite growth suppression may not occur as a single process in which pyramidal cells dendrites simply stop growing or grow slower compared to normal neurons. Instead, recent results suggest that after only a few hours of synchronized epileptiform activity in vitro dendrites appear to partially retract. This acute response is also NMDA receptor dependent and appears to be mediated by the Ca(+2)/calmodulin-dependent phosphatase, calcineurin. An understanding of the staging of seizure-induced growth suppression and the underlying molecular mechanisms will likely prove crucial for developing therapeutic strategies aimed at ameliorating the intellectual developmental disabilities associated with intractable childhood epilepsy.
Neurons have intricate dendritic morphologies which come in an array of shapes and sizes. Not only do they give neurons their unique appearance, but dendrites also endow neurons with the ability to receive and transform synaptic inputs. We now have a wealth of information about the functioning of dendrites which suggests that the integration of synaptic inputs is highly dependent on both dendritic properties and neuronal input patterns. It has been shown that dendrites can perform non-linear processing, actively transforming synaptic input into Na(+) spikes, Ca(2+) plateau spikes and NMDA spikes. These membrane non-linearities can have a large impact on the neuronal output and have been shown to be regulated by numerous factors including synaptic inhibition. Many neuropathological diseases involve changes in how dendrites receive and package synaptic input by altering dendritic spine characteristics, ion channel expression and the inhibitory control of dendrites. This review focuses on the role of dendrites in integrating and transforming input and what goes wrong in the case of neuropathological diseases.
Glioma stem cells (GSCs) may be a source of tumor progression and recurrence after multimodal therapy, because of their high invasive potential. The purpose of this study was to compare the invasive and migratory properties of GSCs and non-GSCs and examine the distribution of these cells in a mouse xenograft model. Three GSC lines, G144, Y02, and Y10, cultured from human glioblastoma, were used in the study. Matrigel-invasion assays of infiltration and time-lapse studies of migration were performed for comparison of the GSCs with the corresponding differentiated non-GSC lines. Cells were also transplanted into mouse brain and the different distribution of GSCs and non-GSCs was examined in the tumor xenograft model. All 3 GSC lines had greater invasion and migration ability than the corresponding non-GSCs. In vivo, GSCs infiltrated more widely than non-GSCs and reached the contralateral hemisphere via the corpus callosum in the early stage of tumorigenesis. GSCs also primarily penetrated the subventricular zone (SVZ). GSCs have high invasive potential and tend to be present in the outer tumor bulk and infiltrate the contralateral hemisphere via the corpus callosum, in addition to penetrating the SVZ.
Neuroscience affords knowledge that can be leveraged in the ontological valuation of individuals, groups, and species. Sociocultural sentiments, norms, and mores may impede embracing such knowledge to revise moral attitudes, ethics, and policies. We argue that the practices of neuroethics will be valuable in that they ground ethico-legal discourse in (1) naturalistic philosophy; (2) the current epistemological capital of neuroscience; (3) the issues, problems, and solutions arising in and from neuroscientific research and its applications; and 4) the use of neurocentric criteria-such as painience-to define and resolve ethical decisions regarding attitudes toward and treatment of nonhuman animals.
Recent results from the neurosciences demonstrate that pleasure and pain are not two symmetrical poles of a single scale of experience but in fact two different types of experiences altogether, with dramatically different contributions to well-being. These differences between pleasure and pain and the general finding that &quot;the bad is stronger than the good&quot; have important implications for our treatment of nonhuman animals. In particular, whereas animal experimentation that causes suffering might be justified if it leads to the prevention of more suffering, it can never by justified merely by leading to increased levels of happiness.
Abstract available from the publisher.
Malignant mesothelioma (MM) is a very aggressive asbestos-related neoplasm of the serous membranes, whose incidence is increasing worldwide. Although the introduction of new drug combinations, such as cisplatin plus pemetrexed/gemcitabine, has determined an improvement in the patient quality of life, MM remains a universally fatal disease. The observation that key G 1/S checkpoint regulators are often functionally inactivated in MM prompted us to test whether the use of G 2/M checkpoint inhibitors, able to sensitize G 1/S checkpoint-defective cancer cells to DNA-damaging agents, could be successful in MM. We treated six MM cell lines, representative of different histotypes (epithelioid, biphasic, and sarcomatoid), with cisplatin in combination with MK-1775, an inhibitor of the G 2/M checkpoint kinase WEE1. We observed that MK-1775 enhanced the cisplatin cytotoxic effect in all MM cell lines, except the sarcomatoid cell line, which is representative of the most aggressive histotype. As expected, the enhancement in cisplatin toxicity was accompanied by a decrease in the inactive phosphorylated form of cyclin-dependent kinase 1 (CDK1), a key substrate of WEE1, which is indicative of G 2/M checkpoint inactivation. Consistently, we also observed a decrease in G 2/M accumulation and an increase in mitotic entry of DNA-damaged cells and apoptosis, probably due to the loss of the cell ability to arrest cell cycle in response to DNA damage, irrespectively of p53 mutational status. Notably, this treatment did not increase cisplatin cytotoxicity on normal cells, thus suggesting a possible use of MK-1775 in combination with cisplatin for a safe and efficient treatment of epithelioid and biphasic MM.
Increased cancer risk is linked to disruption of circadian rhythms. Cancer stem cells (CSCs) are a known cause of cancer aggressiveness, but their circadian properties have not been described. We discovered circadian rhythms in gene expression within C6 glioma tumorspheres enriched in CSCs and found that the circadian clock is particularly robust in medium lacking any growth factors. A method is introduced for identifying individual CSCs in culture for single-cell analysis. CSCs in monolayer cell culture failed to show a circadian rhythm in nuclear localization of mPER2 protein, suggesting that cell interactions or the tumor-like microenvironment within tumorspheres enable circadian timing.
In Alzheimer's disease (AD), astrocytes undergo complex morphological and functional changes that include early atrophy, reactive activation and Ca(2+) deregulation. Recently, we proposed a mechanism by which nanomolar A42 deregulates mGluR5 and InsP3 receptors, the key elements of astrocytic Ca(2+) signalling toolkit. To evaluate the specificity of these changes, we have now investigated whether the effects of A42 on Ca(2+) signalling machinery can be reproduced by pro-inflammatory agents (TNF, IL-1, LPS). Here we report that A42 (100nM, 72h) significantly increased mRNA levels of mGluR5, InsP3R1 and InsP3R2, whereas pro-inflammatory agents reduced expression of these specific mRNAs. Furthermore, DHPG-induced Ca(2+) signals and store operated Ca(2+) entry (SOCE) were augmented in A42-treated cells due to up-regulation of a set of Ca(2+) signalling-related genes including TRPC1 and TRPC4. Opposite changes were observed when astrocytes were treated with TNF, IL-1 and LPS. Last, the effects observed on SOCE by treating wild-type astrocytes with A42 were also identified in untreated astrocytes from 3Tg-AD animals, suggesting a link to the AD pathology. Our results demonstrate that effects of A42 on astrocytic Ca(2+) signalling differ from and may contrast to the effects of pro-inflammatory agents.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by extracellular amyloid- (A) deposition, which activates microglia, induces neuroinflammation and drives neurodegeneration. Recent evidence indicates that soluble pre-fibrillar A species, rather than insoluble fibrils, are the most toxic forms of A. Preventing soluble A formation represents, therefore, a major goal in AD. We investigated whether microvesicles (MVs) released extracellularly by reactive microglia may contribute to AD degeneration. We found that production of myeloid MVs, likely of microglial origin, is strikingly high in AD patients and in subjects with mild cognitive impairment and that AD MVs are toxic for cultured neurons. The mechanism responsible for MV neurotoxicity was defined in vitro using MVs produced by primary microglia. We demonstrated that neurotoxicity of MVs results from (i) the capability of MV lipids to promote formation of soluble A species from extracellular insoluble aggregates and (ii) from the presence of neurotoxic A forms trafficked to MVs after A internalization into microglia. MV neurotoxicity was neutralized by the A-interacting protein PrP and anti-A antibodies, which prevented binding to neurons of neurotoxic soluble A species. This study identifies microglia-derived MVs as a novel mechanism by which microglia participate in AD degeneration, and suggest new therapeutic strategies for the treatment of the disease.
Melanoma is a rapidly growing and highly metastatic cancer with high mortality rates, for which a resolutive treatment is lacking. Identification of novel therapeutic strategies and biomarkers of tumour stage is thus of particular relevance. We report here on a novel biomarker and possible candidate therapeutic target, the sphingolipid metabolising enzyme acid sphingomyelinase (A-SMase). A-SMase expression correlates inversely with tumour stage in human melanoma biopsies. Studies in a mouse model of melanoma and on cell lines derived from mouse and human melanomas demonstrated that A-SMase levels of expression actually determine the malignant phenotype of melanoma cells in terms of pigmentation, tumour progression, invasiveness and metastatic ability. The action of A-SMase is mediated by the activation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase, the subsequent proteasomal degradation of the Microphtalmia-associated transcription factor (Mitf) and inhibition of cyclin-dependent kinase 2, Bcl-2 and c-Met, downstream targets of Mitf involved in tumour cell proliferation, survival and metastatisation.
Proopiomelanocortin (POMC) neurons within the hypothalamic arcuate nucleus are vital anorexigenic neurons. Although both the leptin and insulin receptors are coupled to the activation of phosphatidylinositide 3 kinase (PI3K) in POMC neurons, they are thought to have disparate actions on POMC excitability. Using whole-cell recording and selective pharmacological tools, we have found that, similar to leptin, purified insulin depolarized POMC and adjacent kisspeptin neurons via activation of TRPC5 channels, which are highly expressed in these neurons. In contrast, insulin hyperpolarized and inhibited NPY/AgRP neurons via activation of KATP channels. Moreover, Zn(2+), which is found in insulin formulations at nanomolar concentrations, inhibited POMC neurons via activation of KATP channels. Finally, as predicted, insulin given intracerebroventrically robustly inhibited food intake and activated c-fos expression in arcuate POMC neurons. Our results show that purified insulin excites POMC neurons in the arcuate nucleus, which we propose is a major mechanism by which insulin regulates energy homeostasis.
Mitochondrial fusion is essential for maintenance of mitochondrial function. The mitofusin GTPases control mitochondrial outer membrane fusion, whereas the dynamin-related GTPase Opa1 mediates inner membrane fusion. We show that mitochondrial inner membrane fusion is tuned by the level of oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS), whereas outer membrane fusion is insensitive. Consequently, cells from patients with pathogenic mtDNA mutations show a selective defect in mitochondrial inner membrane fusion. In elucidating the molecular mechanism of OXPHOS-stimulated fusion, we uncover that real-time proteolytic processing of Opa1 stimulates mitochondrial inner membrane fusion. OXPHOS-stimulated mitochondrial fusion operates through Yme1L, which cleaves Opa1 more efficiently under high OXPHOS conditions. Engineered cleavage of Opa1 is sufficient to mediate inner membrane fusion, regardless of respiratory state. Proteolytic cleavage therefore stimulates the membrane fusion activity of Opa1, and this feature is exploited to dynamically couple mitochondrial fusion to cellular metabolism.
The identification of numerous deregulated signaling pathways on cancer cells and supportive stromal cells has revealed several molecular targets whose downregulation can elicit significant benefits for cancer treatment. In this respect, gene downregulation can be efficiently achieved by exploiting the RNA interference mechanism, particularly by the delivery of chemical synthesized small-interfering RNAs (siRNAs), which have the ability to mediate, in a specific manner, the degradation of any mRNA with complementary nucleotide sequence. However, several concerns regarding off-target effects and immune stimulation have been raised. Depending on their sequence, siRNAs can trigger an innate immune response, which might mediate undesirable side effects that ultimately compromise their clinical utility. This is a very relevant effect that will be discussed in the present manuscript. Moreover, the major drawback in the translation of siRNAs into the clinical practice is undoubtedly their inability to accumulate in tumor sites, particularly in organs other than the liver. In fact, upon systemic administration, owing to siRNAs physico-chemical features, they are rapidly cleared from the blood stream. Therefore, the development of a proper drug delivery system is of utmost importance. In this review, some of the latest advances on different nanotechnological platforms for siRNA delivery under clinical evaluation will be discussed. Along with this, targeting approaches towards cancer and/or endothelial cells will also be addressed, as these are some of the most promising strategies to enhance specific tumor accumulation while avoiding healthy tissues. Finally, clinical information on ongoing studies in patients with advanced solid tumors will be also provided.
The tumor suppressors Discs Large (Dlg), Lethal giant larvae (Lgl) and Scribble are essential for the establishment and maintenance of epithelial cell polarity in metazoan. Dlg, Lgl and Scribble are known to interact strongly with each other genetically and form the evolutionarily conserved Scribble complex. Despite more than a decade of extensive research, it has not been demonstrated whether Dlg, Lgl and Scribble physically interact with each other. Here, we show that Dlg directly interacts with Lgl in a phosphorylation-dependent manner. Phosphorylation of any one of the three conserved Ser residues situated in the central linker region of Lgl is sufficient for its binding to the Dlg guanylate kinase (GK) domain. The crystal structures of the Dlg4 GK domain in complex with two phosphor-Lgl2 peptides reveal the molecular mechanism underlying the specific and phosphorylation-dependent Dlg/Lgl complex formation. In addition to providing a mechanistic basis underlying the regulated formation of the Scribble complex, the structure of the Dlg/Lgl complex may also serve as a starting point for designing specific Dlg inhibitors for targeting the Scribble complex formation.
TRPA1 is an ion channel that detects specific chemicals in food and also transduces mechanical, cold and chemical stimulation. Its presence in sensory nerve endings is well known and recent evidence indicates that it is expressed by some gastrointestinal enteroendocrine cells (EEC). The purpose of the present work is to identify and quantify EEC that express TRPA1 in the mouse gastrointestinal tract. Combined in situ hybridisation histochemistry for TRPA1 and immunofluorescence for EEC hormones was used. TRPA1 expressing EEC were common in the duodenum and jejunum, were rare in the distal small intestine and were absent from the stomach and large intestine. In the duodenum and jejunum, TRPA1 occurred in EEC that contained both cholecystokinin (CCK) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5HT) and in a small number of cells expressing 5HT but not CCK. TRPA1 was absent from CCK cells that did not express 5HT and from EEC containing glucagon-like insulinotropic peptide. Thus TRPA1 is contained in very specific EEC populations. It is suggested that foods such as garlic and cinnamon that contain TRPA1 stimulants may aid digestion by facilitating the release of CCK.


Studying epileptogenesis in a genetic model can facilitate the identification of factors that promote the conversion of a normal brain into one chronically prone to seizures. Synapsin triple-knockout (TKO) mice exhibit adult-onset epilepsy, thus allowing the characterization of events as preceding or following seizure onset. Although it has been proposed that a congenital reduction in inhibitory transmission is the underlying cause for epilepsy in these mice, young TKO mice are asymptomatic. We report that the genetic lesion exerts long-term progressive effects that extend well into adulthood. Although inhibitory transmission is initially reduced, it is subsequently strengthened relative to its magnitude in control mice, so that the excitation to inhibition balance in adult TKOs is inverted in favor of inhibition. In parallel, we observed long-term alterations in synaptic depression kinetics of excitatory transmission and in the extent of tonic inhibition, illustrating adaptations in synaptic properties. Moreover, age-dependent acceleration of the action potential did not occur in TKO cortical pyramidal neurons, suggesting wide-ranging secondary changes in brain excitability. In conclusion, although congenital impairments in inhibitory transmission may initiate epileptogenesis in the synapsin TKO mice, we suggest that secondary adaptations are crucial for the establishment of this epileptic network.
Schizophrenia is characterized by alterations in cortico-limbic processes believed to involve modifications in activity within the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and the hippocampus. The nucleus accumbens (NAc) integrates information from these 2 brain regions and is involved in cognitive and psychomotor functions that are disrupted in schizophrenia, indicating an important role for this structure in the pathophysiology of this disorder. In this study, we used in vivo electrophysiological recordings from the NAc and the PFC of adult rats and the MAM developmental disruption rodent model of schizophrenia to explore the influence of the medial PFC on the hippocampal-accumbens pathway. We found that, in MAM-treated rats, tetanization of hippocampal inputs to the NAc produce opposite synaptic plasticity compared with controls, which is a consequence of alterations in the hippocampal-mPFC pathway. Moreover, we show that administration of the D2-receptor-blocking antipsychotic drug sulpiride either systemically or directly into the mPFC reverses the alterations in the MAM rat. Therefore, specific disruptions in cortical and hippocampal inputs in the MAM-treated rat abnormally alter plasticity in subcortical structures. Moreover, our results suggest that, in the presence of antipsychotic drugs, the disrupted plasticities are normalized, supporting a role for this mechanism in antipsychotic drug action in schizophrenia.
Musical training has been shown to positively influence linguistic abilities. To follow the developmental dynamics of this transfer effect at the preattentive level, we conducted a longitudinal study over 2 school years with nonmusician children randomly assigned to music or to painting training. We recorded the mismatch negativity (MMN), a cortical correlate of preattentive mismatch detection, to syllables that differed in vowel frequency, vowel duration, and voice onset time (VOT), using a test-training-retest procedure and 3 times of testing: before training, after 6 months and after 12 months of training. While no between-group differences were found before training, enhanced preattentive processing of syllabic duration and VOT, as reflected by greater MMN amplitude, but not of frequency, was found after 12 months of training in the music group only. These results demonstrate neuroplasticity in the child brain and suggest that active musical training rather than innate predispositions for music yielded the improvements in musically trained children. These results also highlight the influence of musical training for duration perception in speech and for the development of phonological representations in normally developing children. They support the importance of music-based training programs for children's education and open new remediation strategies for children with language-based learning impairments.
Neuroimaging studies have identified brain regions that respond preferentially to specific stimulus categories, including 3 areas that activate maximally during viewing of real-world scenes: The parahippocampal place area (PPA), retrosplenial complex (RSC), and transverse occipital sulcus (TOS). Although these findings suggest the existence of regions specialized for scene processing, this interpretation is challenged by recent reports that activity in scene-preferring regions is modulated by properties of isolated single objects. To understand the mechanisms underlying these object-related responses, we collected functional magnetic resonance imaging data while subjects viewed objects rated along 7 dimensions, shown both in isolation and on a scenic background. Consistent with previous reports, we find that scene-preferring regions are sensitive to multiple object properties; however, results of an item analysis suggested just 2 independent factors--visual size and the landmark suitability of the objects--sufficed to explain most of the response. This object-based modulation was found in PPA and RSC irrespective of the presence or absence of a scenic background, but was only observed in TOS for isolated objects. We hypothesize that scene-preferring regions might process both visual qualities unique to scenes and spatial qualities that can appertain to either scenes or objects.
It is well established that human faces induce stronger involuntary orienting responses than other visual objects. Yet, the timing of this preferential orienting response at the neural level is still unknown. Here, we used an antisaccade paradigm to investigate the neural dynamics preceding the onset of reflexive and voluntary saccades elicited by human faces and nonface visual objects, normalized for their global low-level visual properties. High-density event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded in observers as they performed interleaved pro- and antisaccades toward a lateralized target. For reflexive saccades, we report an ERP modulation specific to faces as early as 40-60 ms following stimulus onset over parieto-occipital sites, further predicting the speed of saccade execution. This was not linked to differences in the programming of the saccadic eye movements, as it occurred early in time. For the first time, we present electrophysiological evidence of early target selection to faces in reflexive orienting responses over parieto-occipital cortex that facilitates the triggering of saccades toward faces. We argue for a 2-stage process in the representation of a face in involuntary spatial orienting with an initial, rapid implicit processing of the visual properties of a face, followed by subsequent stimulus categorization depicted by the N170 component.
Treatment of motor symptoms of degenerative cerebellar ataxia remains difficult. Yet there are recent developments that are likely to lead to significant improvements in the future. Most desirable would be a causative treatment of the underlying cerebellar disease. This is currently available only for a very small subset of cerebellar ataxias with known metabolic dysfunction. However, increasing knowledge of the pathophysiology of hereditary ataxia should lead to an increasing number of medically sensible drug trials. In this paper, data from recent drug trials in patients with recessive and dominant cerebellar ataxias will be summarized. There is consensus that up to date, no medication has been proven effective. Aminopyridines and acetazolamide are the only exception, which are beneficial in patients with episodic ataxia type 2. Aminopyridines are also effective in a subset of patients presenting with downbeat nystagmus. As such, all authors agreed that the mainstays of treatment of degenerative cerebellar ataxia are currently physiotherapy, occupational therapy, and speech therapy. For many years, well-controlled rehabilitation studies in patients with cerebellar ataxia were lacking. Data of recently published studies show that coordinative training improves motor function in both adult and juvenile patients with cerebellar degeneration. Given the well-known contribution of the cerebellum to motor learning, possible mechanisms underlying improvement will be outlined. There is consensus that evidence-based guidelines for the physiotherapy of degenerative cerebellar ataxia need to be developed. Future developments in physiotherapeutical interventions will be discussed including application of non-invasive brain stimulation.
Cardiolipins (CLs) are ancient and unusual dimeric phospholipids localized in the plasma membrane of bacteria and in the inner mitochondrial membrane of eukaryotes. In mitochondria, two types of asymmetries--trans-membrane and molecular--are essential determinants of CL functions. In this review, we describe CL-based signaling mitochondrial pathways realized via modulation of trans-membrane asymmetry and leading to externalization and peroxidation of CLs in mitophagy and apoptosis, respectively. We discuss possible mechanisms of CL translocations from the inner leaflet of the inner to the outer leaflet of the outer mitochondrial membranes. We present redox reaction mechanisms of cytochrome c-catalyzed CL peroxidation as a required stage in the execution of apoptosis. We also emphasize the significance of CL-related metabolic pathways as new targets for drug discovery. Finally, a remarkable diversity of polyunsaturated CL species and their oxidation products have evolved in eukaryotes vs. prokaryotes. This diversity--associated with CL molecular asymmetry--is presented as the basis for mitochondrial communications language.

Environmental contaminants are associated with a wide spectrum of pathological effects. Temperature increase affects ambient distribution and toxicity of these chemicals in the water environment, representing a potentially emerging problem for aquatic species with short-, medium- and long-term repercussions on human health through the food chain. We assessed peer-reviewed literature, including primary studies, review articles and organizational reports available. We focused on studies concerning toxicity of environmental pollutants within a global warming scenario. Existing knowledge on the effects that the increase of water temperature in a contaminated situation has on physiological mechanisms of aquatic organisms is presented. Altogether we consider the potential consequences for the human beings due to fish and shellfish consumption. Finally, we propose an etho-toxicological approach to study the effects of toxicants in conditions of thermal increase, using aquatic organisms as experimental models under laboratory controlled conditions.
Sulfonamides (SA) are a class of antibiotics routinely found in environmental matrices and therefore their role as contaminants should be investigated in non-target organisms. With this purpose the present experimental work has evaluated the exposure of the chlorophycean Ulva lactuca L. to sulfathiazole (STZ), a SA drug commonly used in aquaculture, at two concentrations representing prophylactic (25 g mL(-1)) and therapeutic (50 g mL(-1)) administrations. Results showed that STZ exhibits high stability in seawater with only 18% degradation over the 5d assay at both dosages tested. Also, macroalgae demonstrated an efficient uptake capacity with constant internal concentrations after 24h regardless of the external solutions and thus should be considered as a bioindicator species in risk assessment. Both STZ concentrations induced a slight inhibition of the macroalgae growth after 96 h.
This article reviews the evidence for the treatment of children and adolescents with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Treatment strategies are discussed along with clinically relevant considerations with regard to choosing a modality, working with parents, and adaptations for specific populations. Current data suggest the efficacy of trauma-focused psychotherapies for the treatment of pediatric PTSD. Limited data from psychopharmacologic trials suggest that several classes of medications may have efficacy in youth with PTSD. The extant treatment studies in pediatric patients with PTSD and consensus recommendations suggest that treatment should be based on the individual child's most distressing and functionally impairing symptoms.
Children's exposure to intimate partner violence (IPV) is now recognized as a form of child maltreatment associated with significant mental health impairment. This article provides an overview of the epidemiology of children's exposure to IPV, including prevalence, risk, and protective factors and associated impairment, and a summary of assessment and interventions aimed at preventing its occurrence and responding to children and families. Information about evidence-based approaches to responding to children who present with impairment after exposure to IPV, such as posttraumatic-stress disorder symptoms, is discussed. Some of the challenges in understanding children's needs with regard to safety and protection are outlined with recommendations for future directions.
Depression and biological rhythms disturbances are strongly associated. Agomelatine is an antidepressant with melatoninergic MT1-MT2 agonist and serotoninergic 5-HT2c antagonist properties. Both melatonin and 5-HT are known to modulate circadian rhythmicity controlled by the endogenous clock located in the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN). The aim of the present study was to compare the effect of an acute injection of agomelatine (Ago), melatonin (MLT) or an antagonist 5-HT2c (S32006), on the rhythms of two robust clock outputs: the pineal MLT secretion and the body temperature rhythm (Tc). Daily endogenous MLT profiles were measured using transpineal microdialysis over 4 consecutive days in rats maintained on a 12 h light/12 h dark cycle. Simultaneously, Tc was recorded. The drugs were injected subcutaneously at three doses (1, 2.5 or 5 mg/kg) at the onset of darkness. Both Ago and MLT, at the dose of 2.5 mg/kg, increased the amplitude of the peak of MLT secretion and this effect was observed 2 d after injection. Moreover, both drugs induced a dose-dependent advance of the rhythm onset which resulted in lengthening of the MLT peak. S32006 had no effect on the rhythm of MLT. Ago, MLT and S32006 increased the amplitude of the rhythm of Tc. These data suggest a central action of Ago, directly on the SCN, via melatoninergic receptors responsible for both the increased amplitude of MLT rhythm and the phase advance. The increase in the amplitude of the body temperature could involve both MLT agonist and/or 5-HT2c antagonist properties of Ago.

Mechanisms that mediate the transition from occasional, controlled, drug use to the impaired control that characterizes severe dependence are still a matter of investigation. The etiology of substance use disorders (SUDs) is complex, and in this context of complexity, the concept of &quot;endophenotype,&quot; has gained extensive popularity in recent years. The main aim of endophenotypes is to provide a simpler, more proximal target to discover the biological underpinnings of a psychiatric syndrome. In this view, neurocognitive and neurophysiological impairments that suggest functional impairments associated with SUDs have been proposed as possible endophenotypes. Because of its large amplitude and relatively easy elicitation, the most studied of the cognitive brain event-related potentials (ERPs), the P300 component, has been proposed as one possible candidate. However, if a P300 amplitude alteration is a common finding in SUDs, it is also observable in other psychiatric afflictions, suggesting that the associations found may just reflect a common measure of brain dysfunction. On this basis, it has been proposed that a multivariate endophenotype, based on a weighted combination of electrophysiological features, may provide greater diagnostic classification power than any single endophenotype. The rationale for investigating multiple features is to show that combining them provides extra useful information that is not available in the individual features, leading ultimately to a multivariate phenotype.The aim of the present article is to outline the potential usefulness of this kind of &quot;combined electrophysiological procedure&quot; applied to SUDs. We present a review of ERP studies, combining data from people with SUD, family members, and normal control subjects, to verify whether the combination of 4ERPs (P50, MMN, P300, and N400) may produce profiles of cortical anomalies induced by different types of SUD (alcohol vs cocaine vs cannabis vs heroin).
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), in which electrical current is used to induce seizures, is an effective treatment in psychiatry. Different methods of analyzing the electroencephalogram (EEG) changes during ECT have been studied for predicting clinical outcome. Analysis of the fractal dimension (FD) is one such method. Mid-seizure and post-seizure FD has been shown to correlate with antidepressant effect. In this study, we examined whether the highest fractal dimension achieved during each ECT session changed over the course of 6 ECTs. The sample for this study came from a randomized controlled trial, comparing the efficacy of bifrontal and bitemporal electrode placements in schizophrenia. EEG was recorded using bilateral frontal pole leads during all ECT sessions. In 40 of the 114 randomized patients, we could obtain artifact-free EEGs for the first 6 ECT sessions. FD was calculated using standardized algorithms. For each session, the average of 5 highest FDs was calculated. The change in this value over a course of 6 ECTs was analyzed using repeated-measures analysis of variance. The average highest FD remained virtually unchanged across the 6 ECT sessions. Means (standard deviations) average maximum FDs over the 6 sessions were 1.57 (0.075), 1.57 (0.064), 1.56 (0.064), 1.57 (0.062), 1.55 (0.07), and 1.56 (0.067); occasion effect, F = 0.5, P = .75. Group effect (F = 0.01, P = .92) and group  occasion interaction effect (F = 1.88, P = .1) were not significant, suggesting no influence of electrode placement on maximum FD. Seizure duration, however, showed significant decline over the course of ECT. Maximum FD of ECT-induced EEG seizure remains fairly constant over frontal poles across the first 6 ECT sessions, which is true irrespective of ECT electrode placements.
B cell receptor (BCR) signalling determines B cell differentiation and may potentially alter T cell-mediated immune responses. In this study we used two transgenic strains of BCR-deficient mice expressing Epstein-Barr virus latent membrane protein (LMP)2A in B cells, where either follicular and marginal zone differentiation (D(H)LMP2A mice) or B-1 cell development (V(H)LMP2A mice) were supported, and evaluated the effects of skewed B lymphocyte differentiation on lymphoid organogenesis and T cell responses in vivo. Compared to wild-type animals, both transgenic strains displayed alterations in the composition of lymphoid organs and in the dynamics of distinct immune cell subsets following immunization with the self-antigen PLP. However, ex-vivoT cell proliferation to PLP peptide measured in immunized D(H)LMP2A and V(H)LMP2A mice was similar to that detected in immunized control mice. Further, clinical expression of experimental autoimmune encephalitis in both LMP2A strains was identical to that of wild-type mice. In conclusion, mice with skewed B cell differentiation driven by LMP2A expression in BCR-negative B cells do not show changes in the development of a T cell mediated disease model of autoimmunity, suggesting that compensatory mechanisms support the generation of T cell responses.
We evaluated levels of neuronal DNA damage after acute or repeated cocaine treatment in different brain areas of female rats after ovariectomy or sham surgery. Rats in the control and acute groups were given saline i.p., whereas in the repeated group were given 15 mg/kg, i.p., cocaine for 8 days. After a 10 day washout period, the control group was given saline i.p., whereas rats in the acute and repeated groups were given a challenge dose of 15 mg/kg, i.p., cocaine. After behavioural assessment, rats were killed and the cerebellum, hippocampus, hypothalamus, prefrontal cortex and striatum were dissected for the Comet assay. Acute cocaine exposure induced DNA damage in all brain areas. This effect persisted after repeated administration, except in the hypothalamus, where repeated treatment did not cause increased DNA damage. Sexual hormones exhibited a neuroprotective effect, decreasing cocaine-induced DNA damage in cycling rats in all brain areas.

Myasthenia gravis (MG) is an autoimmune disease characterized by muscle weakness associated with acetylcholine receptor (AChR), muscle-specific receptor kinase (MuSK) or low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 4 (LRP4)-antibodies. MuSK-antibodies are predominantly of the non-complement fixing IgG4 isotype. The MuSK associated experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG) model was established in mice to investigate immunoglobulin (Ig) and cytokine responses related with MuSK immunity. C57BL/6 (B6) mice immunized with 30g of recombinant human MuSK in incomplete or complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) showed significant EAMG susceptibility (&gt;80% incidence). Although mice immunized with 10g of MuSK had lower EAMG incidence (14.3%), serum MuSK-antibody levels were comparable to mice immunized with 30g MuSK. While MuSK immunization stimulated production of all antibody isotypes, non-complement fixing IgG1 was the dominant anti-MuSK Ig isotype in both sera and neuromuscular junctions. Moreover, MuSK immunized IgG1 knockout mice showed very low serum MuSK-antibody levels. Sera and MuSK-stimulated lymph node cell supernatants of MuSK immunized mice showed significantly higher levels of IL-4 and IL-10 (but not IFN- and IL-12), than those of CFA immunized mice. Our results suggest that through activation of Th2-type cells, anti-MuSK immunity promotes production of IL-4, which in turn activates anti-MuSK IgG1, the mouse analog of human IgG4. These findings might provide clues for the pathogenesis of other IgG4-related diseases as well as development of disease specific treatment methods (e.g. specific IgG4 inhibitors) for MuSK-related MG.


The Department of Health Stroke Strategy (2007) recommends that post stroke patients are reviewed within 6 weeks of discharge. Historically, a 6-week outpatient appointment was offered. This was primarily a medical review and not a full assessment of health, social care status and secondary prevention needs. An innovative joint domiciliary clinic was developed in order to meet these recommendations. The joint clinic reviews were conducted by a stroke consultant and an allied health professional. There were no readmissions at 6 weeks and 6 months post stroke. User satisfaction was very high and there were no missed appointments. Patient health and social status was fully captured, reported and acted upon holistically following each review. This form of integrated partnership working seems to promote seamless life after-stroke care, while enhancing patients' understanding. It includes the provision of secondary prevention and self-management strategies. This 'one-stop shop' approach would warrant formal evaluation.












Clinical heterogeneity is a confound common to all of schizophrenia research. Deficit schizophrenia has been proposed as a homogeneous disease entity within the schizophrenia syndrome. Utilizing the Schedule for the Deficit Syndrome (SDS) has allowed the definition of a subgroup dominated by persistent clusters of negative symptoms. While a number of studies have appeared over the years examining the electrophysiological correlates of the cluster of negative symptoms in schizophrenia, only a few studies have actually focused on the deficit syndrome (DS). PubMed as well as MEDLINE were searched for all reports indexed for &quot;negative symptoms&quot; or &quot;deficit syndrome&quot; and one of the following electrophysiology assessment tools: electroencephalography (EEG), evoked potentials (EPs), or polysomnography (PSG). While this line of research is evidently in its infancy, two significant trends emerge. First, spectral EEG studies link increased slow wave activity during wakefulness to the prevalence of negative symptoms. Secondly, sleep studies point to an association between decrease in slow wave sleep and prevalence of negative symptoms. Several studies also indicate a relationship of negative symptoms with reduced alpha activity. A host of other abnormalities-including sensory gating and P300 attenuation-are less consistently reported. Two studies specifically addressed electrophysiology of the DS. Both studies provided evidence suggesting that the DS may be a separate disease entity and not simply a severe form of schizophrenia.
Muscle disuse leads to a considerable loss in skeletal muscle mass and strength. However, the cellular mechanisms underlying disuse-induced muscle fibre atrophy remain to be elucidated. Therefore we assessed the effect of muscle disuse on the CSA (cross-sectional area), muscle fibre size, satellite cell content and associated myocellular signalling pathways of the quadriceps muscle. A total of 12 healthy young (241 years of age) men were subjected to 2 weeks of one-legged knee immobilization via a full-leg cast. Before and immediately after the immobilization period and after 6 weeks of natural rehabilitation, muscle strength [1RM (one-repetition maximum)], muscle CSA [single slice CT (computed tomography) scan] and muscle fibre type characteristics (muscle biopsies) were assessed. Protein and/or mRNA expression of key genes [i.e. MYOD (myogenic differentiation), MYOG (myogenin) and MSTN (myostatin)] in the satellite cell regulatory pathways were determined using Western blotting and RT-PCR (real-time PCR) analyses respectively. The present study found that quadriceps CSA declined following immobilization by 82% (P&lt;0.05). In agreement, both type I and type II muscle fibre size decreased 73% and 134% respectively (P&lt;0.05). No changes were observed in satellite cell content following immobilization in either type I or type II muscle fibres. Muscle MYOG mRNA expression doubled (P&lt;0.05), whereas MSTN protein expression decreased 309% (P&lt;0.05) following immobilization. Muscle mass and strength returned to the baseline values within 6 weeks of recovery without any specific rehabilitative programme. In conclusion, 2 weeks of muscle disuse leads to considerable loss in skeletal muscle mass and strength. The loss in muscle mass was attributed to both type I and type II muscle fibre atrophy, and was not accompanied by a decline in satellite cell content.
In this editorial, it is strongly advocated that a change of policy is warranted in order to prevent neuroscience from becoming a waste of time and money in the 21st century. Repeating the same trick in different patient populations and perusing the scientific literature seems to currently be the backbone of medical science. However, this approach does not provide knowledge on how the brain works or how specific dysfunctions result in specific diseases. Therefore, earlier findings should, first, be combined to develop new theories on the mechanics of the mind, and, second, these new ideas should be tested in well-designed experiments.
Information processing biases are hallmark features of major depressive disorder (MDD). Depressed individuals display biased memory and attention for negative material. Given that memory is highly dependent on attention for initial encoding, understanding the interplay of these processes may provide important insight into mechanisms that produce memory biases in depression. In particular, attentional control-the ability to selectively attend to task-relevant information by both inhibiting the processing of irrelevant information and disengaging attention from irrelevant material-may be one area of impairment in MDD. In the current study, clinically depressed (MDD: n = 15) and never depressed (non-MDD: n = 22) participants' line of visual gaze was assessed while participants viewed positive and negative word pairs. For each word pair, participants were instructed to attend to one word (target) and ignore one word (distracter). Free recall of study stimuli was then assessed. Depressed individuals displayed greater recall of negatively valenced target words following the task. Although there were no group differences in attentional control in the context of negative words, attention to negative targets mediated the relationship between depression status and recall of negative words. Results suggest a stronger link between attention and memory for negative material in MDD.


Evidence accumulated over 30 years, from experiments on animals and human subjects, has conclusively demonstrated that inputs from the vestibular otolith organs contribute to the control of blood pressure during movement and changes in posture. This review considers the effects of gravity on the body axis, and the consequences of postural changes on blood distribution in the body. It then separately considers findings collected in experiments on animals and human subjects demonstrating that the vestibular system regulates blood distribution in the body during movement. Vestibulosympathetic reflexes differ from responses triggered by unloading of cardiovascular receptors such as baroreceptors and cardiopulmonary receptors, as they can be elicited before a change in blood distribution occurs in the body. Dissimilarities in the expression of vestibulosympathetic reflexes in humans and animals are also described. In particular, there is evidence from experiments in animals, but not humans, that vestibulosympathetic reflexes are patterned, and differ between body regions. Results from neurophysiological and neuroanatomical studies in animals are discussed that identify the neurons that mediate vestibulosympathetic responses, which include cells in the caudal aspect of the vestibular nucleus complex, interneurons in the lateral medullary reticular formation, and bulbospinal neurons in the rostral ventrolateral medulla. Recent findings showing that cognition can modify the gain of vestibulosympathetic responses are also presented, and neural pathways that could mediate adaptive plasticity in the responses are proposed, including connections of the posterior cerebellar vermis with the vestibular nuclei and brainstem nuclei that regulate blood pressure.
Dysautonomias are conditions in which altered function of one or more components of the autonomic nervous system (ANS) adversely affects health. This review updates knowledge about dysautonomia in Parkinson disease (PD). Most PD patients have symptoms or signs of dysautonomia; occasionally, the abnormalities dominate the clinical picture. Components of the ANS include the sympathetic noradrenergic system (SNS), the parasympathetic nervous system (PNS), the sympathetic cholinergic system (SCS), the sympathetic adrenomedullary system (SAS), and the enteric nervous system (ENS). Dysfunction of each component system produces characteristic manifestations. In PD, it is cardiovascular dysautonomia that is best understood scientifically, mainly because of the variety of clinical laboratory tools available to assess functions of catecholamine systems. Most of this review focuses on this aspect of autonomic involvement in PD. PD features cardiac sympathetic denervation, which can precede the movement disorder. Loss of cardiac SNS innervation occurs independently of the loss of striatal dopaminergic innervation underlying the motor signs of PD and is associated with other nonmotor manifestations, including anosmia, REM behavior disorder, orthostatic hypotension (OH), and dementia. Autonomic dysfunction in PD is important not only in clinical management and in providing potential biomarkers but also for understanding disease mechanisms (e.g., autotoxicity exerted by catecholamine metabolites). Since Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites containing alpha-synuclein constitute neuropathologic hallmarks of the disease, and catecholamine depletion in the striatum and heart are characteristic neurochemical features, a key goal of future research is to understand better the link between alpha-synucleinopathy and loss of catecholamine neurons in PD.
Executive cognitive functions (ECFs) and other cognitive impairments, such as lower IQ and verbal deficits, have been associated with the pattern of antisocial and delinquent behavior starting in childhood (early-onset), but not with late-onset antisocial behavior. Beyond objective measures of ECF, basic symptoms are prodromal, subjectively experienced cognitive, perceptual, affective, and social disturbances, associated with a range of psychiatric disorders, mainly with psychosis. The goal of the present study was to examine ECF and basic symptoms in a sample of late-onset juvenile delinquents. Two-hundred nine male adolescents (aged 15-20 years) characterized by a pattern of late-onset delinquent behavior with no antecedents of Conduct Disorder, were consecutively recruited from the Social Services of the Department of Juvenile Justice of the city of Messina (Italy), and compared with nonantisocial controls matched for age, educational level, and socio-demographic features on measures for ECF dysfunction and basic symptoms. Significant differences between late-onset offenders (completers=147) and control group (n=150) were found on ECF and basic symptoms measures. Chi-square analysis showed that a significantly greater number of late-onset offending participants scored in the clinical range on several ECF measures. Executive cognitive impairment, even subtle and subclinical, along with subjective symptoms of cognitive dysfunction (basic symptom), may be contributing factor in the development and persistence of antisocial behaviors displayed by late-onset adolescent delinquents. The findings also suggest the need for additional research aimed to assess a broader range of cognitive abilities and specific vulnerability and risk factors for late-onset adolescent offenders.
The current study examined correlates, moderators, and mediators of functional impairment in 98 treatment-seeking adults with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). Participants completed or were administered measures assessing obsessive-compulsive symptom severity, functional impairment, resistance against symptoms, interference due to obsessive-compulsive symptoms, depressive symptoms, insight, and anxiety sensitivity. Results indicated that all factors, except insight into symptoms, were significantly correlated with functional impairment. The relationship between obsessive-compulsive symptom severity and functional impairment was not moderated by patient insight, resistance against obsessive-compulsive symptoms, or anxiety sensitivity. Mediational analyses indicated that obsessive-compulsive symptom severity mediated the relationship between anxiety sensitivity and obsessive-compulsive related impairment. Indeed, anxiety sensitivity may play an important contributory role in exacerbating impairment through increases in obsessive-compulsive symptom severity. Depressive symptoms mediated the relationship between obsessive-compulsive symptom severity and obsessive-compulsive related impairment. Implications for assessment and treatment are discussed.


Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is marked by the presence of obsessions and/or compulsions that cause significant interference in an individual's life. Insight regarding symptoms in youth with OCD may affect accurate assessment, acceptance and motivation for treatment, tolerance of negative valence states (i.e., fear) and treatment outcome, so assessment of this construct and associated clinical characteristics is important. Accordingly, the current study sought to expand the literature on symptom insight by examining multi-informant ratings of insight from children, parents, and clinicians simultaneously and its relationship to varied clinical characteristics. One-hundred and ten treatment-seeking youth with a primary diagnosis of OCD, aged 6-17, participated in the study along with a parent/guardian. The nature of symptom conviction, fixity of ideas, and perceptions about the cause of the problems were important indicators in assessing child insight and resulted in a comprehensive, psychometrically-sound measure of insight. Insight was generally not strongly associated with clinical characteristics. Poor insight was moderately associated with less resistance of obsessive-compulsive symptoms, increased externalizing symptoms, and ordering symptoms. Overall, this study contributes further information into the nature and correlates of insight in youth with OCD, and provides a psychometrically sound approach for its assessment.
Determining diagnostic criteria for specific disorders is often a tedious task that involves determining optimal diagnostic thresholds for symptoms and biomarkers using receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) statistics. To help this endeavor, we developed softROC, a user-friendly graphic-based tool that lets users visually explore possible ROC tradeoffs. The software requires MATLAB installation and an Excel file containing threshold symptoms/biological measures, with corresponding gold standard diagnoses for a set of patients. The software scans the input file for diagnostic and symptom/biomarkers columns, and populates the graphical-user-interface (GUI). Users select symptoms/biomarkers of interest using Boolean algebra as potential inputs to create diagnostic criteria outputs. The software evaluates subtests across the user-established range of cut-points and compares them to a gold standard in order to generate ROC and quality ROC scatter plots. These plots can be examined interactively to find optimal cut-points of interest for a given application (e.g. sensitivity versus specificity needs). Split-set validation can also be used to set up criteria and validate these in independent samples. Bootstrapping is used to produce confidence intervals. Additional statistics and measures are provided, such as the area under the ROC curve (AUC). As a testing set, softROC is used to investigate nocturnal polysomnogram measures as diagnostic features for narcolepsy. All measures can be outputted to a text file for offline analysis. The softROC toolbox, with clinical training data and tutorial instruction manual, is provided as supplementary material and can be obtained online at http://www.stanford.edu/~hyatt4/software/softroc or from the open source repository at http://www.github.com/informaton/softroc.
We investigated whether inconsistencies in previous studies regarding emotional experiences in dreams derive from whether dream emotions are self-rated or externally evaluated. Seventeen subjects were monitored with polysomnography in the sleep laboratory and awakened from every rapid eye movement (REM) sleep stage 5 min after the onset of the stage. Upon awakening, participants gave an oral dream report and rated their dream emotions using the modified Differential Emotions Scale, whereas external judges rated the participants' emotions expressed in the dream reports, using the same scale. The two approaches produced diverging results. Self-ratings, as compared to external ratings, resulted in greater estimates of (a) emotional dreams; (b) positively valenced dreams; (c) positive and negative emotions per dream; and (d) various discrete emotions represented in dreams. The results suggest that this is mostly due to the underrepresentation of positive emotions in dream reports. Possible reasons for this discrepancy are discussed.
In this paper, we present the results of the construction and validation of a new psychometric tool for measuring beliefs about free will and related concepts: The Free Will Inventory (FWI). In its final form, FWI is a 29-item instrument with two parts. Part 1 consists of three 5-item subscales designed to measure strength of belief in free will, determinism, and dualism. Part 2 consists of a series of fourteen statements designed to further explore the complex network of people's associated beliefs and attitudes about free will, determinism, choice, the soul, predictability, responsibility, and punishment. Having presented the construction and validation of FWI, we discuss several ways that it could be used in future research, highlight some as yet unanswered questions that are ripe for interdisciplinary investigation, and encourage researchers to join us in our efforts to answer these questions.
The subjective time of an instrumental action is shifted towards its outcome. This temporal binding effect is partially retrospective, i.e., occurs upon outcome perception. Retrospective binding is thought to reflect post-hoc inference on agency based on sensory evidence of the action - outcome association. However, many previous binding paradigms cannot exclude the possibility that retrospective binding results from bottom-up interference of sensory outcome processing with action awareness and is functionally unrelated to the processing of the action - outcome association. Here, we keep bottom-up interference constant and use a contextual manipulation instead. We demonstrate a shift of subjective action time by its outcome in a context of variable outcome timing. Crucially, this shift is absent when there is no such variability. Thus, retrospective action binding reflects a context-dependent, model-based phenomenon. Such top-down re-construction of action awareness seems to bias agency attribution when outcome predictability is low.

Involuntary movements occur in a variety of neuropsychiatric disorders and culturally influenced dissociative states (e.g., delusions of alien control and attributions of spirit possession). However, the underlying brain processes are poorly understood. We combined suggestion and fMRI in 15 highly hypnotically susceptible volunteers to investigate changes in brain activity accompanying different experiences of loss of self-control of movement. Suggestions of external personal control and internal personal control over involuntary movements modelled delusions of control and spirit possession respectively. A suggestion of impersonal control by a malfunctioning machine modelled technical delusions of control, where involuntary movements are attributed to the influence of machines. We found that (i) brain activity and/or connectivity significantly varied with different experiences and attributions of loss of agency; (ii) compared to the impersonal control condition, both external and internal personal alien control were associated with increased connectivity between primary motor cortex (M1) and brain regions involved in attribution of mental states and representing the self in relation to others; (iii) compared to both personal alien control conditions, impersonal control of movement was associated with increased activity in brain regions involved in error detection and object imagery; (iv) there were no significant differences in brain activity, and minor differences in M1 connectivity, between the external and internal personal alien control conditions. Brain networks supporting error detection and object imagery, together with representation of self and others, are differentially recruited to support experiences of impersonal and personal control of involuntary movements. However, similar brain systems underpin attributions and experiences of external and internal alien control of movement. Loss of self-agency for movement can therefore accompany different kinds of experience of alien control supported by distinct brain mechanisms. These findings caution against generalization about single cognitive processes or brain systems underpinning different experiences of loss of self-control of movement.
Word reading in alphabetic language involves a cortical system with multiple components whose division of labor depends on the transparency of the writing system. To gain insight about the neural division of labor between phonology and semantics subserving word reading in Chinese, a deep non-alphabetic writing system, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was used to investigate the effects of phonological and semantic training on the cortical circuitry for oral naming of Chinese characters. In a training study, we examined whether a training task that differentially focused readers' attention on the phonological or semantic properties of a Chinese character changes the patterns of cortical activation that was evoked by that character in a subsequent naming task. Our imaging results corroborate that the cortical regions underlying reading in Chinese largely overlap the left-hemisphere reading system responsible for reading in alphabetic languages, with some cortical regions in the left-hemisphere uniquely recruited for reading in Chinese. However, in contrast to findings from studies of English word naming, we observed considerable overlap in the neural activation patterns associated with phonological and semantic training on naming Chinese characters, which we suggest may reflect a balanced neural division of labor between phonology and semantics in Chinese character reading. The equitable division of labor for Chinese reading might be driven by the special statistical structure of the writing system, which includes equally systematic mappings in the correspondences between written forms and their pronunciations and meanings.
We report the case study of a French-Spanish bilingual dyslexic girl, MP, who exhibited a severe visual attention (VA) span deficit but preserved phonological skills. Behavioural investigation showed a severe reduction of reading speed for both single items (words and pseudo-words) and texts in the two languages. However, performance was more affected in French than in Spanish. MP was administered an intensive VA span intervention programme. Pre-post intervention comparison revealed a positive effect of intervention on her VA span abilities. The intervention further transferred to reading. It primarily resulted in faster identification of the regular and irregular words in French. The effect of intervention was rather modest in Spanish that only showed a tendency for faster word reading. Text reading improved in the two languages with a stronger effect in French but pseudo-word reading did not improve in either French or Spanish. The overall results suggest that VA span intervention may primarily enhance the fast global reading procedure, with stronger effects in French than in Spanish. MP underwent two fMRI sessions to explore her brain activations before and after VA span training. Prior to the intervention, fMRI assessment showed that the striate and extrastriate visual cortices alone were activated but none of the regions typically involved in VA span. Post-training fMRI revealed increased activation of the superior and inferior parietal cortices. Comparison of pre- and post-training activations revealed significant activation increase of the superior parietal lobes (BA 7) bilaterally. Thus, we show that a specific VA span intervention not only modulates reading performance but further results in increased brain activity within the superior parietal lobes known to housing VA span abilities. Furthermore, positive effects of VA span intervention on reading suggest that the ability to process multiple visual elements simultaneously is one cause of successful reading acquisition.




At one time, G protein-coupled receptors were envisioned to simply relay either inhibitory or stimulatory binary signals through engaging particular G proteins. These receptors are now viewed as complex, multidimensional triggers of a variety of potential signaling cascades. This review will showcase current attempts to elucidate biased signaling and functional selectivity in tissues and organs as well as in the whole animal. In addition, it will emphasize the challenges that are inherent in attributing bias in a living system as well as offer opinions as to the manner in which these problems may be approached.
The G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) family is among the most druggable families in the human proteome. GPCRs are involved in most physiological processes, and our ability to modulate their activity is a hallmark of modern pharmacology. The means by which the activity of GPCRs can be modulated have been expanded by emerging data and concepts in pharmacology, which has created new strategies for their control. These new approaches will lead to the generation of more potent, selective, and efficient pharmaceutics, while reducing inappropriate actions and adverse effects. Herein, we review and comment on some recent advances in chemical and genetic approaches to the profiling of GPCR function, as well as the validation of orphan GPCRs as potential therapeutic targets using engineered receptors.




The study of the mechanisms of conscious processing has become a productive area of cognitive neuroscience. Here we review some of the recent behavioral and neuroscience data, with the specific goal of constraining present and future theories of the computations underlying conscious processing. Experimental findings imply that most of the brain's computations can be performed in a non-conscious mode, but that conscious perception is characterized by an amplification, global propagation and integration of brain signals. A comparison of these data with major theoretical proposals suggests that firstly, conscious access must be carefully distinguished from selective attention; secondly, conscious perception may be likened to a non-linear decision that 'ignites' a network of distributed areas; thirdly, information which is selected for conscious perception gains access to additional computations, including temporary maintenance, global sharing, and flexible routing; and finally, measures of the complexity, long-distance correlation and integration of brain signals provide reliable indices of conscious processing, clinically relevant to patients recovering from coma.
The retina performs a diverse set of complex, nonlinear, computations, beyond the simple linear photoreceptor weighting assumed in the classical understanding of ganglion cell receptive fields. Here we attempt to organize these computations and extract rules that correspond to three distinct goals of early sensory systems. First, the retina acts efficiently to transmit information to the higher brain for further processing. We observe that although the retina adapts to a number of complex statistics, many of these may be explained by local adaptation to the mean signal strength at that stage. Second, ganglion cells signal the detection of a diverse set of features. Recent results indicate that feature selectivity arises through the action of specific inhibition, rather than through the convergence of excitation as in classical cortical models. Finally, the retina conveys predictions about the stimulus, a function usually attributed only to the higher brain. We expect that computational and mechanistic rules associated with these classes of functions will be an important guide in the study of other neural circuits.
Most computational neuroscientists assume that nervous systems compute and process information. We discuss foundational issues such as what we mean by 'computation' and 'information processing' in nervous systems; whether computation and information processing are matters of objective fact or of conventional, observer-dependent description; and how computational descriptions and explanations are related to other levels of analysis and organization.
At present there is no generally accepted theory of how cognitive phenomena arise from computations in cortex. Further, there is no consensus on how the search for one should be refocussed so as to make it more fruitful. In this short piece we observe that research in computer science over the last several decades has shown that significant computational phenomena need to circumvent significant inherent quantitative impediments, such as of computational complexity. We argue that computational neuroscience has to be informed by the same quantitative concerns for it to succeed. It is conceivable that the brain is the one computation that does not need to circumvent any such obstacles, but if that were the case then quantitatively plausible theories of cortex would now surely abound and be driving experimental investigations.
We provide an overview and comparison of several recent large-scale brain models. In addition to discussing challenges involved with building large neural models, we identify several expected benefits of pursuing such a research program. We argue that these benefits are only likely to be realized if two basic guidelines are made central to the pursuit. The first is that such models need to be intimately tied to behavior. The second is that models, and more importantly their underlying methods, should provide mechanisms for varying the level of simulated detail. Consequently, we express concerns with models that insist on a 'correct' amount of detail while expecting interesting behavior to simply emerge.
Cortical neurons operate within recurrent neuronal circuits. Dissecting their operation is key to understanding information processing in the cortex and requires transparent and adequate dynamical models of circuit function. Convergent evidence from experimental and theoretical studies indicates that strong feedback inhibition shapes the operating regime of cortical circuits. For circuits operating in inhibition-dominated regimes, mathematical and computational studies over the past several years achieved substantial advances in understanding response modulation and heterogeneity, emergent stimulus selectivity, inter-neuron correlations, and microstate dynamics. The latter indicate a surprisingly strong dependence of the collective circuit dynamics on the features of single neuron action potential generation. New approaches are needed to definitely characterize the cortical operating regime.

Neural activity and behavior in laboratory experiments are surprisingly variable across trials. This variability and its potential causes have been the focus of a spirited debate. Here we review recent research that has shed light on the sources of neural variability and its impact on behavior. We explain how variability may arise from incomplete knowledge about an animal's internal states and its environment. We discuss the problem of incomplete knowledge both from the experimenter's point of view and from the animal's point of view. Both view points are illustrated through several examples from the literature. We furthermore consider both mechanistic and normative models that explain how neural and behavioral variability may be linked. Finally, we review why variability may confer an adaptive advantage to organisms.
Computational neuroscience has focused largely on the dynamics and function of local circuits of neuronal populations dedicated to a common task, such as processing a common sensory input, storing its features in working memory, choosing between a set of options dictated by controlled experimental settings or generating the appropriate actions. Most of current circuit models suggest mechanisms for computations that can be captured by networks of simplified neurons connected via simple synaptic weights. In this article I review the progress of this approach and its limitations. It is argued that new experimental techniques will yield data that might challenge the present paradigms in that they will (1) demonstrate the computational importance of microscopic structural and physiological complexity and specificity; (2) highlight the importance of models of large brain structures engaged in a variety of tasks; and (3) reveal the necessity of coupling the neuronal networks to chemical and environmental variables.
Many recent studies of neurons recorded from cortex reveal complex temporal dynamics. How such dynamics embody the computations that ultimately lead to behavior remains a mystery. Approaching this issue requires developing plausible hypotheses couched in terms of neural dynamics. A tool ideally suited to aid in this question is the recurrent neural network (RNN). RNNs straddle the fields of nonlinear dynamical systems and machine learning and have recently seen great advances in both theory and application. I summarize recent theoretical and technological advances and highlight an example of how RNNs helped to explain perplexing high-dimensional neurophysiological data in the prefrontal cortex.
A fundamental challenge for computational and cognitive neuroscience is to understand how reward-based learning and decision-making are made and how accrued knowledge and internal models of the environment are incorporated. Remarkable progress has been made in the field, guided by the midbrain dopamine reward prediction error hypothesis and the underlying reinforcement learning framework, which does not involve internal models ('model-free'). Recent studies, however, have begun not only to address more complex decision-making processes that are integrated with model-free decision-making, but also to include internal models about environmental reward structures and the minds of other agents, including model-based reinforcement learning and using generalized prediction errors. Even dopamine, a classic model-free signal, may work as multiplexed signals using model-based information and contribute to representational learning of reward structure.
General anesthesia is a neurophysiological state that consists of unconsciousness, amnesia, analgesia, and immobility along with maintenance of physiological stability. General anesthesia has been used in the United States for more than 167 years. Now, using systems neuroscience paradigms how anesthetics act in the brain and central nervous system to create the states of general anesthesia is being understood. Propofol is one of the most widely used and the most widely studied anesthetics. When administered for general anesthesia or sedation, the electroencephalogram (EEG) under propofol shows highly structured, rhythmic activity that is strongly associated with changes in the patient's level of arousal. These highly structured oscillations lend themselves readily to mathematical descriptions using dynamical systems models. We review recent model descriptions of the commonly observed EEG patterns associated with propofol: paradoxical excitation, strong frontal alpha oscillations, anteriorization and burst suppression. Our analysis suggests that propofol's actions at GABAergic networks in the cortex, thalamus and brainstem induce profound brain dynamics that are one of the likely mechanisms through which this anesthetic induces altered arousal states from sedation to unconsciousness. Because these dynamical effects are readily observed in the EEG, the mathematical descriptions of how propofol's EEG signatures relate to its mechanisms of action in neural circuits provide anesthesiologists with a neurophysiologically based approach to monitoring the brain states of patients receiving anesthesia care.








Phagocytosis is central to immunity however a rapid and standardized method is much needed for quantitative assessment of the phagocytic process. We describe a real-time flow cytometric method to quantitate the phagocytosis of fluorescent latex beads by human monocytes in serum-free conditions. Effects of buffer composition, temperature, pH, and bead surface on phagocytic rate are described. The innate phagocytic ability of human monocytes from single subjects measured by this method was relatively stable over many months although phagocytosis rate varied as much as two-fold between individuals. Comparable results were obtained with a simplified method using several mL of whole blood which is suitable for routine clinical application. This method also allows two-color flow cytometric measurement of cytosolic calcium levels during the phagocytic uptake of fluorescent beads.
This thesis is based on ten published articles. The experimental work was carried out at the Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Copenhagen. The aim was to investigate and describe a number of basic mechanical and physiological mechanisms behind human walking. The methodologies used were biomechanical movement analysis and electrophysiology. The walking experiments were carried out in a gait lab, where the subjects were video recorded while they walked across two force platforms, which measured the ground reaction forces. Net joint moments about the hip-, knee- and ankle joint were calculated by combining the movement data and the external reaction forces (inverse dynamics). Muscle activity and sensory input to the spinal cord were measured by electromyography (EMG) and electrical stimulation of peripheral nerves. The results showed that the gait pattern varies to a great degree between individuals. Some people choose to exert the highest forces about the ankle joint while others prefer to use the knee joint. By use of a cluster analysis, fifteen healthy subjects could be divided into two groups. The extensor moment about the knee joint was the main factor for separating the two gait patterns, but the group with the highest extensor moments about the knee joint also walked with more flexed knee joints, higher EMG activity in the quadriceps muscle and higher bone-on-bone forces. This may lead to development of osteoarthritis over the years. Walking on high-heeled shoes reduced the ankle joint moment significantly either because of reduced muscle fiber length and/or increased co-contraction about the joint. On the contrary, the extensor moment about the knee joint was almost doubled in the high-heeled condition compared to bare footed walking at the same velocity. Also the EMG activity increased in the leg muscles. This could be an explanation pertaining to the higher incidence of osteoarthritis in women than in men. Patients with a drop-foot cannot put the foot to the ground with the heel first. Moreover, they have to increase flexion of the hip joint during the swing phase because the foot hangs in a plantar flexed position. It was shown that the ankle joint plantar flexor moment increased in the healthy leg and that the knee joint extensor moment increased significantly in both the affected and the healthy leg. The latter is most likely due to the patients trying to avoid an asymmetrical gait pattern. It is recommended to use an orthosis with drop-foot patients in order to keep the ankle joint dorsiflexed prior to touchdown, otherwise bone-on-bone forces in both knee joints will increase and probably lead to osteoarthritis. The hip joint moment varies less between individuals. However, both during walking and running an unexplained hip joint flexor moment is present during the last half of the stance phase. The moment appears to oppose the speed of progression and it has been suggested that it serves to balance the upper body. This was investigated in a group of healthy subjects who were asked to walk with their upper body in a reclined, inclined and normal position, respectively. It was shown that the hip joint flexor moment was similar in the reclined and the normal position but lower when walking in the inclined position and it can be concluded that the upper body is not balanced by hip joint flexor muscles but rather by accelerations of the pelvis and activity in abdominal and back muscles. These experiments also showed that the trailing leg is brought forward during the swing phase without activity in the flexor muscles about the hip joint. This was verified by the absence of EMG activity in the iliacus muscle measured by intramuscular wire electrodes. Instead the strong ligaments restricting hip joint extension are stretched during the first half of the swing phase thereby storing elastic energy, which is released during the last half of the stance phase and accelerating the leg into the swing phase. This is considered an important energy conserving feature of human walking. The gating of sensory input to the spinal cord during walking and running was investigated by use of the Hoffmann (H) reflex in m. soleus and m. gastrocnemius medialis. This reflex expresses the central component of the stretch reflex, i.e. the transmission from Ia afferents to -motoneurones in the spinal cord. The soleus H-reflex was shown to be strongly modulated during the gait cycle. In general, it was facilitated in the stance phase and suppressed in the swing phase. However, as it was the case with the biomechanical parameters, inter-individual H-reflex modulations were found and they were highly reproducible between days. One group of subjects had an almost completely suppressed H-reflex during the entire swing phase, while another group showed a gradually increasing reflex excitability during the swing phase. This group also walked with a lower extensor moment about the knee joint and higher plantar flexor moment about the ankle joint and it is speculated that this gait pattern highly relies on reflexes to deal with unexpected perturbations. The subjects with the suppressed reflex during the swing phase also showed a higher EMG activity in the anterior tibial muscle, so it is likely that the suppression of the H-reflex was at least partly due to reciprocal antagonist inhibition. All subjects showed complete suppression of the H-reflex at toeoff. This seems necessary to avoid a stretch reflex being elicited in the soleus muscle as the ankle joint undergoes a fast dorsiflexion just after toeoff. The reflex modulation is clearly an integrated part of the human gait pattern and is absolutely necessary for normal gait function with smoothe movements. Furthermore, it is anticipated that the afferent input from the muscle spindles is used to drive the motor output from the -motoneurones together with descending activity from the motor cortex. During running the H-reflex increased in both the soleus and the gastrocnemius already before heel strike and before the onset of EMG activity in the same two muscles and with a relatively high activity in the anterior tibial muscle, but this was most pronounced in the soleus. The H-reflex was always higher in the soleus also when expressed as percentage of the maximal M-wave. This is due to the difference in muscle fiber type distribution between the two muscles. The H-reflex increased from walking to running in both muscles and further with increasing running speed. Unexpectedly, there were no signs of the faster gastrocnemius becoming more important at higher running speed. During walking it is not possible to observe a stretch reflex in the form of a synchronized activation of a large number of muscle fibers as this would disturb the movement pattern. It is rather likely that the input from Ia afferents directly contributes to activate the -motoneurones. However, during running the stance phase is much shorter, which enables the possibility of a stretch reflex to contribute to a strong contraction during push-off. EMG peaks in the soleus with an appropriate latency were observed in the soleus during running. This was not the case with the gastrocnemius and the explanation is most likely that the gastrocnemius is biarticular and not stretched to any great extent during running.
Conditioned fear acquisition and extinction paradigms have been widely used both in animals and humans to examine the neurobiology of emotional memory. Studies have also shown that patients suffering from posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) exhibit deficient extinction recall along with dysfunctional activation of the fear extinction network, including the ventromedial prefrontal cortex, amygdala, and hippocampus. A great deal of overlap exists between this fear extinction network and brain regions associated with symptom severity in PTSD. This suggests that the neural nodes of fear extinction could be targeted to reduce behavioral deficits that may subsequently translate into symptom improvement. In this article, we discuss potential applications of brain stimulation and neuromodulation methods, which, combined with a mechanistic understanding of the neurobiology of fear extinction, could be used to further our understanding of the pathophysiology of anxiety disorders and develop novel therapeutic tools. To this end, we discuss the following stimulation approaches: deep-brain stimulation, vagus nerve stimulation, transcranial direct current stimulation, and transcranial magnetic stimulation. We propose new translational research avenues that, from a systems neuroscience perspective, aim to expand our understanding of circuit dynamics and fear processing toward the practical development of clinical tools, to be used alone or in combination with behavioral therapies.
Signaling pathways and transcription factors are crucial regulators of vertebrate neurogenesis, exerting their function in a spatial and temporal manner. Despite recent advances in our understanding of the molecular regulation of embryonic neurogenesis, little is known regarding how different signaling pathways interact to tightly regulate this process during the development of neuroepithelia. To address this, we have investigated the events lying upstream and downstream of a key neurogenic factor, the Cut-like homeodomain transcription factor-2 (Cux2), during embryonic neurogenesis in chick and mouse. By using the olfactory epithelium as a model for neurogenesis we have analyzed mouse embryos deficient in Cux2, as well as chick embryos exposed to Cux2 silencing (si) RNA or a Cux2 over-expression construct. We provide evidence that enhanced BMP activity increases Cux2 expression and suppresses olfactory neurogenesis in the chick olfactory epithelium. In addition, our results show that up-regulation of Cux2, either BMP-induced or ectopically over-expressed, reduce Delta1 expression and suppress proliferation. Interestingly, the loss of Cux2 activity, using mutant mice or siRNA in chick, also diminishes neurogenesis, Notch activity and cell proliferation in the olfactory epithelium. Our results suggest that controlled low levels of Cux2 activity are necessary for proper Notch signaling, maintenance of the proliferative pool and ongoing neurogenesis in the olfactory epithelium. Thus, we demonstrate a novel conserved mechanism in vertebrates in which levels of Cux2 activity play an important role for ongoing neurogenesis in the olfactory epithelium.
The Hippo signaling pathway is conserved from insects to mammals and is important for multiple processes, including cell proliferation, apoptosis and tissue homeostasis. Hippo signaling is also crucial for regeneration, including intercalary regeneration, of the whole body in the flatworm and of the leg in the cricket. However, its role in vertebrate epimorphic regeneration is unknown. Therefore, to identify principles of regeneration that are conserved among bilaterians, we investigated the role of Hippo signaling in the limb bud regeneration of an anuran amphibian, Xenopus laevis. We found that a transcription factor, Yap1, an important downstream effector of Hippo signaling, is upregulated in the regenerating limb bud. To evaluate Yap1s function in limb bud regeneration, we made transgenic animals that expressed a dominant-negative form of Yap under a heat-shock promoter. Overexpression of a dominant-negative form of Yap in tadpoles reduced cell proliferation, induced ectopic apoptosis, perturbed the expression domains of limb-patterning genes including hoxa13, hoxa11, and shh in the regenerating limb bud. Transient expression of a dominant-negative Yap in transgenic tadpoles also caused limb bud regeneration defects, and reduced intercalary regeneration. These results indicate that Yap1 has a crucial role in controlling the limb regenerative capacity in Xenopus, and suggest that the involvement of Hippo signaling in regeneration is conserved between vertebrates and invertebrates. This finding provides molecular evidence that common principles underlie regeneration across phyla, and may contribute to the development of new therapies in regenerative medicine.

Developmental models of psychopathology posit that exposure to social stressors may confer risk for depression in adolescent girls by disrupting neural reward circuitry. The current study tested this hypothesis by examining the relationship between early adolescent social stressors and later neural reward processing and depressive symptoms. Participants were 120 girls from an ongoing longitudinal study of precursors to depression across adolescent development. Low parental warmth, peer victimization, and depressive symptoms were assessed when the girls were 11 and 12 years old, and participants completed a monetary reward guessing fMRI task and assessment of depressive symptoms at age 16. Results indicate that low parental warmth was associated with increased response to potential rewards in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), striatum, and amygdala, whereas peer victimization was associated with decreased response to potential rewards in the mPFC. Furthermore, concurrent depressive symptoms were associated with increased reward anticipation response in mPFC and striatal regions that were also associated with early adolescent psychosocial stressors, with mPFC and striatal response mediating the association between social stressors and depressive symptoms. These findings are consistent with developmental models that emphasize the adverse impact of early psychosocial stressors on neural reward processing and risk for depression in adolescence.
Social anxiety disorder (SAD) markedly impairs daily functioning. For adolescents, SAD can constrain typical development precisely when social experiences broaden, peers' opinions are highly salient, and social approval is actively sought. Individuals with extreme, impairing social anxiety fear evaluation from others, avoid social interactions, and interpret ambiguous social cues as threatening. Yet some degree of social anxiety can be normative and non-impairing. Furthermore, a temperament of behavioral inhibition increases risk for SAD for some, but not all adolescents with this temperament. One fruitful approach taken to understand the mechanisms of social anxiety has been to use neuroimaging to link affect and cognition with neural networks implicated in the neurodevelopmental social reorientation of adolescence. Although initial neuroimaging studies of adolescent SAD and risk for SAD underscored the role of fear-processing circuits (e.g., the amygdala and ventral prefrontal cortex), recent work has expanded these circuits to include reward-processing structures in the basal ganglia. A growing focus on reward-related neural circuitry holds promise for innovative translational research needed to differentiate impairing from normative social anxiety and for novel ways to treat adolescent SAD that focus on both social avoidance and social approach.
The goal of the present study was to investigate infants' processing of female and male faces. We used an event-related potential (ERP) priming task, as well as a visual-paired comparison (VPC) eye tracking task to explore how 7-month-old &quot;female expert&quot; infants differed in their responses to faces of different genders. Female faces elicited larger N290 amplitudes than male faces. Furthermore, infants showed a priming effect for female faces only, whereby the N290 was significantly more negative for novel females compared to primed female faces. The VPC experiment was designed to test whether infants could reliably discriminate between two female and two male faces. Analyses showed that infants were able to differentiate faces of both genders. The results of the present study suggest that 7-month olds with a large amount of female face experience show a processing advantage for forming a neural representation of female faces, compared to male faces. However, the enhanced neural sensitivity to the repetition of female faces is not due to the infants' inability to discriminate male faces. Instead, the combination of results from the two tasks suggests that the differential processing for female faces may be a signature of expert-level processing.
Few studies employing event-related potentials (ERPs) to examine infant perception/cognition have systematically characterized age-related changes over the first few years of life. Establishing a 'normative' template of development is important in its own right, and doing so may also better highlight points of divergence for high-risk populations of infants, such as those at elevated genetic risk for autism spectrum disorder (ASD). The present investigation explores the developmental progression of the P1, N290, P400 and Nc components for a large sample of young children between 6 and 36 months of age, addressing age-related changes in amplitude, sensitivity to familiar and unfamiliar stimuli and hemispheric lateralization. Two samples of infants are included: those at low- and high-risk for ASD. The four components of interest show differential patterns of change over time and hemispheric lateralization; however, infants at low- and high-risk for ASD do not show significant differences in patterns of neural response to faces. These results will provide a useful point of reference for future developmental cognitive neuroscience research targeting both typical development and vulnerable populations.


The etiology of schizophrenia's cognitive symptoms may have its basis in prenatal alterations of glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor functioning. Therefore, the current study investigated the effects of ketamine (an NMDA receptor blocking drug) on both a conditioned taste aversion (CTA) and latent inhibition (LI; a model of attentional capacity) in rat fetuses. We first sought to determine if a CTA could be diminished by nonreinforced preexposure to a CS in fetal rats (i.e., LI). We injected E18 pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats with 100% allicin (garlic taste) or an equal volume of saline. Some of the pregnant dams also received ketamine (100 mg/kg, i.p.). One day later (E19), the dams received a second injection of the CS, followed by either lithium chloride (the US) or saline. Finally, on E21 pups received oral lavage with allicin and observations of ingestive orofacial motor responses were recorded. When allicin had been paired with LiCl in utero, E21 fetuses exhibited a conditioned suppression of orofacial movements, indicative of an aversion to this taste. Preexposure to the garlic taste on E18 produced a LI of this CTA. Ketamine significantly disrupted the formation of the CTA and had some impact on LI. However, the direct effect of ketamine on LI is less certain since the drug also blocked the original CTA.
Movements with both hands are essential to our everyday life, and it has been shown that performing asymmetric bimanual movements produces an interference effect between hands. There have been many studies--using varying methods--investigating the development of bimanual movements that show that this skill continues to evolve during childhood and adolescence. In the current study we used a spatial bimanual task to delineate the development of bimanual movements not only during different stages of childhood but also during late stages of adulthood. Furthermore, we used the same task as a window to observe the involvement of motor imagery through the same age groups. For this study we recruited participants from 4 different age groups and asked them to perform congruent and noncongruent bimanual movements in a Real condition, where participants moved both hands, and in an Imagery condition, where they had to imagine 1 hand's movements while actually using the other hand. Our results showed that, with actual movement execution, the interference between motor programs of the 2 hands is higher in children (6-10 years old) than in younger adults (20-30 years old), while it tends to increase again in the elderly adults (60-80 years old). Interestingly, in the Imagery condition, the interference was present only among 10-year-old and 20- to 30-year-old participants, suggesting that motor imagery, not yet developed in young children and compromised by age in the elderly subjects, did not modulate motor performance in these last 2 groups.
New neurons, originating from the subventricular zone, are continuously integrating into neuronal circuitry in the olfactory bulb (OB). Using a transgenic sensor mouse, we found that adult-born OB interneurons express microRNA-125 (miR-125), whereas the pre-existing developmentally generated OB interneurons represent a unique population of cells in the adult brain, without miR-125 activity. Stable inhibition of miR-125 in newborn OB neurons resulted in enhanced dendritic morphogenesis, as well as in increased synaptic activation in response to odour sensory stimuli. These data demonstrate that miR-125 controls functional synaptic integration of adult-born OB interneurons. Our results also suggest that absence of an otherwise broadly expressed miRNA is a novel mechanism with which to achieve neuronal subtype specification.
Metabolic sensing neurons in the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH) alter their activity when ambient levels of metabolic substrates, such as glucose and fatty acids (FA), change. To assess the relationship between a high-fat diet (HFD; 60%) intake on feeding and serum and VMH FA levels, rats were trained to eat a low-fat diet (LFD; 13.5%) or an HFD in 3 h/day and were monitored with VMH FA microdialysis. Despite having higher serum levels, HFD rats had lower VMH FA levels but ate less from 3 to 6 h of refeeding than did LFD rats. However, VMH -hydroxybutyrate (-OHB) and VMH-to-serum -OHB ratio levels were higher in HFD rats during the first 1 h of refeeding, suggesting that VMH astrocyte ketone production mediated their reduced intake. In fact, using calcium imaging in dissociated VMH neurons showed that ketone bodies overrode normal FA sensing, primarily by exciting neurons that were activated or inhibited by oleic acid. Importantly, bilateral inhibition of VMH ketone production with a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA synthase inhibitor reversed the 3- to 6-h HFD-induced inhibition of intake but had no effect in LFD-fed rats. These data suggest that a restricted HFD intake regimen inhibits caloric intake as a consequence of FA-induced VMH ketone body production by astrocytes.



Sulfamethoxazole (SMX) and trimethoprim (TMP) individually and a combination known as cotrimoxazole (SMX-TMP) are widely used for the treatment of protozoan and bacterial infections. SMX-TMP is also one of the widely used antibiotics administered orally in neonates, along with gentamicin injection, for treating pneumonia and sepsis by home-based healthcare providers in Asian countries. Although the use of this drug has successfully reduced neonate mortality, there is a concern for it causing neurotoxicity. Previous clinical studies with sulfisoxazole have demonstrated occurrence of kernicterus in neonates. This sulfonamide is thought to displace bilirubin from its albumin-binding sites in plasma leading to an elevation of plasma bilirubin, which crosses the blood-brain barrier, reaches central neurons to cause kernicterus. We performed an extensive review of clinical and animal studies with cotrimoxazole, which showed no reported incidences of kernicterus with SMX-TMP use in neonates. EndNote, BasicBiosis, Embase, PubMed and Toxline database searches were conducted using specific keywords yielding 74 full-length articles relevant to the review. This review has taken into account various factors, including the disease itself, direct effects of the drug and its metabolism through conjugation and acetylation through a thorough review of the literature to examine the potentials of SMX-TMP to cause kernicterus in neonates. SMX-TMP in oral doses administered to neonates for 7-10 days is unlikely to cause kernicterus. Also, this review recommends warranting the need of future studies using animal models and clinical studies in humans to address SMX-TMP toxicity.
Since the invention of the first designer receptors exclusively activated by designer drugs (DREADDs), these engineered G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) have been widely applied in investigations of biological processes and behaviors. DREADD technology has emerged as a powerful tool with great potential for drug discovery and development. DREADDs can facilitate the identification of druggable targets and enable researchers to explore the activities of novel drugs against both known and orphan GPCRs. Here, we discuss how DREADDs can be used as novel tools for drug discovery and development.

There is increasing evidence that the genetic architecture of exploration behavior includes the dopamine receptor D4 gene (DRD4). Such a link implies that the within-individual consistency in the same behavior has a genetic basis. Behavioral consistency is also prevalent in the form of between-individual correlation of functionally different behaviors; thus, the relationship between DRD4 polymorphism and exploration may also be manifested for other behaviors. Here, in a Hungarian population of the collared flycatcher, Ficedula albicollis, we investigate how males with distinct DRD4 genotypes differ in the consistent elements of their behavioral displays during the courtship period. In completely natural conditions, we assayed novelty avoidance, aggression and risk-taking, traits that were previously shown repeatable over time and correlate with each other, suggesting that they could have a common mechanistic basis. We identified two single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP554 and SNP764) in the exon 3 of the DRD4 gene by sequencing a subsample, then we screened 202 individuals of both sexes for these SNPs. Focusing on the genotypic variation in courting males, we found that &quot;AC&quot; heterozygote individuals at the SNP764 take lower risk than the most common &quot;AA&quot; homozygotes (the &quot;CC&quot; homozygotes were not represented in our subsample of males). We also found a considerable effect size for the relationship between SNP554 polymorphism and novelty avoidance. Therefore, in addition to exploration, DRD4 polymorphisms may also be associated with the regulation of behaviors that may incur fear or stress. Moreover, polymorphisms at the two SNPs were not independent indicating a potential role for genetic constraints or another functional link, which may partially explain behavioral correlations.
Environmental toxicants invariably affect all biological organisms resulting to sufferings ranging from subclinical to debilitating clinical conditions. This novel research aimed to determine the toxic burdens of increased environmental elements in some vital organs/tissues of the wild animals (starling, owl, crow and pigeon), exposed to air polluted environment were assessed using particle induced X-ray emission and histopathological approaches. The presence of significantly elevated amounts of elemental toxicants namely: Aluminum (Al), Chlorine (Cl), Iron (Fe), Potassium (K), Magnesium (Mg), Manganese (Mn), Silicon (Si) and Vanadium (V) from the skin, muscle, lungs, liver and kidney of sampled animals were in concurrence with the observed histopathological changes. The skin of sampled starling, owl, pigeon and crow spotlighted highly significant increase (P&lt;0.001) in Al, Cl, Mg and Si. Muscle samples with myodegenerative lesions and mineral depositions highlighted substantial augmentation (P&lt;0.001) in the amount of Al, Fe, Mn, Si and V. The lungs of starling, owl, and pigeon were severely intoxicated (P&lt;0.001) with increased amount of Al, Fe, K, Mn and Si producing pulmonary lesions of congestion, edema, pneumonitis and mineral debris depositions. Liver samples revealed that the sampled animals were laden with Cl, Fe, Mg, Mn and V with histopathological profound degenerative changes and hepatic necrosis. Kidney sections presented severe tubular degenerative and necrotic changes that may be attributed to increased amounts of Cl and Fe. These current findings implied that the environmental/elemental toxicants and the accompanying lesions that were discerned in the organs/tissues of sampled birds may as well be afflicting people living within the polluted area. Further assessment to more conclusively demonstrate correlations of current findings to those of the populace within the area is encouraged.
Neuropathic pain remains notoriously difficult to treat despite numerous drug targets. Here, we offer a novel explanation for this intractability. Computer simulations predicted that qualitative changes in primary afferent excitability linked to neuropathic pain arise through a switch in spike initiation dynamics when molecular pathologies reach a tipping point (criticality), and that this tipping point can be reached via several different molecular pathologies (degeneracy). We experimentally tested these predictions by pharmacologically blocking native conductances and/or electrophysiologically inserting virtual conductances. Multiple different manipulations successfully reproduced or reversed neuropathic changes in primary afferents from nave or nerve-injured rats, respectively, thus confirming the predicted criticality and its degenerate basis. Degeneracy means that several different molecular pathologies are individually sufficient to cause hyperexcitability, and because several such pathologies co-occur after nerve injury, that no single pathology is uniquely necessary. Consequently, single-target-drugs can be circumvented by maladaptive plasticity in any one of several ion channels. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.02370.001.



The highest consumption levels of alcohol are found in the developed world, mostly the Northern Hemisphere. After a slight decrease at the beginning of the 1990s, alcohol use in the European Region increased with an average adult per capita consumption amounting to 12.5 litres of pure alcohol per capita for the year 2009. In France, adult consumption was 12.7 litres of pure alcohol per capita for the year 2009, and it is estimated that 1.5 to 2 million of adults are alcohol-dependent (4-5% of the adult population) and 5 million are excessive drinkers. The harmful use of alcohol is one of the world's leading health risks. Alcohol is the direct cause of more than 30 diseases and a causal factor in more than 60 major types of diseases and injuries, resulting in approximately 2.5 million deaths each year. Approximately 4% of all deaths worldwide and 4.5% (7.4% for men and 1.4% for women) of the global burden of disease and injury are attributable to alcohol. In 2004 in the EU, 15.2% of all disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) in men and 3.9% of all DALYs in women were lost due to alcohol. While the impact of alcohol consumption and dependence on mortality and disease is substantial, there are also many psychosocial consequences, including violence, family problems, child neglect and abuse, absenteeism and lost productivity in the workplace. This means that alcohol consumption and dependence have sizable impacts on many people other than the drinker. These effects add up to a staggering number of alcohol-attributable social costs, which can be estimated at  155.8 billion a year in Europe. Despite all these consequences, many individuals with alcohol use disorders remain untreated although effective treatments exist. From 37 community-based psychiatric epidemiology studies that used standardized diagnostic instruments and included data on the percentage of individuals receiving care for alcohol abuse or dependence, the median rate of untreated cases of these disorders was calculated across the studies. Alcohol abuse and dependence had the widest treatment gap at 78.1% worldwide, and 92% in Europe. In this context, healthcare systems must adapt to meet the needs of patients who currently do not receive specialized care.
Despite many controversies the debate between psychoanalysis and neuroscience remains intense, all the more since the Freudian theory stands as a reference for a number of medical practitioners and faculty psychiatrists, at least in France. Instead of going on arguing we think that it may be more constructive to favour dialogue through the analysis of a precise concept developed in each discipline. The Freudian theory of pleasure, because it is based on biological principles, appears an appropriate topic to perform this task. In this paper, we aim at comparing Freud's propositions to those issued from recent findings in Neuroscience. Like all emotions, pleasure is acknowledged as a motivating factor in contemporary models. Pleasure can indeed be either rewarding when it follows satisfaction, or incentive when it reinforces behaviours. The Freudian concept of pleasure is more univocal. In Freud's theory, pleasure is assumed to be the result of the discharge of the accumulated excitation which will thus reduce the tension. This quantitative approach corresponds to the classical scheme that associates satisfaction and pleasure. Satisfaction of a need would induce both a decrease in tension and the development of pleasure. However, clinical contradictions to this model, such as the occasional co-existence between pleasure and excitation, drove Freud to suggest different theoretical reversals. Freud's 1905 publication, which describes how preliminary sexual pleasures contribute to an increased excitation and a sexual satisfaction, is the only analysis which provides an adapted answer to the apparent paradox of pleasure and excitation co-existence. Studies on the neurobiological mechanisms responsible for the development of pleasure may help to fill this gap in the Freudian theory. Activity of the mesolimbic dopaminergic pathway is strongly associated with the reward system. Experimental studies performed in animals have shown that increased dopaminergic activity in the ventral tegmental area (VTA, where dopaminergic cell bodies lie) results either from an unexpected reward or, after recognition of the reward characteristics, from the anticipation of the reward. Therefore, anticipation of a satisfaction activates neurochemical pleasure mechanisms and reinforces behaviour which facilitates its obtention. In this way, pleasure contributes to an increased level of organism excitation. In addition to these data, neuroscience studies have confirmed, as proposed by Freud, the homeostatic role of pleasure when the latter is triggered by an internal need. However, these studies have also indicated that, unlike proposed by Freud, pleasure is not only the result of obtaining a satisfaction but has also a role in the promotion of action. In sum, neuroscience suggest that the Freudian model favours the hedonic modality of reward circuit to the detriment of its motivational modality.

TRH is a tripeptide amide that functions as a neurotransmitter but also serves as a neurohormone that has a critical role in the central regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis. Hypophysiotropic TRH neurons involved in this neuroendocrine process are located in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus and secrete TRH into the pericapillary space of the external zone of the median eminence for conveyance to anterior pituitary thyrotrophs. Under basal conditions, the activity of hypophysiotropic TRH neurons is regulated by the negative feedback effects of thyroid hormone to ensure stable, circulating, thyroid hormone concentrations, a mechanism that involves complex interactions between hypophysiotropic TRH neurons and the vascular system, cerebrospinal fluid, and specialized glial cells called tanycytes. Hypophysiotropic TRH neurons also integrate other humoral and neuronal inputs that can alter the setpoint for negative feedback regulation by thyroid hormone. This mechanism facilitates adaptation of the organism to changing environmental conditions, including the shortage of food and a cold environment. The thyroid axis is also affected by other adverse conditions such as infection, but the central mechanisms mediating suppression of hypophysiotropic TRH may be pathophysiological. In this review, we discuss current knowledge about the mechanisms that contribute to the regulation of hypophysiotropic TRH neurons under physiological and pathophysiological conditions.
It has been suggested a role of fatty acid ethanolamides in control of feeding behavior. Among these, palmitoylethanolamide (PEA) has not been directly implicated in appetite regulation and weight gain. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of PEA on food intake and body weight and the interaction between PEA and hypothalamic leptin signaling in ovariectomized rats. Ovariectomy produced hyperphagia and increased weight gain, making it an useful model of mild obesity. Ovariectomized rats were treated with PEA (30 mg/kg sc) for 5 weeks. Then, blood was collected, and hypothalamus and adipose tissue were removed for histological, cellular, and molecular measurements. We showed that PEA caused a reduction of food intake, body weight, and fat mass. The mechanisms underlying PEA effects involved an improvement in hypothalamic leptin signaling, through a raise in signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 phosphorylation. We also reported that PEA reduced AMP-activated protein kinase- phosphorylation and modulated transcription of anorectic and orexigenic neuropeptides in the hypothalamus. Moreover, PEA increased AMP-activated protein kinase- phosphorylation and carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1 transcription in adipose tissue, suggesting an increase in ATP-producing catabolic pathway. PEA also polarized adipose tissue macrophages to M2 lean phenotype, associated to a reduction of inflammatory cytokines/adipokines. To demonstrate the direct effect of PEA on leptin sensitivity without interference of adiposity loss, we obtained consistent data in PEA-treated sham-operated animals and in vitro in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cell line. Therefore, our data provide a rationale for the therapeutic use of PEA in obese postmenopausal woman.
The decline in testosterone levels in men during normal aging increases risks of dysfunction and disease in androgen-responsive tissues, including brain. The use of testosterone therapy has the potential to increase the risks for developing prostate cancer and or accelerating its progression. To overcome this limitation, novel compounds termed &quot;selective androgen receptor modulators&quot; (SARMs) have been developed that lack significant androgen action in prostate but exert agonist effects in select androgen-responsive tissues. The efficacy of SARMs in brain is largely unknown. In this study, we investigate the SARM RAD140 in cultured rat neurons and male rat brain for its ability to provide neuroprotection, an important neural action of endogenous androgens that is relevant to neural health and resilience to neurodegenerative diseases. In cultured hippocampal neurons, RAD140 was as effective as testosterone in reducing cell death induced by apoptotic insults. Mechanistically, RAD140 neuroprotection was dependent upon MAPK signaling, as evidenced by elevation of ERK phosphorylation and inhibition of protection by the MAPK kinase inhibitor U0126. Importantly, RAD140 was also neuroprotective in vivo using the rat kainate lesion model. In experiments with gonadectomized, adult male rats, RAD140 was shown to exhibit peripheral tissue-specific androgen action that largely spared prostate, neural efficacy as demonstrated by activation of androgenic gene regulation effects, and neuroprotection of hippocampal neurons against cell death caused by systemic administration of the excitotoxin kainate. These novel findings demonstrate initial preclinical efficacy of a SARM in neuroprotective actions relevant to Alzheimer's disease and related neurodegenerative diseases.




Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (LGS) is an epileptic encephalopathy with a heterogeneous etiology. In this study, we aimed to explore the role of CHD2 in LGS, as CHD2 mutations have been described recently in various epileptic encephalopathies. We have previously identified one patient with a large deletion affecting the CHD2 gene in a group of 22 patients with LGS or LGS-like epilepsy. In the remaining 17 patients without known etiology, Sanger sequencing revealed a de novo 1-bp duplication in the CHD2 gene in another patient. This mutation leads to a frameshift and, consequently, a premature stop codon 49bp downstream of the mutation. The patient had prominent myoclonic seizures and photosensitivity, thus, sharing phenotypic features with previously reported patients with CHD2-related epilepsy. In our original material of 22 patients with LGS features, we have now found two (9%) with mutations in the CHD2 gene. Our findings suggest that CHD2 mutations are important in the etiological spectrum of LGS.
Examining and improving the quality of care in epilepsy monitoring units (EMUs) is essential to delivering the best possible care and to mitigating undesirable outcomes. Epilepsy monitoring units are unique in that an admission to an EMU often involves the induction of symptoms (seizures) rather than minimizing and/or treating symptoms, which can lead to an increased risk to patient safety. Very little research has addressed the quality of care and safety in EMUs. The objective of this study was to examine quality indicators in a large population of patients admitted to an EMU in a large health region. Data were collected prospectively on 396 consecutive patients admitted to the EMU for scalp EEG recording from 2008 to 2011 using a standardized data abstraction form. Variables examined included the following: patient demographics, baseline clinical characteristics, EMU admission statistics, and EMU quality indicators. We found that an admission to the EMU was a safe and effective tool in the management of patients with epilepsy and seizure-like events. The number of adverse events during the study period was low at 4.9%. The admission question was answered in 78.8% of cases, and it was partially answered in 6.6%. The need for systematically developed and validated quality indicators in EMUs is emphasized. The research in this area is sparse, and thus these data aid in supporting the utility of EMUs in the management and care of those with seizures and seizure-like events.

Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is a trans-membrane tyrosine kinase taking part in cell transformation and tumor progression. One of the downstream pathways controlled by EGFR involves the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), a proto-oncogene activated in several cell functions. Recent evidence seems to confirm that both EGFR and mTOR regulate angiogenesis. The aim of this study was to investigate the expression of EGFR and mTOR in laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma (LSCC) cells in a retrospective clinical setting and their correlation with tumor neo-angiogenesis, judged on the grounds of CD105-assessed microvascular density (MVD), and prognosis. We considered 76 consecutive patients with LSCC treated with surgery alone. Immunohistochemical expressions of EGFR, mTOR, and CD105 were measured using image analysis and findings underwent statistical analysis using univariate and multivariate models. We found that nodal status correlated significantly with patient prognosis in terms of disease-free survival (DFS) (p = 0.01). There was a strong direct correlation between mTOR and EGFR expression (p = 0.0003), and between mTOR and CD105-assessed MVD (p = 0.0025). Patients with a CD105-assessed MVD &gt;5.28 % had a significantly higher recurrence rate (RR) (p = 0.026), and a significantly shorter DFS (p = 0.025). On multivariate analysis, only N stage [hazard ratio (HR) 3.54, p = 0.009] and CD105-assessed MVD (HR 2.87, p = 0.027) maintained their independent prognostic significance in terms of DFS. Judging from our promising findings, the EGFR-mTOR pathway should be investigated further to understand its role in LSCC neo-angiogenesis.
Functional abnormalities in regions associated with reward processing are apparent in people with depression, but the extent to which disease burden impacts on the processing of reward is unknown. This research examined the neural correlates of reward processing in patients with major depressive disorder and varying degrees of past illness burden. Twenty-nine depressed patients and twenty-five healthy subjects with no lifetime history of psychiatric illness completed the study. Subsets of fourteen patients were presenting for first lifetime treatment of a depressive episode, and fifteen patients had at least three treated episodes of depression. We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to study blood oxygen level-dependent signals during the performance of a contingency reversal reward paradigm. The results identified group differences in the response to punishers bilaterally in the orbitofrontal and medial prefrontal regions. In addition, areas such as the nucleus accumbens, anterior cingulate and ventral prefrontal cortices were activated greatest by controls during reward processing, less by patients early in the course of illness and least by patients with highly recurrent illness-suggesting that these areas are sensitive to the impact of disease burden and repeated episodes of depression. Reward processing in people with depression may be associated with diminished signaling of incentive salience, a reduction in the formation of reward-related associations and heightened sensitivities for negatively valenced stimuli, all of which could contribute to symptoms of depression.
The aim of this study was to study the clinical and neurocognitive variables that best explain poor work adjustment in a sample of bipolar I euthymic patients. Eighty-five euthymic patients at the Hospital Clinic of Barcelona were assessed for this study by means of a comprehensive neuropsychological battery and a work-focused interview to determine work adjustment. Clinical and sociodemographic variables were also collected. Direct logistic regression was performed to assess the impact of demographic, clinical and neuropsychological variables on the likelihood of presenting poor work adjustment. The model that best fitted contained five variables (Hamilton Depression Rating scores, number of manic episodes, number of perseverative errors in the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST), number of depressive episodes and Trail Making Test-part B). However, only two out of these variables made a unique statistically significant contribution to the model, which were number of manic episodes (OR 1.401; CI 1.05-1.86; p = 0.021) and number of perseverative errors in the WCST (OR 1.062; CI 1.00-1.12; p = 0.044). The model explained up to 36 % of the variance in work adjustment. This study highlights the role of manic relapses and neurocognitive impairment, specifically the role of executive function, in work adjustment.


Small-fibre neuropathies (SFNs) can be defined as diseases of small nerve fibres. Because their symptoms are mainly located in the skin in the initial stages, dermatologists may frequently be confronted with these diseases. Moreover, skin biopsies and the subsequent measurement of intraepidermal nerve fibre density have become a widely accepted technique to investigate the structural integrity of small nerve fibres. The pathogenesis of injury to small nerve fibres is poorly understood. It probably depends on the cause. SCN9A-gene variants have been reported. Diabetes mellitus is one of the main causes of SFNs. Some causes of SFNs are very well-known to dermatologists: Gougerot-Sjgren syndrome, lupus, sarcoidosis and Fabry disease. We also discuss erythermalgia, prurigo nodularis, nummular eczema, burning mouth syndrome and sensitive skin as SFNs.
We have identified a deletion of 3 base pairs in the dystrophin gene (DMD), c.9711_9713del, in a family with nonspecific X-linked intellectual disability (ID) by sequencing of the exons of 86 known X-linked ID genes. This in-frame deletion results in the deletion of a single-amino-acid residue, Leu3238, in the brain-specific isoform Dp71 of dystrophin. Linkage analysis supported causality as the mutation was present in the 7.6cM linkage interval on Xp22.11-Xp21.1 with a maximum positive LOD score of 2.41 (MRX85 locus). Molecular modeling predicts that the p.(Leu3238del) deletion results in the destabilization of the C-terminal domain of dystrophin and hence reduces the ability to interact with -dystroglycan. Correspondingly, Dp71 protein levels in lymphoblastoid cells from the index patient are 6.7-fold lower than those in control cell lines (P=0.08). Subsequent determination of the creatine kinase levels in blood of the index patient showed a mild but significant elevation in serum creatine kinase, which is in line with impaired dystrophin function. In conclusion, we have identified the first DMD mutation in Dp71 that results in ID without muscular dystrophy.



Long-lasting brain alterations that underlie learning and memory are triggered by synaptic activity. How activity can exert long-lasting effects on neurons is a major question in neuroscience. Signalling pathways from cytoplasm to nucleus and the resulting changes in transcription and epigenetic modifications are particularly relevant in this context. However, a major difficulty in their study comes from the cellular heterogeneity of brain tissue. A promising approach is to directly purify identified nuclei. Using mouse striatum we have developed a rapid and efficient method for isolating cell type-specific nuclei from fixed adult brain (fluorescence-activated sorting of fixed nuclei; FAST-FIN). Animals are quickly perfused with a formaldehyde fixative that stops enzymatic reactions and maintains the tissue in the state it was at the time of death, including nuclear localisation of soluble proteins such as GFP and differences in nuclear size between cell types. Tissue is subsequently dissociated with a Dounce homogeniser and nuclei prepared by centrifugation in an iodixanol density gradient. The purified fixed nuclei can then be immunostained with specific antibodies and analysed or sorted by flow cytometry. Simple criteria allow distinction of neurons and non-neuronal cells. Immunolabelling and transgenic mice that express fluorescent proteins can be used to identify specific cell populations, and the nuclei from these populations can be efficiently isolated, even rare cell types such as parvalbumin-expressing interneurons. FAST-FIN allows the preservation and study of dynamic and labile post-translational protein modifications. It should be applicable to other tissues and species, and allow study of DNA and its modifications.
Amyloid beta (A), a key component in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease, is thought to target excitatory synapses early in the disease. However, the mechanism by which A weakens synapses is not well understood. Here we showed that the PDZ domain protein, protein interacting with C kinase 1 (PICK1), was required for A to weaken synapses. In mice lacking PICK1, elevations of A failed to depress synaptic transmission in cultured brain slices. In dissociated cultured neurons, A failed to reduce surface -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor subunit 2, a subunit of -amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptors that binds with PICK1 through a PDZ ligand-domain interaction. Lastly, a novel small molecule (BIO922) discovered through structure-based drug design that targets the specific interactions between GluA2 and PICK1 blocked the effects of A on synapses and surface receptors. We concluded that GluA2-PICK1 interactions are a key component of the effects of A on synapses.
In our previous studies, phosphorylation-dependent tau mislocalization to dendritic spines resulted in early cognitive and synaptic deficits. It is well known that amyloid beta (A) oligomers cause synaptic dysfunction by inducing calcineurin-dependent AMPA receptor (AMPAR) internalization. However, it is unknown whether A-induced synaptic deficits depend upon tau phosphorylation. It is also unknown whether changes in tau can cause calcineurin-dependent loss of AMPARs in synapses. Here, we show that tau mislocalizes to dendritic spines in cultured hippocampal neurons from APPSwe Alzheimer's disease (AD)-transgenic mice and in cultured rat hippocampal neurons treated with soluble A oligomers. Interestingly, A treatment also impairs synaptic function by decreasing the amplitude of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs). The above tau mislocalization and A-induced synaptic impairment are both diminished by the expression of AP tau, indicating that these events require tau phosphorylation. The phosphatase activity of calcineurin is important for AMPAR internalization via dephosphorylation of GluA1 residue S845. The effects of A oligomers on mEPSCs are blocked by the calcineurin inhibitor FK506. A-induced loss of AMPARs is diminished in neurons from knock-in mice expressing S845A mutant GluA1 AMPA glutamate receptor subunits. This finding suggests that changes in phosphorylation state at S845 are involved in this pathogenic cascade. Furthermore, FK506 rescues deficits in surface AMPAR clustering on dendritic spines in neurons cultured from transgenic mice expressing P301L tau proteins. Together, our results support the role of tau and calcineurin as two intermediate signaling molecules between A initiation and eventual synaptic dysfunction early in AD pathogenesis.
The two histopathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are amyloid plaques containing multiple forms of amyloid beta (A) and neurofibrillary tangles containing phosphorylated tau proteins. As mild cognitive impairment frequently occurs long before the clinical diagnosis of AD, the scientific community has been increasingly interested in the roles of A and tau in earlier cellular changes that lead to functional deficits. Therefore, great progress has recently been made in understanding how A or tau causes synaptic dysfunction. However, the interaction between the A and tau-initiated intracellular cascades that lead to synaptic dysfunction remains elusive. The cornerstone of the two-decade-old hypothetical amyloid cascade model is that amyloid pathologies precede tau pathologies. Although the premise of A-tau pathway remains valid, the model keeps evolving as new signaling events are discovered that lead to functional deficits and neurodegeneration. Recent progress has been made in understanding A-PrP(C) -Fyn-mediated neurotoxicity and synaptic deficits. Although still elusive, many novel upstream and downstream signaling molecules have been found to modulate tau mislocalization and tau hyperphosphorylation. Here we will discuss the mechanistic interactions between A-PrP(C) -mediated neurotoxicity and tau-mediated synaptic deficits in an updated amyloid cascade model with calcium and tau as the central mediators.
Synaptic neuromodulation acts across different functional domains to regulate cognitive processing and behavior. Recent challenges are related to elucidating the molecular and cellular mechanisms through which neuromodulatory pathways act on multiple time scales to signal state-dependent contingencies at the synaptic level or to stabilise synaptic connections during behavior. Here, we present a framework with the synaptic neuromodulators endocannabinoids (eCBs) as key players in dynamic synaptic changes. Modulation of various molecular components of the eCB pathway yields interconnected functional activation states of eCB signaling (prior, tonic, and persistent), which may contribute to metaplastic control of synaptic and behavioral functions in health and disease. The emerging picture supports aberrant metaplasticity as a contributor to cognitive dysfunction associated with several pathological states in which eCB signaling, or other neuromodulatory pathways, are deregulated.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) plays a critical role in plasticity at glutamate synapses and in the effects of repeated cocaine exposure. We recently showed that intracranial injection of BDNF into the rat nucleus accumbens (NAc), a key region for cocaine addiction, rapidly increases -amino-3-hyroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionic acid receptor (AMPAR) surface expression. To further characterize BDNF's role in both rapid AMPAR trafficking and slower, homeostatic changes in AMPAR surface expression, we investigated the effects of acute (30min) and long-term (24h) treatment with BDNF on AMPAR distribution in NAc medium spiny neurons from postnatal rats co-cultured with mouse prefrontal cortex neurons to restore excitatory inputs. Immunocytochemical studies showed that acute BDNF treatment increased cell surface GluA1 and GluA2 levels, as well as their co-localization, on NAc neurons. This effect of BDNF, confirmed using a protein crosslinking assay, was dependent on ERK but not AKT signaling. In contrast, long-term BDNF treatment decreased AMPAR surface expression on NAc neurons. Based on this latter result, we tested the hypothesis that BDNF plays a role in AMPAR 'scaling down' in response to a prolonged increase in neuronal activity produced by bicuculline (24h). Supporting this hypothesis, decreasing BDNF signaling with the extracellular BDNF scavenger TrkB-Fc prevented the scaling down of GluA1 and GluA2 surface levels in NAc neurons normally produced by bicuculline. In conclusion, BDNF exerts bidirectional effects on NAc AMPAR surface expression, depending on duration of exposure. Furthermore, BDNF's involvement in synaptic scaling in the NAc differs from its previously described role in the visual cortex.
Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is characterized by intellectual disability and autistic traits, and results from the silencing of the FMR1 gene coding for a protein implicated in the regulation of protein synthesis at synapses. The lack of functional Fragile X mental retardation protein has been proposed to result in an excessive signaling of synaptic metabotropic glutamate receptors, leading to alterations of synapse maturation and plasticity. It remains, however, unclear how mechanisms of activity-dependent spine dynamics are affected in Fmr knockout (Fmr1-KO) mice and whether they can be reversed. Here we used a repetitive imaging approach in hippocampal slice cultures to investigate properties of structural plasticity and their modulation by signaling pathways. We found that basal spine turnover was significantly reduced in Fmr1-KO mice, but markedly enhanced by activity. Additionally, activity-mediated spine stabilization was lost in Fmr1-KO mice. Application of the metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist -Methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine (MCPG) enhanced basal turnover, improved spine stability, but failed to reinstate activity-mediated spine stabilization. In contrast, enhancing phosphoinositide-3 kinase (PI3K) signaling, a pathway implicated in various aspects of synaptic plasticity, reversed both basal turnover and activity-mediated spine stabilization. It also restored defective long-term potentiation mechanisms in slices and improved reversal learning in Fmr1-KO mice. These results suggest that modulation of PI3K signaling could contribute to improve the cognitive deficits associated with FXS.
Most of us engage in social interactions on a daily basis and the repertoire of social behaviors we acquire during development and later in life are incredibly varied. However, in many neurodevelopmental disorders, including autism spectrum disorders (ASDs), social behavior is severely compromised and indeed this represents a key diagnostic component for such conditions. From genetic association studies, it is increasingly apparent that genes identified as altered in individuals with ASDs often encode synaptic proteins. Moreover, these synaptic proteins typically serve to scaffold group-I metabotropic glutamate receptors (group-I mGluRs) and ionotropic glutamate receptors (iGluRs; AMPARs and NMDARs), or to enable group-I mGluR to iGluR crosstalk via protein synthesis. Here we aim to explore the possibility of a causal link between altered function of such synaptic proteins and impaired social behaviors that feature in neurodevelopmental disorders, such as ASDs. We review the known synaptic function and role in social behaviors of selected post-synaptic structural proteins (Shank, SAPAP and neuroligin) and regulators of protein synthesis (TSC1/2, FMRP and PTEN). While manipulations of proteins involved in group-I mGluR and iGluR scaffolding or crosstalk frequently lead to profound alterations in synaptic function and one or more components of social behavior, the neuronal circuits responsible for impairments in specific social behaviors are often poorly defined. We argue for an improved understanding of the neuronal circuits underlying specific social behaviors to aid the development of new ASD therapies.
Autism is a developmental disorder characterised by a high heterogeneity of clinical diagnoses and genetic associations. This heterogeneity is a challenge for the identification of the pathophysiology of the disease and for the development of new therapeutic strategies. New conceptual approaches are being used to try to challenge this complexity and gene cluster analysis studies suggest that the pathophysiology of autism is associated with a dysregulation of specific cellular mechanisms. This review will present the experimental evidence for a convergence of synaptic pathophysiology between syndromic and non-syndromic forms of autism, grouped under the generic term of autism spectrum disorders. In particular I will highlight the results from genetic mouse models identifying a convergence of dysregulation of the synaptic type I metabotropic glutamate receptor pathway in mouse models for autism spectrum disorders. These results help to build a new conceptual framework for the study of the synaptic phenotype of autism, which is important for the identification of new therapeutic strategies.
It has been several decades since synaptic dysfunction was first suggested to play a role in schizophrenia, but only in the last few years has convincing evidence been obtained as progress has been made in elucidating the genetic underpinnings of the disorder. In the intervening years much has been learned concerning the complex macromolecular structure of the synapse itself, and genetic studies are now beginning to draw upon these advances. Here we outline our current understanding of the genetic architecture of schizophrenia and examine the evidence for synaptic involvement. A strong case can now be made that disruption of glutamatergic signalling pathways regulating synaptic plasticity contributes to the aetiology of schizophrenia.

During simple perceptual decisions, sensorimotor neurons in monkey fronto-parietal cortex represent a decision variable that guides the transformation of sensory evidence into a motor response, supporting the view that mechanisms for decision-making are closely embedded within sensorimotor structures. Within these structures, however, decision signals can be dissociated from motor signals, thus indicating that sensorimotor neurons can play multiple and independent roles in decision-making and action selection/planning. Here we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to examine whether response-selective human brain areas encode signals for decision-making or action planning during a task requiring an arbitrary association between face pictures (male vs. female) and specific actions (saccadic eye vs. hand pointing movements). The stimuli were gradually unmasked to stretch the time necessary for decision, thus maximising the temporal separation between decision and action planning. Decision-related signals were measured in parietal and motor/premotor regions showing a preference for the planning/execution of saccadic or pointing movements. In a parietal reach region, decision-related signals were specific for the stimulus category associated with its preferred pointing response. By contrast, a saccade-selective posterior intraparietal sulcus region carried decision-related signals even when the task required a pointing response. Consistent signals were observed in the motor/premotor cortex. Whole-brain analyses indicated that, in our task, the most reliable decision signals were found in the same neural regions involved in response selection. However, decision- and action-related signals within these regions can be dissociated. Differences between the parietal reach region and posterior intraparietal sulcus plausibly depend on their functional specificity rather than on the task structure.
Cerebellar function is regulated by cholinergic mossy fiber inputs that are primarily derived from the medial vestibular nucleus (MVN) and prepositus hypoglossi nucleus (PHN). In contrast to the growing evidence surrounding cholinergic transmission and its functional significance in the cerebellum, the intrinsic and synaptic properties of cholinergic projection neurons (ChPNs) have not been clarified. In this study, we generated choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-tdTomato transgenic rats, which specifically express the fluorescent protein tdTomato in cholinergic neurons, and used them to investigate the response properties of ChPNs identified via retrograde labeling using whole-cell recordings in brainstem slices. In response to current pulses, ChPNs exhibited two afterhyperpolarisation (AHP) profiles and three firing patterns; the predominant AHP and firing properties differed between the MVN and PHN. Morphologically, the ChPNs were separated into two types based on their soma size and dendritic extensions. Analyses of the firing responses to time-varying sinusoidal current stimuli revealed that ChPNs exhibited different firing modes depending on the input frequencies. The maximum frequencies in which each firing mode was observed were different between the neurons that exhibited distinct firing patterns. Analyses of the current responses to the application of neurotransmitter receptor agonists revealed that the ChPNs expressed (i) AMPA- and NMDA-type glutamate receptors, (ii) GABAA and glycine receptors, and (iii) muscarinic and nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. The current responses mediated by these receptors of MVN ChPNs were not different from those of PHN ChPNs. These findings suggest that ChPNs receive various synaptic inputs and encode those inputs appropriately across different frequencies.
Acoustic speech is easier to detect in noise when the talker can be seen. This finding could be explained by integration of multisensory inputs or refinement of auditory processing from visual guidance. In two experiments, we studied two-interval forced-choice detection of an auditory 'ba' in acoustic noise, paired with various visual and tactile stimuli that were identically presented in the two observation intervals. Detection thresholds were reduced under the multisensory conditions vs. the auditory-only condition, even though the visual and/or tactile stimuli alone could not inform the correct response. Results were analysed relative to an ideal observer for which intrinsic (internal) noise and efficiency were independent contributors to detection sensitivity. Across experiments, intrinsic noise was unaffected by the multisensory stimuli, arguing against the merging (integrating) of multisensory inputs into a unitary speech signal, but sampling efficiency was increased to varying degrees, supporting refinement of knowledge about the auditory stimulus. The steepness of the psychometric functions decreased with increasing sampling efficiency, suggesting that the 'task-irrelevant' visual and tactile stimuli reduced uncertainty about the acoustic signal. Visible speech was not superior for enhancing auditory speech detection. Our results reject multisensory neuronal integration and speech-specific neural processing as explanations for the enhanced auditory speech detection under noisy conditions. Instead, they support a more rudimentary form of multisensory interaction: the otherwise task-irrelevant sensory systems inform the auditory system about when to listen.



This paper reports the efficacy and tolerability of the nicotinic channel modulator TC-5214 (dexmecamylamine) as adjunct therapy for patients with major depressive disorder who have an inadequate response to initial antidepressant treatment in 2 Phase III studies. These double-blind, placebo-controlled studies (NCT01157078, D4130C00002 [Study 002] conducted in the US and India; NCT01180400, D4130C00003 [Study 003] conducted in Europe) comprised 8 weeks of open-label antidepressant treatment followed by 8 weeks of active treatment during which patients were randomized to flexibly-dosed TC-5214 1-4 mg twice daily (BID) or placebo as an adjunct to ongoing therapy with SSRI/SNRI. The primary efficacy endpoint in both studies was change in Montgomery sberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) total score from randomization (week 8) to treatment end (week 16). Secondary endpoints included change in Sheehan Disability Scale and Hamilton Depression Rating Scale 17-item scores. Study 002 randomized 319 patients and Study 003 randomized 295 patients to TC-5214 or placebo. At treatment end, no significant differences were seen for change in MADRS total score with TC-5214 versus placebo. Furthermore, there were no significant differences in any of the secondary endpoints. The most commonly reported ( 10%) adverse events with TC-5214 in these studies were constipation and headache. In these 2 flexibly-dosed studies, no specific therapeutic effects were observed for TC-5214 (1-4 mg BID) adjunct to antidepressant in the primary endpoint or any secondary endpoint; however, TC-5214 was generally well tolerated. In conclusion, no antidepressant effect of TC-5214 was observed in these studies.
This is a 4 week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to examine the effects of methylphenidate as add-on therapy to mirtazapine compared to placebo for treatment of depression in terminally ill cancer patients. It involved 88 terminally ill cancer patients from University of Malaya Medical Centre, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. They were randomized and treated with either methylphenidate or placebo as add on to mirtazapine. The change in Montgomery-sberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) score from baseline to day 3 was analyzed by linear regression. Changes of MADRS and Clinical Global Impression-Severity Scale (CGI-S) over 28 days were analyzed using mixed model repeated measures (MMRM). Secondary analysis of MADRS response rates, defined as 50% or more reduction from baseline score. A significantly larger reduction of Montgomery-sberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) score in the methylphenidate group was observed from day 3 (B=4.14; 95% CI=1.83-6.45). Response rate (defined as 50% or more reduction from baseline MADRS score) in the methylphenidate treated group was superior from day 14. Improvement in Clinical Global Impression-Severity Scale (CGI-S) was greater in the methylphenidate treated group from day 3 until day 28. The drop-out rates were 52.3% in the methylphenidate group and 59.1% in the placebo group (relative risk=0.86, 95%CI=0.54-1.37) due to cancer progression. Nervous system adverse events were more common in methylphenidate treated subjects (20.5% vs 9.1%, p=0.13). In conclusions, methylphenidate as add on therapy to mirtazapine demonstrated an earlier antidepressant response in terminally ill cancer patients, although at an increased risk of the nervous system side effects.
The primary aim of this study was to estimate the prevalence of lithium associated end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and to compare the relative risk of ESRD in lithium users versus non-lithium users. Second, the role of lithium in the pathogenesis of ESRD was evaluated. We used the Swedish Renal Registry to search for lithium-treated patients with ESRD among 2644 patients with chronic renal replacement therapy (RRT)-either dialysis or transplantation, within two defined geographical areas in Sweden with 2.8 million inhabitants. The prevalence date was December 31, 2010. We found 30 ESRD patients with a history of lithium treatment. ESRD with RRT was significantly more prevalent among lithium users than among non-lithium users (p&lt;0.001). The prevalence of ESRD with RRT in the lithium user population was 15.0 (95% CI 9.7-20.3), and close to two percent of the RRT population were lithium users. The relative risk of ESRD with RRT in the lithium user population compared with the general population was 7.8 (95% CI 5.4-11.1). Out of those 30 patients, lithium use was classified, based on chart reviews, as being the sole (n=14) or main (n=10) cause of ESRD in 24 cases. Their mean age at the start of RRT was 66 years (46-82), their mean time on lithium 27 years (12-39), and 22 of them had been on lithium for 15 years or more. We conclude that lithium-associated ESRD is an uncommon but not rare complication of lithium treatment.
To date, only few studies have examined the impact of medication on social cognition and none have examined the effects of aripiprazole in this respect. The goal of this 8-week, randomized, multicenter, open-label study was to examine the effects of aripiprazole and risperidone on social cognition and neurocognition in individuals with schizophrenia. Eighty schizophrenia patients (DSM-IV-TR) aged 16-50 years were administered multiple computerized measures of social cognition and neurocognition including reaction times at baseline and the end of week 8. Social functioning was mapped with the Social Functioning scale and Quality of Life scale. The study ran from June 2005 to March 2011. Scores on social cognitive and neurocognitive tests improved with both treatments, as did reaction time. There were few differences between the two antipsychotics on (social) cognitive test-scores. The aripiprazole group performed better (more correct items) on symbol substitution (P=.003). Aripiprazole was also superior to risperidone on reaction time for emotional working memory and working memory (P=.006 and P=.023, respectively). Improvements on these tests were correlated with social functioning. In conclusion, aripiprazole and risperidone showed a similar impact on social cognitive test-scores. However, aripiprazole treatment produced a greater effect on patients' processing speed compared to risperidone, with these improvements being associated with concurrent improvements in social functioning. Further research on the long-term effects of aripiprazole on cognition is warranted.
Bipolar disorder (BD) is a severe pathological condition with impaired reward-related processing. The present study was designed to assess the effects of two commonly used BD medications, the mood stabilizer lithium chloride (LiCl) and the atypical antipsychotic and antimanic agent aripiprazole, in an animal model of reward and motivation and on markers of neuroplasticity in the limbic forebrain in rats. We utilized intracranial self-simulation (ICSS) to assess the effects of acute and chronic administration of LiCl and aripiprazole on brain stimulation reward, and phosphorylation studies to determine their effects on specific cellular neuroplasticity markers, i.e., the phosphorylation of CREB and crucial phosphorylation sites on the GluA1 subunit of AMPA receptors and the NA1 and NA2B subunits of NMDA receptors, in the limbic forebrain. Chronic LiCl induced tolerance to the anhedonic effect of the drug observed after acute administration, while chronic aripiprazole induced a sustained anhedonic effect. These distinct behavioral responses might be related to differences in molecular markers of neuroplasticity. Accordingly, we demonstrated that chronic LiCl, but not aripiprazole, decreased phosphorylation of CREB at the Ser133 site and NA1 at the Ser896 site in the prefrontal cortex and GluA1 at the Ser831 site and NA2B at the Ser1303 site in the ventral striatum. The present study provides evidence for BD medication-evoked changes in reward and motivation processes and in specific markers of neuronal plasticity in the limbic forebrain, promoting the notion that these drugs may blunt dysregulated reward processes in BD by counteracting neuronal plasticity deficits.
Exposure to prenatal stress (PS) can predispose individuals to the development of psychopathology later in life. We examined the effects of unpredictable chronic mild stress (CMS) exposure during adolescence on a background of PS in male and female Sprague-Dawley rats. PS induced more anxiety-like behavior in the elevated zero maze in both sexes, an effect that was normalized by subsequent exposure to CMS. Moreover, PS was associated with increased depression-like behavior in the forced swim test in males only. Conversely, sucrose intake was increased in PS males, whilst being decreased in females when consecutively exposed to PS and CMS. Hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis reactivity was affected in males only, with higher stress-induced plasma corticosterone levels after PS. Markedly, CMS normalized the effects of PS on elevated zero maze behavior as well as basal and stress-induced plasma corticosterone secretion. At the neurochemical level, both PS and CMS induced various sex-specific alterations in serotonin (5-HT) and tryptophan hydroxylase 2 (TPH2) immunoreactivity in the dorsal raphe nucleus, hippocampus and prefrontal cortex with, in line with the behavioral observations, more profound effects in male offspring. In conclusion, these findings show that prenatal maternal stress in Sprague-Dawley rats induces various anxiety- and depression-related behavioral and neuroendocrine changes, as well as alterations in central 5-HT and TPH2 function, predominantly in male offspring. Moreover, CMS exposure partially normalized the effects of previous PS experience, suggesting that the outcome of developmental stress exposure largely depends on the environmental conditions later in life and vice versa.
We report a rare case of double-level adjacent segment disease (ASD), occurring ten years later an anterior cervical discectomy (ACD) without fusion, treated by cervical arthroplasty, highlighting the outcome at long-term follow-up and focusing on heterotopic ossification. In 1995 a 25-year-old man satisfactorily underwent ACD at C4/C5. At that time MRI also showed signs of degenerative disc disease (DDD) at C3/C4 and C5/C6. Ten years later, a new MRI scan showed a large C3/C4 and a smaller C5/C6 soft disc hernia together with spondylotic changes at the level above and below the site of the first surgery. At C4/C5 imaging revealed a kyphotic stable &quot;pseudoarthrosis&quot; with anterior bridging osteophyte. The patient underwent double-level arthroplasty with ProDisc-C. Clinical and radiological outcome was satisfactory. 3 and 5 years after surgery, X-rays and CT scan documented the progressive development of heterotopic ossification, with gradual reduction of range of motion. A late onset heterotopic ossification can neutralize the theoretical advantages of cervical arthroplasty, which should be considered an effective surgical option only in selected cases. ACDF and restoration of normal lordosis can be a viable alternative in cervical revision surgery, as motion preservation can not be always mantained for a long time.

This study focuses on schools' organizational capacity to implement a Swedish school-wide programme, Prevention in School (PS). It is based on semi-structured interviews with seven headmasters and 13 teachers from seven Swedish schools. The interviews were analyzed by the use of qualitative content analysis. The findings show that the adoption of a comprehensive intervention like PS challenges the school organization as the staff encountered a variety of organizational barriers when implementing the programme. Factors connected to lack of consensus, collaboration and insufficient programme management were the main barriers that were identified. Teachers wanted a more extensive support from their headmasters in terms of participation in different programme activities. It was emphasized that peer coaches need to be prepared for their task, although the headmasters found it difficult to be able to choose those teachers who they perceived as the most suitable. It is concluded that leadership, coaching and staff selection need particular attention when implementing a programme like PS, since those factors have been defined as important implementation drivers, both in this study and previously.




The &quot;restoring symmetry&quot; hypothesis poses that cross-education of strength--a crossed-limb adaptation after unilateral training--is best applied to clinical conditions presenting with asymmetries. Cross-education mechanisms should be viewed as evolutionarily conserved circuits that have a small impact on daily life but a meaningful impact for rehabilitation. Two recently published examples are hemiparesis after stroke and unilateral orthopedic injury.
Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease (PMD) is a hypomyelinating disorder caused by the duplication and missense mutations of the proteolipid protein 1 (PLP1) gene. PLP1 missense proteins accumulate in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) of premature oligodendrocytes and induce severe ER stress followed by apoptosis of the cells. Here, we demonstrate that an anti-malaria drug, chloroquine, decreases the amount of an ER-resident mutant PLP1 containing an alanine-243 to valine (A243V) substitution, which induces severe PMD in human. By preventing mutant PLP1 translation through enhancing the phosphorylation of eukaryotic initiation factor 2 alpha, chloroquine ameliorated the ER stress induced by the mutant protein in HeLa cells. Chroloquine also attenuated ER stress in the primary oligodendrocytes obtained from myelin synthesis deficit (msd) mice, which carry the same PLP1 mutation. In the spinal cords of msd mice, chloroquine inhibited ER stress and upregulated the expression of marker genes of mature oligodendrocytes. Chloroquine-mediated attenuation of ER stress was observed in HeLa cells treated with tunicamycin, an N-glycosylation inhibitor, but not with thapsigargin, a sarco/ER Ca(2+)ATPase inhibitor, which confirms its efficacy against ER stress caused by nascent proteins. These findings indicate that chloroquine is an ER stress attenuator with potential use in treating PMD and possibly other ER stress-related diseases.
We investigate the contribution of both hemispheres in a lateralised lexical decision paradigm with emotional and neutral words in healthy volunteers. In a first experiment, high-density EEG analysis using source imaging methods revealed early specific participation of the temporoparietal junctions (TPJ) in both hemispheres for the detection of words. Then, in an event-related transcranial magnetic stimulation experiment with the same task, the disruption of left or right TPJ compared with a control stimulation over the vertex showed a slowing that is more pronounced when words are emotional and presented in the left visual field (LVF). This indicates that interference with both left and right TPJ results in impaired processing of words that were presented to the LVF. In addition, these results point to a specific cooperative contribution of the right hemisphere in the processing of words with emotional content compared with neutral words at very early stages. Results from the two experiments can be integrated in a brain-based spatiotemporal model of the early detection of written words.
Localising a tactile stimulus in egocentric space involves integrating information from skin receptors with proprioceptive inputs about body posture. We investigated whether body posture automatically influences tactile spatial judgements, even when it is irrelevant to the task. In Experiment 1, participants received two successive tactile stimuli on the forearm and were asked to indicate whether the first or second touch of the pair was closer to an anatomical body landmark, either the wrist or the elbow. The task was administered in three experimental conditions involving different body postures: canonical body posture with extended forearm and hand pointing distally; a non-canonical body posture with forearm and hand pointing vertically up at 90 and a 'reversed' body posture with the elbow fully flexed at 180, so that the hand pointed proximally. Thus, our task required localising touch on the skin and then relating skin locations to anatomical body landmarks. Critically, both functions are independent of the posture of the body in space. We nevertheless found reliable effects of body posture: judgement errors increased when the canonical forearm posture was rotated through 180. These results were further confirmed in Experiment 2, in which stimuli were delivered to the finger. However, additionally reversing the canonical posture of the finger, as well as that of the forearm, so that the finger was restored to its canonical orientation in egocentric space, restored performance to normal levels. Our results confirm an automatic process of localising the body in external space underlying the process of tactile perception. This process appears to involve a combination of proprioceptive and tactile information.
The site of stimulus delivery modulates the waveforms of cervical- and ocular vestibular-evoked myogenic potentials (cVEMP and oVEMP) to skull taps in healthy controls. We examine the influence of stimulus location on the oVEMP waveforms of 18 patients (24 ears) with superior canal dehiscence (SCD) and compare these with the results of 16 healthy control subjects (32 ears). oVEMPs were recorded in response to taps delivered with a triggered tendon-hammer and a hand-held minishaker at three midline locations; the hairline (Fz), vertex (Cz) and occiput (Oz). In controls, Fz stimulation evoked a consistent oVEMP waveform with a negative peak (n1) at 9.5  0.5 ms. In SCD, stimulation at Fz produced large oVEMP waveforms with delayed n1 peaks (tendon-hammer = 13.2  1.0 ms and minitap = 11.5  1.1 ms). Vertex taps produced diverse low-amplitude waveforms in controls with n1 peaks at 15.5  1.2 and 13.2  1.3 ms for tendon-hammer taps and minitaps, respectively; in SCD, they produced large amplitude oVEMP waveforms with n1 peaks at 12.9  0.8 ms (tendon-hammer) and 12.1  0.5 ms (minitap). Occiput stimulation evoked oVEMPs with similar n1 latencies in both groups (tendon-hammer = 11.3  1.3 and 10.7  0.8; minitap = 10.3  0.9 and 11.1  0.4 for control and SCD ears, respectively). Compared to reflex amplitudes, n1 peak latencies to Fz taps provided clearer separation between SCD and control ears. The distinctly different effects of Fz and vertex taps on the oVEMP waveforms may represent an additional non-osseous mechanism of stimulus transmission in SCD. For skull taps at Fz, a prolonged n1 latency is an indicator of SCD.
Alcohol can disrupt goal-directed behavior by impairing the ability to inhibit attentional shifts toward salient but goal-irrelevant stimuli. Individuals who are highly sensitive to this effect of the drug may be at increased risk for problematic drinking, especially among those whose attention is drawn to alcohol-related cues in the environment (i.e., attentional bias). The current study examined the acute impairing effect of alcohol on inhibitory mechanisms of attentional control in a group of healthy social drinkers. We then examined whether increased sensitivity to this disinhibiting effect of alcohol was associated with heavy drinking, especially among those who have an attentional bias toward alcohol-related stimuli. Eighty nondependent social drinkers performed a delayed ocular response task that measured their inhibitory control of attention by their ability to suppress attentional shifts to irrelevant stimuli. Attentional bias was measured using a visual probe task. Inhibitory control was assessed following a moderate dose of alcohol (0.64 g/kg) and a placebo. Participants made more inhibitory failures (i.e., premature saccades) following 0.64 g/kg alcohol compared with placebo and the relation of this effect to their drinking habits did depend on the level of the drinker's attentional bias to alcohol-related stimuli. Among drinkers with higher attentional bias, greater impairment of inhibitory control was associated with heavier drinking. In contrast, drinkers with little or no attentional bias showed no relation between their sensitivity to the disinhibiting effects of alcohol and drinking habits. These findings have implications for understanding how heightened incentive-salience of alcohol cues and impaired attentional control can interactively contribute to excessive alcohol use.
In this Special Section, the relationships among attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), impulsivity, and alcohol abuse are explored by 4 diverse studies. Among these excellent studies, the constructs indicated in the issue title varied in definitions, measurement methods, and interpretive implications. The experimental approaches also varied, including cross-sectional examination of candidate genes in children, determination of long-term outcomes, laboratory tasks to measure attention and inhibition, and alcohol administration. These diverse topics and approaches yielded insights into the etiology and effects of alcohol abuse and indicated research directions that will advance this field.
Detection of a salient stimulus is critical to cognitive functioning. A stimulus is salient when it appears infrequently, carries high motivational value, and/or when it dictates changes in behavior. Individuals with neurological conditions that implicate altered catecholaminergic signaling, such as those with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, are impaired in detecting salient stimuli, a deficit that can be remediated by catecholaminergic medications. However, the effects of these catecholaminergic agents on cerebral activities during saliency processing within the context of the stop-signal task are not clear. Here, we examined the effects of a single oral dose (45 mg) of methylphenidate in 24 healthy adults performing the stop-signal task during functional MRI (fMRI). Compared to 92 demographically matched adults who did not receive any medications, the methylphenidate group showed higher activations in bilateral caudate head, primary motor cortex, and the right inferior parietal cortex during stop as compared to go trials (p &lt; .05, corrected for family-wise error of multiple comparisons). These results show that methylphenidate enhances saliency processing by promoting specific cerebral regional activities. These findings may suggest a neural basis for catecholaminergic treatment of attention disorders.
Diabetic retinopathy is the leading cause of preventable blindness in the working population and its prevalence continues to increase as the worldwide prevalence of diabetes grows. Diabetic choroidopathy is less well studied and occurs in the late stages of diabetic eye disease. The main cause of visual loss in diabetic eye disease is diabetic macular oedema caused by an increase in microvascular endothelial permeability. Endothelial cell permeability is influenced by multiple factors which have not been fully elucidated, particularly in human models. In addition, the gene and protein expression between retinal and choroidal endothelial cells, even in humans, has been shown to be heterogeneous. The aim of this project was to determine, invitro, the effect of high glucose (25mM) on human paracellular permeability in retinal and choroidal endothelial cells. The expression of selected tight junction molecules (Occludin, Claudin-5, JAM-A and JAM-C) and adheren junction (VE-Cadherin) molecules was also compared between retinal and choroidal endothelial cells and with high glucose. High glucose conditions significantly increased the permeability in both retinal and choroidal endothelial cells monolayers although the increase was higher in retinal endothelial cells. Under normal glucose culture conditions microarray analysis determined that occludin and claudin-5 gene expression was higher in retinal endothelial cells than choroidal endothelial cells, and western blotting indicated that claudin-5 protein expression was also higher in retinal endothelial cells whilst JAM-A, and C and VE-Cadherin levels were similar. In retinal endothelial cells exposed to high glucose claudin-5, occludin and JAM-A was found to be reduced, whereas the expression of VE-Cadherin and JAM-C was unchanged when evaluated with western blotting, immunofluorescence and qPCR. None of the proteins were significantly decreased by high glucose in choroidal endothelial cells. The increase in retinal endothelial cell permeability is likely caused by a decrease in selective tight junction protein expression, leading to increased paracellular permeability. This may indicate differences in junctional molecule regulation of permeability in retinal compared to choroidal endothelial cells.
Recent epidemiological studies confirm the prevalence of cataract in epileptic patients. Similarly, the drugs used to treat epilepsy also show the connection with increased cataract formation. In this present study, we investigated the suppression of Nrf2/Keap1 dependent antioxidant protection through induction of endoplasmic (ER) stress and Keap1 promoter DNA demethylation in human lens epithelial cells (HLECs) treated with valproic acid (VPA), an antiepileptic drug. 20 mM VPA induces ER stress and activates the unfolded protein response (UPR) within 4 h by activating the ER stress sensor proteins, such as PERK, IRE1, and ATF6 in HLECs. Consequently, the integrated ER stress signals, such as eIF2, ATF4, BiP, and CHOP are altered accordingly to induce ER-Ca2+ release, reactive oxygen species (ROS) overproduction, and cell death in HLECs treated with VPA. VPA also suppresses the Nrf2, catalase, and glutathione reductase expressions with significant increases in Keap1 protein. Bisulphite genomic DNA sequencing reveals the promoter DNA demethylation in the Keap1 promoter, which results in the overexpression of Keap1 mRNA and protein in HLECs treated with 20 mM VPA. VPA also alters the expression profiles of passive DNA demethylation pathway enzymes such Dnmt1, Dnmt3a, Dnmt3b, and active DNA demethylation pathway enzyme, TET1 leading to DNA demethylation in the Keap1 promoter of HLECs. Overexpressed Keap1 decreases the Nrf2 level, thereby abolishing the Nrf2 dependent antioxidant protection. This might be responsible for lenticular proteins oxidation and cataract formation.

While the role of growth factors in lens development has been investigated extensively, the role of extracellular matrix signalling is less well understood. The developing lens expresses predominantly laminin-binding integrins (such as 31, 61), which are cooperatively required in the lens epithelium during development. We investigated the role of ILK, a downstream mediator of integrin signalling in mice conditionally null for Ilk. Mutant lenses showed epithelial thinning at E17.5 with reduced proliferation and epithelial cell number and aberrant fibre differentiation. There was complete loss of the central epithelium from postnatal day (P) 2 due to cell death followed by fibre cell degeneration and death by P10 as well as rupture of the lens capsule between P10 and P21. At E17.5 there was significant inhibition (50%) of epithelial cell cycle progression, as shown by BrdU incorporation, cyclin D1/D2 and phospho-histone H3 immunostaining. The epithelial marker, E-cadherin, was decreased progressively from E17.5 to P2, in the central epithelium, but there was no significant change in Pax6 expression. Analyses of ERK and Akt phosphorylation indicated marked depression of MAPK and PI3K-Akt signalling, which correlated with decreased phosphorylation of FRS2 and Shp2, indicating altered activation of FGF receptors. At later postnatal stages there was reduced or delayed expression of fibre cell markers (-crystallin and p57(kip2)). Loss of Ilk also affected deposition of extracellular matrix, with marked retention of collagen IV within differentiating fibre cells. By quantitative RT-PCR array there was significantly decreased expression of 19 genes associated with focal adhesions, actin filament stability and MAPK and PI3K/Akt signalling. Overall, these data indicate that ILK is required for complete activation of signalling cascades downstream of the FGF receptor in lens epithelium and fibre cells during development and thus is involved in epithelial proliferation, survival and subsequent fibre differentiation.
Methamphetamine (METH) exposure results in dopaminergic neurotoxicity in striatal regions of the brain, an effect that has been linked to an increased risk of Parkinson's disease. Various aspects of neuroinflammation, including astrogliosis, are believed to be contributory factors in METH neurotoxicity. METH interacts with sigma receptors at physiologically relevant concentrations and treatment with sigma receptor antagonists has been shown to mitigate METH-induced neurotoxicity in rodent models. Whether these compounds alter the responses of glial cells within the central nervous system to METH however has yet to be determined. Therefore, the purpose of the current study was to determine whether the sigma receptor antagonist, SN79, mitigates METH-induced striatal reactive astrogliosis. Male, Swiss Webster mice treated with a neurotoxic regimen of METH exhibited time-dependent increases in striatal gfap mRNA and concomitant increases in GFAP protein, indicative of astrogliosis. This is the first report that similar to other neurotoxicants that induce astrogliosis through the activation of JAK2/STAT3 signaling by stimulating gp-130-linked cytokine signaling resulting from neuroinflammation, METH treatment also increases astrocytic oncostatin m receptor (OSMR) expression and the phosphorylation of STAT3 (Tyr-705) in vivo. Pretreatment with SN79 blocked METH-induced increases in OSMR, STAT3 phosphorylation and astrocyte activation within the striatum. Additionally, METH treatment resulted in striatal cellular degeneration as measured by Fluoro-Jade B, an effect that was mitigated by SN79. The current study provides evidence that sigma receptor antagonists attenuate METH-induced astrocyte activation through a pathway believed to be shared by various neurotoxicants.
Poor neurological outcome in preterm infants is associated with periventricular white matter damage and hypomyelination, often caused by perinatal inflammation, hypoxia-ischemia, and hyperoxia. Minocycline has been demonstrated in animal models to protect the immature brain against inflammation and hypoxia-ischemia by microglial inhibition. Here we studied the effect of minocycline on white matter damage caused by hyperoxia. To mimic the 3- to 4-fold increase of oxygen tension caused by preterm birth, we have used the hyperoxia model in neonatal rats providing 24h exposure to 4-fold increased oxygen concentration (80% instead of 21% O2) from P6 to P7. We analyzed whether minocycline prevents activation of microglia and damage of oligodendroglial precursor cell development, and whether acute treatment of hyperoxia-exposed rats with minocycline improves long term white matter integrity. Minocycline administration during exposure to hyperoxia resulted in decreased apoptotic cell death and in improved proliferation and maturation of oligodendroglial precursor cells (OPC). Minocycline blocked changes in microglial morphology and IL-1 release induced by hyperoxia. In primary microglial cell cultures, minocycline inhibited cytokine release while in mono-cultures of OPCs, it improved survival and proliferation. Long term impairment of white matter diffusivity in MRI/DTI in P30 and P60 animals after neonatal hyperoxia was attenuated by minocycline. Minocycline protects white matter development against oxygen toxicity through direct protection of oligodendroglia and by microglial inhibition. This study moreover demonstrates long term benefits of minocycline on white matter integrity.
Ionizing radiation can significantly affect brain functioning in adults. The present study assessed depression-like behaviors in adult C57BL/6 mice using the tail suspension test (TST) at 30 and 90days following a single cranial exposure to -rays (0, 1, or 10Gy) to evaluate hippocampus-related behavioral dysfunction during the chronic phase following cranial irradiation. Additionally, hippocampal neurogenesis, inflammatory cytokines, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) were analyzed. At 30 and 90days following irradiation with 10Gy, mice displayed significant depression-like behaviors. We observed a persistent decrease in the number of cells positive for doublecortin, an immunohistochemical marker for neurogenesis, in the hippocampus from 1 to 90days after irradiation with 10Gy. Changes in the mRNA expression of inflammatory cytokines, including interleukin (IL)-1, tumor necrosis factor-, IL-6, and interferon-, were not correlated with the decrease in hippocampal neurogenesis or the appearance of depression-like behavior during the chronic phase following irradiation. However, at 30 and 90days after irradiation with 10Gy, the number of microglia was significantly decreased compared with age-matched sham-irradiated controls. The reduction in the chronic phase was consistent with the significant down-regulation in the mRNA expression of iNOS, COX-2, BDNF, and GDNF in the hippocampus. Therefore, hippocampal dysfunction during the chronic phase following cranial irradiation may be associated with decreases in the neurogenesis- and synaptic plasticity-related signals, concomitant with microglial reduction in the hippocampus.
After traumatic spinal cord injury, functional deficits increase as axons die back from the center of the lesion and the glial scar forms. Axonal dieback occurs in two phases: an initial axon intrinsic stage that occurs over the first several hours and a secondary phase which takes place over the first few weeks after injury. Here, we examine the secondary phase, which is marked by infiltration of macrophages. Using powerful time-lapse multi-photon imaging, we captured images of interactions between Cx3cr1(+/GFP) macrophages and microglia and Thy-1(YFP) axons in a mouse dorsal column crush spinal cord injury model. Over the first few weeks after injury, axonal retraction bulbs within the lesion are static except when axonal fragments are lost by a blebbing mechanism in response to physical contact followed by phagocytosis by mobile Cx3Cr1(+/GFP) cells. Utilizing a radiation chimera model to distinguish marrow-derived cells from radio-resistant CNS-resident microglia, we determined that the vast majority of accumulated cells in the lesion are derived from the blood and only these are associated with axonal damage. Interestingly, CNS-resident Cx3Cr1(+/GFP) microglia did not increasingly accumulate nor participate in neuronal destruction in the lesion during this time period. Additionally, we found that the blood-derived cells consisted mainly of singly labeled Ccr2(+/RFP) macrophages, singly labeled Cx3Cr1(+/GFP) macrophages and a small population of double-labeled cells. Since all axon destructive events were seen in contact with a Cx3Cr1(+/GFP) cell, we infer that the CCR2 single positive subset is likely not robustly involved in axonal dieback. Finally, in our model, deletion of CCR2, a chemokine receptor, did not alter the position of axons after dieback. Understanding the in vivo cellular interactions involved in secondary axonal injury may lead to clinical treatment candidates involving modulation of destructive infiltrating blood monocytes.
A rapidly growing number of studies using inhibition of the contralesional hemisphere after stroke are reporting improvement in motor performance of the paretic hand. These studies have used different treatment onset time, duration and non-invasive methods of inhibition. Whereas these results are encouraging, several questions regarding the mechanisms of inhibition and the most effective treatment parameters are currently unanswered. In the present study, we used a rat model of cortical lesion to study the effects of GABA-mediated inactivation on motor recovery. In particular, we were interested in understanding better the effect of inactivation duration when it is initiated within hours following a cortical lesion. Cortical lesions were induced with endothelin-1 microinjections. The contralesional hemisphere was inactivated with continuous infusion of the GABA-A agonist Muscimol for 3, 7 or 14days in three different groups of animals. In a fourth group, Muscimol was infused at slower rate for 14days to provide additional insights on the relation between the effects of inactivation on the non-paretic forelimb behavior and the recovery of the paretic forelimb. In spontaneously recovered animals, the lesion caused a sustained bias to use the non-paretic forelimb and long-lasting grasping deficits with the paretic forelimb. Contralesional inactivation produced a general decrease of behavioral activity, affected the spontaneous use of the forelimbs and caused a specific reduction of the non-paretic forelimb function. The intensity and the duration of these behavioral effects varied in the different experimental groups. For the paretic forelimb, increasing inactivation duration accelerated the recovery of grasping function. Both groups with 14days of inactivation had similar recovery profiles and performed better than animals that spontaneously recovered. Whereas the plateau performance of the paretic forelimb correlated with the duration of contralesional inactivation, it was not correlated with the spontaneous use of the forelimbs or with grasping performance of the non-paretic hand. Our results support that contralesional inactivation initiated within hours after a cortical lesion can improve recovery of the paretic forelimb. In our model, increasing the duration of the inactivation improved motor outcomes but the spontaneous use and motor performance of the non-paretic forelimb had no impact on recovery of the paretic forelimb.
Inconsistent findings regarding the effects of dopaminergic medication (MED) and deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) on decision making processes and impulsivity in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients have been reported. This study investigated the influence of MED and STN-DBS on decision-making under risk. Eighteen non-demented PD patients, treated with both MED and STN-DBS (64.310.2years, UPDRS III MED off, DBS off 45.517.1) were tested with the Game of Dice Task (GDT) which probes decision-making under risk during four conditions: MED on/DBS on, MED on/DBS off, MED off/DBS on, and MED off/DBS off. Task performance across conditions was compared analyzing two GDT-parameters: (i) the &quot;net score&quot; indicating advantageous decisions, and (ii) the patient's ability to use negative feedback. Significantly higher GDT net scores were observed in Med on in contrast to Med off conditions as well as in DBS on versus DBS off conditions. However, no effect of therapy for the patient's ability to make use of negative feedback could be detected. The data suggest a positive influence of both MED and STN-DBS on making decisions under risk in PD patients, an effect which seems to be mediated by mechanisms other than the use of negative feedback.
Previous work has shown that infusion of skin-derived precursors pre-differentiated into Schwann cells (SKP-SCs) can remyelinate injured and regenerating axons, and improve indices of axonal regeneration and electrophysiological parameters in rodents. We hypothesized that SKP-SC therapy would improve behavioral outcomes following nerve injury repair and tested this in a pre-clinical trial in 90 rats. A model of sciatic nerve injury and acellular graft repair was used to compare injected SKP-SCs to nerve-derived Schwann cells or media, and each was compared to the gold standard nerve isograft repair. In a second experiment, rats underwent right tibial nerve transection and received either acute or delayed direct nerve repair, with injections of either 1) SKP-SCs distal to the repair site, 2) carrier medium alone, or 3) dead SKP-SCs, and were followed for 4, 8 or 17weeks. For delayed repairs, both transected nerve ends were capped and repaired 11weeks later, along with injections of cells or media as above, and followed for 9 additional weeks (total of 20weeks). Rats were serially tested for skilled locomotion and a slip ratio was calculated for the horizontal ladder-rung and tapered beam tasks. Immediately after nerve injury and with chronic denervation, slip ratios were dramatically elevated. In the GRAFT repair study, the SKP-SC treated rats showed statistically significant improvement in ladder rung as compared to all other groups, and exhibited the greatest similarity to the sham controls on the tapered beam by study termination. In the ACUTE repair arm, the SKP-SC group showed marked improvement in ladder rung slip ratio as early as 5weeks after surgery, which was sustained for the duration of the experiment. Groups that received media and dead SKP-SCs improved with significantly slower progression. In the DELAYED repair arm, the SKP-SC group became significantly better than other groups 7weeks after the repair, while the media and the dead SKP-SCs showed no significant improvement in slip ratios. On histomorphometrical analysis, SKP-SC group showed significantly increased mean axon counts while the percent myelin debris was significantly lower at both 4 and 8weeks, suggesting that a less inhibitory micro-environment may have contributed to accelerated axonal regeneration. For delayed repair, mean axon counts were significantly higher in the SKP-SC group. Compound action potential amplitudes and muscle weights were also improved by cell therapy. In conclusion, SKP-SC therapy improves behavioral recovery after acute, chronic and nerve graft repair beyond the current standard of microsurgical nerve repair.
Lipocalin-2 (LCN2) is an acute phase protein induced in response to injury, infection or other inflammatory stimuli. Based on the previously reported involvement of LCN2 in chemokine induction and in the recruitment of neutrophils at the sites of infection or tissue injury, we investigated the role of LCN2 in the pathogenesis of chronic/persistent inflammatory pain hypersensitivity. In the complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA)-induced chronic inflammatory pain model, LCN2 expression was strongly induced in the ipsilateral hindpaws, peaking at 12h after CFA injection and then gradually subsiding. In CFA-injected hindpaw tissues, LCN2 and its receptor 24p3R were mainly expressed in infiltrating neutrophils and macrophages. CFA-induced thermal hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia were significantly diminished in Lcn2-deficient mice compared to wild-type animals. Furthermore, neutrophil infiltration, myeloperoxidase activity, expression of TNF-, IL-1 and MIP-2 in CFA-injected hindpaws, and spinal glial activation were markedly reduced by Lcn2 deficiency. An intraplantar injection of recombinant LCN2 protein induced thermal and mechanical hypersensitivities in nave mice, and this was accompanied by neutrophil and macrophage infiltration into the hindpaws and glial activation in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. Taken together, our results show that inflammatory cell-derived LCN2 at the sites of inflammation plays important roles in central sensitization and the subsequent nociceptive behavior in the rodent model of chronic inflammatory pain.
Hypoxia ischemia (HI; reduced oxygen and/or blood flow to the brain) is one of the most common injuries among preterm infants and term infants with birth complications. Both populations show cognitive/behavioral deficits, including impairments in sensory, learning/memory, and attention domains. Clinical data suggests a sex difference in HI outcomes, with males exhibiting more severe cognitive/behavioral deficits relative to matched females. Our laboratory has also reported more severe behavioral deficits among male rats with induced HI relative to females with comparable injury (Hill et al., 2011a,b). The current study initially examined published clinical studies from the past 20years where long-term IQ outcome scores for matched groups of male and female premature infants were reported separately (IQ being the most common outcome measure). A meta-analysis revealed a female &quot;advantage,&quot; as indicated by significantly better scores on performance and full scale IQ (but not verbal IQ) for premature females. We then utilized a rodent model of neonatal HI injury to assess sham and postnatal day 7 (P7) HI male and female rats on a battery of behavioral tasks. Results showed expected deficits in HI male rats, but also showed task-dependent sex differences, with HI males having significantly larger deficits than HI females on some tasks but equivalent deficits on other tasks. In contrast to behavioral results, post mortem neuropathology associated with HI was comparable across sex. These findings suggest: 1) neonatal female &quot;protection&quot; in some behavioral domains, as indexed by superior outcome following early injury relative to males; and 2) female protection may entail sex-specific plasticity or compensation, rather than a reduction in gross neuropathology. Further exploration of the mechanisms underlying this sex effect could aid in neuroprotection efforts for at-risk neonates in general, and males in particular. Moreover, our current report of comparable anatomical damage coupled with differences in cognitive outcomes (by sex) provides a framework for future studies to examine neural mechanisms underlying sex differences in cognition and behavior in general.
Until we turned our nights into days and began to travel in aircraft across multiple time zones, we were largely unaware that we possess a 'day within' driven by an internal body clock. Yet the striking impairment of our abilities in the early hours of the morning soon reminds us that we are slaves to our biology. Our ability to perform mathematical calculations or other intellectual tasks between 04.00 and 06.00 h is worse than if we had consumed several shots of whisky and would be classified as legally drunk. Biological clocks drive or alter our sleep patterns, alertness, mood, physical strength, blood pressure and every other aspect of our physiology and behaviour. Our emerging understanding of how these 24 h rhythms are generated and regulated is not only one of the great success stories of modern biology, but is also informing many areas of human health. Sleep and circadian rhythm disruption (SCRD) is a feature shared by some of the most challenging diseases of our time, including neuropsychiatric illness and serious disorders of the eye. Sleep and circadian rhythm disruption is also commonly seen across many sectors of society, from teenagers to shift workers. We also now appreciate that SCRD is far more than feeling sleepy at an inappropriate time. It promotes multiple illnesses ranging across abnormal metabolism, heart disease, reduced immunity, increased stress and abnormal cognition and mood states. This short review considers how 24 h rhythms are generated and regulated, the consequences of working against our body clock and the emerging relationship between SCRD and mental illness.

The advent of stentrievers provided momentum for endovascular stroke therapy. Hopes were dampened after three randomized trials showed no clear benefit of endovascular therapy. This review discusses the results of these trials results and shortcomings. A detailed discussion will follow on the design, conduct and analysis of current and future endovascular stroke trials. Steps to improve the workflow of acute stroke cases from the time they enter the emergency department until endovascular reperfusion is achieved can significantly shorten the time from onset to successful reperfusion. These factors in addition to using novel approaches to analyze data and minimize delays caused by the consent process are perceived to be sufficient to demonstrate the efficacy of endovascular stroke therapy.
The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor  coactivator 1- (PGC-1) interacts with various transcription factors involved in energy metabolism and in the regulation of mitochondrial biogenesis. PGC-1 mRNA levels are reduced in a number of neurodegenerative diseases and contribute to disease pathogenesis, since increased levels ameliorate behavioral defects and neuropathology of Huntington's disease, Parkinson's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. PGC-1 and its downstream targets are reduced both in postmortem brain tissue of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and in transgenic mouse models of AD. Therefore, we investigated whether increased expression of PGC-1 would exert beneficial effects in the Tg19959 transgenic mouse model of AD; Tg19959 mice express the human amyloid precursor gene (APP) with 2 familial AD mutations and develop increased -amyloid levels, plaque deposition, and memory deficits by 2-3 mo of age. Rather than an improvement, the cross of the Tg19959 mice with mice overexpressing human PGC-1 exacerbated amyloid and tau accumulation. This was accompanied by an impairment of proteasome activity. PGC-1 overexpression induced mitochondrial abnormalities, neuronal cell death, and an exacerbation of behavioral hyperactivity in the Tg19959 mice. These findings show that PGC-1 overexpression exacerbates the neuropathological and behavioral deficits that occur in transgenic mice with mutations in APP that are associated with human AD.
Quercetin is the most abundant flavonoid present in a broad range of fruit and vegetables. Furthermore, quercetin is available as dietary supplements that are based on its antioxidant, antiproliferative and anti-inflammatory properties. However, concerns have been raised about the potential toxic effects of excessive intake of quercetin, and several studies have demonstrated that flavonoids, included quercetin, can interfere with thyroid function. In a previous report, we showed that quercetin inhibits thyroid-cell growth and iodide uptake. The latter effect was associated with down-regulation of sodium/iodide symporter gene expression. In the present study, we have evaluated the effects of quercetin on the expression of other thyroid-restricted genes, and we show that quercetin decreases the expression of the thyrotropin receptor, thyroid peroxidase and thyroglobulin genes. We further investigated the inhibitory effects of quercetin on thyroid function in vivo through evaluation of radioiodine uptake in the Sprague-Dawley rat, which was significantly decreased after 14 days of quercetin treatment. These data confirm that quercetin can act as a thyroid disruptor, and they suggest that caution is needed in its supplemental and therapeutic use.
Several questions arise from the recent use of behavioral genetic research data in the courtroom. Ethical issues concerning the influence of biological factors on human free will, must be considered when specific gene patterns are advocated to constrain court's judgment, especially regarding violent crimes. Aggression genetics studies are both difficult to interpret and inconsistent, hence, in the absence of a psychiatric diagnosis, genetic data are currently difficult to prioritize in the courtroom. The judge's probabilistic considerations in formulating a sentence must take into account causality, and the latter cannot be currently ensured by genetic data.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is in part complicated by pro-oxidant iron elevation independent of brain hemorrhage. Ceruloplasmin (CP) and -amyloid protein precursor (APP) are known neuroprotective proteins that reduce oxidative damage through iron regulation. We surveyed iron, CP, and APP in brain tissue from control and TBI-affected patients who were stratified according to time of death following injury. We observed CP and APP induction after TBI accompanying iron accumulation. Elevated APP and CP expression was also observed in a mouse model of focal cortical contusion injury concomitant with iron elevation. To determine if changes in APP or CP were neuroprotective we employed the same TBI model on APP(-/-) and CP(-/-) mice and found that both exhibited exaggerated infarct volume and iron accumulation postinjury. Evidence supports a regulatory role of both proteins in defence against iron-induced oxidative damage after TBI, which presents as a tractable therapeutic target.
Neuroglobin is a neuron-specific hexacoordinated globin capable of binding various ligands, including O2, NO, and CO, the biological function of which is still uncertain. Various studies seem to indicate that neuroglobin is a neuroprotective agent when overexpressed, acting as a potent inhibitor of oxidative and nitrosative stress. In this study, we evaluated the pathophysiological response of the neuroglobin gene and protein expression in the cerebral tissue of rats sustaining traumatic brain injury of differing severity, while simultaneously measuring the oxidant/antioxidant balance. Two levels of trauma (mild and severe) were induced in anesthetized animals using the weight-drop model of diffuse axonal injury. Rats were then sacrificed at 6, 12, 24, 48, and 120 h after traumatic brain injury, and the gene and protein expression of neuroglobin and the concentrations of malondialdehyde (as a parameter representative of reactive oxygen species-mediated damage), nitrite + nitrate (indicative of NO metabolism), ascorbate, and glutathione (GSH) were determined in the brain tissue. Results indicated that mild traumatic brain injury, although causing a reversible increase in oxidative/nitrosative stress (increase in malondialdehyde and nitrite + nitrate) and an imbalance in antioxidants (decrease in ascorbate and GSH), did not induce any change in neuroglobin. Conversely, severe traumatic brain injury caused an over nine- and a fivefold increase in neuroglobin gene and protein expression, respectively, as well as a remarkable increase in oxidative/nitrosative stress and depletion of antioxidants. The results of this study, showing a lack of effect in mild traumatic brain injury as well as asynchronous time course changes in neuroglobin expression, oxidative/nitrosative stress, and antioxidants in severe traumatic brain injury, do not seem to support the role of neuroglobin as an endogenous neuroprotective antioxidant agent, at least under pathophysiological conditions.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) impair the physiological functions of retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells, which is known as one major cause of age-related macular degeneration. Salvianolic acid A (Sal A) is the main effective aqueous extract of Salvia miltiorrhiza. The aim of this study was to test the potential role of Sal A against oxidative stress in cultured RPE cells and to investigate the underlying mechanistic signaling pathways. We observed that Sal A significantly inhibited hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-induced primary and transformed RPE cell death and apoptosis. H2O2-stimulated mitogen-activated protein kinase activation, ROS production, and subsequent proapoptotic AMP-activated protein kinase activation were largely inhibited by Sal A. Further, Sal A stimulation resulted in a fast and dramatic activation of Akt/mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) signaling, followed by phosphorylation, accumulation, and nuclear translocation of the NF-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), along with increased expression of the antioxidant-response element-dependent gene heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1). Both Nrf2 and HO-1 were required for Sal A-mediated cytoprotective effect, as Nrf2/HO-1 inhibition abolished Sal A-induced beneficial effects against H2O2. Meanwhile, the PI3K/Akt/mTORC1 chemical inhibitors not only suppressed Sal A-induced Nrf2/HO-1 activation, but also eliminated its cytoprotective effect in RPE cells. These observations suggest that Sal A activates the Nrf2/HO-1 axis in RPE cells and protects against oxidative stress via activation of Akt/mTORC1 signaling.
Cigarette smoking (CS) has been strongly linked to several health conditions including heart disease, lung cancer, and other respiratory and circulatory ailments. Deleterious effects of cigarette smoking on skin have also been well documented, but unlike effects on other organs, damage does not depend upon inhalation. The upper layer of the skin, the stratum corneum (rich in cholesterol fatty acids and ceramide), is very susceptible to damage induced by exposure to environmental stressors that can modify its lipid composition and thereby affect its function of protecting skin from dehydration. Scavenger receptor B1 (SR-B1) is involved in the uptake of cholesterol in several tissues including skin. We previously demonstrated that CS exposure induces formation of aldehyde (HNE) adducts that decrease SR-B1 expression. As topical resveratrol, a well-known polyphenolic stilbene, has been demonstrated to show benefits against skin disorders, we investigated its possible role as a protective agent against CS-induced reduction of SR-B1 expression in cutaneous tissue. In this study, we demonstrate that resveratrol at doses ranging from 0.5 to 10 M is not toxic and is able to increase SR-B1 protein levels in a dose-dependent manner in human keratinocytes. Moreover, when the cells that were pretreated with various doses of resveratrol were exposed to CS, the loss of SR-B1 was prevented in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, in keratinocytes, resveratrol was also able to prevent an increase in HNE-protein adducts induced by CS. In particular resveratrol was able to prevent HNE-SR-B1 adduct formation. Thus, resveratrol seems to be a natural compound that could provide skin with a defense against exogenous stressors by protecting the essential cholesterol receptor, SR-B1.

Environmental stimuli that signal real or potential threats to homeostasis lead to glucocorticoid secretion by the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis. Glucocorticoids promote energy redistribution and are critical for survival and adaptation. This adaptation requires the integration of multiple systems and engages key limbic-neuroendocrine circuits. Consequently, glucocorticoids have profound effects on synaptic physiology, circuit regulation of stress responsiveness, and, ultimately, behavior. While glucocorticoids initiate adaptive processes that generate energy for coping, prolonged or inappropriate glucocorticoid secretion becomes deleterious. Inappropriate processing of stressful information may lead to energetic drive that does not match environmental demand, resulting in risk factors for pathology. Thus, dysregulation of the HPA axis may promote stress-related illnesses (e.g. depression, PTSD). This review summarizes the latest developments in central glucocorticoid actions on synaptic, neuroendocrine, and behavioral regulation. Additionally, these findings will be discussed in terms of the energetic integration of stress and the importance of context-specific regulation of glucocorticoids.
Early life experiences are thought to have long-lasting effects on cognitive, emotional, and social function during adulthood. Changes in neuroendocrine function, particularly the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, contribute to these systems-level behavioral effects. In searching for causal mechanisms underlying these early experience effects, pioneering research has demonstrated an important role for maternal care in offspring development, and this has led to two persistent ideas that permeate current research and thinking: first, environmental impact on the developing infant is mediated through maternal care behavior; second, the more care that a mother provides, the better off her offspring. While a good beginning, the reality is likely more complex. In this review, we critically examine these ideas and propose a computationally-motivated theoretical framework, and within this framework, we consider evidence supporting a hypothesis of maternal modulation. These findings may inform policy decisions in the context of child health and development.
Volatile anesthetic postconditioning reduces myocardial infarct size against ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury. We tested the hypothesis that emulsified isoflurane (EIso) administrated after ischemia exerts cardioprotection in a rat model of myocardial I/R. Male SD rats underwent 30-min coronary occlusion followed by 3-h reperfusion except for sham rats. All vehicles were administrated intravenously at reperfusion onset for 30min. In the first study, 56 rats were given saline (CON), 30% intralipid (IL) and 1, 2, 4, 8 or 16mL/kg EIso for infarct size measurement. In a second study, 32 rats were randomized to four groups and administrated saline in sham (sham) and control (CON) groups, 30% intralipid in IL group and 2mL/kg emulsified isoflurane in EIso group. Cardiomyocytic enzyme activity was determined. Myocardial mitochondria and cytosol were isolated to determine mitochondrial energy metabolism, cytochrome c release, mitochondrial membrane potential (m) and opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP). Morphologic changes in mitochondria were observed by transmission electron microscopy. Compared with CON and IL, 2, 4 and 8mL/kg EIso limited infarct size (P&lt;0.01). Serum levels of cardiac enzyme leakage were reduced in EIso-treated hearts compared with CON (P&lt;0.01 or P&lt;0.05). EIso preserved the ultrastructure of mitochondria, protected against mPTP opening, decreased cytochrome c release and preserved ATP production and m . In conclusion, EIso is effective in reducing infarct size and in preserving mitochondrial function after ischemia and reperfusion injury.
The aim of this study was to test the efficacy of a single direct injection of viral vector encoding for encephalin to induce a widespread expression of the transgene and potential analgesic effect in trigeminal behavioral pain models in mice. After direct injection of herpes simplex virus type 1 based vectors encoding for human preproenkephalin (SHPE) or the lacZ reporter gene (SHZ.1, control virus) into the trigeminal ganglia in mice, we performed an orofacial formalin test and assessed the cumulative nociceptive behavior at different time points after injection of the viral vectors. We observed an analgesic effect on nociceptive behavior that lasted up to 8 weeks after a single injection of SHPE into the trigeminal ganglia. Control virus-injected animals showed nociceptive behavior similar to naive mice. The analgesic effect of SHPE injection was reversed/attenuated by subcutaneous naloxone injections, a -opioid receptor antagonist. SHPE-injected mice also showed normalization in withdrawal latencies upon thermal noxious stimulation of inflamed ears after subdermal complete Freund's adjuvant injection, indicating widespread expression of the transgene. Quantitative immunohistochemistry of trigeminal ganglia showed expression of human preproenkephalin after SHPE injection. Direct injection of viral vectors proved to be useful for exploring the distinct pathophysiology of the trigeminal system and could also be an interesting addition to the pain therapists' armamentarium.
The human leukocyte antigen (HLA) is the main genetic determinant of multiple sclerosis (MS) risk. Within the HLA, the class II HLA-DRB1*15:01 allele exerts a disease-promoting effect, whereas the class I HLA-A*02 allele is protective. The CIITA gene is crucial for expression of class II HLA molecules and has previously been found to associate with several autoimmune diseases, including MS and type 1 diabetes. We here performed association analyses with CIITA in 2000 MS cases and up to 6900 controls as well as interaction analysis with HLA. We find that the previously investigated single-nucleotide polymorphism rs4774 is associated with MS risk in cases carrying the HLA-DRB1*15 allele (P=0.01, odds ratio (OR): 1.21, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.04-1.40) or the HLA-A*02 allele (P=0.01, OR: 1.33, 95% CI: 1.07-1.64) and that these associations are independent of the adjacent confirmed MS susceptibility gene CLEC16A. We also confirm interaction between rs4774 and HLA-DRB1*15:01 such that individuals carrying the risk allele for rs4774 and HLA-DRB1*15:01 have a higher than expected risk for MS. In conclusion, our findings support previous data that variability in the CIITA gene affects MS risk, but also that the effect is modulated by MS-associated HLA haplotypes. These findings further underscore the biological importance of HLA for MS risk.
The ability to distinguish cells and tissues of interest is critical for understanding their biological importance. In genetic model organisms, a prominent approach for discerning particular cells or tissues from others is the use of cell or tissue-specific enhancers to drive fluorescent reporters. This approach, however, is often limited by the brightness of the fluorescent reporter. To augment the ability to visualize cells or tissues of interest in Drosophila melanogaster, homo-hexameric GFP and mCherry reporters were developed for the GAL4, Q, and LexA transcription systems and functionally validated in vivo. The GFP and mCherry homo-hexameric fusion proteins exhibited significantly enhanced fluorescence as compared to monomeric fluorescent reporters and could be visualized by direct fluorescence throughout the cytoplasm of neurons, including the fine processes of axons and dendrites. These high-sensitivity fluorescent reporters of cell morphology can be utilized for a variety of purposes, especially facilitating fluorescence-based genetic screens for cell morphology phenotypes. These results suggest that the strategy of fusing monomeric fluorescent proteins in tandem to enhance brightness should be generalizable to other fluorescent proteins and other genetic model organisms.

Despite advances in understanding the roles of adiposity, food intake, GI and adipocyte-related hormones, inflammatory mediators, the gut-brain axis and the hypothalamic nervous system in the pathophysiology of obesity, the effects of different therapeutic interventions on those pathophysiological mechanisms are controversial. There are still no low-cost, safe, effective treatments for obesity and its complications. Currently, bariatric surgical approaches targeting the GI tract are more effective than non-surgical approaches in inducing weight reduction and resolving obesity-related comorbidities. However, current guidelines emphasise non-surgical approaches through lifestyle modification and medications to achieve slow weight loss, which is not usually sustained and may be associated with medication-related side effects. This review analyses current central, peripheral or hormonal targets to treat obesity and addresses challenges and opportunities to develop novel approaches for obesity.

Speech perception in multitalker environments often requires listeners to divide attention among several concurrent talkers before focusing on one talker with pertinent information. Such attentionally demanding tasks are particularly difficult for older adults due both to age-related hearing loss (presbacusis) and general declines in attentional processing and associated cognitive abilities. This study investigated two signal-processing techniques that have been suggested as a means of improving speech perception accuracy of older adults: time stretching and spatial separation of target talkers. Stimuli in each experiment comprised 2-4 fixed-form utterances in which listeners were asked to consecutively 1) detect concurrently spoken keywords in the beginning of the utterance (divided attention); and, 2) identify additional keywords from only one talker at the end of the utterance (selective attention). In Experiment 1, the overall tempo of each utterance was unaltered or slowed down by 25%; in Experiment 2 the concurrent utterances were spatially coincident or separated across a 180-degree hemifield. Both manipulations improved performance for elderly adults with age-appropriate hearing on both tasks. Increasing the divided attention load by attending to more concurrent keywords had a marked negative effect on performance of the selective attention task only when the target talker was identified by a keyword, but not by spatial location. These findings suggest that the temporal and spatial modifications of multitalker speech improved perception of multitalker speech primarily by reducing competition among cognitive resources required to perform attentionally demanding tasks.
The rat hippocampus and entorhinal cortex have been shown to possess neurons with place fields that modulate their firing properties under different behavioral contexts. Such context-dependent changes in neural activity are commonly studied through electrophysiological experiments in which a rat performs a continuous spatial alternation task on a T-maze. Previous research has analyzed context-based differential firing during this task by describing differences in the mean firing activity between left-turn and right-turn experimental trials. In this article, we develop qualitative and quantitative methods to characterize and compare changes in trial-to-trial firing rate variability for sets of experimental contexts. We apply these methods to cells in the CA1 region of hippocampus and in the dorsocaudal medial entorhinal cortex (dcMEC), characterizing the context-dependent differences in spiking activity during spatial alternation. We identify a subset of cells with context-dependent changes in firing rate variability. Additionally, we show that dcMEC populations encode turn direction uniformly throughout the T-maze stem, whereas CA1 populations encode context at major waypoints in the spatial trajectory. Our results suggest scenarios in which individual cells that sparsely provide information on turn direction might combine in the aggregate to produce a robust population encoding.
The susceptibility, but not the magnitude, of long-term depression (LTD) induced by hippocampal CA3-CA1 synaptic activity (synaptic-LTD) increases with advanced age. In contrast, the magnitude of LTD induced by pharmacological activation of CA3-CA1 group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) increases during aging. This study examined the signaling pathways involved in induction of LTD and the interaction between paired-pulse low frequency stimulation-induced synaptic-LTD and group I mGluR selective agonist, (RS)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG, 100 M)-induced DHPG-LTD in hippocampal slices obtained from aged (22-24 months) male Fischer 344 rats. Prior induction of synaptic-LTD did not affect induction of DHPG-LTD; however, prior induction of the DHPG-LTD occluded synaptic-LTD suggesting that expression of DHPG-LTD may incorporate synaptic-LTD mechanisms. Application of individual antagonist for the group I mGluR (AIDA), the N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) (AP-5), or L-type voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channel (VDCC) (nifedipine) failed to block synaptic-LTD and any two antagonists severely impaired synaptic-LTD induction, indicating that activation of any two mechanisms is sufficient to induce synaptic-LTD in aged animals. For DHPG-LTD, AIDA blocked DHPG-LTD and individually applied NMDAR or VDCC attenuated but did not block DHPG-LTD, indicating that the magnitude of DHPG-LTD depends on all three mechanisms.
Wnt proteins have emerged as transmembrane signaling molecules that regulate learning and memory as well as synaptic plasticity at central synapses (Inestrosa and Arenas (2010) Nat Rev Neurosci 11:77-86; Maguschak and Ressler (2011) J Neurosci 31:13057-13067; Tabatadze et al. (2012) Hippocampus 22: 1228-1241; Fortress et al. (2013) J Neurosci 33:12619-12626). For example, there is both a training-selective and Wnt isoform-specific increase in Wnt 7 levels in hippocampus seven days after spatial learning in rats (Tabatadze et al. (2012) Hippocampus 22: 1228-1241). Despite growing interest in Wnt signaling pathways in the adult brain, intracellular distribution and release of Wnt molecules from synaptic compartments as well as their influence on synaptic strength and connectivity remain less well understood. As a first step in such an analysis, we show here that Wnt 7 levels in primary hippocampal cells are elevated by potassium or glutamate activation in a time-dependent manner. Subsequent Wnt 7 elevation in dendrites suggests selective somato-dendritic trafficking followed by transport from dendrites to their spines. Wnt 7 elevation is also TTX-reversible, establishing that its elevation is indeed an activity-dependent process. A second stimulation given 6 h after the first significantly reduces Wnt 7 levels in dendrites 3 h later as compared to non-stimulated controls suggesting activity-dependent Wnt 7 release from dendrites and spines. In a related experiment designed to mimic the release of Wnt 7, exogenous recombinant Wnt 7 increased the number of active zones in presynaptic terminals as indexed by bassoon. This suggests the formation of new presynaptic release sites and/or presynaptic terminals. Wnt signaling inhibitor sFRP-1 completely blocked this Wnt 7-induced elevation of bassoon cluster number and cluster area. We suggest that Wnt 7 is a plasticity-related protein involved in the regulation of presynaptic plasticity via a retrograde signaling mechanism as previously proposed (Routtenberg (1999) Trends in Neuroscience 22:255-256). These findings provide support for this proposal, which offers a new perspective on the synaptic tagging mechanism (Redondo and Morris (2011) Nat Rev Neurosci 12:17-30).
Subjective and objective memory deficits represent a frequent and ill-understood aspect of multiple sclerosis (MS), and a significant cause of disability and quality of life reduction. The aim of the study is to verify the role of hippocampal and temporal associative fibers' damage in MS-related memory complaints. To reach this aim, 25 patients with low disability relapsing-remitting MS and 19 healthy controls were included in the study. All subjects underwent 3D T1 structural imaging and Diffusion Tensor Imaging. Additionally, MS patients underwent neuropsychological evaluation of objective (Selective Reminding Test and Spatial Recall Test) and of subjective (Perceived Deficit Questionnaire, Retrospective and Prospective Memory Subscales) memory deficits. Normalized hippocampal volume (NHV) and mean Fractional Anisotropy (FA) for the uncinate fasciculus (UF) and for the ventral division of the cingulum bundle (VCB) were calculated for all subjects. We showed that, compared to controls, MS subjects presented with reduced right NHV and with reduced mean FA bilaterally in the UF and the VCB. In the MS group, verbal memory scores correlated with left NHV, spatial memory scores correlated with right NHV, while perceived retrospective and prospective memory deficits correlated with left VCB and left UF mean FA respectively. Our data confirm an early involvement of memory-related brain structures in MS patients. Our data suggest that verbal and nonverbal memory as well as perceived retrospective and prospective memory deficits are related to alterations of discrete anatomical structures in the low-disability phase of MS.
Child abuse is the most potent experiential risk factor for developing a mood disorder later in life. The effects of child abuse are also more severe in girls and women than in men. In this review, we explore the origins of this epidemiological sex difference. We begin by offering the hypothesis that a sex-specific risk factor that influences how social cues are perceived and remembered makes girls more susceptible to the effects of child abuse. We then discuss the neural systems that mediate emotion and stress, and, how child abuse and/or mood disorders like anxiety and depression affect them. Drawing upon human and animal research, several candidates for such a risk factor are discussed. They include glucocorticoid receptor trafficking and corticotropin releasing factor receptor binding and signaling. Our own research shows that the morphometry of the prepubertal amygdala is sexually dimorphic, and could contribute to a sex difference in stimulus appraisal. We have also found that the brain of juvenile female rats is less selective than males' for threatening social stimuli. Thus, one way that women may be more vulnerable to the effects of child abuse is that they are more likely to perceive objectively benign stimuli as threatening. This bias in perception could compound with the genuinely traumatic memories caused by child abuse; the burden of traumatic memories and the increasingly reactive stress response systems could then dispose more women than men to develop depression and/or anxiety.
Testosterone is thought to be positively associated with &quot;mating effort&quot;, or the initiation and establishment of sexual relationships (Wingfield et al., 1990). Yet, because testosterone is negatively associated with nurturance (van Anders et al., 2011), high levels of testosterone may be incompatible with relationship maintenance. For instance, partnered men with high testosterone report lower relationship quality compared to partnered men with low testosterone (e.g., Booth and Dabbs, 1993). Findings for women are inconsistent, however, and even less is known about potential dyadic associations between testosterone and relationship quality in couples. In the current report, we assessed relationship satisfaction, commitment, and investment in heterosexual couples and tested the hypothesis that these aspects of relationship quality would be negatively associated with an individual's own and his/her partner's testosterone levels. We found that testosterone was in fact negatively associated with relationship satisfaction and commitment in both men and women. There was also evidence for dyadic associations: Participants' satisfaction and commitment were negatively related to their partners' levels of testosterone, and these associations were larger for women's than men's testosterone. Our findings are consistent with the idea that high testosterone may be incompatible with the maintenance of nurturant relationships. The current findings also provide some of the first evidence for dyadic associations between testosterone and relationship quality in couples, highlighting the interdependent nature of close relationship processes and the importance of considering this interdependence in social neuroendocrine research.
Pre-clinical and clinical studies have employed treatment with glucocorticoid receptor (GR) antagonists in an attempt to limit the deleterious behavioral and physiological effects of excess glucocorticoids. Here, we examined the effects of GR antagonists on neuroendocrine and behavioral stress responses, using two compounds: mifepristone, a GR antagonist that is also a progesterone receptor antagonist, and CORT 108297, a specific GR antagonist lacking anti-progestin activity. Given its well-documented impact on neuroendocrine and behavioral stress responses, imipramine (tricyclic antidepressant) served as a positive control. Male rats were treated for five days with mifepristone (10mg/kg), CORT 108297 (30mg/kg and 60mg/kg), imipramine (10mg/kg) or vehicle and exposed to forced swim test (FST) or restraint stress. Relative to vehicle, imipramine potently suppressed adrenocorticotropin hormone (ACTH) responses to FST and restraint exposure. Imipramine also decreased immobility in the FST, consistent with antidepressant actions. Both doses of CORT 108297 potently suppressed peak corticosterone responses to FST and restraint stress. However, only the higher dose of CORT 108297 (60mg/kg) significantly decreased immobility in the FST. In contrast, mifepristone induced protracted secretion of corticosterone in response to both stressors, and modestly decreased immobility in the FST. Taken together, the data indicate distinct effects of each compound on neuroendocrine stress responses and also highlight dissociation between corticosterone responses and immobility in the FST. Within the context of the present study, our data suggest that CORT 108297 may be an attractive alternative for mitigating neuroendocrine and behavioral states associated with excess glucocorticoid secretion.
Previous imaging studies that investigated morphometric group differences of subcortical regions outside the substantia nigra between non-demented Parkinson's patients and controls either did not find any significant differences, or reported contradictory results. Here, we performed a comprehensive morphometric analysis of 20 cognitively normal, early-stage PD patients and 19 matched control subjects. In addition to relatively standard analyses of whole-brain grey matter volume and overall regional volumes, we examined subtle localized surface shape differences in striatal and limbic grey matter structures and tested their utility as a diagnostic marker. Voxel-based morphometry and volumetric comparisons did not reveal significant group differences. Shape analysis, on the other hand, demonstrated significant between-group shape differences for the right pallidum. Careful diffusion tractography analysis showed that the affected parts of the pallidum are connected subcortically with the subthalamic nucleus, the pedunculopontine nucleus, and the thalamus and cortically with the frontal lobe. Additionally, microstructural measurements along these pathways, but not along other pallidal connections, were significantly different between the two groups. Vertex-wise linear discriminant analysis, however, revealed limited accuracy of pallidal shape for the discrimination between patients and controls. We conclude that localized disease-related changes in the right pallidum in early Parkinson's disease, undetectable using standard voxel-based morphometry or volumetry, are evident using sensitive shape analysis. However, the subtle nature of these changes makes it unlikely that shape analysis alone will be useful for early diagnosis.
People preferentially imitate others who are similar to them or have high social status. Such imitative biases are thought to have evolved because they increase the efficiency of cultural acquisition. Here we focused on distinguishing between self-similarity and social status as two candidate mechanisms underlying neural responses to a person's race during imitation. We used fMRI to measure neural responses when 20 African American (AA) and 20 European American (EA) young adults imitated AA, EA and Chinese American (CA) models and also passively observed their gestures and faces. We found that both AA and EA participants exhibited more activity in lateral frontoparietal and visual regions when imitating AAs compared with EAs or CAs. These results suggest that racial self-similarity is not likely to modulate neural responses to race during imitation, in contrast with findings from previous neuroimaging studies of face perception and action observation. Furthermore, AA and EA participants associated AAs with lower social status than EAs or CAs, suggesting that the social status associated with different racial groups may instead modulate neural activity during imitation of individuals from those groups. Taken together, these findings suggest that neural responses to race during imitation are driven by socially learned associations rather than self-similarity. This may reflect the adaptive role of imitation in social learning, where learning from higher status models can be more beneficial. This study provides neural evidence consistent with evolutionary theories of cultural acquisition.
Despite the fact that nonverbal dyadic social interactions are abundant in the environment, the neural mechanisms underlying their processing are not yet fully understood. Research in the field of social neuroscience has suggested that two neural networks appear to be involved in social understanding: (1) the action observation network (AON) and (2) the social neural network (SNN). The aim of this study was to determine the differential contributions of the AON and the SNN to the processing of nonverbal behavior as observed in dyadic social interactions. To this end, we used short computer animation sequences displaying dyadic social interactions between two virtual characters and systematically manipulated two key features of movement activity, which are known to influence the perception of meaning in nonverbal stimuli: (1) movement fluency and (2) contingency of movement patterns. A group of 21 male participants rated the &quot;naturalness&quot; of the observed scenes on a four-point scale while undergoing fMRI. Behavioral results showed that both fluency and contingency significantly influenced the &quot;naturalness&quot; experience of the presented animations. Neurally, the AON was preferentially engaged when processing contingent movement patterns, but did not discriminate between different degrees of movement fluency. In contrast, regions of the SNN were engaged more strongly when observing dyads with disturbed movement fluency. In conclusion, while the AON is involved in the general processing of contingent social actions, irrespective of their kinematic properties, the SNN is preferentially recruited when atypical kinematic properties prompt inferences about the agents' intentions.
This study characterized human cerebellar activity during eyeblink classical conditioning (EBC) in children and adults using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). During fMRI, participants were administered delay conditioning trials, in which the conditioned stimulus (a tone) precedes, overlaps, and coterminates with the unconditioned stimulus (a corneal airpuff). Behavioral eyeblink responses and brain activation were measured concurrently during two phases: pseudoconditioning, involving presentations of tone alone and airpuff alone, and conditioning, during which the tone and airpuff were paired. Although all participants demonstrated significant conditioning, the adults produced more conditioned responses (CRs) than the children. When brain activations during pseudoconditioning were subtracted from those elicited during conditioning, significant activity was distributed throughout the cerebellar cortex (Crus I-II, lateral lobules IV-IX, and vermis IV-VI) in all participants, suggesting multiple sites of associative learning-related plasticity. Despite their less optimal behavioral performance, the children showed greater responding in the pons, lateral lobules VIII, IX, and Crus I, and vermis VI, suggesting that they may require greater activation and/or the recruitment of supplementary structures to achieve successful conditioning. Correlation analyses relating brain activations to behavioral CRs showed a positive association of activity in cerebellar deep nuclei (including dentate, fastigial, and interposed nuclei) and vermis VI with CRs in the children. This is the first study to compare cerebellar cortical and deep nuclei activations in children versus adults during EBC.
In the recent past, various intrinsic connectivity networks (ICN) have been identified in the resting brain. It has been hypothesized that the fronto-parietal ICN is involved in attentional processes. Evidence for this claim stems from task-related activation studies that show a joint activation of the implicated brain regions during tasks that require sustained attention. In this study, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to demonstrate that functional connectivity within the fronto-parietal network at rest directly relates to attention. We applied graph theory to functional connectivity data from multiple regions of interest and tested for associations with behavioral measures of attention as provided by the attentional network test (ANT), which we acquired in a separate session outside the MRI environment. We found robust statistical associations with centrality measures of global and local connectivity of nodes within the network with the alerting and executive control subfunctions of attention. The results provide further evidence for the functional significance of ICN and the hypothesized role of the fronto-parietal attention network.
Conflicting evidence exists regarding the integrity of episodic memory in the behavioral variant of frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD). Recent converging evidence suggests that episodic memory in progressive cases of bvFTD is compromised to the same extent as in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The underlying neural substrates of these episodic memory deficits, however, likely differ contingent on dementia type. In this study we sought to elucidate the neural substrates of episodic memory performance, across recall and recognition tasks, in both patient groups using voxel-based morphometry (VBM) analyses. We predicted that episodic memory dysfunction would be apparent in both patient groups but would relate to divergent patterns of neural atrophy specific to each dementia type. We assessed episodic memory, across verbal and visual domains, in 19 bvFTD, 18 AD patients, and 19 age- and education-matched controls. Behaviorally, patient groups were indistinguishable for immediate and delayed recall, across verbal and visual domains. Whole-brain VBM analyses revealed regions commonly implicated in episodic retrieval across groups, namely the right temporal pole, right frontal lobe, left paracingulate gyrus, and right anterior hippocampus. Divergent neural networks specific to each group were also identified. Whereas a widespread network including posterior regions such as the posterior cingulate cortex, parietal and occipital cortices was exclusively implicated in AD, the frontal and anterior temporal lobes underpinned the episodic memory deficits in bvFTD. Our results point to distinct neural changes underlying episodic memory decline specific to each dementia syndrome.
Using diffusion tensor (DT) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), damage to brain intrahemispheric and interhemispheric connections was assessed in 26 sporadic primary lateral sclerosis (PLS) patients compared with 28 sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients with similar disability and 35 healthy controls. DT MRI diagnostic accuracy in distinguishing the two motor neuron disease (MND) variants was tested. PLS and ALS patients showed a distributed pattern of abnormalities of the motor system, including the corticospinal tracts and corpus callosum (CC). PLS versus ALS patients showed a more severe damage to the motor CC fibers and subcortical white matter (WM) underlying the primary motor cortices. Both patient groups showed an extra-motor damage, which was more severe in PLS. This did not appear to be driven by longer disease duration in PLS. In PLS patients, damage to the CC mid-body correlated with the severity of upper motor neuron clinical burden. CC fractional anisotropy values had the highest accuracy in distinguishing PLS from controls and ALS. PLS and ALS share an overlapped pattern of WM abnormalities. This underscores that PLS, despite its distinct clinical phenotype and long survival, still lies within the wider MND spectrum. Whether CC diffusivity may be a novel marker to increase confidence in an early diagnostic separation of PLS from ALS still needs to be investigated.
Making inferences beyond the literal meaning of sentences occurs with certain scalar expressions via scalar implicatures. For example, adults usually interpret some as some but not all. On the basis of behavioral research, it has been suggested that processing implicatures is cognitively costly. However, many studies have used cases where sentences with some did not match the context in which they were presented. Our study aimed to examine whether the processing cost is linked to implicature generation, to the mismatch between the implicature and the context, or to both processes. To do so, we explored the neural patterns of implicature generation and implicature mismatch using fMRI. Thirteen participants performed a sentence-picture matching task (where pictures determined the context) with mismatched implicatures, successful implicatures or no implicature conditions. Several brain regions were identified when comparing cases of implicature mismatch and cases without implicatures. One of these regions, left-IFG, was jointly activated for mismatched and successful implicatures, as observed in a conjunction analysis. By contrast, left-MFG and medial-frontal-gyrus, were identified when comparing cases of implicature mismatch with cases of successful implicatures. Thus, the left IFG can be interpreted as being linked to implicature generation, whereas the other two areas seem to participate in the processing of the mismatch between the implicature and its context. Our results indicate that scalar implicatures induce processing cost in different ways. This should be considered in future research.
Recent brain imaging research has highlighted a new global system of areas termed the Default Mode network (DM), which appears to specialize in intrinsically oriented functions. However, it is still unresolved to what extent this system contains functional subsystems as in the better known sensory and motor cortices. Here, we report that functional subdivisions can be revealed within individual nodes of the DM, such as the Inferior Parietal Lobule (IPL), through the use of different categories of self-oriented tasks. Subjects underwent BOLD fMRI scans during which they were asked to recall self-related positive and negative information in the categories of people and food. These tasks elicited distinct regions of activation within the DM. Importantly, the observed activations were above the activity level in the baseline, no-task condition for these regions. The main subdivision within the DM was observed in the inferior and posterior parietal cortex. Analysis of coherent resting state fluctuations (functional connectivity analysis) revealed that these regions of activation were part of a distinct network of regions within the DM. These results argue against viewing the DM as a unitary system, and are compatible with the notion that, similar to the rest of the cerebral cortex, the DM consists of distinct, functionally specialized subregions.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a severe neurodegenerative disease, which primarily targets the motor system. The structural integrity of the motor network and the way it is embedded in the overall brain network is essential for motor functioning. We studied the longitudinal effects of ALS on the brain network using diffusion tensor imaging and questioned whether over time an increasing number of connections become involved or whether there is progressive impairment of a limited number of connections. The brain network was reconstructed based on &quot;whole brain&quot; diffusion tensor imaging data. We examined: (1) network integrity in 24 patients with ALS at baseline (T = 1) and at a more advanced stage of the disease (T = 2; interval 5.5 months) compared with a group of healthy controls and (2) progressive brain network impairment comparing patients at two time-points in a paired-analysis. These analyses demonstrated an expanding subnetwork of affected brain connections over time with a central role for the primary motor regions (P-values T = 1 0.003; T = 2 0.001). Loss of structural connectivity mainly propagated to frontal and parietal brain regions at T = 2 compared with T = 1. No progressive impairment of the initially affected (motor) connections could be detected. The main finding of this study is an increasing loss of network structure in patients with ALS. In contrast to the theory of ALS solely affecting a fixed set of primary motor connections, our findings show that the network of impaired connectivity is expanding over time. These results are in support of disease spread along structural brain connections.



Very low-frequency blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) fluctuations have emerged as a valuable tool for describing brain anatomy, neuropathology, and development. Such fluctuations exhibit power law frequency dynamics, with largest amplitude at lowest frequencies. The biophysical mechanisms generating such fluctuations are poorly understood. Using publicly available data from 1,019 subjects of age 7-30, we show that BOLD fluctuations exhibit temporal complexity that is linearly related to local connectivity (regional homogeneity), consistently and significantly covarying across subjects and across gray matter regions. This relationship persisted independently of covariance with gray matter density or standard deviation of BOLD signal. During late neurodevelopment, BOLD fluctuations were unchanged with age in association cortex while becoming more random throughout the rest of the brain. These data suggest that local interconnectivity may play a key role in establishing the complexity of low-frequency BOLD fluctuations underlying functional magnetic resonance imaging connectivity. Stable low-frequency power dynamics may emerge through segmentation and integration of connectivity during development of distributed large-scale brain networks.


Homozygosity for a common null polymorphism (R577X) in the ACTN3 gene results in the absence of the fast fibre-specific protein, -actinin-3 in 16% of humans worldwide. -Actinin-3 deficiency is detrimental to optimal sprint performance and benefits endurance performance in elite athletes. In the general population, -actinin-3 deficiency is associated with reduced muscle mass, strength and fast muscle fibre area, and poorer muscle function with age. The Actn3 knock-out (KO) mouse model mimics the human phenotype, with fast fibres showing a shift towards slow/oxidative metabolism without a change in myosin heavy chain (MyHC) isoform. We have recently shown that these changes are attributable to increased activity of the calcineurin-dependent signalling pathway in -actinin-3 deficient muscle, resulting in enhanced response to exercise training. This led us to hypothesize that the Actn3 genotype influences muscle adaptation to disuse, irrespective of neural innervation. Separate cohorts of KO and wild-type mice underwent 2 weeks immobilization and 2 and 8 weeks of denervation. Absence of -actinin-3 resulted in reduced atrophic response and altered adaptation to disuse, as measured by a change in MyHC isoform. KO mice had a lower threshold to switch from the predominantly fast to a slower muscle phenotype (in response to immobilization) and a higher threshold to switch to a faster muscle phenotype (in response to denervation). We propose that this change is mediated through baseline alterations in the calcineurin signalling pathway of Actn3 KO muscle. Our findings have important implications for understanding individual responses to muscle disuse/disease and training in the general population.
The aim of the present study was to verify whether the expectation of perturbations while performing side-step cutting manoeuvres influences lower limb EMG activity, heel kinematics and ground reaction forces. Eighteen healthy men performed two sets of 90 side-step cutting manoeuvres. In the first set, 10 unperturbed trials (Base) were performed while stepping over a moveable force platform. In the second set, subjects were informed about the random possibility of perturbations to balance throughout 32 trials, of which eight were perturbed (Pert, 10cm translation triggered at initial contact), and the others were &quot;catch&quot; trials (Catch). Center of mass velocity (CoMVEL), heel acceleration (HAC), ground reaction forces (GRF) and surface electromyography (EMG) from lower limb and trunk muscles were recorded for each trial. Surface EMG was analyzed prior to initial contact (PRE), during load acceptance (LA) and propulsion (PRP) periods of the stance phase. In addition, hamstrings-quadriceps co-contraction ratios (CCR) were calculated for these time-windows. The results showed no changes in CoMVEL, HAC, peak GRF and surface EMG PRE among conditions. However, during LA, there were increases in tibialis anterior EMG (30-50%) concomitant to reduced EMG for quadriceps muscles, gluteus and rectus abdominis for Catch and Pert conditions (15-40%). In addition, quadriceps EMG was still reduced during PRP (p&lt;.05). Consequently, CCR was greater for Catch and Pert in comparison to Base (p&lt;.05). These results suggest that there is modulation of muscle activity towards anticipating potential instability in the lower limb joints and assure safety to complete the task.


This is a case report of a 13 year male child who had co-morbid OCD and trichotillomania. On evaluation, he had rapid, illegible handwriting as a symptom of OCD, which has hitherto not been reported.
The tragedy of maternal filicide and extended suicides has occurred throughout history. Maternal filicide-suicide perpetrators most often suffer from depression, suicidality, or psychosis. Interventions in such cases are not commonly reported in the psychiatric settings, and the components of psychotherapeutic approach and its efficacy are also not known. Here we present a long-term therapy carried out with a 36-year-old married lady, with the complaints of low mood, suicidal ideation, severe guilt feelings, and depressive cognitions. There was positive family history of depression, past history of dysthymia, suicidal attempt, and severe marital discord. Therapy was carried out for a period of 9 months with follow-up for 4 years and addressed existential issues and grief with the components of existential therapy, grief therapy, narratives, religious beliefs, and interpersonal acceptance. The case highlights the need for blending of multiple approaches to meet the challenges such cases can pose.


Play has been recognized as an essential component to children's healthy development. Schools of play therapy differ philosophically and technically, but they all embrace the therapeutic and developmental properties of play. This case report is an illustration of how a 6-year-old child with emotional disorder was facilitated to express concerns in child-centered play therapy. The paper discusses the therapist's narration of the child's play.







Caloric restriction in animals is an effective way to reduce carcinogenesis. Anorexia nervosa (AN) is considered a model of extreme caloric restriction in humans. The aim of our study was to assess cancer incidence and mortality in women with AN. A total of 6,009 women with at least one inpatient treatment for AN during the period 1973-2003 were included in the study. Standardized incidence ratios (SIR) and standardized mortality ratios (SMR) were calculated. Overall, there was no statistically significant difference in cancer incidence compared to women in the general population. At a statistically significant or borderline significant level, a higher incidence for lung cancer and cancer of lymphoid, hematopoietic and related tissue was observed along with a reduced breast cancer incidence. Women with AN had twice as high mortality from cancer in general, and more specifically from melanoma, cancers of genital organs and cancers of ill-defined, secondary and unspecified sites. The increased lung cancer incidence may be due to smoking habits among women with AN. The worse prognosis with higher mortality from melanoma, cancers of genital organs and cancers of ill-defined, secondary and unspecified sites may be explained by AN-specific attitudes toward seeking medical care, adherence to treatment or worse biological precondition due to starvation and cachexia.
Anthocyanins are a group of natural phenolic compounds responsible for the color to plants and fruits. These compounds might have beneficial effects on memory and have antioxidant properties. In the present study we have investigated the therapeutic efficacy of anthocyanins in an animal model of cognitive deficits, associated to Alzheimer's disease, induced by scopolamine. We evaluated whether anthocyanins protect the effects caused by SCO on nitrite/nitrate (NOx) levels and Na(+),K(+)-ATPase and Ca(2+)-ATPase and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activities in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus (of rats. We used 4 different groups of animals: control (CTRL), anthocyanins treated (ANT), scopolamine-challenged (SCO), and scopolamine+anthocyanins (SCO+ANT). After seven days of treatment with ANT (200mgkg(-1); oral), the animals were SCO injected (1mgkg(-1); IP) and were performed the behavior tests, and submitted to euthanasia. A memory deficit was found in SCO group, but ANT treatment prevented this impairment of memory (P&lt;0.05). The ANT treatment per se had an anxiolytic effect. AChE activity was increased in both in cortex and hippocampus of SCO group, this effect was significantly attenuated by ANT (P&lt;0.05). SCO decreased Na(+),K(+)-ATPase and Ca(2+)-ATPase activities in hippocampus, and ANT was able to significantly (P&lt;0.05) prevent these effects. No significant alteration was found on NOx levels among the groups. In conclusion, the ANT is able to regulate cholinergic neurotransmission and restore the Na(+),K(+)-ATPase and Ca(2+)-ATPase activities, and also prevented memory deficits caused by scopolamine administration.
Physical exercise and excessive consumption of monosodium glutamate (MSG) can affect the morphological and electrophysiological organization of the brain during development. However, the interaction of both factors remains unclear. We analyzed the effect of this interaction on the excitability-related phenomenon known as cortical spreading depression (CSD) and the microglial reaction expressed as Iba1-immunolabeled cells in the rat motor cortex. MSG (2g/kg or 4g/kg) was administered every other day during the first 14 postnatal days. Treadmill exercise started at 21-23 days of life and lasted 3 weeks, 5 days/week, for 30min/day. At 45-60 days, CSD was recorded for 4h at two cortical points and the CSD parameters (velocity, amplitude, and duration of the negative potential change) calculated. Confirming previous observations, exercised rats presented with lower CSD velocities (3.290.18mm/min) than the sedentary group (3.800.18mm/min; P&lt;0.05). MSG increased CSD velocities in the exercised rats compared to saline-treated and exercised animals in a dose-dependent manner (3.490.19, 4.050.18, and 3.270.26 for 2g/kg MSG, 4g/kg MSG, and saline, respectively; P&lt;0.05). The amplitude (ranging from 14.35.9 to 18.76.2mV) and duration (46.711.1 to 60.511.6s) of the negative slow potential shift of the CSD were similar in all groups. Both exercise and MSG treatment increased Iba1 immunolabeling. The results confirm that physical exercise decelerates CSD propagation. However, it does not impede the CSD-accelerating action of MSG. These effects were accompanied by a cortical microglia reaction. Therefore, the data suggest that treadmill exercise early in life can influence the development of cortical electrical activity.
This study characterizes the developmental patterns of seven key amino acids: glutamate, -amino-butyric acid (GABA), glycine, glutamine, aspartate, alanine and taurine in the mouse retina. We analyze amino acids in specific bipolar, amacrine and ganglion cell sub-populations (i.e. GABAergic vs. glycinergic amacrine cells) and anatomically distinct regions of photoreceptors and Mller cells (i.e. cell bodies vs. endfeet) by extracting data from previously described pattern recognition analysis. Pattern recognition statistically classifies all cells in the retina based on their neurochemical profile and surpasses the previous limitations of anatomical and morphological identification of cells in the immature retina. We found that the GABA and glycine cellular content reached adult-like levels in most neurons before glutamate. The metabolic amino acids glutamine, aspartate and alanine also reached maturity in most retinal cells before eye opening. When the overall amino acid profiles were considered for each cell group, ganglion cells and GABAergic amacrine cells matured first, followed by glycinergic amacrine cells and finally bipolar cells. Photoreceptor cell bodies reached adult-like amino acid profiles at P7 whilst Mller cells acquired typical amino acid profiles in their cell bodies at P7 and in their endfeet by P14. We further compared the amino acid profiles of the C57Bl/6J mouse with the transgenic X-inactivation mouse carrying the lacZ gene on the X chromosome and validated this animal model for the study of normal retinal development. This study provides valuable insight into normal retinal neurochemical maturation and metabolism and benchmark amino acid values for comparison with retinal disease, particularly those which occur during development.
In this study, we investigated the effect of antenatal allopurinol (ALLO) treatment on levels and expression of plasticity markers in the dorsal hippocampus of low (LBW) and normal (NBW) birth weight piglets. ALLO treatment given daily in the last trimester to pregnant sows had a protective effect on neuronal plasticity markers in their piglets. ALLO increases protein levels of BDNF and the postsynaptic marker PSD95 in LBW and NBW piglets. ALLO treatment increases the pCREB/CREB ratio in LBW piglets to a similar level as that found in untreated NBW piglets. In conclusion, antioxidant treatment administered in the last trimester might be a promising treatment for LBW neonates.








Post-transcriptional control of mRNA trafficking and metabolism plays a critical role in the actualization and fine tuning of the genetic program of cells, both in development and in differentiated tissues. Cis-acting signals, responsible for post-transcriptional regulation, reside in the RNA message itself, usually in untranslated regions, 5' or 3' to the coding sequence, and are recognized by trans-acting factors: RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) and/or non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs). ncRNAs bind short mRNA sequences usually present in the 3'-untranslated (3'-UTR) region of their target messages. RBPs recognize specific nucleotide sequences and/or secondary/tertiary structures. Most RBPs assemble on mRNA at the moment of transcription and shepherd it to its destination, somehow determining its final fate. Regulation of mRNA localization and metabolism has a particularly important role in the nervous system where local translation of pre-localized mRNAs has been implicated in developing axon and dendrite pathfinding, and in synapse formation. Moreover, activity-dependent mRNA trafficking and local translation may underlie long-lasting changes in synaptic efficacy, responsible for learning and memory. This review focuses on the role of RBPs in neuronal development and plasticity, as well as possible connections between ncRNAs and RBPs.
Intrusive re-experiencing is a core symptom in post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), often triggered by contextual cues associated with the trauma. It is not yet clear if intrusive re-experiencing is only the result, or whether it may contribute to the establishment of PTSD following acute stress. This study aimed at examining the impact of an underwater trauma (UWT) reminder on anxiety-like behaviour and on neuronal activity and plasticity in the hippocampus and the amygdala. Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to UWT and 24h later were re-exposed to the context. The effects on behaviour, activation of the amygdala (BLA) and dentate gyrus (DG), and on long-term potentiation (LTP) and local circuit activity (frequency-dependent inhibition (FDI) and paired-pulse inhibition (PPI)) in the DG were assessed. The exposure to UWT by itself resulted in increased anxiety behaviour in the open field, together with increased PPI. Upon exposure to the UWT reminder, an additional increase in anxiety was also observed in the EPM and in FDI. Moreover, reminder exposure resulted in impaired DG LTP and a significant BLA extracellular-signal-regulated kinases (ERK) 2 activation. In conclusion, these observed effects of exposure to a trauma reminder, following the exposure to the initial trauma, might be associated with the progression of trauma-related pathologies and the development of related disorders.
The present study was designed to investigate the involvement of GABA-A receptors of the basolateral amygdala (BLA) in the impairing effect of acute stress on memory retrieval. The BLAs of adult male Wistar rats were bilaterally cannulated and memory retrieval was measured in a step-through type passive avoidance apparatus. Acute stress was evoked by placing the animals on an elevated platform for 10, 20 and 30min. The results indicated that exposure to 20 and 30min stress, but not 10min, before memory retrieval testing (pre-test exposure to stress) decreased the step-through latency, indicating stress-induced memory retrieval impairment. Intra-BLA microinjection of a GABA-A receptor agonist, muscimol (0.005-0.02g/rat), 5min before exposure to an ineffective stress (10min exposure to stress) induced memory retrieval impairment. It is important to note that pre-test intra-BLA microinjection of the same doses of muscimol had no effect on memory retrieval in the rats unexposed to 10min stress. The blockade of GABA-A receptors of the BLA by injecting an antagonist, bicuculline (0.4-0.5g/rat), 5min before 20min exposure to stress, prevented stress-induced memory retrieval. Pre-test intra-BLA microinjection of the same doses of bicuculline (0.4-0.5g/rat) in rats unexposed to 20min stress had no effect on memory retrieval. In addition, pre-treatment with bicuculline (0.1-0.4g/rat, intra-BLA) reversed muscimol (0.02g/rat, intra-BLA)-induced potentiation on the effect of stress in passive avoidance learning. It can be concluded that pre-test exposure to stress can induce memory retrieval impairment and the BLA GABA-A receptors may be involved in stress-induced memory retrieval impairment.




Previous investigations have attempted to correlate the genotype with the cutaneous phenotype in patients with epidermolysis bullosa (EB), but never with the oropharyngeal phenotype. Seventeen dystrophic EB (DEB) patients were genotyped for COL7A1 gene mutations and divided into five distinct groups. Oropharyngeal disease severity was assessed with the Epidermolysis Bullosa Oropharyngeal Severity (EBOS) score by an oral medicine specialist. The genotype-phenotype correlation was calculated by Kruskal-Wallis analysis of variance using the Mann-Whitney test, applying the Bonferroni correction. The most severe oropharyngeal phenotype was found in the group with the 2470insG/3948insT mutation, with a mean disease severity score of 18.50  2.12; the mildest was found in the 6862del16 mutation group, with a mean disease severity score of 0.57  1.13. The most significant difference in median score was found in the total score (P = 0.009), followed by tongue (P = 0.02) and upper lip (P = 0.021), but no correlation was found between disease severity and the groups (P&gt;0.005, after Bonferroni correction). Multiple comparisons among the five different genotypic groups revealed no statistically significant genotype-oropharyngeal phenotype correlation; it was not possible to establish which group was more severe, or to associate a specific mutation to a specific oropharyngeal phenotype.
Fear arousal-vividly showing people the negative health consequences of life-endangering behaviors-is popular as a method to raise awareness of risk behaviors and to change them into health-promoting behaviors. However, most data suggest that, under conditions of low efficacy, the resulting reaction will be defensive. Instead of applying fear appeals, health promoters should identify effective alternatives to fear arousal by carefully developing theory- and evidence-based programs. The Intervention Mapping (IM) protocol helps program planners to optimize chances for effectiveness. IM describes the intervention development process in six steps: (1) assessing the problem and community capacities, (2) specifying program objectives, (3) selecting theory-based intervention methods and practical applications, (4) designing and organizing the program, (5) planning, adoption, and implementation, and (6) developing an evaluation plan. Authors who used IM indicated that it helped in bringing the development of interventions to a higher level.

High blood pressure is common during the acute phase of stroke and is associated with a poor outcome. However, the management of high blood pressure remains unclear. The 'Efficacy of Nitric Oxide in Stroke' trial tested whether transdermal glyceryl trinitrate, a nitric oxide donor that lowers blood pressure, is safe and effective in improving outcome after acute stroke. Efficacy of Nitric Oxide in Stroke is an international multicenter, prospective, randomized, single-blind, blinded endpoint trial, with funding from the U.K. Medical Research Council. Patients with acute ischemic stroke or intracerebral hemorrhage and systolic blood pressure 140-220mmHg were randomized to glyceryl trinitrate or no glyceryl trinitrate and, where relevant, to continue or stop prestroke antihypertensive therapy. The primary outcome is shift in modified Rankin Scale at three-months. Patients or relatives gave written informed (proxy) consent, and all sites had research ethics approval. Analyses will be done by intention to treat. This paper and attachment describe the trial's statistical analysis plan, developed prior to unblinding of date. The statistical analysis plan contains design and methods for analyses, and unpopulated tables and figures for the two primary publications and some secondary publications. The database will be locked in late February 2014 in preparation for presentation of the results in May 2014. The data from the trial will improve the precision of the estimates of the overall treatment effects (efficacy and safety) of results from completed trials of blood pressure management in acute stroke, and provide the first large-scale randomized evidence on transdermal glyceryl trinitrate, and of continuing (vs. stopping) prestroke antihypertensive medications, in acute stroke.





In the HIV context, risky sexual behaviours can be reduced through effective parent-adolescent communication. This study used the Parent Adolescent Communication Scale to determine parent-adolescent communication by ethnicity and identify predictors of high parent-adolescent communication amongst South African adolescents post-apartheid. A cross-sectional interviewer-administered survey was administered to 822 adolescents from Johannesburg, South Africa. Backward stepwise multivariate regressions were performed. The sample was predominantly Black African (62%, n = 506) and female (57%, n = 469). Of the participants, 57% (n = 471) reported high parent-adolescent communication. Multivariate regression showed that gender was a significant predictor of high parent-adolescent communication (Black African OR:1.47, CI: 1.0-2.17, Indian OR: 2.67, CI: 1.05-6.77, White OR: 2.96, CI: 1.21-7.18). Female-headed households were predictors of high parent-adolescent communication amongst Black Africans (OR:1.49, CI: 1.01-2.20), but of low parent-adolescent communication amongst Whites (OR:0.36, CI: 0.15-0.89). Overall levels of parent-adolescent communication in South Africa are low. HIV prevention programmes for South African adolescents should include information and skills regarding effective parent-adolescent communication.








The aim of the study was to investigate the precision of estimated upright time during one week in community dwelling older adults after hip fracture when monitoring activity for different numbers of consecutive days. Information about upright time was collected by thigh-worn accelerometers during 7 consecutive days in 31 older adults (mean age 81.8 years  5.3) 3 months after hip-fracture surgery. Mean time in upright position, including both standing and walking, was 260.9 ( 151.2) min/day. A cutoff value of half an hour was used to provide recommendations about number of recording days. Large variability between participants between days, as well as a nonconstant within-participant variability between days indicates that at least 4 consecutive days of recording should be used to obtain a reliable estimate of upright time for individual persons. However, at a group level, one day of recording is sufficient.


Jung was the first to emphasize the importance of psychological factors in the aetiology and treatment of schizophrenia. Despite this, and other seminal contributions, his work on schizophrenia is almost completely ignored or forgotten today. This paper, a follow-up to one on Jung's theories of aetiology and symptom formation in schizophrenia (Journal of Analytical Psychology, 59, 1) reviews Jung's views on psychological approaches to research on, and treatment of, the disorder. Five themes are covered: 1) experimental psychopathology; 2) attentional disturbance; 3) psychological treatment; 4) the relationship between the environment (including the psychiatric hospital) and symptom expression; and 5) heterogeneity and the schizophrenia spectrum. Review of these areas reveal that Jung's ideas about the kind of research that can elucidate psychological mechanisms in schizophrenia, and the importance of psychotherapy for people with this condition, are very much in line with contemporary paradigms. Moreover, further exploration of several points of convergence could lead to advances in both of these fields, as well as within analytical psychology.

Previous research has demonstrated that, over a period of weeks, the auditory system accommodates to changes in the monaural spectral cues for sound locations within the frontal region of space. We were interested to determine if similar accommodation could occur for locations in the posterior regions of space, i.e. in the absence of contemporaneous visual information that indicates any mismatch between the perceived and actual location of a sound source. To distort the normal spectral cues to sound location, eight listeners wore small moulds in each ear. HRTF recordings confirmed that while the moulds substantially altered the monaural spectral cues, sufficient residual cues were retained to provide a basis for relearning. Compared to control measures, sound localization performance initially decreased significantly, with a sevenfold increase in front-back confusions and elevation errors more than doubled. Subjects wore the moulds continuously for a period of up to 60 days (median 38 days), over which time performance improved but remained significantly poorer than control levels. Sound localization performance for frontal locations (audio-visual field) was compared with that for posterior space (audio-only field), and there was no significant difference between regions in either the extent or rate of accommodation. This suggests a common mechanism for both regions of space that does not rely on contemporaneous visual information as a teacher signal for recalibration of the auditory system to modified spectral cues.
The aims of this study were two-fold; firstly, to investigate whether self-report measures are useful and reflect parent-reported psychiatric symptoms in children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD), and secondly, to investigate whether children with ASD are able to access and report their cognitions, a prerequisite skill for cognitive behavior therapies. Thirty children with ASD and 21 comparison children without ASD completed the Spence Children's Anxiety Scale and the Children's Depression Inventory, with parents completing the parent version of both questionnaires. Intraclass correlations revealed that there was good agreement between ASD children and their parents on both measures, but only on the depression measure in non-ASD children. The children in both groups also completed the Children's Automatic Thoughts Questionnaires; multiple regression analyses indicated that within the ASD group, child-rated scores on the CATS questionnaire were positively related to increased self-reported symptoms of anxiety and depression, but not in the comparison group, suggesting that children with ASD are able to accurately report their anxious and depressed cognitions. The implications of these results for both the practice and theory of CBT for children with ASD are discussed.
The duper mutation in Syrian hamsters shortens the free-running period (DD) of locomotor activity by approximately 1 h when expressed on the wild-type background and by 2 h on the tau mutant background (&quot;super duper&quot;). In either case, duper markedly amplifies the phase response curve (PRC) of the light pulse. This work examined whether the duper mutation alters parametric as well as nonparametric properties, intensity thresholds, and noncircadian responses to light. Furthermore, it assessed the effects of duper on the range of entrainment and circadian aftereffects. In the first study, duper mutant and wild-type (wt) hamsters showed a similar intensity threshold for light-induced phase shifts. In the second, wt, tau mutant, and super duper hamsters were exposed to LD cycles whose period (T) progressively shortened. Regardless of whether the light phase was held at 50% of T or fixed at 3 h, super duper mutants entrained to a wider range of T cycles and showed aftereffects upon release into DD. In the third study, LL was measured in mutant and wt hamsters that were maintained for 30-day intervals in constant light of progressively greater intensities. With increasing light intensity, the circadian period shortened in duper mutants. Circadian rhythms of super duper hamsters were disrupted at light intensities considerably below those that induced arrhythmicity in wt, tau heterozygote, or duper homozygote hamsters. In the fourth study, hamsters that were wt or homozygous for duper received two 15-min light pulses: the first at CT14 to CT16 or CT17 to CT19 and the second 2 h later. As expected, wt and duper mutants showed weak and strong resetting, respectively. Light pulses in early subjective night had an additive effect in mutant but not in wt hamsters, indicating that larger phase shifts of the pacemaker take longer to complete. Finally, super duper hamsters showed slightly but not significantly more negative masking than did wt or duper mutant hamsters. These results indicate that the duper mutation affects the properties of the central circadian pacemaker. The mutant allele affects not only the PRC but also parametric responses to light.

The interface between cerebrovascular disease (CVD) and epilepsy is complex and multifaceted. Late-onset epilepsy (LOE) is increasingly common and is often attributed to CVD, and is indeed associated with an increased risk of stroke. This relationship is easily recognizable where there is a history of stroke, particularly involving the cerebral cortex. However, the relationship with otherwise occult, subcortical CVD is currently less well established yet causality is often invoked. In this review, we consider the diagnosis of LOE in clinical practice--including its behaviour as a potential mimic of acute ischemic stroke and transient ischemic attack; evidence for an association between occult CVD and LOE; and potential mechanisms of epileptogenesis in occult CVD, including potential interrelationships between disordered cerebral metabolism and perfusion, disrupted neurovascular unit integrity, blood-brain barrier dysfunction, and inflammation. We also discuss recently recognized issues concerning antiepileptic drug treatment and vascular risk and consider a variety of less common CVD entities associated with seizures.
The neonatal brain is vulnerable to oxidative stress, and the pentose phosphate pathway (PPP) may be of particular importance to limit the injury. Furthermore, in the neonatal brain, neurons depend on de novo synthesis of neurotransmitters via pyruvate carboxylase (PC) in astrocytes to increase neurotransmitter pools. In the adult brain, PPP activity increases in response to various injuries while pyruvate carboxylation is reduced after ischemia. However, little is known about the response of these pathways after neonatal hypoxia-ischemia (HI). To this end, 7-day-old rats were subjected to unilateral carotid artery ligation followed by hypoxia. Animals were injected with [1,2-(13)C]glucose during the recovery phase and extracts of cerebral hemispheres ipsi- and contralateral to the operation were analyzed using (1)H- and (13)C-NMR (nuclear magnetic resonance) spectroscopy and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). After HI, glucose levels were increased and there was evidence of mitochondrial hypometabolism in both hemispheres. Moreover, metabolism via PPP was reduced bilaterally. Ipsilateral glucose metabolism via PC was reduced, but PC activity was relatively preserved compared with glucose metabolism via pyruvate dehydrogenase. The observed reduction in PPP activity after HI may contribute to the increased susceptibility of the neonatal brain to oxidative stress.
Tissue pH is an indicator of altered cellular metabolism in diseases including stroke and cancer. Ischemic tissue often becomes acidic due to increased anaerobic respiration leading to irreversible cellular damage. Chemical exchange saturation transfer (CEST) effects can be used to generate pH-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) contrast, which has been used to delineate the ischemic penumbra after ischemic stroke. In the current study, a novel MRI ratiometric technique is presented to measure absolute pH using the ratio of CEST-mediated contrast from amine and amide protons: amine/amide concentration-independent detection (AACID). Effects of CEST were observed at 2.75 parts per million (p.p.m.) for amine protons and at 3.50 p.p.m. for amide protons downfield (i.e., higher frequency) from bulk water. Using numerical simulations and in vitro MRI experiments, we showed that pH measured using AACID was independent of tissue relaxation time constants, macromolecular magnetization transfer effects, protein concentration, and temperature within the physiologic range. After in vivo pH calibration using phosphorus ((31)P) magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((31)P-MRS), local acidosis is detected in mouse brain after focal permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion. In summary, our results suggest that AACID represents a noninvasive method to directly measure the spatial distribution of absolute pH in vivo using CEST MRI.
Nearly 400 years ago, Thomas Willis described the arterial ring at the base of the brain (the circle of Willis, CW) and recognized it as a compensatory system in the case of arterial occlusion. This theory is still accepted. We present several arguments that via negativa should discard the compensatory theory. (1) Current theory is anthropocentric; it ignores other species and their analog structures. (2) Arterial pathologies are diseases of old age, appearing after gene propagation. (3) According to the current theory, evolution has foresight. (4) Its commonness among animals indicates that it is probably a convergent evolutionary structure. (5) It was observed that communicating arteries are too small for effective blood flow, and (6) missing or hypoplastic in the majority of the population. We infer that CW, under physiologic conditions, serves as a passive pressure dissipating system; without considerable blood flow, pressure is transferred from the high to low pressure end, the latter being another arterial component of CW. Pressure gradient exists because pulse wave and blood flow arrive into the skull through different cerebral arteries asynchronously, due to arterial tree asymmetry. Therefore, CW and its communicating arteries protect cerebral artery and blood-brain barrier from hemodynamic stress.
Contrast-enhanced radiotherapy is an innovative treatment that combines the selective accumulation of heavy elements in tumors with stereotactic irradiations using medium energy X-rays. The radiation dose enhancement depends on the absolute amount of iodine reached in the tumor and its time course. Quantitative, postinfusion iodine biodistribution and associated brain perfusion parameters were studied in human brain metastasis as key parameters for treatment feasibility and quality. Twelve patients received an intravenous bolus of iodinated contrast agent (CA) (40 mL, 4 mL/s), followed by a steady-state infusion (160 mL, 0.5 mL/s) to ensure stable intratumoral amounts of iodine during the treatment. Absolute iodine concentrations and quantitative perfusion maps were derived from 40 multislice dynamic computed tomography (CT) images of the brain. The postinfusion mean intratumoral iodine concentration (over 30 minutes) reached 1.94  0.12 mg/mL. Reasonable correlations were obtained between these concentrations and the permeability surface area product and the cerebral blood volume. To our knowledge, this is the first quantitative study of CA biodistribution versus time in brain metastasis. The study shows that suitable and stable amounts of iodine can be reached for contrast-enhanced radiotherapy. Moreover, the associated perfusion measurements provide useful information for the patient recruitment and management processes.
The strategies to protect against the disrupted blood-brain barrier (BBB) in HIV-1 infection are not well developed. Therefore, we investigated the potential of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) agonists to prevent enhanced BBB permeability induced by HIV-1-specific protein Tat. Exposure to Tat via the internal carotid artery (ICA) disrupted permeability across the BBB; however, this effect was attenuated in mice treated with fenofibrate (PPAR agonist) or rosiglitazone (PPAR agonist). In contrast, exposure to GW9662 (PPAR antagonist) exacerbated Tat-induced disruption of the BBB integrity. Increased BBB permeability was associated with decreased tight junction (TJ) protein expression and activation of ERK1/2 and Akt in brain microvessels; these effects were attenuated by cotreatment with fenofibrate but not with rosiglitazone. Importantly, both PPAR agonists also protected against Tat-induced astrogliosis and neuronal loss. Because disruption of TJ integrity has been linked to matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) activity, we also evaluated Tat-induced effects in MMP-9-deficient mice. Tat-induced cerebrovascular toxicity, astrogliosis, and neuronal loss were less pronounced in MMP-9-deficient mice as compared with wild-type controls and were further attenuated by PPAR agonists. These results indicate that enhancing PPAR activity combined with targeting MMPs may provide effective therapeutic strategies in brain infection by HIV-1.
Cortical lawns prepared from sea urchin eggs have offered a robust in vitro system for study of regulated exocytosis and membrane fusion events since their introduction by Vacquier almost 40years ago (Vacquier in Dev Biol 43:62-74, 1975). Lawns have been imaged by phase contrast, darkfield, differential interference contrast, and electron microscopy. Quantification of exocytosis kinetics has been achieved primarily by light scattering assays. We present simple differential interference contrast image analysis procedures for quantifying the kinetics and extent of exocytosis in cortical lawns using an open vessel that allows rapid solvent equilibration and modification. These preparations maintain the architecture of the original cortices, allow for cytological and immunocytochemical analyses, and permit quantification of variation within and between lawns. When combined, these methods can shed light on factors controlling the rate of secretion in a spatially relevant cellular context. We additionally provide a subroutine for IGOR Pro that converts raw data from line scans of cortical lawns into kinetic profiles of exocytosis. Rapid image acquisition reveals spatial variations in time of initiation of individual granule fusion events with the plasma membrane not previously reported.
Baclofen is a -aminobutyric acid (GABA) agonist that is commonly prescribed for the treatment of spasticity in children. The clinical indications for baclofen use in the pediatric population have increased in recent years. Prescribing baclofen mandates education regarding abrupt withdrawal and overdose because of the severe clinical reactions this can precipitate. This report highlights the case of a patient who presented with acute onset of coma and a flaccid paralysis after baclofen overdose. We reviewed the presentation, clinical course, diagnostic studies, and outcome of this patient. A review of prior literature regarding baclofen overdose is included. Baclofen overdose is heralded by dose-related alteration in consciousness and weakness, progressing to coma and a flaccid paralysis. Screening for baclofen overdose is accomplished through high-power liquid chromatography. Baclofen overdose is treated with supportive care and antiepileptic medications as indicated. There is usually full spontaneous recovery with elimination of the medication.
Proteins play a variety of functional roles in tissues that underlie tissue health. The measurement of protein function is important to both understand normal and dysfunctional tissue states. Low-flow push-pull perfusion sampling (LFPS) has been used to collect submicroliter volumes of extracellular fluid which are well suited to capillary electrophoresis for compositional quantitative analysis. In this study, LFPS is used to deliver pharmacological agents to the in vivo retinal tissues at the probe sampling tip during sampling to measure protein function. Two native nitric oxide synthase enzymes were pharmacologically inhibited and the enzyme product NO metabolite, nitrate, was determined with capillary electrophoresis from the perfusates. LFPS delivered inhibitors including the non-selective N(G)-nitro-Larginine methyl ester (L-NAME), the nNOS selective 7-nitroindazole (7-NI), and eNOS N5-(1-imioethyl)-L-ornithine, dihydrochloride (L-NIO) were perfused to the sampling region either directly over a rat retina optic nerve head or 1-mm peripheral to the ONH. At the PONH, 65, 55 and 60% of baseline nitrate levels, respectively, were observed with inhibitor infusion. These are statistically significant (P&lt;0.05) compared to saline drug infusion. However, infusion of the inhibitors to the ONH did lead to significant nitrate concentration decreases. This data suggests that the endogenous enzymes, nNOS and eNOS, are both spatially and functionally localized to the PONH at the in vivo rat retina.

Venous air embolism (VAE) is a well recognized complication during neurosurgery. Pre-cordial doppler and trans-esophageal echocardiography are sensitive monitors for the detection of VAE. A sudden, abrupt reduction in the end-tidal carbondioxide (ETCO2) pressure with associated hypotension during neurosurgery might suggest VAE, when more sensitive monitors are not available. We describe an unusual cause for sudden reduction in ETCO2 during neurosurgery and discuss the mechanism for such presentation.


Vagus somatosensory evoked potentials are a method for assessing the function of the vagus nerve, which were shown to be altered in neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. Various parameters of the stimulation such as the electrode position and the stimulus intensity have already been investigated. In this study, the focus is on the systematic examination of the other parameters of the stimulation of the vagus somatosensory evoked potentials: stimulus duration, interstimulus interval, and, again, the stimulation intensity. Thirty young and healthy subjects were examined using five different sets of stimulation parameters, and 24 were included in the further analysis. The results show that a reduction of the stimulus duration and a decrease in stimulus intensity have a significant effect on the amplitudes. A shortening of the interstimulus interval does not seem to have such an effect, but this stimulation is rated more painful and unpleasant than the standard stimulation. Overall, the standard stimulation used so far seems to be the most preferable condition.


Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is an established therapy for movement disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD). Although the efficacy of DBS is clear, its precise molecular mechanism remains unknown. The glial cell line derived factor (GDNF) family of ligands has been shown to confer neuroprotective effects on dopaminergic neurons, and putaminal infusion of GDNF have been investigated in PD patients with promising results. Despite the potential therapeutic role of GDNF in alleviating motor symptoms, there is no data on the effects of electrical stimulation on GDNF-family receptor (GFR) expression in the basal ganglia structures. Here, we report the effects of electrical stimulation on GFR1 isoforms, particularly GFR1a and GFR1b. Wistar rats underwent 2 hours of high frequency stimulation (HFS) at the globus pallidus interna nucleus. A control group was subjected to a similar procedure but without stimulation. The HFS group, sacrificed 24 hours after treatment, had a threefold decrease in mRNA expression level of GFR1b (p=0.037), but the expression level reverted to normal 72 hours after stimulation. Our preliminary data reveal the acute effects of HFS on splice isoforms of GFR1, and suggest that HFS may modulate the splice isoforms of GFR1a and GFR1b to varying degrees. Going forward, elucidating the interactions between HFS and GFR may shed new insights into the complexity of GDNF signaling in the nervous system and lead to better design of clinical trials using these signaling pathways to halt disease progression in PD and other neurodegenerative diseases.

In vitro and in vivo laboratory data show that pomegranate juice consistently inhibits intestinal CYP2C9 and CYP3A4 enzymes. Pomegranate juice may therefore increase the bioavailability of drugs that are metabolized by these enzymes. However, studies in humans find that pomegranate juice does not increase exposure to either CYP2C9 or CYP3A4 substrates. These contradictory findings suggest that potential drug interactions identified in the laboratory may not necessarily translate into clinically significant drug interactions in humans, and hence that laboratory data are insufficient grounds upon which clinical decisions may be based.




Neuroanatomical tracer studies in the nonhuman primate macaque monkey are a valuable resource for cognitive neuroscience research. These data ground theories of cognitive function in anatomy, and with the emergence of graph theoretical analyses in neuroscience, there is high demand for these data to be consolidated into large-scale connection matrices (&quot;macroconnectomes&quot;). Because manual review of the anatomical literature is time consuming and error prone, computational solutions are needed to accomplish this task. Here we describe the &quot;CoCoTools&quot; open-source Python library, which automates collection and integration of macaque connectivity data for visualization and graph theory analysis. CoCoTools both interfaces with the CoCoMac database, which houses a vast amount of annotated tracer results from 100 years (1905-2005) of neuroanatomical research, and implements coordinate-free registration algorithms, which allow studies that use different parcellations of the brain to be translated into a single graph. We show that using CoCoTools to translate all of the data stored in CoCoMac produces graphs with properties consistent with what is known about global brain organization. Moreover, in addition to describing CoCoTools' processing pipeline, we provide worked examples, tutorials, links to on-line documentation, and detailed appendices to aid scientists interested in using CoCoTools to gather and analyze CoCoMac data.
Transgenic lines expressing a controllable form of Cre recombinase have become valuable tools for manipulating gene expression in adult neural progenitors and their progeny. Neural progenitors express several proteins that distinguish them from mature neurons, and the promoters for these genes have been co-opted to produce selective transgene expression within this population. To date, nine CreER(T2) transgenic lines have been designed using the nestin promoter; however, only a subset are capable of eliciting expression within both neurogenic zones of the adult brain. Here we compare three such nestin-CreER(T2) lines to evaluate specificity of expression and efficiency of recombination. Each line was examined by using three different Cre reporter strains that varied in sensitivity. We found that all three nestin-CreER(T2) strains induced reporter expression within the main neurogenic areas, albeit to varying degrees depending on the reporter. Unexpectedly, we found that two of the three lines induced substantial reporter expression outside of neurogenic areas. These lines produced strong labeling in cerebellar granule neurons, with additional expression in the cortex, hippocampus, striatum, and thalamus. Reporter expression in the third nestin-CreER(T2) line was considerably more specific, but was also less efficient, labeling a smaller percentage of the target population than the other two drivers. Our findings suggest that each nestin-CreER(T2) line may best serve different experimental needs, depending on whether specificity or efficiency is of greatest concern. Our study further demonstrates that each new pair of driver and responder lines should be evaluated independently, as both components can significantly influence the resulting expression pattern.
Retinitis pigmentosa refers to a family of inherited photoreceptor degenerations resulting in blindness. During and after photoreceptor loss, neurons of the inner retina are known to undergo plastic changes. Here, we have investigated in detail whether ganglion cells are altered at late stages of degeneration, well after the total loss of photoreceptors. We used mice, rd1-Thy1, that carry a mutation in the -subunit of phosphodiesterase 6 and a fluorescent protein that labels a subset of ganglion cells and B6-Thy1 control mice. Retinal wholemounts from mice aged 3-11 months were processed for immunohistochemistry and analyzed. Ganglion cells were classified based on soma area, dendritic field size, and branching of dendrites. The dendritic fields of some ganglion cells were further analyzed for their length, area and quantity of branching points. There was a decrease in size and level of branching of A2, B1, and D type ganglion cells in the degenerated retina at 11 months of age. In contrast, C1 ganglion cells remained unchanged. In addition, there was a shift in the proportion of ganglion cells ramifying in the different layers of the inner plexiform layer. Careful analysis of the dendrites of ganglion cells revealed some projecting to new, more distal regions of the inner plexiform layer. We propose that these changes in ganglion cell morphology could impact the function of individual cells as well as the retinal circuitry in the degenerated retina.
Mutations in phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10 (PTEN) are implicated in neuropsychiatric disorders including autism. Previous studies report that PTEN knockdown in neurons in vivo leads to increased spine density and synaptic activity. To better characterize synaptic changes in neurons lacking PTEN, we examined the effects of shRNA knockdown of PTEN in basolateral amygdala neurons on synaptic spine density and morphology by using fluorescent dye confocal imaging. Contrary to previous studies in the dentate gyrus, we find that knockdown of PTEN in basolateral amygdala leads to a significant decrease in total spine density in distal dendrites. Curiously, this decreased spine density is associated with increased miniature excitatory postsynaptic current frequency and amplitude, suggesting an increase in number and function of mature spines. These seemingly contradictory findings were reconciled by spine morphology analysis demonstrating increased mushroom spine density and size with correspondingly decreased thin protrusion density at more distal segments. The same analysis of PTEN conditional deletion in the dentate gyrus demonstrated that loss of PTEN does not significantly alter total density of dendritic protrusions in the dentate gyrus, but does decrease thin protrusion density and increases density of more mature mushroom spines. These findings suggest that, contrary to previous reports, PTEN knockdown may not induce de novo spinogenesis, but instead may increase synaptic activity by inducing morphological and functional maturation of spines. Furthermore, behavioral analysis of basolateral amygdala PTEN knockdown suggests that these changes limited only to the basolateral amygdala complex may not be sufficient to induce increased anxiety-related behaviors.
Generalized linear models play an essential role in a wide variety of statistical applications. This paper discusses an approximation of the likelihood in these models that can greatly facilitate computation. The basic idea is to replace a sum that appears in the exact log-likelihood by an expectation over the model covariates; the resulting &quot;expected log-likelihood&quot; can in many cases be computed significantly faster than the exact log-likelihood. In many neuroscience experiments the distribution over model covariates is controlled by the experimenter and the expected log-likelihood approximation becomes particularly useful; for example, estimators based on maximizing this expected log-likelihood (or a penalized version thereof) can often be obtained with orders of magnitude computational savings compared to the exact maximum likelihood estimators. A risk analysis establishes that these maximum EL estimators often come with little cost in accuracy (and in some cases even improved accuracy) compared to standard maximum likelihood estimates. Finally, we find that these methods can significantly decrease the computation time of marginal likelihood calculations for model selection and of Markov chain Monte Carlo methods for sampling from the posterior parameter distribution. We illustrate our results by applying these methods to a computationally-challenging dataset of neural spike trains obtained via large-scale multi-electrode recordings in the primate retina.
We present a novel computational model that detects temporal configurations of a given human neuronal pathway and constructs its artificial replication. This poses a great challenge since direct recordings from individual neurons are impossible in the human central nervous system and therefore the underlying neuronal pathway has to be considered as a black box. For tackling this challenge, we used a branch of complex systems modeling called artificial self-organization in which large sets of software entities interacting locally give rise to bottom-up collective behaviors. The result is an emergent model where each software entity represents an integrate-and-fire neuron. We then applied the model to the reflex responses of single motor units obtained from conscious human subjects. Experimental results show that the model recovers functionality of real human neuronal pathways by comparing it to appropriate surrogate data. What makes the model promising is the fact that, to the best of our knowledge, it is the first realistic model to self-wire an artificial neuronal network by efficiently combining neuroscience with artificial self-organization. Although there is no evidence yet of the model's connectivity mapping onto the human connectivity, we anticipate this model will help neuroscientists to learn much more about human neuronal networks, and could also be used for predicting hypotheses to lead future experiments.


The concept of permissive hypotension is a controversial topic in trauma care. While driving blood pressure to &quot;normal&quot; levels with large volume crystalloid infusions is not appropriate, definitive data on the target blood pressure for hypotensive resuscitation are lacking. Indeed, the concept of systolic blood pressure as a marker for resuscitation is arguable. In this case presentation, a panel of experts in trauma resuscitation discusses the merits and limitations of hypotensive resuscitation in the context of a patient who has sustained multiple injuries, including a head injury. The controversies highlighted herein call attention to the role of the intensivist in managing a continuing resuscitation while coordinating the care of other physicians whose therapies can run at cross-purposes to one another. The challenges of the practice of critical care in the 21st century are no more apparent than in the care of a complex trauma patient.
Hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE) caused by fetal and perinatal asphyxia is an important cause of mortality in the neonatal period. Not only will asphyxia affect the brain but also other organs such as the liver and kidneys. Interestingly, it has been shown that liver damage is proportional to the severity of the asphyctic insult, implying an association between liver impairment and HIE. Accordingly, we investigated in an established rat model the acute and chronic hepatic response to both fetal (FA) and perinatal asphyxia (PA). In addition, we assessed whether fetal asphyctic preconditioning (PC) would have any beneficial effect on the liver. Inflammation, ceramide signaling and hepatocellular damage were analyzed in the livers of newborn and adult rats at several short- and long-term time points after both FA and PA. We found that although FA induced an acute inflammatory response, apoptotic mRNA levels and oxidative DNA damage were decreased at 96 h post FA. Whereas increased IL-6 and IL-10 mRNA levels were observed after PA, the combination of FA and PA (PC) attenuated the inflammatory response. Moreover, 6 h after PA anti-apoptotic genes were downregulated and associated with less lipid peroxidation, while preconditioned animals were comparable to controls. In summary, asphyctic PC seems to have an acute protective effect on the liver by modulating the inflammatory, apoptotic and anti-oxidative response. More insight into the hepatic response to asphyxia is necessary, as disturbed hepatic function is associated with metabolic diseases in later life.
Many vertebrates are challenged by either chronic or acute episodes of low oxygen availability in their natural environments. Brain function is especially vulnerable to the effects of hypoxia and can be irreversibly impaired by even brief periods of low oxygen supply. This review describes recent research on physiological mechanisms that have evolved in certain vertebrate species to cope with brain hypoxia. Four model systems are considered: freshwater turtles that can survive for months trapped in frozen-over lakes, arctic ground squirrels that respire at extremely low rates during winter hibernation, seals and whales that undertake breath-hold dives lasting minutes to hours, and naked mole-rats that live in crowded burrows completely underground for their entire lives. These species exhibit remarkable specializations of brain physiology that adapt them for acute or chronic episodes of hypoxia. These specializations may be reactive in nature, involving modifications to the catastrophic sequelae of oxygen deprivation that occur in non-tolerant species, or preparatory in nature, preventing the activation of those sequelae altogether. Better understanding of the mechanisms used by these hypoxia-tolerant vertebrates will increase appreciation of how nervous systems are adapted for life in specific ecological niches as well as inform advances in therapy for neurological conditions such as stroke and epilepsy.
We investigated whether adult fruit flies (Drosophila melanogaster) use cues of larvae as social information in their food patch choice decisions. Adult male and female fruit flies showed attraction to odours emanating from foraging larvae, and females preferred to lay eggs on food patches occupied by larvae over similar unoccupied patches. Females learned and subsequently preferred to lay eggs at patches with novel flavours previously associated with feeding larvae over patches with novel flavours previously associated with no larvae. However, when we controlled for the duration of exposure to each flavoured patch, females no longer preferred the flavour previously associated with feeding larvae. This suggests that social learning in this context is indirect, as a result of strong social attraction biasing experience.
We examined how recent biased face experience affects the influence of averageness on judgments of facial attractiveness among 8- and 9-year-old children attending a girls' school, a boys' school, and a mixed-sex school. We presented pairs of individual faces in which one face was transformed 50% toward its group average, whereas the other face was transformed 50% away from that average. Across blocks, the faces varied in age (adult, 9-year-old, or 5-year-old) and sex (male or female). We expected that averageness might influence attractiveness judgments more strongly for same-age faces and, for children attending single-sex schools, same-sex faces of that age because their prototype(s) should be best tuned to the faces they see most frequently. Averageness influenced children's judgments of attractiveness, but the strength of the influence was not modulated by the age of the face, nor did the effects of sex of face differ across schools. Recent biased experience might not have affected the results because of similarities between the average faces of different ages and sexes and/or because a minimum level of experience with a particular group of faces may be adequate for the formation of a veridical prototype and its influence on judgments of attractiveness. The results suggest that averageness affects children's judgments of the attractiveness of the faces they encounter in everyday life regardless of age or sex of face.
Scene gist categorization in humans is rapid, accurate, and tuned to the statistical regularities in the visual world. However, no studies have investigated whether scene gist categorization is a general process shared across species, or whether it may be influenced by species-specific adaptive specializations relying on specific low-level scene statistical regularities of the environment. Although pigeons form many types of categorical judgments, little research has examined pigeons' scene categorization, and no studies have examined pigeons' ability to do so rapidly. In Experiment 1, pigeons were trained to discriminate between either 2 basic-level categories (beach vs. mountain) or a superordinate-level natural versus a manmade scene category distinction (beach vs. street). The birds learned both tasks to a high degree of accuracy and transferred their discrimination to novel images. Furthermore, the pigeons successfully discriminated stimuli presented in the 0.2- to 0.35-s duration range. Therefore, pigeons, a highly divergent species from humans, are also capable of rapid scene categorization, but they require longer stimulus durations than humans. Experiment 2 examined whether pigeons make use of complex statistical regularities during scene gist categorization across multiple viewpoints. Pigeons were trained with the 2 natural categories from Experiment 1 (beach vs. mountain) with zenith (90), bird's eye (45), and terrestrial (0) viewpoints. A sizable portion of the variability in pigeon categorization performance was explained by the systematic variation in scene category-specific statistical regularities, as with humans. Thus, rapid scene categorization is a process that is shared across pigeons and humans, but shows a degree of adaptive specialization. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2014 APA, all rights reserved).
A recurring observation of experimental psychologists is that people prefer, seek out, and even selectively &quot;see&quot; structure in their social and natural environments. Structure-seeking has been observed across a wide range of phenomena--from the detection of patterns in random arrays to affinities for order-providing political, religious, social, and scientific worldviews--and is exacerbated under psychological threat. Why are people motivated for structure? An intriguing, but untested, explanation holds that perceiving structure, even in domains unrelated to one's current behavioral context, can facilitate willingness to take goal-directed actions. Supporting this, in 5 studies, reminders of structure in nature or society increase willingness to engage in goal pursuit.
Power dynamics are a ubiquitous feature of human social life, yet little is known about how power is implemented in the brain. Motor resonance is the activation of similar brain networks when acting and when watching someone else act, and is thought to be implemented, in part, by the human mirror system. We investigated the effects of power on motor resonance during an action observation task. Separate groups of participants underwent a high-, neutral, or low-power induction priming procedure, prior to observing the actions of another person. During observation, motor resonance was determined with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) via measures of motor cortical output. High-power participants demonstrated lower levels of resonance than low-power participants, suggesting reduced mirroring of other people in those with power. These differences suggest that decreased motor resonance to others' actions might be one of the neural mechanisms underlying power-induced asymmetries in processing our social interaction partners.
Research on the focus of attention (FOA) in motor control has found a consistent advantage for focusing externally (on the effects of one's actions) compared to focusing internally (on one's body mechanics). However, most of this work has concentrated on movement outcomes, leaving open the question of how external attention changes the movement itself. Somewhat paradoxically, recent research has found that external attention also increases trial-by-trial movement variability. To explain these findings, we propose a theory of attention in motor control, grounded in optimal control theory, wherein variability is minimized along attended aspects of the movement. Internal attention thus reduces variability in individual bodily dimensions (positions and velocities of effectors), whereas external attention minimizes variability in the task outcome. Because the goal of a task defines a dimension in the movement space that is generally oblique to bodily dimensions, external attention should increase correlations among bodily dimensions while allowing their individual variances to grow. The current experiment tests these predictions in a dart-throwing task. External FOA led to more accurate performance and increased variability in the motion of the throwing arm, concomitant with stronger correlations among bodily dimensions (shoulder, elbow, and wrist positions and velocities) in a manner consistent with the task kinematics. These findings indicate a shift in the control policy of the motor system, consistent with the proposed theory. These results suggest an important role of attention as a control parameter in the regulation of the motor system, and more broadly illustrate the importance of cognitive mechanisms in motor behavior.
Research on future episodic thought has produced compelling theories and results in cognitive psychology, cognitive neuroscience, and clinical psychology. In experiments aimed to integrate these with basic concepts and methods from autobiographical memory research, 76 undergraduates remembered past and imagined future positive and negative events that had or would have a major impact on them. Correlations of the online ratings of visual and auditory imagery, emotion, and other measures demonstrated that individuals used the same processes to the same extent to remember past and construct future events. These measures predicted the theoretically important metacognitive judgment of past reliving and future &quot;preliving&quot; in similar ways. On standardized tests of reactions to traumatic events, scores for future negative events were much higher than scores for past negative events. The scores for future negative events were in the range that would qualify for a diagnosis of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD); the test was replicated (n = 52) to check for order effects. Consistent with earlier work, future events had less sensory vividness. Thus, the imagined symptoms of future events were unlikely to be caused by sensory vividness. In a second experiment, to confirm this, 63 undergraduates produced numerous added details between 2 constructions of the same negative future events; deficits in rated vividness were removed with no increase in the standardized tests of reactions to traumatic events. Neuroticism predicted individuals' reactions to negative past events but did not predict imagined reactions to future events. This set of novel methods and findings is interpreted in the contexts of the literatures of episodic future thought, autobiographical memory, PTSD, and classic schema theory.
An emerging corpus of clinical and neuroimaging data suggests that subsecond and suprasecond durations are represented via 2 distinct mechanisms in humans; however, surprisingly, behavioral data to this effect are lacking. In our first experiment, we perform the first systematic exploration of subsecond and suprasecond timing within the same session in nonhuman subjects. Rats were trained to judge the relative duration of 2 sequential stimuli, responding on one lever if the first stimulus was longer or on a second lever if the converse was true. Our data provide strong evidence of an abstract understanding of longer and shorter for durations in the suprasecond range, whereas responding was at chance levels for durations in the subsecond range. Data from a second experiment reveal that this pattern is not due to an inability to time subsecond signals, as rats respond systematically in subsecond and suprasecond bisection tasks. Together, our results provide the first clear behavioral evidence of a discontinuity in the mental time line. These data from rats are discussed in light of similar findings of a discontinuity in the mental number line in human infants.
Temporal integration is the perceptual process combining sensory stimulation over time into longer percepts that can span over 10 times the duration of a minimally detectable stimulus. Particularly in the auditory domain, such &quot;long-term&quot; temporal integration has been characterized as a relatively simple function that acts chiefly to bridge brief input gaps, and which places integrated stimuli on temporal coordinates while preserving their temporal order information. These properties are not observed in visual temporal integration, suggesting they might be modality specific. The present study challenges that view. Participants were presented with rapid series of successive tone stimuli, in which two separate, deviant target tones were to be identified. Critically, the target tone pair would be perceived as a single synthetic vowel if they were interpreted to be simultaneous. During the task, despite that the targets were always sequential and never actually overlapping, listeners frequently reported hearing just one sound, the synthetic vowel, rather than two successive tones. The results demonstrate that auditory temporal integration, like its visual counterpart, truly assembles a percept from sensory inputs across time, and does not just summate time-ordered (identical) inputs or fill gaps therein. This finding supports the idea that temporal integration is a universal function of the human perceptual system.
This study examines the kinds of shape features that mediate basic- and subordinate-level object recognition. Observers were trained to categorize sets of novel objects at either a basic (between-families) or subordinate (within-family) level of classification. We analyzed the spatial distributions of fixations and compared them to model distributions of different curvature polarity (regions of convex or concave bounding contour), as well as internal part boundaries. The results showed a robust preference for fixation at part boundaries and for concave over convex regions of bounding contour, during both basic- and subordinate-level classification. In contrast, mean saccade amplitudes were shorter during basic- than subordinate-level classification. These findings challenge models of recognition that do not posit any special functional status to part boundaries or curvature polarity. We argue that both basic- and subordinate-level classification are mediated by object representations. These representations make explicit internal part boundaries, and distinguish concave and convex regions of bounding contour. The classification task constrains how shape information in these representations is used, consistent with the hypothesis that both parts-based, and image-based, operations support object recognition in human vision.



Although most young adults with mood and anxiety disorders do not seek treatment, those who are better informed about mental health problems are more likely to use services. The authors used conjoint analysis to model strategies for providing information about anxiety and depression to young adults. Participants (N = 1,035) completed 17 choice tasks presenting combinations of 15 four-level attributes of a mental health information strategy. Latent class analysis yielded 3 segments. The virtual segment (28.7%) preferred working independently on the Internet to obtain information recommended by young adults who had experienced anxiety or depression. Self-assessment options and links to service providers were more important to this segment. Conventional participants (30.1%) preferred books or pamphlets recommended by a doctor, endorsed by mental health professionals, and used with a doctor's support. They would devote more time to information acquisition but were less likely to use Internet social networking options. Brief sources of information were more important to the low interest segment (41.2%). All segments preferred information about alternative ways to reduce anxiety or depression rather than psychological approaches or medication. Maximizing the use of information requires active and passive approaches delivered through old-media (e.g., books) and new-media (e.g., Internet) channels.
Various types of endogenous stem cells (SCs) participate in wound healing in the skin at different anatomical locations. SCs need to be identified through multiple markers, and this is usually performed using flow cytometry. However, immunohistological identification of endogenous stem cells in the skin at different anatomical locations by co-staining multiple SC markers has been seldom explored. We examined the immunohistological localization of four major types of SCs in wounded skin by co-staining for their multiple markers. Hematopoietic SCs were co-stained for Sca1 and CD45; mesenchymal SCs for Sca1, CD29, and CD106; adipose SCs for CD34, CD90, and CD105; and endothelial progenitor cells and their differentiated counterparts were co-stained for CD34, Tie2, and von Willebrand factor. We found Sca1(+)CD45(+) SCs in the epidermis, dermis and hypodermis of wounded skin. Sca1(+)CD29(+) and Sca1(+)CD106(+) mesenchymal SCs, CD34(+)CD105(+), CD34(+)CD90(+), and CD90(+)CD105(+) adipose SCs, as well as CD34(+)Tie2(+) endothelial progenitor cells were also located in the epidermis, dermis, and hypodermis. This study demonstrates the feasibility of using immunohistological staining to determine the location of SCs in wounded skin and the intracellular distribution of their molecular markers.
Many human societies are patrilineal, with males passing on their name or descent group affiliation to their offspring. Y-chromosomes are also passed on from father to son, leading to the simple expectation that males sharing the same surname or descent group membership should have similar Y-chromosome haplotypes. Although several studies in patrilineal human societies have examined the correspondence between Y-chromosome variation and surname or descent group membership, similar studies in non-human animals are lacking. Chimpanzees represent an excellent species for examining the relationship between descent group membership and Y-chromosome variation because they live in strongly male philopatric communities that arise by a group-fissioning process. Here we take advantage of recent analytical advances in the calculation of the time to the most recent common male ancestor and a large sample size of 273 Y-chromosome short tandem repeat haplotypes to inform our understanding of the potential ages of eight communities of chimpanzees. We find that the times to the most recent common male ancestor of chimpanzee communities are several hundred to as much as over two thousand years. These genetic estimates of the great time depths of chimpanzee communities accord well with behavioral observations suggesting that community fissions are a very rare event and are similar to genetic estimates of the time depth of patrilineal human groups.
Substantial heritability has been reported for developmental dyslexia (DD), and KIAA0319 and ROBO1 appear as more than plausible candidate susceptibility genes for this developmental disorder. Converging evidence indicates that developmental difficulties in oral language and mathematics can predate or co-occur with DD, and substantial genetic correlations have been found between these abilities and reading traits. In this study, we explored the role of eight single-nucleotide polymorphisms spanning within KIAA0319 and ROBO1 genes, and DD as a dichotomic trait, related neuropsychological phenotypes and comorbid language and mathematical (dis)abilities in a large cohort of 493 Italian nuclear families ascertained through a proband with a diagnosis of DD. Marker-trait association was analyzed by implementing a general test of family-based association for quantitative traits (that is, the Quantitative Transmission Disequilibrium Test, version 2.5.1). By providing evidence for significant association with mathematics skills, our data add further result in support of ROBO1 contributing to the deficits in DD and its correlated phenotypes. Taken together, our findings shed further light into the etiologic basis and the phenotypic complexity of this developmental disorder.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is primarily an autoimmune disease of the central nervous system, but also encompasses prominent neurodegenerative aspects. A significant proportion of MS patients will develop neurological disability over time and up until recently treatment options have been limited. However, MS treatment is now at a stage of rapid progress, with several new drugs that have reached the market or will be launched in the near future. This provides new opportunities for individualized treatment, but also creates new challenges regarding monitoring of disease activity, long-term safety issues and efficacy, not least in patients with progressive disease.


Portable wireless neuro-stimulators have been developed to facilitate long-term cognitive and behavioral studies on the central nervous system in freely moving animals. These stimulators can provide precisely controllable input(s) to the nervous system, without distracting the animal attention with cables connected to its body. In this study, a low power backpack neuro-stimulator was developed for animal brain researches that can provides arbitrary stimulus waveforms for the stimulation, while it is small and light weight to be used for small animals including rats. The system consists of a controller that uses an RF link to program and activate a small and light microprocessor-based stimulator. A Howland current source was implemented to produce precise current controlled arbitrary waveform stimulations. The system was optimized for ultra-low power consumption and small size. The stimulator was first tested for its electrical specifications. Then its performance was evaluated in a rat experiment when electrical stimulation of medial longitudinal fasciculus induced circling behavior. The stimulator is capable of delivering programmed stimulations up to  2 mA with adjusting steps of 1 A, accuracy of 0.7% and compliance of 6 V. The stimulator is 15 mm  20 mm  40 mm in size, weights 13.5 g without battery and consumes a total power of only 5.l mW. In the experiment, the rat could easily carry the stimulator and demonstrated the circling behavior for 0.1 ms current pulses of above 400 A. The developed system has a competitive size and weight, whereas providing a wide range of operation and the flexibility of generating arbitrary stimulation patterns ideal for long-term experiments in the field of cognitive and neuroscience research.

Medical comorbidities are common in patients with bipolar (BP) disorder but have not been previously examined for differences between United States and Europe. More than 900 outpatients with BP I and BP II disorder (mean age, 41 years) filled out a questionnaire including the occurrence of 30 listed medical conditions. The patients from the United States were from Los Angeles, Dallas, Cincinnati, and Bethesda, whereas those from Europe were from Utrecht, Freiberg, and Munich. Those from the United States had a significantly higher incidence of obesity and nine other medical comorbidities than those from Europe, who had only more cases of hyperthyroidism. The burden of medical comorbidities in patients with BP disorder from the United States seems higher than in patients from Europe. Given the adversities, morbidity, and early mortality associated with these conditions and their interaction with the morbidity and lethality of BP disorder itself, greater efforts at treatment and prevention of these medical comorbidities would seem indicated.
We investigated the impact of acute tryptophan depletion (ATD) and reduced brain serotonin synthesis on physiological arousal in 15 young people with ADHD participating in an aggression-inducing game. ATD was not associated with altered physiological arousal, as indexed by electrodermal activity (EDA). Baseline aggression was negatively correlated with the mean ATD effect on EDA. In accordance with the low arousal theory related to aggressive behavior, subjects with reduced physiological responsiveness/lower electrodermal reactivity to ATD tended to display elevated externalizing behavior.
Ethanol is a known neuromodulatory agent with reported actions at a range of neurotransmitter receptors. Here, we measured the effect of alcohol on metabolism of [3-C]pyruvate in the adult Guinea pig brain cortical tissue slice and compared the outcomes to those from a library of ligands active in the GABAergic system as well as studying the metabolic fate of [1,2-C]ethanol. Analyses of metabolic profile clusters suggest that the significant reductions in metabolism induced by ethanol (10, 30 and 60 mM) are via action at neurotransmitter receptors, particularly 43 receptors, whereas very low concentrations of ethanol may produce metabolic responses owing to release of GABA via GABA transporter 1 (GAT1) and the subsequent interaction of this GABA with local 5- or 1-containing GABA(A)R. There was no measureable metabolism of [1,2-C]ethanol with no significant incorporation of C from [1,2-C]ethanol into any measured metabolite above natural abundance, although there were measurable effects on total metabolite sizes similar to those seen with unlabelled ethanol.
The E3 ubiquitin ligase Parkin plays a central role in the pathogenesis of many neurodegenerative diseases. Parkin promotes specific ubiquitination and affects the localization of transactivation response DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43), which controls the translation of thousands of mRNAs. Here we tested the effects of lentiviral Parkin and TDP-43 expression on amino acid metabolism in the rat motor cortex using high frequency C NMR spectroscopy. TDP-43 expression increased glutamate levels, decreased the levels of other amino acids, including glutamine, aspartate, leucine and isoleucine, and impaired mitochondrial tricarboxylic acid cycle. TDP-43 induced lactate accumulation and altered the balance between excitatory (glutamate) and inhibitory (GABA) neurotransmitters. Parkin restored amino acid levels, neurotransmitter balance and tricarboxylic acid cycle metabolism, rescuing neurons from TDP-43-induced apoptotic death. Furthermore, TDP-43 expression led to an increase in 4E-BP levels, perhaps altering translational control and deregulating amino acid synthesis; while Parkin reversed the effects of TDP-43 on the 4E-BP signaling pathway. Taken together, these data suggest that Parkin may affect TDP-43 localization and mitigate its effects on 4E-BP signaling and loss of amino acid homeostasis.
Microtubules in neurons consist of highly dynamic regions as well as stable regions, some of which persist after bouts of severing as short mobile polymers. Concentrated at the plus ends of the highly dynamic regions are microtubule plus end tracking proteins called +TIPs that can interact with an array of other proteins and structures relevant to the plasticity of the neuron. It is also provocative to ponder that short mobile microtubules might similarly convey information with them as they transit within the neuron. Thus, beyond their known conventional functions in supporting neuronal architecture and organelle transport, microtubules may act as 'information carriers' in the neuron.
Triheptanoin, the triglyceride of heptanoate, is anticonvulsant in various epilepsy models. It is thought to improve energy metabolism in the epileptic brain by re-filling the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle with C4-intermediates (anaplerosis). Here, we injected mice with [1,2-(13) C]glucose 3.5-4 weeks after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE) fed either a control or triheptanoin diet. Amounts of metabolites and incorporations of (13) C were determined in extracts of cerebral cortices and hippocampal formation and enzyme activity and mRNA expression were quantified. The percentage enrichment with two (13) C atoms in malate, citrate, succinate, and GABA was reduced in hippocampal formation of control-fed SE compared with control mice. Except for succinate, these reductions were not found in triheptanoin-fed SE mice, indicating that triheptanoin prevented a decrease of TCA cycle capacity. Compared to those on control diet, triheptanoin-fed SE mice showed few changes in most other metabolite levels and their (13) C labeling. Reduced pyruvate carboxylase mRNA and enzyme activity in forebrains and decreased [2,3-(13) C]aspartate amounts in cortex suggest a pyruvate carboxylation independent source of C-4 TCA cycle intermediates. Most likely anaplerosis was kept unchanged by carboxylation of propionyl-CoA derived from heptanoate. Further studies are proposed to fully understand triheptanoin's effects on neuroglial metabolism and interaction.
Resolution of inflammation is an emerging new strategy to reduce damage following ischemic stroke. Lipoxin A4 (LXA4 ) is an anti-inflammatory, pro-resolution lipid mediator with high affinity binding to ALX, the lipoxin A4 receptor. Since LXA4 is rapidly inactivated, potent analogs have been created, including the ALX agonist BML-111. We hypothesized that post-ischemic intravenous administration of BML-111 would provide protection to the neurovascular unit and reduce neuroinflammation in a rat stroke model. Animals were subjected to 90 min of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) and BML-111 was injected 100 min and 24 h after stroke onset and animals euthanized at 48 h. Post-ischemic treatment with BML-111 significantly reduced infarct size, decreased vasogenic edema, protected against blood-brain barrier disruption, and reduced hemorrhagic transformation. Matrix metalloproteinase-9 and matrix metalloproteinase-3 were significantly reduced following BML-111 treatment. Administration of BML-111 dramatically decreased microglial activation, as seen with CD68, and neutrophil infiltration and recruitment, as assessed by levels of myeloperoxidase and intracellular adhesion molecule-1. The tight junction protein zona occludens-1 was protected from degradation following treatment with BML-111. These results indicate that post-ischemic activation of ALX has pro-resolution effects that limit the inflammatory damage in the cerebral cortex and helps maintain blood-brain barrier integrity after ischemic stroke.
Motile growth cones lead growing axons through developing tissues to synaptic targets. These behaviors depend on the organization and dynamics of actin filaments that fill the growth cone leading margin [peripheral (P-) domain]. Actin filament organization in growth cones is regulated by actin-binding proteins that control all aspects of filament assembly, turnover, interactions with other filaments and cytoplasmic components, and participation in producing mechanical forces. Actin filament polymerization drives protrusion of sensory filopodia and lamellipodia, and actin filament connections to the plasma membrane link the filament network to adhesive contacts of filopodia and lamellipodia with other surfaces. These contacts stabilize protrusions and transduce mechanical forces generated by actomyosin activity into traction that pulls an elongating axon along the path toward its target. Adhesive ligands and extrinsic guidance cues bind growth cone receptors and trigger signaling activities involving Rho GTPases, kinases, phosphatases, cyclic nucleotides, and [Ca++] fluxes. These signals regulate actin-binding proteins to locally modulate actin polymerization, interactions, and force transduction to steer the growth cone leading margin toward the sources of attractive cues and away from repellent guidance cues.
Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase is misfolded in familial and sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, but it is not clear how this triggers endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress or other pathogenic processes. Here, we demonstrate that mutant SOD1 (mSOD1) is predominantly found in the cytoplasm in neuronal cells. Furthermore, we show that mSOD1 inhibits secretory protein transport from the ER to Golgi apparatus. ER-Golgi transport is linked to ER stress, Golgi fragmentation and axonal transport and we also show that inhibition of ER-Golgi trafficking preceded ER stress, Golgi fragmentation, protein aggregation and apoptosis in cells expressing mSOD1. Restoration of ER-Golgi transport by over-expression of coatomer coat protein II subunit Sar1 protected against inclusion formation and apoptosis, thus linking dysfunction in ER-Golgi transport to cellular pathology. These findings thus link several cellular events in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis into a single mechanism occurring early in mSOD1 expressing cells.
A middle aged patient presented with acute ischemic stroke due to basilar artery occlusion. The patient clinically deteriorated despite intravenous thrombolysis and was referred for mechanical thrombectomy. The right vertebral artery was occluded and could not be accessed despite attempting various shaped catheters, even when a radial artery access was used. The left vertebral artery ended in the posterior inferior cerebellar artery. Eventually, ultrasound guided V3 segment vertebral artery direct puncture was successfully done and the procedure was completed. No access related complications were encountered. Direct cervical arterial puncture can be safely used by experienced operators as a last resort in acute stroke cases with difficult access.






Adult patients with Niemann-Pick disease type C (NPC) usually develop cognitive impairment progressing to dementia, whose pathophysiology remains still unclear. Noteworthy parallels exist in cognitive impairment and cellular pathology of NPC and Alzheimer's disease (AD). In particular, alterations of cholinergic system, which represent one of the pathological hallmarks and contribute to cognitive deterioration in AD, have recently been demonstrated in a human brain autopsy and in an experimental model of NPC. This finding raised the issue that central cholinergic circuits dysfunction may contribute to pathophysiology of cognitive impairment in NPC as well, and prompted us to evaluate the cholinergic functional involvement in NPC patients by applying a neurophysiologic technique, named short-latency afferent inhibition (SAI). We describe clinical, biochemical, molecular and neuropsychological features, and SAI findings in three patients affected by NPC. Diagnosis of NPC was assessed by molecular analysis of the NPC1 gene in all patients. In two of them, biochemical analysis of intracellular accumulation of unesterified cholesterol was also performed. The main clinical features were cerebellar ataxia, vertical supranuclear gaze palsy and a variable degree of cognitive impairment ranging from only memory impairment to severe dementia. Electrophysiological evaluation revealed a reduced SAI in all three patients. Our SAI findings provide evidence of cholinergic dysfunction in patients with the adult form of NPC, supporting that cholinergic alterations may play a role in cognitive impairment in NPC, and strengthening the similarities between NPC and AD.

To determine the epidemiological, clinical, and genetic characteristics of congenital hypomyelinating leukodystrophies, including Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease (PMD), we conducted a nationwide epidemiological survey in Japan. A two-step survey targeting all medical institutions specializing in pediatric neurology and childhood disability (919 institutes) in Japan was performed. Detailed information was collected for 101 patients (86 males and 15 females) with congenital hypomyelinating leukodystrophies. The prevalence of congenital hypomyelinating disorders was 0.78 per 100,000 people (0-19 years old), and the incidence was 1.40 per 100,000 live births. Molecular testing was performed in 75 % of patients, and PLP1 gene abnormalities were observed in 62 %. The incidence of PMD with PLP1 mutations was estimated to be 1.45 per 100,000 male live births and that for congenital hypomyelinating disorders with unknown cause to be 0.41 per 100,000 live births. Patients with PLP1 mutations showed a higher proportion of nystagmus and hypotonia, both of which tend to disappear over time. Our results constitute the first nationwide survey of congenital hypomyelinating disorders, and provide the epidemiological, clinical, and genetic landscapes of these disorders.
Hereditary diffuse leukoencephalopathy with axonal spheroids (HDLS) is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by white matter neurodegeneration, progressive cognitive decline, and motor symptoms. Histologically, it is characterized by axonal swellings (&quot;spheroids&quot;). To date, over 20 different mutations affecting the tyrosine kinase domain of the protein have been identified in the colony stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF1R) gene. Our goal is to describe three unrelated Italian patients affected by HDLS and carrying new CSF1R mutations, thus expanding the mutational spectrum and phenotypic presentation. CSF1R gene analysis was performed in 15 patients (age range 25-83 years) with undefined leukoencephalopathy and progressive cognitive decline. In three patients (two males and one female, aged 58, 37, and 48 years, respectively), new heterozygous missense mutations affecting the protein tyrosine kinase domain of the CSF1R gene were detected. In all of these patients, behavioural and cognitive changes were preceded by an ischemic stroke-like episode. A positive family history was present in only one case.






Investigations of cognitive and behavioural changes in neurodegeneration have been mostly focussed on how cortical changes can explain these symptoms. In the proposed review, we will argue that the striatum has been overlooked as a critical nexus in understanding the generation of such symptoms. Although the striatum is historically more associated with motor dysfunction, there is increasing evidence from functional neuroimaging studies in the healthy that striatal regions modulate behaviour and cognition. This should not be surprising, as the striatum has strong anatomical connections to many cortical regions including the frontal, temporal and insula lobes, as well as some subcortical regions (amygdala, hippocampus). To date, however, it is largely unclear to what extent striatal regions are affected in many neurodegenerative conditions-and if so, how striatal dysfunction can potentially influence cognition and behaviour. The proposed review will examine the existing evidence of striatal changes across selected neurodegenerative conditions (Parkinson's disease, progressive supranuclear palsy, Huntington's disease, motor neuron disease, frontotemporal dementia and Alzheimer's disease), and will document their link with the cognitive and behavioural impairments observed. Thus, by reviewing the varying degrees of cortical and striatal changes in these conditions, we can start outlining the contributions of the striatal nexus to cognitive and behavioural symptoms. In turn, this knowledge will inform future studies investigating corticostriatal networks and also diagnostic strategies, disease management and future therapeutics of neurodegenerative conditions.


Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) is the leading cause of mortality in infants younger than 1 year in developed countries, but its primary cause remains unknown. Some studies suggest that there may be hypoxia in the cerebellum in SIDS subjects, but mean total Purkinje cell numbers in SIDS versus controls was recently found not to be different. Probably the best marker for chronic hypoxia in a brain region is the microvessel length per unit volume of tissue, that is, the microvessel length density (MLD). Here, we investigated MLDs using a rigorous design-based stereologic approach in all cell layers and white matter in postmortem cerebella from 9 SIDS cases who died between ages 2 and 10 months and from 14 control children, 9 of which were age- and sex- matched to the SIDS cases. We found no differences either in mean MLDs in the cerebellar layers between the SIDS cases and the controls or between controls with a low likelihood of hypoxia and those with a higher likelihood of hypoxia. Immunohistochemical detection of the astrocytosis marker glial fibrillary acidic protein showed no differences between the SIDS and the matched control cases. These data indicate that there is no association of chronic hypoxia in the cerebellum with SIDS.
Hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy after perinatal asphyxia is a major cause of mortality and morbidity in infants. Here, we evaluated pathologic changes in the hippocampi of a cohort of 16 deceased full-term asphyxiated infants who died from January 2000 to January 2009. Histochemical and immunocytochemical results for glial and neuronal cells were compared between cases with or without seizures and to adult and sudden infant death syndrome cases (n = 3 each). All asphyxiated infants displayed neuronal cell damage and reactive glial changes. Strong aquaporin-4 immunoreactivity was seen on astroglial cells within hippocampi in 50% of cases. In patients with seizures, the expression of metabotropic glutamate receptors was increased in glial cells. Cases with seizures displayed increased microglial activation and greater expression of the inflammatory markers interleukin 1 and complement 1q compared with those in cases without seizures. All cases with seizures displayed alterations in the blood-brain barrier, as assessed by immunohistochemistry for albumin. These findings confirm the complex cascade of cellular and molecular changes occurring in the human neonatal hippocampus after perinatal asphyxia. These changes may contribute to seizure development leading to secondary brain damage. These data may aid in the development of therapeutic targets for neonatal seizures.
The histologic features of aging muscle suggest that denervation contributes to atrophy, that immobility accelerates the process, and that routine exercise may protect against loss of motor units and muscle tissue. Here, we compared muscle biopsies from sedentary and physically active seniors and found that seniors with a long history of high-level recreational activity up to the time of muscle biopsy had 1) lower loss of muscle strength versus young men (32% loss in physically active vs 51% loss in sedentary seniors); 2) fewer small angulated (denervated) myofibers; 3) a higher percentage of fiber-type groups (reinnervated muscle fibers) that were almost exclusive of the slow type; and 4) sparse normal-size muscle fibers coexpressing fast and slow myosin heavy chains, which is not compatible with exercise-driven muscle-type transformation. The biopsies from the old physically active seniors varied from sparse fiber-type groupings to almost fully transformed muscle, suggesting that coexpressing fibers appear to fill gaps. Altogether, the data show that long-term physical activity promotes reinnervation of muscle fibers and suggest that decades of high-level exercise allow the body to adapt to age-related denervation by saving otherwise lost muscle fibers through selective recruitment to slow motor units. These effects on size and structure of myofibers may delay functional decline in late aging.
The respective roles of ventral and dorsal cortical processing streams are still under discussion in both vision and audition. We characterized neural responses in the caudal auditory belt cortex, an early dorsal stream region of the macaque. We found fast neural responses with elevated temporal precision as well as neurons selective to sound location. These populations were partly segregated: Neurons in a caudomedial area more precisely followed temporal stimulus structure but were less selective to spatial location. Response latencies in this area were even shorter than in primary auditory cortex. Neurons in a caudolateral area showed higher selectivity for sound source azimuth and elevation, but responses were slower and matching to temporal sound structure was poorer. In contrast to the primary area and other regions studied previously, latencies in the caudal belt neurons were not negatively correlated with best frequency. Our results suggest that two functional substreams may exist within the auditory dorsal stream.
Rodent models of facial itch and pain provide a valuable tool for distinguishing between behaviors related to each sensation. In rats, pruritogens applied to the face elicit scratching using the hindlimb while algogens elicit wiping using the forelimb. We wished to determine the role of trigeminothalamic tract (VTT) neurons in carrying information regarding facial itch and pain to the forebrain. We have characterized responses to facially applied pruritogens (serotonin, BAM8-22, chloroquine, histamine, capsaicin, and cowhage) and noxious stimuli in 104 VTT neurons recorded from anesthetized rats. Each VTT neuron had a mechanically sensitive cutaneous receptive field on the ipsilateral face. All pruriceptive VTT neurons also responded to noxious mechanical and/or thermal stimulation. Over half of VTT neurons responsive to noxious stimuli also responded to at least one pruritogen. Each tested pruritogen, with the exception of cowhage, produced an increase in discharge rate in a subset of VTT neurons. The response to each pruritogen was characterized, including maximum discharge rate, response duration, and spike timing dynamics. Pruriceptive VTT neurons were recorded from throughout superficial and deep layers of the spinal trigeminal nucleus and were shown to project via antidromic mapping to the ventroposterior medial nucleus or posterior thalamic nuclei. These results indicate that pruriceptive VTT neurons are a subset of polymodal nociceptive VTT neurons and characterize a system conducive to future experiments regarding the similarities and differences between facial itch and pain.
Muscle pain induces a complex reorganization of the motor strategy which cannot be fully explained by current theories. We tested the hypothesis that the neural control of muscles during reaching in the presence of nociceptive input is determined by a reorganization of muscle synergies with respect to control conditions. Muscle pain was induced by injection of hypertonic saline into the anterior deltoid muscle of eight men. Electromyographic (EMG) signals were recorded from 12 upper limb muscles as subjects performed a reaching task before (baseline) and after the injection of hypertonic (pain) saline, and after the pain sensation vanished. The EMG envelopes were factorized in muscle synergies, and activation signals extracted for each condition. Nociceptive stimulation resulted in a complex muscle reorganization without changes in the kinematic output. The anterior deltoid muscle activity decreased in all subjects while the changes in other muscles were subject specific. Three synergies sufficed to describe the EMG patterns in each condition, suggesting that reaching movements remain modular in the presence of experimental pain. Muscle reorganization in all subjects was accompanied by a change in the activation signals compatible with a change in the central drive to muscles. One, two or three synergies were shared between the baseline and painful conditions, depending on the subject. These results indicate that nociceptive stimulation may induce a reorganization of modular control in reaching. We speculate that such reorganization may be due to the recruitment of synergies specific to the painful condition.
High-frequency electrical stimulation (HFS) of the human skin induces increased pain sensitivity in the surrounding unconditioned skin. The aim of the present study was to characterize the relative contribution of the different types of nociceptive and nonnociceptive afferents to the heterotopical hyperalgesia induced by HFS. In 17 healthy volunteers (9 men and 8 women), we applied HFS to the ventral forearm. The intensity of perception and event-related brain potentials (ERPs) elicited by vibrotactile stimuli exclusively activating nonnociceptive low-threshold mechanoreceptors and thermonociceptive stimuli exclusively activating heat-sensitive nociceptive afferents were recorded before and after HFS. The previously described mechanical hyperalgesia following HFS was confirmed by measuring the changes in the intensity of perception elicited by mechanical punctate stimuli. HFS increased the perceived intensity of both mechanical punctate and thermonociceptive stimuli applied to the surrounding unconditioned skin. The time course of the effect of HFS on the perception of mechanical and thermal nociceptive stimuli was similar. This indicates that HFS does not only induce mechanical hyperalgesia, but also induces heat hyperalgesia in the heterotopical area. Vibrotactile ERPs were also enhanced after HFS, indicating that nonnociceptive somatosensory input could contribute to the enhanced responses to mechanical pinprick stimuli. Finally, the magnitude of thermonociceptive ERPs was unaffected by HFS, indicating that type II A-fiber mechano-heat nociceptors, thought to be the primary contributor to these brain responses, do not significantly contribute to the observed heat hyperalgesia.
The link between sodium channel Nav1.7 and pain has been strengthened by identification of gain-of-function mutations in patients with inherited erythromelalgia (IEM), a genetic model of neuropathic pain in humans. A firm mechanistic link to nociceptor dysfunction has been precluded because assessments of the effect of the mutations on nociceptor function have thus far depended on electrophysiological recordings from dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons transfected with wild-type (WT) or mutant Nav1.7 channels, which do not permit accurate calibration of the level of Nav1.7 channel expression. Here, we report an analysis of the function of WT Nav1.7 and IEM L858H mutation within small DRG neurons using dynamic-clamp. We describe the functional relationship between current threshold for action potential generation and the level of WT Nav1.7 conductance in primary nociceptive neurons and demonstrate the basis for hyperexcitability at physiologically relevant levels of L858H channel conductance. We demonstrate that the L858H mutation, when modeled using dynamic-clamp at physiological levels within DRG neurons, produces a dramatically enhanced persistent current, resulting in 27-fold amplification of net sodium influx during subthreshold depolarizations and even greater amplification during interspike intervals, which provide a mechanistic basis for reduced current threshold and enhanced action potential firing probability. These results show, for the first time, a linear correlation between the level of Nav1.7 conductance and current threshold in DRG neurons. Our observations demonstrate changes in sodium influx that provide a mechanistic link between the altered biophysical properties of a mutant Nav1.7 channel and nociceptor hyperexcitability underlying the pain phenotype in IEM.
The corticospinal tract excitability is modulated when preparing movements. Earlier to movement execution, the excitability of the spinal cord increases waiting for supraspinal commands to release the movement. Movement execution and movement observation share processes within the motor system, although movement observation research has focused on processes later to movement onset. We used single and paired pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation on M1 (n = 12), and electrical cervicomedullary stimulation (n = 7), to understand the modulation of the corticospinal system during the &quot;preparation&quot; to observe a third person's movement. Subjects passively observed a hand that would remain still or make an index finger extension. The observer's corticospinal excitability rose when &quot;expecting to see a movement&quot; vs. when &quot;expecting to see a still hand.&quot; The modulation took origin at a spinal level and not at the corticocortical networks explored. We conclude that expectancy of seeing movements increases the excitability of the spinal cord.
Meinzer et al. (J Neurosci 33: 12470-12478, 2013) have recently reported that anodal transcranial direct current stimulation (atDCS) mitigates age-related cognitive changes. Simultaneous measurement of BOLD signal during atDCS also showed &quot;youth-like&quot; processing in an elderly population. Although the effects are very promising, the underlying mechanisms of atDCS are still not clear. In this article, we provide a critical review of the results, emphasizing the article's significance and providing additional insight that will help elucidate the results and atDCS mechanisms.

Evaluation of neurological status is imperative to patient assessment. Multiple assessment tools are readily available for clinicians to diagnose and report changes in neurological condition. Some of these tools include the Glasgow Coma Scale, the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale, the Canadian Neurological Scale, and the Four Score. Although assessment tools are beneficial to help standardize the assessment and communication of findings, they are at times cumbersome, leaving bedside clinicians with questions concerning which tool is appropriate for a given patient population. This initiative began as a means to standardize assessments and communication for neuroscience patients. As success was met, the project was moved forward locally at our hospital campus and later extended to the entire health system. With the support of the chief of neurology, the neuroscience patient care services director, the stroke coordinator, and the neuroscience clinical educator, three different neurological examinations were developed. They were defined as the Basic Neurological Check, the Coma Neurological Check, and the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale/Stroke Neurological Check. The neurological examinations would address the assessment needs of patients with acute stroke, general neurosurgery/neurology patients, and patients in coma.
Many prior nursing studies regarding family members specifically of neuroscience intensive care unit (neuro-ICU) patients have focused on identifying their primary needs. A concept related to identifying these needs and assessing whether they have been met is determining whether families explicitly report satisfaction with the care that both they and their loved ones have received. The objective of this study was to explore family satisfaction with care in an academic neuro-ICU and compare results with concurrent data from the same hospital's medical ICU (MICU). Over 38 days, we administered the Family Satisfaction-ICU instrument to neuro-ICU and MICU patients' families at the time of ICU discharge. Those whose loved ones passed away during ICU admission were excluded. When asked about the respect and compassion that they received from staff, 76.3% (95% CI [66.5, 86.1]) of neuro-ICU families were completely satisfied, as opposed to 92.7% in the MICU (95% CI [84.4, 101.0], p = .04). Respondents were less likely to be completely satisfied with the courtesy of staff if they reported participation in zero formal family meeting. Less than 60% of neuro-ICU families were completely satisfied by (1) frequency of physician communication, (2) inclusion and (3) support during decision making, and (4) control over the care of their loved ones. Parents of patients were more likely than other relatives to feel very included and supported in the decision-making process. Future studies may focus on evaluating strategies for neuro-ICU nurses and physicians to provide better decision-making support and to implement more frequent family meetings even for those patients who may not seem medically or socially complicated to the team. Determining satisfaction with care for those families whose loved ones passed away during their neuro-ICU admission is another potential avenue for future investigation.

Subtle defects in paranodes of myelinated nerve fibers can cause significant physiological malfunction. We have investigated myelinated fibers in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) of the Trembler mouse, a model of CMT-1A neuropathy, for evidence of such defects. Ultrastructural analysis shows that the &quot;transverse bands,&quot; which attach the myelin sheath to the axon at the paranodal axoglial junction, are grossly diminished in number in Trembler nerve fibers. Although paranodes often appear to be greatly elongated, it is only a short region immediately adjacent to the node of Ranvier that displays transverse bands. Where transverse bands are missing, the junctional gap widens, thus reducing resistance to short circuiting of nodal action currents during saltatory conduction and increasing the likelihood that axonal K(+) channels under the myelin sheath will be activated. In addition, we find evidence that structural domains in Trembler axons are incompletely differentiated, consistent with diminution in nodal Na channel density, which could further compromise conduction. Deficiency of transverse bands may also increase susceptibility to disruption of the paranodal junction and retraction of the myelin sheath. We conclude that Trembler PNS myelinated fibers display subtle defects in paranodal and nodal regions that could contribute significantly to conduction defects and increased risk of myelin detachment.
We review topics pertinent to the perioperative care of patients with neurological disorders. Our review addresses topics not only in the anesthesiology literature, but also in basic neurosciences, critical care medicine, neurology, neurosurgery, radiology, and internal medicine literature. We include literature published or available online up through December 8, 2013. As our review is not able to include all manuscripts, we focus on recurring themes and unique and pivotal investigations. We address the broad topics of general neuroanesthesia, stroke, traumatic brain injury, anesthetic neurotoxicity, neuroprotection, pharmacology, physiology, and nervous system monitoring.
Literature on the anesthetic management of endovascular treatment of acute ischemic stroke (AIS) is limited. Anesthetic management during these procedures is still mostly dependent on individual or institutional preferences. Thus, the Society of Neuroscience in Anesthesiology and Critical Care (SNACC) created a task force to provide expert consensus recommendations on anesthetic management of endovascular treatment of AIS. The task force conducted a systematic literature review (up to August 2012). Because of the limited number of research articles relating to this subject, the task force solicited opinions from experts in this area. The task force created a draft consensus statement based on the available data. Classes of recommendations and levels of evidence were assigned to articles specifically addressing anesthetic management during endovascular treatment of stroke using the standard American Heart Association evidence rating scheme. The draft consensus statement was reviewed by the Task Force, SNACC Executive Committee and representatives of Society of NeuroInterventional Surgery (SNIS) and Neurocritical Care Society (NCS) reaching consensus on the final document. For this consensus statement the anesthetic management of endovascular treatment of AIS was subdivided into 12 topics. Each topic includes a summary of available data followed by recommendations. This consensus statement is intended for use by individuals involved in the care of patients with acute ischemic stroke, such as anesthesiologists, interventional neuroradiologists, neurologists, neurointensivists, and neurosurgeons.


Mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) often has long-term effects on cognitive function and social behavior. Altered gene expression may be predictive of long-term psychological effects of mTBI, even when acute clinical effects are minimal or transient. Controlled cortical impact (CCI), which causes concussive, but nonpenetrant, trauma to underlying (non-cortical) brain, resulting in persistent changes in hippocampal synaptic function, was used as a model of mTBI. The hippocampal transcriptomes of sham-operated or injured male rats at 1, 7, and 30 days postinjury were examined using microarrays comprising a comprehensive set of expressed genes, subsequently confirmed by quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. Transcripts encoding the chemokines, chemokine (C-C motif) ligand (Ccl)2 and Ccl7, inflammatory mediators lipocalin-2 (Lcn2) and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1 (Timp1), immunocyte activators C-C chemokine receptor type 5 (Ccr5) and Fc fragment of IgG, low affinity IIb, receptor (CD32) (Fcgr2b), the major histocompatibility complex II immune response-related genes, Cd74 and RT1 class II, locus Da (RT1-Da), the complement component, C3, and the transcription factor, Kruppel-like factor 4 (Klf4), were identified as early (Ccl2, Ccl7, Lcn2, and Timp1), intermediate (Ccr5, Fcgr2b, Cd74, RT1-Da, and C3), and late (Klf4) markers for bilateral hippocampal response to CCI. Ccl2 and Ccl7 transcripts were up-regulated within 24h after CCI, and their elevation subsided within 1 week of injury. Other transcriptional changes occurred later and were more stable, some persisting for at least 1 month, suggesting that short-term inflammatory responses trigger longer-term alteration in the expression of genes previously associated with injury, aging, and neuronal function in the brain. These transcriptional responses to mTBI may underlie long-term changes in excitatory and inhibitory neuronal imbalance in hippocampus, leading to long-term behavioral consequences of mTBI.
Predictive modeling of emergent behavior, inherent to complex physiological systems, requires the analysis of large complex clinical data streams currently being generated in the intensive care unit. Brain tissue oxygen protocols have yielded outcome benefits in traumatic brain injury (TBI), but the critical physiological thresholds for low brain oxygen have not been established for a dynamical patho-physiological system. High frequency, multi-modal clinical data sets from 29 patients with severe TBI who underwent multi-modality neuro-clinical care monitoring and treatment with a brain oxygen protocol were analyzed. The inter-relationship between acute physiological parameters was determined using symbolic regression (SR) as the computational framework. The mean patient age was 44.415 with a mean admission GCS of 6.63.9. Sixty-three percent sustained motor vehicle accidents and the most common pathology was intra-cerebral hemorrhage (50%). Hospital discharge mortality was 21%, poor outcome occurred in 24% of patients, and good outcome occurred in 56% of patients. Criticality for low brain oxygen was intracranial pressure (ICP) 22.8mm Hg, for mortality at ICP37.1mm Hg. The upper therapeutic threshold for cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) was 75mm Hg. Eubaric hyperoxia significantly impacted partial pressure of oxygen in brain tissue (PbtO2) at all ICP levels. Optimal brain temperature (Tbr) was 34-35C, with an adverse effect when Tbr38C. Survivors clustered at [Formula: see text] Hg vs. non-survivors [Formula: see text] 18mm Hg. There were two mortality clusters for ICP: High ICP/low PbtO2 and low ICP/low PbtO2. Survivors maintained PbtO2 at all ranges of mean arterial pressure in contrast to non-survivors. The final SR equation for cerebral oxygenation is: [Formula: see text]. The SR-model of acute TBI advances new physiological thresholds or boundary conditions for acute TBI management: PbtO225mmHg; ICP22mmHg; CPP60-75mmHg; and Tbr34-37C. SR is congruous with the emerging field of complexity science in the modeling of dynamical physiological systems, especially during pathophysiological states. The SR model of TBI is generalizable to known physical laws. This increase in entropy reduces uncertainty and improves predictive capacity. SR is an appropriate computational framework to enable future smart monitoring devices.
The various neurological complications associated with HIV-1 infection, specifically HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND) persist as a major public health burden worldwide. Despite the widespread use of anti-retroviral therapy, the prevalence of HAND is significantly high. HAND results from the direct effects of an HIV-1 infection as well as secondary effects of HIV-1-induced immune reaction and inflammatory response. Complement, a critical mediator of innate and acquired immunity, plays important roles in defeating many viral infections by the formation of a lytic pore or indirectly by opsonization and recruitment of phagocytes. While the role of complement in the pathogenesis of HIV-1 infection and HAND has been previously recognized for over 15years, it has been largely underestimated thus far. Complement can be activated through HIV-1 envelope proteins, mannose-binding lectins (MBL), and anti-HIV-1 antibodies. Complement not only fights against HIV-1 infection but also enhances HIV-1 infection. In addition, HIV-1 can hijack complement regulators such as CD59 and CD55 and can utilize these regulators and factor H to escape from complement attack. Normally, complement levels in brain are much lower than plasma levels and there is no or little complement deposition in brain cells. Interestingly, local production and deposition of complement are dramatically increased in HIV-1-infected brain, indicating that complement may contribute to the pathogenesis of HAND. Here, we review the current understanding of the role of complement in HIV-1 infection and HAND, as well as potential therapeutic approaches targeting the complement system for the treatment and eradications of HIV-1 infection.
The ubiquitous human polyomavirus JC virus (JCV) is the established etiological agent of the debilitating and often fatal demyelinating disease, progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). Most healthy individuals have been infected with JCV and generate an immune response to the virus, yet remain persistently infected at subclinical levels. The onset of PML is rare in the general population, but has become an increasing concern in immunocompromised patients, where reactivation of JCV leads to uncontrolled replication in the CNS. Understanding viral persistence and the normal immune response to JCV provides insight into the circumstances which could lead to viral resurgence. Further, clues on the potential mechanisms of reactivation may be gleaned from the crosstalk among JCV and HIV-1, as well as the impact of monoclonal antibody therapies used for the treatment of autoimmune disorders, including multiple sclerosis, on the development of PML. In this review, we will discuss what is known about viral persistence and the immune response to JCV replication in immunocompromised individuals to elucidate the deficiencies in viral containment that permit viral reactivation and spread.









Hierarchies are a ubiquitous form of human social organization. We hypothesized that 1 reason for the prevalence of hierarchies is that they offer structure and therefore satisfy the core motivational needs for order and control relative to less structured forms of social organization. This hypothesis is rooted in compensatory control theory, which posits that (a) individuals have a basic need to perceive the world as orderly and structured, and (b) personal and external sources of control are capable of satisfying this need because both serve the comforting belief that the world operates in an orderly fashion. Our first 2 studies confirmed that hierarchies were perceived as more structured and orderly relative to egalitarian arrangements (Study 1) and that working in a hierarchical workplace promotes a feeling of self-efficacy (Study 2). We threatened participants' sense of personal control and measured perceptions of and preferences for hierarchy in 5 subsequent experiments. Participants who lacked control perceived more hierarchy occurring in ambiguous social situations (Study 3) and preferred hierarchy more strongly in workplace contexts (Studies 4-5). We also provide evidence that hierarchies are indeed appealing because of their structure: Preference for hierarchy was higher among individuals high in Personal Need for Structure and a control threat increased preference for hierarchy even among participants low in Personal Need for Structure (Study 5). Framing a hierarchy as unstructured reversed the effect of control threat on hierarchy (Study 6). Finally, hierarchy-enhancing jobs were more appealing after control threat, even when they were low in power and status (Study 7).


Abnormal cold sensitivity is a common feature of a range of neuropathies. In the murine somatosensory system, multiple aspects of cold sensitivity are dependent on TRPM8, both short term and in response to peripheral nerve injury. The specialized nature of cold-sensitive afferents and the restricted expression of TRPM8 render it an attractive target for the treatment of cold hypersensitivity. This current study examines the effect of a novel TRPM8 antagonist (M8-An) in naive and spinal nerve-ligated rats through behavioral and in vivo electrophysiological approaches. In vitro, M8-An inhibited icilin-evoked Ca(2+) currents in HEK293 cells stably expressing human TRPM8 with an IC(50) of 10.9 nM. In vivo, systemic M8-An transiently decreased core body temperature. Deep dorsal horn recordings were made in vivo from neurons innervating the hind paw. M8-An inhibited neuronal responses to innocuous and noxious cooling of the receptive field in spinal nerve-ligated rats but not in naive rats. No effect on neuronal responses to mechanical and heat stimulation was observed. In addition, M8-An also attenuated behavioral responses to cold but not mechanical stimulation after nerve ligation without affecting the uninjured contralateral response. The data presented here support a contribution of TRPM8 to the pathophysiology of cold hypersensitivity in this model and highlight the potential of the pharmacological block of TRPM8 in alleviating the associated symptoms.

We investigated a neural reflex that controls the strength of inflammatory responses to immune challenge - the inflammatory reflex. In anaesthetized rats challenged with intravenous lipopolysaccharide (LPS, 60gkg(-1)), we found strong increases in plasma levels of the key inflammatory mediator tumour necrosis factor  (TNF) 90min later. Those levels were unaffected by previous bilateral cervical vagotomy, but were enhanced approximately 5-fold if the greater splanchnic sympathetic nerves had been cut. Sham surgery had no effect, and plasma corticosterone levels were unaffected by nerve sections, so could not explain this result. Electrophysiological recordings demonstrated that efferent neural activity in the splanchnic nerve and its splenic branch was strongly increased by LPS treatment. Splenic nerve activity was dependent on inputs from the splanchnic nerves: vagotomy had no effect on the activity in either nerve. Together, these data demonstrate that immune challenge with this dose of LPS activates a neural reflex that is powerful enough to cause an 80% suppression of the acute systemic inflammatory response. The efferent arm of this reflex is in the splanchnic sympathetic nerves, not the vagi as previously proposed. As with other physiological responses to immune challenge, the afferent pathway is presumptively humoral: the present data show that vagal afferents play no measurable part. Because inflammation sits at the gateway to immune responses, this reflex could play an important role in immune function as well as inflammatory diseases.
The immature retina generates spontaneous waves of spiking activity that sweep across the ganglion cell layer during a limited period of development before the onset of visual experience. The spatiotemporal patterns encoded in the waves are believed to be instructive for the wiring of functional connections throughout the visual system. However, the ontogeny of retinal waves is still poorly documented as a result of the relatively low resolution of conventional recording techniques. Here, we characterize the spatiotemporal features of mouse retinal waves from birth until eye opening in unprecedented detail using a large-scale, dense, 4096-channel multielectrode array that allowed us to record from the entire neonatal retina at near cellular resolution. We found that early cholinergic waves propagate with random trajectories over large areas with low ganglion cell recruitment. They become slower, smaller and denser when GABAA signalling matures, as occurs beyond postnatal day (P) 7. Glutamatergic influences dominate from P10, coinciding with profound changes in activity dynamics. At this time, waves cease to be random and begin to show repetitive trajectories confined to a few localized hotspots. These hotspots gradually tile the retina with time, and disappear after eye opening. Our observations demonstrate that retinal waves undergo major spatiotemporal changes during ontogeny. Our results support the hypotheses that cholinergic waves guide the refinement of retinal targets and that glutamatergic waves may also support the wiring of retinal receptive fields.
In Parkinsonism, subthalamic nucleus (STN) neurons and two types of external globus pallidus (GP) neuron inappropriately synchronise their firing in time with slow (1Hz) or beta (13-30Hz) oscillations in cortex. We recorded the activities of STN, Type-I GP (GP-TI) and Type-A GP (GP-TA) neurons in anaesthetised Parkinsonian rats during such oscillations to constrain a series of computational models that systematically explored the effective connections and physiological parameters underlying neuronal rhythmic firing and phase preferences in vivo. The best candidate model, identified with a genetic algorithm optimising accuracy/complexity measures, faithfully reproduced experimental data and predicted that the effective connections of GP-TI and GP-TA neurons are quantitatively different. Estimated inhibitory connections from striatum were much stronger to GP-TI neurons than to GP-TA neurons, whereas excitatory connections from thalamus were much stronger to GP-TA and STN neurons than to GP-TI neurons. Reciprocal connections between GP-TI and STN neurons were matched in weight, but those between GP-TA and STN neurons were not; only GP-TI neurons sent substantial connections back to STN. Different connection weights between and within the two types of GP neuron were also evident. Adding to connection differences, GP-TA and GP-TI neurons were predicted to have disparate intrinsic physiological properties, reflected in distinct autonomous firing rates. Our results elucidate potential substrates of GP functional dichotomy, and emphasise that rhythmic inputs from striatum, thalamus and cortex are important for setting activity in the STN-GP network during Parkinsonian beta oscillations, suggesting they arise from interactions between most nodes of basal ganglia-thalamocortical circuits.
The excision of malignant tongue tumors often produces tongue defects that can cause dysphagia. A palatal augmentation prosthesis is frequently used to treat such dysphagia. This report describes a patient who received a palatal augmentation prosthesis after a glossectomy for malignant cancer of the tongue; however, no improvement was noted in swallowing function. A lingual augmentation prosthesis was then applied to the mandible, which resulted in improved swallowing function.
Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) to treat depression has been thoroughly investigated in recent years. However, the underlying mechanisms are not fully understood. In this study, a chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) paradigm was applied to male Sprague Dawley rats. Then rTMS was performed for 7 consecutive days, and the anti-depressive effects were evaluated by the sucrose preference test (SPT), the forced swimming test (FST), and the open-field test (OFT). Hippocampal cannabinoid type I receptor (CB1) expression was measured, and the expression levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), Bcl-2, and Bax and the number of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU)-positive cells were also investigated. These parameters were also observed after the selective CB1 receptor antagonist AM251 was used as a blocking agent. The results showed that CUMS induced a significant decrease in sucrose preference, a significant increase in immobility time in the FST, and a significantly decreased horizontal distance in the OFT. In addition, reduced hippocampal CB1 receptor, BDNF, and Bcl-2/Bax protein expression levels in CUMS rats, as well as decreased cell proliferation were also observed in the dentate gyrus. Meanwhile, rTMS treatment up-regulated cell proliferation; elevated CB1 receptor, BDNF, and Bcl-2/Bax expression levels in the hippocampus; and ameliorated depressive-like behaviors. All of these beneficial effects were abolished by AM251. These results indicate that rTMS increases BDNF production and hippocampal cell proliferation to protect against CUMS-induced changes through its effect on CB1 receptors.
An increasing rate of antidepressant trials fail due to large placebo responses. This analysis aimed to identify variables influencing signal detection in clinical trials of major depressive disorder. Patient-level data of randomized patients with a duloxetine dose  60 mg/day were obtained from Lilly. Total scores of the Hamilton Depression Rating scale (HAM-D) were used as efficacy endpoints. In total, 4661 patients from 14 studies were included in the analysis. The overall effect size (ES), based on the HAM-D total score at endpoint, between duloxetine and placebo was -0.272. Although no statistically significant interactions were found, the following results for factors influencing ES were seen: a very low ES (-0.157) in patients in the lowest baseline HAM-D category and in patients recruited in the last category of the recruitment period (-0.122). A higher ES in patients recruited in centers with a site-size at but not more than 2.5 times the average site-size for the study (-0.345). Study characteristics that resulted in low signal detection in our database were: &lt;80% study completers, a HAM-D placebo response &gt;5 points, a high variability of placebo response (SD &gt; 7 points HAM-D), &gt;6 post baseline visits per study, and use of an active control drug. Simpler trial designs, more homogeneous and mid-sized study sites, a primary analysis based on a higher cutoff blinded to investigators to avoid the influence of score inflation in mild patients and, if possible, studies without an active control group could lead to a better signal detection of antidepressive efficacy.
Patients with Schizophrenia (SZ) show deficits across various stages of visual information processing. Whether patients with Bipolar Disorder (BD) exhibit these deficits is unclear. In this study, we conducted a detailed comparison of specific stages of early visual perception in BD and SZ. Forty-three BD patients, 43 SZ patients, and 51 matched healthy control subjects (HC) were administered three visual processing paradigms emphasizing: 1) an early stage of object formation (location backward masking), 2) a middle stage of object substitution (four-dot backward masking), and 3) a later stage at the perception-attention interface (rapid serial visual processing (RSVP) task eliciting the attentional blink). SZ performed significantly worse than BD and HC on location and four-dot masking. BD did not significantly differ from HC on either masking task. Both patient groups performed significantly worse than HC on the RSVP task; unlike SZ, BD did not show a significant attentional blink effect compared to HC. Our results indicate that BD patients were intact at the early and middle stages of visual processing (object formation and substitution) but intermediate between the SZ and HC groups at a later processing stage involving perceptual and attentional processes (RSVP task). These findings suggest that SZ is characterized by a diffuse pathophysiology affecting all stages of visual processing whereas in BD disruption is only at the latest stage involving higher order attentional functions.








Intracranial arterial stenosis (IAS) is usually attributable to atherosclerosis and corresponds to the most common cause of stroke worldwide. It is very prevalent among African, Asian, and Hispanic populations. Advancing age, systolic hypertension, diabetes mellitus, high levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and metabolic syndrome are some of its major risk factors. IAS may be associated with transient or definite neurological symptoms or can be clinically asymptomatic. Transcranial Doppler and magnetic resonance angiography are the most frequently used ancillary examinations for screening and follow-up. Computed tomography angiography can either serve as a screening tool for the detection of IAS or increasingly as a confirmatory test approaching the diagnostic accuracy of catheter digital subtraction angiography, which is still considered the gold (confirmation) standard. The risk of stroke in patients with asymptomatic atherosclerotic IAS is low (up to 6% over a mean follow-up period of approximately 2 years), but the annual risk of stroke recurrence in the presence of a symptomatic stenosis may exceed 20% when the degree of luminal narrowing is 70% or more, recently after an ischemic event, and in women. It is a matter of controversy whether there is a specific type of treatment other than medical management (including aggressive control of vascular risk factors and antiplatelet therapy) that may alter the high risk of stroke recurrence among patients with symptomatic IAS. Endovascular treatment has been thought to be helpful in patients who fail to respond to medical treatment alone, but recent data contradict such expectation.

This study examines the associations between age at first substance use treatment entry and trajectory of outcomes over 11 years. We found significant differences in individual and treatment characteristics between adult intakes first treated during young adulthood (25 years or younger) and those first treated at an older age. Compared to their first treated older age counterparts matched on demographics and dependence type, those who entered first treatment during young adulthood had on average an earlier onset for substance use but a shorter duration between first substance use and first treatment entry; they also had worse alcohol and other drug outcomes 11 years post treatment entry. While subsequent substance use treatment and 12-step meeting attendance are important for both age groups in maintaining positive outcomes, relationships varied by age group. Findings underline the importance of different continuing care management strategies for those entering first treatment at different developmental stages.

A major influence on education since the 1950's has been Bloom's Taxonomy, a classification of learning objectives across multiple domains meant to educate the whole student (Anderson and Krathwohl, 2001). Although it has influenced educational pedagogy in primary education, higher education remains, in antiquity, heavily lecture based; viewing the instructor as an expert who professes their vast knowledge to their students. However, when students serve as instructor, it is difficult to apply this traditional view to the college classroom. Here we discuss the development, pedagogical approach, and experience of a senior level seminar course in which the students and instructor collaboratively explored an emerging field, embodied cognition, which combines research and theory from psychology and neuroscience among other disciplines, in which neither the students nor instructor were an expert. Students provided feedback and evaluations at three time points over the course of the semester, before class started, at midterm and at the end of the semester in order to address the experience and effectiveness of a collaborative seminar experience in which the instructor assumed a role closer to an equal of the students. Student responses revealed both high levels of satisfaction and degrees of perceived learning within the course at both the midterm and final evaluation. The approach of this seminar may be beneficial when applied to other seminars or course formats as students in this course felt as though they were learning more and appreciated being a more equal partner in their own learning process.
Controversies in Neuroscience is a half-semester elective for first year science students at Carnegie Mellon University with an emphasis on discussing primary literature to highlight current research topics and to introduce students to neuroscience. In order to evaluate the effectiveness of teaching first-year students using a literature-only approach, we took advantage of an opportunity to teach the same topics to a traditional textbook-based upper division course as to the first year seminar. Students in both courses took surveys at the beginning and end of the course, and self-reported confidence levels as well as exam scores were compared. At the conclusion of both courses, students reported increased level of comfort with scientific terminology and methodology. In addition, students enrolled in the first-year seminar performed at least as well or better than students involved in the upper division course on exam material. These results suggest that first year students are capable of making great strides in learning and understanding scientific principles strictly through exposure to primary literature, even with little or no access to a standard textbook. Furthermore, introducing students to primary literature-based courses early on in their undergraduate career can increase enthusiasm for learning science and improve confidence with neuroscience concepts and methodology. We therefore conclude that it is valuable to provide students opportunities to critically evaluate scientific literature early in their undergraduate careers.
Gallup and Beckstead's (1988) commentary in the American Psychologist reported an assessment of college student's attitudes toward animal research. Among many findings, one main conclusion reached by the authors was that the participants in their study were generally concerned about the welfare of animals used in research, but that they also appreciated and valued the need for animal experimentation. Given the declining support for animal research from the general population over the past few decades, the present study administered the same questionnaire to a contemporary sample of university students to determine whether any patterns would emerge in a current sample's responses to these items. While the results suggest that respondents still demonstrate significant concern for animal welfare, importantly, the present sample of participants showed significantly less agreement with items that stressed the importance and value of conducting animal research. Educating college students about the importance of animal research and its valuable contributions to science as an enduring component of instructional practice in neuroscience and other courses may be an important step toward reversing these trends.
An understanding of the visual system is a fundamental aspect of many neuroscience and psychology courses. These classes often cover a variety of visual diseases that are correlated with the anatomy of the visual system, e.g., cataracts are caused by a clouding of the lens. Here, we describe an easy way to modify standard laboratory glasses/goggles to simulate the various perceptual deficits that accompany vision disorders such as astigmatism, cataracts, diabetic retinopathy, glaucoma, optic neuritis, posterior vitreous detachment, and retinitis pigmentosa. For example, when teaching about cataracts, students can put on glasses that mimic how severe cataracts affect one's vision. Using the glasses will allow students to draw connections between the disorder, its perceptual deficits, and the underlying anatomy. We also discuss floaters in the eye and provide an easy method to allow students to detect their own floaters. Together, these demonstrations make for a more dynamic and interactive class on the visual system that will better link diseases of the eye to anatomy and perception, and allow undergraduate students to develop a better understanding of the visual system as a whole.
Classroom-level neuroscience experiments vary from detailed protocols involving chemical, physiological and imaging techniques to computer-based modeling. The application of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) is revolutionizing the current laboratory scenario in terms of active learning especially for distance education cases. Virtual web-based labs are an asset to educational institutions confronting economic issues in maintaining equipment, facilities and other conditions needed for good laboratory practice. To enhance education, we developed virtual laboratories in neuroscience and explored their first-level use in (Indian) University education in the context of developing countries. Besides using interactive animations and remotely-triggered experimental devices, a detailed mathematical simulator was implemented on a web-based software platform. In this study, we focused on the perceptions of technology adoption for a virtual neurophysiology laboratory as a new pedagogy tool for complementing college laboratory experience. The study analyses the effect of virtual labs on users assessing the relationship between cognitive, social and teaching presence. Combining feedback from learners and teachers, the study suggests enhanced motivation for students and improved teaching experience for instructors.
Young students struggle with concepts that involve the parallel activity of large numbers of similar entities, precisely the kind of concepts that abound in neuroscience. While a direct experience to laboratory work cannot be replaced, such activities include a steep learning curve and may be impractical in certain course settings. This article describes a set of computer simulations of a number of neural processes using NetLogo (Wilensky, 1999), a software environment for the design and implementation of multi-agent simulations that has an intuitive graphical interface and minimal learning curve. NeuroLab is a group of graphical simulations that portray ions, molecules, synapses or cells as individual recognizable agents with particular behaviors, depending on the level at which the particular process is simulated. On a typical assignment, students run the simulation a few times manipulating specific variables by means of buttons, switches and sliders and observe the results of their manipulations on the main window. Many simulations include one or more plots that help visualize statistical data in real time and allow for the testing of experimental hypotheses. Students may repeat the simulation as many times as they wish and collect data or answer questions based on their observations. Assignments may take just a few minutes to perform, but could conceivably be part of more involved activities as designed by the instructor.
Neuroimaging techniques, including positron emission tomography (PET), are widely used in clinical settings and in basic neuroscience research. Education in these methods and their applications may be incorporated into curricula to keep pace with this expanding field. Here, we have developed pedagogical materials on the fundamental principles of PET that incorporate a hands-on laboratory activity to view and analyze human brain scans. In this activity, students will use authentic PET brain scans generated from original research at Brookhaven National Laboratory (Volkow et al., 2009) to explore the neurobiological effects of a drug on the dopamine system. We provide lecture and assignment materials (including a 50-minute PowerPoint presentation introducing PET concepts), written background information for students and instructors, and explicit instructions for a 4-hour, computer-based laboratory to interested educators. Also, we discuss our experience implementing this exercise as part of an advanced undergraduate laboratory course at Stony Brook University in 2010 and 2011. Observing the living human brain is intriguing, and this laboratory is designed to illustrate how PET neuroimaging techniques are used to directly probe biological processes occurring in the living brain. Laboratory course modules on imaging techniques such as PET can pique the interest of students potentially interested in neuroscience careers, by exposing them to current research methods. This activity provides practical experience analyzing PET data using a graphical analysis method known as the Logan plot, and applies core neuropharmacology concepts. We hope that this manuscript inspires college instructors to incorporate education in PET neuroimaging into their courses.
Neuroscience labs benefit from reliable, easily-monitored neural responses mediated by well-studied neural pathways. Xenopus laevis tadpoles have been used as a simple vertebrate model preparation in motor control studies. Most of the neuronal pathways underlying different aspects of tadpole swimming behavior have been revealed. These include the skin mechanosensory touch and pineal eye light-sensing pathways whose activation can initiate swimming, and the cement gland pressure-sensing pathway responsible for stopping swimming. A simple transection in the hindbrain can cut off the pineal eye and cement gland pathways from the swimming circuit in the spinal cord, resulting in losses of corresponding functions. Additionally, some pharmacological experiments targeting neurotransmission can be designed to affect swimming and, fluorescence-conjugated -bungarotoxin can be used to label nicotinic receptors at neuromuscular junctions. These experiments can be readily adapted for undergraduate neuroscience teaching labs. Possible expansions of some experiments for more sophisticated pharmacological or neurophysiological labs are also discussed.










IMPORTANCE We developed a novel strategy for treatment of Leber hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) caused by a mutation in the nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide dehydrogenase subunit IV (ND4) mitochondrial gene. OBJECTIVE To demonstrate the safety and effects of the gene therapy vector to be used in a proposed gene therapy clinical trial. DESIGN AND SETTING In a series of laboratory experiments, we modified the mitochondrial ND4 subunit of complex I in the nuclear genetic code for import into mitochondria. The protein was targeted into the organelle by agency of a targeting sequence (allotopic expression). The gene was packaged into adeno-associated viral vectors and then vitreally injected into rodent, nonhuman primate, and ex vivo human eyes that underwent testing for expression and integration by immunohistochemical analysis and blue native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. During serial follow-up, the animal eyes underwent fundus photography, optical coherence tomography, and multifocal or pattern electroretinography. We tested for rescue of visual loss in rodent eyes also injected with a mutant G11778A ND4 homologue responsible for most cases of LHON. EXPOSURE Ocular infection with recombinant adeno-associated viral vectors containing a wild-type allotopic human ND4 gene. MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES Expression of human ND4 and rescue of optic neuropathy induced by mutant human ND4. RESULTS We found human ND4 expressed in almost all mouse retinal ganglion cells by 1 week after injection and ND4 integrated into the mouse complex I. In rodent eyes also injected with a mutant allotopic ND4, wild-type allotopic ND4 prevented defective adenosine triphosphate synthesis, suppressed visual loss, reduced apoptosis of retinal ganglion cells, and prevented demise of axons in the optic nerve. Injection of ND4 in the ex vivo human eye resulted in expression in most retinal ganglion cells. Primates undergoing vitreal injection with the ND4 test article and followed up for 3 months had no serious adverse reactions. CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE Expression of our allotopic ND4 vector in the ex vivo human eye, safety of the test article, rescue of the LHON mouse model, and the severe irreversible loss of visual function in LHON support clinical testing with mutated G11778A mitochondrial DNA in our patients.





Efforts are underway for early-phase trials of candidate treatments for cerebral amyloid angiopathy, an untreatable cause of haemorrhagic stroke and vascular cognitive impairment. A major barrier to these trials is the absence of consensus on measurement of treatment effectiveness. A range of potential outcome markers for cerebral amyloid angiopathy can be measured against the ideal criteria of being clinically meaningful, closely representative of biological progression, efficient for small or short trials, reliably measurable, and cost effective. In practice, outcomes tend either to have high clinical salience but low statistical efficiency, and thus more applicability for late-phase studies, or greater statistical efficiency but more limited clinical meaning. The most statistically efficient markers might be those that are potentially reversible with treatment, although their clinical significance remains unproven. Many of the candidate outcomes for cerebral amyloid angiopathy trials are probably applicable also to other small-vessel brain diseases.


The role of cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) has not been previously studied in multiple myeloma (MM). Here, cytofluorimetric analysis revealed higher proportions of bone marrow (BM) CAFs in patients with active MM (both at diagnosis and relapse) compared with patients in remission or those with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance or deficiency anemia (controls). CAFs from MM patients produced increased levels of transforming growth factor-, interleukin-6, stromal cell-derived factor-1, insulin-like growth factor-1, vascular endothelial growth factor and fibroblast growth factor-2 and displayed an activated and heterogeneous phenotype, which supported their origin from resident fibroblasts, endothelial cells and hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells via the endothelial-mesenchymal transition as well as mesenchymal stem cells via the mesenchymal transition, as both of these processes are induced by MM cells and CAFs. Active MM CAFs fostered chemotaxis, adhesion, proliferation and apoptosis resistance in MM cells through cytokine signals and cell-to-cell contact, which were inhibited by blocking CXCR4, several integrins and fibronectin. MM cells also induced the CAFs proliferation. In syngeneic 5T33MM and xenograft mouse models, MM cells induced the expansion of CAFs, which, in turn, promoted MM initiation and progression as well as angiogenesis. In BM biopsies from patients and mice, nests of CAFs were found in close contact with MM cells, suggesting a supportive niche. Therefore, the targeting of CAFs in MM patients may be envisaged as a novel therapeutic strategy.
Mathematical modeling has played a significant role in building our understanding of sleep-wake and circadian behavior. Over the past 40 years, phenomenological models, including the two-process model and oscillator models, helped frame experimental results and guide progress in understanding the interaction of homeostatic and circadian influences on sleep and understanding the generation of rapid eye movement sleep cycling. Recent advances in the clarification of the neural anatomy and physiology involved in the regulation of sleep and circadian rhythms have motivated the development of more detailed and physiologically-based mathematical models that extend the approach introduced by the classical reciprocal-interaction model. Using mathematical formalisms developed in the field of computational neuroscience to model neuronal population activity, these models investigate the dynamics of proposed conceptual models of sleep-wake regulatory networks with a focus on generating appropriate sleep and wake state transition patterns as well as simulating disease states and experimental protocols. In this review, we discuss several recent physiologically-based mathematical models of sleep-wake regulatory networks. We identify common features among these models in their network structures, model dynamics and approaches for model validation. We describe how the model analysis technique of fast-slow decomposition, which exploits the naturally occurring multiple timescales of sleep-wake behavior, can be applied to understand model dynamics in these networks. Our purpose in identifying commonalities among these models is to propel understanding of both the mathematical models and their underlying conceptual models, and focus directions for future experimental and theoretical work.


Gait rehabilitation by Functional Electrical Stimulations (FESs) requires a reliable trigger signal to start the stimulations. This could be obtained by a simple switch under the heel or by means of an inertial sensor system. This study provides an algorithm to detect gait events in differential acceleration signals of the foot. The key feature of differential measurements is that they compensate the impact of gravity. The real time detection capability of a rule based algorithm in healthy and hemiparetic individuals was investigated. Detection accuracy and precision compared to signals from foot switches were evaluated. The algorithm detected curve features of the vectorial sum of radial and tangential accelerations and mapped those to discrete gait states. The results showed detection rates for healthy and hemiparetic gait ranging form 84.2% to 108.5%. The sensitivity was between 0.81 and 1, and the specificity between 0.85 and 1, depending on gait phase and group of subjects. The algorithm detected gait phase changes earlier than the reference. Differential acceleration signals combined with the proposed algorithm have the potential to be implemented in a future FES system.
Among Spinal Cord Injury (SCI) intervention the administration of high-dose high-potency steroidal drugs such as methylprednisolone or dexamethasone is used to reduce the inflammation associated with primary injury and prevention of the subsequent secondary injury. The administration of steroids has several side-effects that jeopardize their use and therefore safer chemical neuro-entities are required. Natural compounds such as curcumin (anti-oxidant) and quercetin (anti-inflammatory) have been investigated as alternative neuroactive, but are not as potent as the steroids. Hence, they are required in very high doses which may lead to significant toxicity causing an increase in cellular levels of reactive oxygen species, active iron chelation, inhibiting the activity of the cytochrome P450 enzymes such as glutathione-S-transferase and UDP-glucuronosyltransferase. A reduction in the dose of these neuroactives is possible with the administration of a 'chemically-variant' permutation with additive or synergistic therapeutic benefits. Therefore, we hypothesize that curcumin and quercetin, both natural polyphenolic flavonoids, can &quot;additively and synergistically&quot; improve the physiological outcome after traumatic SCI when used in combination and termed 'Cur(Que)min' - thereby decreasing the dose levels and hence reducing the inherent high dose-cytotoxicity of the individual neuroactives. This hypothesis provides the first-account of a curcumin-quercetin combination for SCI intervention theorizing the possible biomolecular-mechanism that may provide the scientific community with a novel neuroprotective and neurotherapeutic treatment option for SCI.



Studies on complications related to chronic nerve injury following sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) and complete lymph node dissection (CLND) for melanoma are sparse. This review summarizes the existing literature on pain and neuropathic complications in melanoma patients undergoing SLNB with or without CLND. The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials and the Embase and PubMed databases were searched. Full-text English language articles published before June 2013 were included. Prospective and retrospective studies assessing persistent (&gt;1 month) sensory nerve injury, postoperative pain, neuropathic pain, and sensory disturbances following SLNB with or without CLND in melanoma patients were eligible. Nine studies (six prospective and three retrospective) including data for 3632 patients met our inclusion criteria. Outcome parameters were too heterogeneous to conduct a quantitative analysis, and few studies systematically evaluated pain and sensory abnormalities. Persistent postoperative pain was reported in 1-14% of patients following SLNB and in 6-34% following CLND and sensory abnormalities in 0.1-32 and 2-82%, respectively. In the one study that assessed the type of pain, neuropathic pain was suggested to explain persistent pain in 31-66% of patients with SLNB and 82-89% of patients with CLND. Sensory-nerve-related complications in melanoma patients seem to be less pronounced following SLNB compared with CLND. Prospective observational studies are necessary to identify predictors of persistent pain, to evaluate the prevalence and impact of pain and sensory abnormalities, and to develop strategies for prevention of long-term complications.

The abilities of lentiviral vectors to carry large transgenes (8kb) and to efficiently infect and integrate these genes into the genomes of both dividing and non-dividing cells make them ideal candidates for transport of genetic material into cells and tissues. Given the properties of these vectors, it is somewhat surprising that they have seen only limited use in studies of developing tissues and in particular of the developing nervous system. Over the past several years, we have taken advantage of the large capacity of these vectors to explore the expression characteristics of several dual promoter and 2A peptide bicistronic transgenes in developing chick neural retina, with the goal of identifying transgene designs that reliably express multiple proteins in infected cells. Here we summarize the activities of several of these transgenes in neural retina and provide detailed methodologies for packaging lentivirus and delivering the virus into the developing neural tubes of chicken embryos in ovo, procedures that have been optimized over the course of several years of use in our laboratory. Conditions to hatch injected embryos are also discussed. The chicken-specific techniques will be of highest interest to investigators using avian embryos, development and packaging of lentiviral vectors that reliably express multiple proteins in infected cells should be of interest to all investigators whose experiments demand manipulation and expression of multiple proteins in developing cells and tissues.
The Gal4-UAS regulatory system of yeast is widely used to modulate gene expression in Drosophila; however, there are limitations to its usefulness in transgenic zebrafish, owing to progressive methylation and silencing of the CpG-rich multicopy upstream activation sequence. Although a modified, less repetitive UAS construct may overcome this problem, it is highly desirable to have additional transcriptional regulatory systems that can be applied independently or in combination with the Gal4/UAS system for intersectional gene expression. The Q transcriptional regulatory system of Neurospora crassa functions similarly to Gal4/UAS. QF is a transcriptional activator that binds to the QUAS upstream regulatory sequence to drive reporter gene expression. Unlike Gal4, the QF binding site does not contain essential CpG dinucleotide sequences that are subject to DNA methylation. The QS protein is a repressor of QF mediated transcriptional activation akin to Gal80. The functionality of the Q system has been demonstrated in Drosophila and Caenorhabditis elegans and we now report its successful application to a vertebrate model, the zebrafish, Danio rerio. Several tissue-specific promoters were used to drive QF expression in stable transgenic lines, as assessed by activation of a QUAS:GFP transgene. The QS repressor was found to dramatically reduce QF activity in injected zebrafish embryos; however, a similar repression has not yet been achieved in transgenic animals expressing QS under the control of ubiquitous promoters. A dual reporter construct containing both QUAS and UAS, each upstream of different fluorescent proteins was also generated and tested in transient assays, demonstrating that the two systems can work in parallel within the same cell. The adoption of the Q system should greatly increase the versatility and power of transgenic approaches for regulating gene expression in zebrafish.
Homotypic fusion and vacuole protein sorting (HOPS) is a tethering complex required for trafficking to the vacuole/lysosome in yeast. Specific interaction of HOPS with certain SNARE (soluble NSF attachment protein receptor) proteins ensures the fusion of appropriate vesicles. HOPS function is less well characterized in metazoans. We show that all six HOPS subunits (Vps11 [vacuolar protein sorting 11]/CG32350, Vps18/Dor, Vps16A, Vps33A/Car, Vps39/CG7146, and Vps41/Lt) are required for fusion of autophagosomes with lysosomes in Drosophila. Loss of these genes results in large-scale accumulation of autophagosomes and blocks autophagic degradation under basal, starvation-induced, and developmental conditions. We find that HOPS colocalizes and interacts with Syntaxin 17 (Syx17), the recently identified autophagosomal SNARE required for fusion in Drosophila and mammals, suggesting their association is critical during tethering and fusion of autophagosomes with lysosomes. HOPS, but not Syx17, is also required for endocytic down-regulation of Notch and Boss in developing eyes and for proper trafficking to lysosomes and eye pigment granules. We also show that the formation of autophagosomes and their fusion with lysosomes is largely unaffected in null mutants of Vps38/UVRAG (UV radiation resistance associated), a suggested binding partner of HOPS in mammals, while endocytic breakdown and lysosome biogenesis is perturbed. Our results establish the role of HOPS and its likely mechanism of action during autophagy in metazoans.
In many animals, including vertebrates, oocyte meiotic spindles are bipolar but assemble in the absence of centrosomes. Although meiotic spindle positioning in oocytes has been investigated extensively, much less is known about their assembly. In Caenorhabditis elegans, three genes previously shown to contribute to oocyte meiotic spindle assembly are the calponin homology domain protein encoded by aspm-1, the katanin family member mei-1, and the kinesin-12 family member klp-18. We isolated temperature-sensitive alleles of all three and investigated their requirements using live-cell imaging to reveal previously undocumented requirements for aspm-1 and mei-1. Our results indicate that bipolar but abnormal oocyte meiotic spindles assemble in aspm-1(-) embryos, whereas klp-18(-) and mei-1(-) mutants assemble monopolar and apolar spindles, respectively. Furthermore, two MEI-1 functions--ASPM-1 recruitment to the spindle and microtubule severing--both contribute to monopolar spindle assembly in klp-18(-) mutants. We conclude that microtubule severing and ASPM-1 both promote meiotic spindle pole assembly in C. elegans oocytes, whereas the kinesin 12 family member KLP-18 promotes spindle bipolarity.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a critical regulator of endothelial cell differentiation and vasculogenesis during both development and tumor vascularization. VEGF-165 is a major form that is secreted from the cells via a poorly characterized pathway. Here we use green fluorescent protein- and epitope-tagged VEGF-165 and find that its early trafficking between the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi requires the small GTP-binding proteins Sar1 and Arf1 and that its glycosylation in the Golgi compartment is necessary for efficient post-Golgi transport and secretion from the cells. The relative temperature insensitivity of VEGF secretion and its Sar1 and Arf1 inhibitory profiles distinguish it from other cargoes using the &quot;constitutive&quot; secretory pathway. Prominent features of VEGF secretion are the retention of the protein on the outer surface of the plasma membrane and the stimulation of its secretion by Ca(2+) and protein kinase C. Of importance, shedding of VEGF-165 from the cell surface together with other membrane components appears to be a unique feature by which some VEGF is delivered to the surroundings to exert its known biological actions. Understanding VEGF trafficking can reveal additional means by which tumor vascularization can be inhibited by pharmacological interventions.
Exploration of the ubiquitin system in eukaryotes has shown that the chemical modification of proteins by ubiquitin, known as ubiquitylation, is an incredibly important post-translational event that is crucial to numerous cellular processes. Ubiquitylation is carried out by a series of enzymes that specifically target proteins to either change their activity or their location or earmark them for degradation. Using a wide range of genome-wide approaches, the ubiquitin system has been shown to be of particular importance in the survival and propagation of the human malaria parasites. In this review, we highlight our current understanding of the ubiquitin system in Plasmodium, and discuss its possible role in the development of drug resistant malaria strains.
Glioblastoma is the most common malignant brain tumor in adults and characterized by a poor prognosis. Glioma cells expressing O(6)-methylguanine DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) exhibit a higher level of resistance toward alkylating agents, including the standard of care chemotherapeutic agent temozolomide. Here, we demonstrate that long-term glioma cell lines (LTL) as well as glioma-initiating cell lines (GIC) express receptors for the immune modulatory cytokine IFN- and respond to IFN- with induction of STAT-3 phosphorylation. Exposure to IFN- induces a minor loss of viability, but strongly interferes with sphere formation in GIC cultures. Furthermore, IFN- sensitizes LTL and GIC to temozolomide and irradiation. RNA interference confirmed that both IFN- receptors, R1 and R2, are required for IFN--mediated sensitization, but that sensitization is independent of MGMT or TP53. Most GIC lines are highly temozolomide-resistant, mediated by MGMT expression, but nevertheless susceptible to IFN- sensitization. Gene expression profiling following IFN- treatment revealed strong upregulation of IFN--associated genes, including a proapoptotic gene cluster, but did not alter stemness-associated expression signatures. Caspase activity and inhibition studies revealed the proapoptotic genes to mediate glioma cell sensitization to exogenous death ligands by IFN-, but not to temozolomide or irradiation, indicating distinct pathways of death sensitization mediated by IFN-. Thus, IFN- is a potential adjunct to glioblastoma treatment that may target the GIC population. IFN- operates independently of MGMT-mediated resistance, classical apoptosis-regulatory networks, and stemness-associated gene clusters.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal dominant disease, with overt movement dysfunctions. Despite focused research on the basis of neurodegeneration in HD for last few decades, the mechanism for the site-specific lesion of neurons in the brain is not clear. All the explanations that partially clarify the phenomenon of neurodegeneration leads to one organelle, mitochondrion, which is severely affected in HD at the level of electron transport chain, Ca(2+) buffering efficiency and morphology. But, with the existing knowledge, it is not clear whether the cell death processes in HD initiate from mitochondria, though the Huntingtin (Htt) aggregates show close proximity to this organelle, or do some extracellular stimuli like TNF or FasL trigger the process. Mainly because of the disparity in the different available experimental models, the results are quite confusing or at least inconsistent to a great extent. The fact remains that the mutant Htt protein was seen to be associated with mitochondria directly, and as the striatum is highly enriched with dopamine and glutamate, it may make the striatal mitochondria more vulnerable because of the presence of dopa-quinones, and due to an imbalance in Ca(2+). The current therapeutic strategies are based on symptomatic relief, and, therefore, mainly target neurotransmitter(s) and their receptors to modulate behavioral outputs, but none of them targets mitochondria or try to address the basic molecular events that cause neurons to die in discrete regions of the brain, which could probably be resulting from grave mitochondrial dysfunctions. Therefore, targeting mitochondria for their protection, while addressing symptomatic recovery, holds a great potential to tone down the progression of the disease, and to provide better relief to the patients and caretakers.
The regulation of behavior by the molecular components of the circadian clock is not well understood. Here we report that mice lacking the nuclear receptor Rev-erb, a potent transcriptional repressor and core clock component, displayed marked hyperactivity and impaired response habituation in novel environments. In addition, Rev-erb knockout (KO) mice were deficient in short-term, long-term, and contextual memories and also showed impairment in nest-building ability. Together, these results suggest that Rev-erb KO mice manifest defective hippocampal function. Interestingly, the changes in novelty-induced locomotor activity of Rev-erb KO mice were comparable at multiple times of day, potentially due to the muted amplitude of Rev-erb oscillation in the hippocampus of wild-type mice. Hippocampal dopamine turnover was increased in Rev-erb KO mice, due to up-regulation of tyrosine hydroxylase, the rate-limiting enzyme in dopamine production, and pharmacologic inhibition of tyrosine hydroxylase activity partially rescued locomotor hyperactivity. These findings reveal a novel, nonredundant function for Rev-erb that links a core component of the circadian gene-regulatory network to the control of dopaminergic and hippocampus-dependent behaviors.
Zellweger spectrum disorder (ZSD) is a disease continuum that results from inherited defects in PEX genes essential for normal peroxisome assembly. These autosomal recessive disorders impact brain development and also cause postnatal liver, adrenal, and kidney dysfunction, as well as loss of vision and hearing. The hypomorphic PEX1-G843D missense allele, observed in approximately 30% of ZSD patients, is associated with milder clinical and biochemical phenotypes, with some homozygous individuals surviving into early adulthood. Nonetheless, affected children with the PEX1-G843D allele have intellectual disability, failure to thrive, and significant sensory deficits. To enhance our ability to test candidate therapies that improve human PEX1-G843D function, we created the novel Pex1-G844D knock-in mouse model that represents the murine equivalent of the common human mutation. We show that Pex1-G844D homozygous mice recapitulate many classic features of mild ZSD cases, including growth retardation and fatty livers with cholestasis. In addition, electrophysiology, histology, and gene expression studies provide evidence that these animals develop a retinopathy similar to that observed in human patients, with evidence of cone photoreceptor cell death. Similar to skin fibroblasts obtained from ZSD patients with a PEX1-G843D allele, we demonstrate that murine cells homozygous for the Pex1-G844D allele respond to chaperone-like compounds, which normalizes peroxisomal -oxidation. Thus, the Pex1-G844D mouse provides a powerful model system for testing candidate therapies that address the most common genetic cause of ZSD. In addition, this murine model will enhance studies focused on mechanisms of pathogenesis.

Brain lipid sensing is necessary to regulate energy balance. Lipoprotein lipase (LPL) may play a role in this process. We tested if hippocampal LPL regulated energy homeostasis in rodents by specifically attenuating LPL activity in the hippocampus of rats and mice, either by infusing a pharmacological inhibitor (tyloxapol), or using a genetic approach (adeno-associated virus expressing Cre-GFP injected into Lpl (lox/lox) mice). Decreased LPL activity by either method led to increased body weight gain due to decreased locomotor activity and energy expenditure, concomitant with increased parasympathetic tone (unchanged food intake). Decreased LPL activity in both models was associated with increased de novo ceramide synthesis and neurogenesis in the hippocampus, while intrahippocampal infusion of de novo ceramide synthesis inhibitor myriocin completely prevented body weight gain. We conclude that hippocampal lipid sensing might represent a core mechanism for energy homeostasis regulation through de novo ceramide synthesis.
Electrical brain stimulation used to treat a variety of neurological and psychiatric diseases is entering a new period. The technique is well established and the potential complications are well known and generally manageable. Recent studies demonstrated that electrical fields (EFs) can enhance neuroplasticity-related processes. EFs applied in the physiological range induce migration of different neural cell types from different species in vitro. There are some evidences that also the speed and directedness of cell migration are enhanced by EFs. However, it is still unclear how electrical signals from the extracellular space are translated into intracellular actions resulting in the so-called electrotaxis phenomenon. Here, we aim to provide a comprehensive review of the data on responses of cells to electrical stimulation and the relation to functional recovery.
Sepsis is defined as the host's reaction to infection and characterised by a systemic inflammatory response with important clinical implications. Central nervous system dysfunction secondary to sepsis is associated with local generation of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines, impaired cerebral microcirculation, an imbalance of neurotransmitters, apoptosis and cognitive impairment. It's known that the IL-1 is one of the first cytokines to be altered. Thus, the objective of this study was to evaluate the role of IL-1 in cognitive parameters in brain tissue through the use of an IL-1 (IL-1ra) receptor antagonist up to 10 days and to assess blood-brain barrier permeability, cytokine levels, oxidative parameters and energetic metabolism up to 24 h, after sepsis induction. To this aim, we used sham-operated Wistar rats or submitted to the cecal ligation and perforation (CLP) procedure. Immediately after, the animals received one dose of 10 g of IL-1ra. After 24 h, the rats were killed and were evaluated for biochemical parameters in the pre-frontal cortex, hippocampus and striatum. After 10 days, the animals were submitted to the habituation to the open field and step-down inhibitory avoidance task. We observed that the use of IL-1ra reverted the increase of blood-brain barrier permeability in the pre-frontal cortex, hippocampus and striatum; the increase of IL-1, IL1-6 and TNF- levels in the pre-frontal cortex and striatum; the decrease of complex I activity in the pre-frontal, hippocampus and striatum; the increase of oxidative parameters in pre-frontal cortex, hippocampus and striatum; and cognitive impairment. In conclusion, the results observed in this study reinforce the role of acute brain inflammatory response, in particular, the IL1 response, in the cognitive impairment associated with sepsis.
Three residues within the AMPA (-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid) receptor subunit GluA1 C terminus (Ser818, Ser831, Thr840) can be phosphorylated by Ca(2+)/phospholipid-dependent protein kinase (PKC). Here, we show that PKC phosphorylation of GluA1 Ser818 or Thr840 enhances the weighted mean channel conductance without altering the response time course or agonist potency. These data support the idea that these residues constitute a hyper-regulatory domain for the AMPA receptor. Introduction of phosphomimetic mutations increases conductance only at these three sites within the proximal C terminus, consistent with a structural model with a flexible linker connecting the distal C-terminal domain to the more proximal domain containing a helix bracketed by Ser831 and Thr840. NMR spectra support this model and raise the possibility that phosphorylation can alter the configuration of this domain. Our findings provide insight into the structure and function of the C-terminal domain of GluA1, which controls AMPA receptor function and trafficking during synaptic plasticity in the central nervous system.




Identification of a biomarker that can inform on extracellular serotonin (5-HT) levels in the brains of living humans would enable greater understanding of the way brain circuits are modulated by serotonergic neurotransmission. Substantial evidence from studies in animals and humans indicates an inverse relationship between central 5-HT tonus and 5-HT type 4 receptor (5-HT4R) density, suggesting that 5-HT4R receptor density may be a biomarker marker for 5-HT tonus. Here, we investigated whether a 3-week administration of a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, expected to increase brain 5-HT levels, is associated with a decline in brain 5-HT4R binding. A total of 35 healthy men were studied in a placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blind study. Participants were assigned to receive 3 weeks of oral dosing with placebo or fluoxetine, 40 mg per day. Brain 5-HT4R binding was quantified at baseline and at follow-up with [(11)C]SB207145 positron emission tomography (PET). Three weeks of intervention with fluoxetine was associated with a 5.2% reduction in brain 5-HT4R binding (P=0.017), whereas placebo intervention did not change 5-HT4R binding (P=0.52). Our findings are consistent with a model, wherein the 5-HT4R density adjusts to changes in the extracellular 5-HT tonus. Our data demonstrate for the first time in humans that the imaging of central 5-HT4R binding may be used as an in vivo biomarker of the central 5-HT tonus.

Schizophrenia (SZ) is a complex disease characterized by impaired neuronal functioning. Although defective alternative splicing has been linked to SZ, the molecular mechanisms responsible are unknown. Additionally, there is limited understanding of the early transcriptomic responses to neuronal activation. Here, we profile these transcriptomic responses and show that long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are dynamically regulated by neuronal activation, including acute downregulation of the lncRNA Gomafu, previously implicated in brain and retinal development. Moreover, we demonstrate that Gomafu binds directly to the splicing factors QKI and SRSF1 (serine/arginine-rich splicing factor 1) and dysregulation of Gomafu leads to alternative splicing patterns that resemble those observed in SZ for the archetypal SZ-associated genes DISC1 and ERBB4. Finally, we show that Gomafu is downregulated in post-mortem cortical gray matter from the superior temporal gyrus in SZ. These results functionally link activity-regulated lncRNAs and alternative splicing in neuronal function and suggest that their dysregulation may contribute to neurological disorders.
Abnormalities in white-matter (WM) microstructure, as lower fractional anisotropy (FA), have been reported in adolescent-onset bipolar disorder and in youth at familial risk for bipolarity. We sought to determine whether healthy adolescents with subthreshold bipolar symptoms (SBP) would have early WM microstructural alterations and whether those alterations would be associated with differences in gray-matter (GM) volumes. Forty-two adolescents with three core manic symptoms and no psychiatric diagnosis, and 126 adolescents matched by age and sex, with no psychiatric diagnosis or symptoms, were identified after screening the IMAGEN database of 2223 young adolescents recruited from the general population. After image quality control, voxel-wise statistics were performed on the diffusion parameters using tract-based spatial statistics in 25 SBP adolescents and 77 controls, and on GM and WM images using voxel-based morphometry in 30 SBP adolescents and 106 controls. As compared with healthy controls, adolescents with SBP displayed lower FA values in a number of WM tracts, particularly in the corpus callosum, cingulum, bilateral superior and inferior longitudinal fasciculi, uncinate fasciculi and corticospinal tracts. Radial diffusivity was mainly higher in posterior parts of bilateral superior and inferior longitudinal fasciculi, inferior fronto-occipital fasciculi and right cingulum. As compared with controls, SBP adolescents had lower GM volume in the left anterior cingulate region. This is the first study to investigate WM microstructure and GM morphometric variations in adolescents with SBP. The widespread FA alterations in association and projection tracts, associated with GM changes in regions involved in mood disorders, suggest altered structural connectivity in those adolescents.
It has been hypothesized that hypovitaminosis D is associated with depression but epidemiological evidence is limited. We investigated the association between depressive disorders and related clinical characteristics with blood concentrations of 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] in a large cohort. The sample consisted of participants (aged 18-65 years) from the Netherlands Study of Depression and Anxiety (NESDA) with a current (N=1102) or remitted (N=790) depressive disorder (major depressive disorder, dysthymia) defined according to DSM-IV criteria, and healthy controls (N=494). Serum levels of 25(OH)D measured and analyzed in multivariate analyses adjusting for sociodemographics, sunlight, urbanization, lifestyle and health. Of the sample, 33.6% had deficient or insufficient serum 25(OH)D (&lt;50 nmol l(-1)). As compared with controls, lower 25(OH)D levels were found in participants with current depression (P=0.001, Cohen's d=0.21), particularly in those with the most severe symptoms (P=0.001, Cohen's d=0.44). In currently depressed persons, 25(OH)D was inversely associated with symptom severity (=-0.19, s.e.=0.07, P=0.003) suggesting a dose-response gradient, and with risk (relative risk=0.90, 95% confidence interval=0.82-0.99, P=0.03) of having a depressive disorders at 2-year follow-up. This large cohort study indicates that low levels of 25(OH)D were associated to the presence and severity of depressive disorder suggesting that hypovitaminosis D may represent an underlying biological vulnerability for depression. Future studies should elucidate whether-the highly prevalent-hypovitaminosis D could be cost-effectively treated as part of preventive or treatment interventions for depression.
Bipolar disorder (BD) is a polygenic disorder that shares substantial genetic risk factors with major depressive disorder (MDD). Genetic analyses have reported numerous BD susceptibility genes, while some variants, such as single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in CACNA1C have been successfully replicated, many others have not and subsequently their effects on the intermediate phenotypes cannot be verified. Here, we studied the MDD-related gene CREB1 in a set of independent BD sample groups of European ancestry (a total of 64,888 subjects) and identified multiple SNPs significantly associated with BD (the most significant being SNP rs6785[A], P=6.32  10(-5), odds ratio (OR)=1.090). Risk SNPs were then subjected to further analyses in healthy Europeans for intermediate phenotypes of BD, including hippocampal volume, hippocampal function and cognitive performance. Our results showed that the risk SNPs were significantly associated with hippocampal volume and hippocampal function, with the risk alleles showing a decreased hippocampal volume and diminished activation of the left hippocampus, adding further evidence for their involvement in BD susceptibility. We also found the risk SNPs were strongly associated with CREB1 expression in lymphoblastoid cells (P&lt;0.005) and the prefrontal cortex (P&lt;1.0  10(-6)). Remarkably, population genetic analysis indicated that CREB1 displayed striking differences in allele frequencies between continental populations, and the risk alleles were completely absent in East Asian populations. We demonstrated that the regional prevalence of the CREB1 risk alleles in Europeans is likely caused by genetic hitchhiking due to natural selection acting on a nearby gene. Our results suggest that differential population histories due to natural selection on regional populations may lead to genetic heterogeneity of susceptibility to complex diseases, such as BD, and explain inconsistencies in detecting the genetic markers of these diseases among different ethnic populations.

The underlying pathology of schizophrenia (SZ) is likely as heterogeneous as its symptomatology. A variety of cortical and subcortical regions, including the prefrontal cortex, have been implicated in its pathology, and a number of genes have been identified as risk factors for disease development. We used in situ hybridization (ISH) to examine the expression of 58 genes in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC, comprised of Brodmann areas 9 and 46) from 19 individuals with a premorbid diagnosis of SZ and 33 control individuals. Genes were selected based on: (1) previous identification as risk factors for SZ; (2) cell type markers or (3) laminar markers. Cell density and staining intensity were compared in the DLPFC, as well as separately in Brodmann areas 9 and 46. The expression patterns of a variety of genes, many of which are associated with the GABAergic system, were altered in SZ when compared with controls. Additional genes, including C8orf79 and NR4A2, showed alterations in cell density or staining intensity between the groups, highlighting the need for additional studies. Alterations were, with only a few exceptions, limited to Brodmann area 9, suggesting regional specificity of pathology in the DLPFC. Our results agree with previous studies on the GABAergic involvement in SZ, and suggest that areas 9 and 46 may be differentially affected in the disease. This study also highlights additional genes that may be altered in SZ, and indicates that these potentially interesting genes can be identified by ISH and high-throughput image analysis techniques.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a fatal neurological disorder caused by a CAG repeat expansion in the HTT gene, which encodes a mutant huntingtin protein (mHTT). The mutation confers a toxic gain of function on huntingtin, leading to widespread neurodegeneration and inclusion formation in many brain regions. Although the hallmark symptom of HD is hyperkinesia stemming from striatal degeneration, several other brain regions are affected which cause psychiatric, cognitive, and metabolic symptoms. Additionally, mHTT expression in peripheral tissue is associated with skeletal muscle atrophy, cardiac failure, weight loss, and diabetes. We, and others, have demonstrated a prevention of motor symptoms in HD mice following direct striatal injection of adeno-associated viral vector (AAV) serotype 1 encoding an RNA interference (RNAi) construct targeting mutant HTT mRNA (mHTT). Here, we expand these efforts and demonstrate that an intrajugular vein injection of AAV serotype 9 (AAV9) expressing a mutant HTT-specific RNAi construct significantly reduced mHTT expression in multiple brain regions and peripheral tissues affected in HD. Correspondingly, this approach prevented atrophy and inclusion formation in key brain regions as well as the severe weight loss germane to HD transgenic mice. These results demonstrate that systemic delivery of AAV9-RNAi may provide more widespread clinical benefit for patients suffering from HD.
Pompe disease is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in the acid- glucosidase (GAA) gene. Lingual dysfunction is prominent but does not respond to conventional enzyme replacement therapy (ERT). Using Pompe (Gaa(-/-)) mice, we tested the hypothesis that intralingual delivery of viral vectors encoding GAA results in GAA expression and glycogen clearance in both tongue myofibers and hypoglossal (XII) motoneurons. An intralingual injection of an adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector encoding GAA (serotypes 1 or 9; 110(11) vector genomes, CMV promoter) was performed in 2-month-old Gaa(-/-) mice, and tissues were harvested 4 months later. Both serotypes robustly transduced tongue myofibers with histological confirmation of GAA expression (immunochemistry) and glycogen clearance (Period acid-Schiff stain). Both vectors also led to medullary transgene expression. GAA-positive motoneurons did not show the histopathologic features which are typical in Pompe disease and animal models. Intralingual injection with the AAV9 vector resulted in approximately threefold more GAA-positive XII motoneurons (P &lt; 0.02 versus AAV1); the AAV9 group also gained more body weight over the course of the study (P &lt; 0.05 versus AAV1 and sham). We conclude that intralingual injection of AAV1 or AAV9 drives persistent GAA expression in tongue myofibers and motoneurons, but AAV9 may more effectively target motoneurons.
The putative involvement of the cerebellum in the pathogenesis of cortical myoclonic syndromes has been long hypothesized, as neuropathological changes in patients with cortical myoclonus have most commonly been found in the cerebellum rather than in the suspected culprit, the primary somatosensory cortex. A model of increased cortical excitability due to loss of cerebellar inhibitory control via cerebello-thalamo-cortical connections has been proposed, but evidence remains equivocal. Here, we explore this hypothesis by examining syndromes that present with cortical myoclonus and ataxia. We first describe common clinical characteristics and underlying neuropathology. We critically view information on cerebellar physiology with regard to motorcortical output and compare findings between hypothesized and reported neurophysiological changes in conditions with cortical myoclonus and ataxia. We synthesize knowledge and focus on neurochemical changes in these conditions. Finally, we propose that the combination of alterations in inhibitory neurotransmission and the presence of cerebellar pathology are important elements in the pathogenesis of cortical myoclonus.
The rate of patients' decline is critical to properly design trials of disease-modifying agents. We prospectively quantified the progression of 27 progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) patients for at least 1 year to determine the rate of decline of motor, ocular-motor, neuropsychological, and neuropsychiatric features. PSP patients meeting the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and the Society for Progressive Supranuclear Palsy criteria were assessed using the PSP Rating Scale (PSP-RS) and modified UPDRS. The Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and Frontal Assessment Battery assessed cognitive decline, the Neuropsychiatric Inventory assessed behavior, and the modified Schwab and England scale and UPDRS ADL assessed activities of daily living (ADL). The rate of change of each score was calculated as 1-year worsening score. Power and sample sizes were estimated. PSP patients showed a significant yearly decline in total and subtotal scores of the PSP-RS and UPDRS, as well as in MMSE, and UPDRS and Schwab and England ADL scores. In addition, they had significant deterioration of individual item scores reflecting major aspects of the disease (i.e., ocular-motor). The rate of decline reflected in the UPDRS mirrored that of the PSP-RS. The worsening of the ADL score was positively correlated with the PSP-RS progression of falls and ocular-motor subitem scores and with executive dysfunction. PSP patients showed a significant yearly decline in motor, ocular-motor, and ADL functions. Our findings suggest that using more-advanced technology to measure ocular-motor, postural instability, and ADL will be helpful in planning future therapeutic trials.

Essential tremor (ET) is the most common movement disorder among adults. Cerebellar dysfunction is thought to be involved in the pathogenesis of ET; however, imaging, electrophysiological studies, and clinical observations have suggested that the cerebral cortex also may participate. We sought to investigate the possible motor cortical contribution to ET by assessing response to continuous theta-burst stimulation (cTBS), a recognized tool that can produce transient plastic changes, in the primary motor and premotor cortex of patients with ET. We compared parameters, including motor-evoked potential amplitude, cortical silent period, and short-interval intracortical inhibition, before and after applying cTBS in healthy controls and patients with ET. We found that, although cTBS applied to either the motor or premotor cortex was capable of producing a suppressive effect on motor cortical excitability in ET patients, the effects lasted for a significantly shorter time compared with the effect produced in healthy individuals. The change seen in measures of intracortical inhibition after motor cortical or premotor cTBS in healthy controls was reduced or absent in the ET patients. Tremor amplitude was decreased significantly after applying cTBS over either the motor or premotor cortex, but the tremor frequency remained unchanged. These findings suggest that inhibitory circuits within the motor cortex are aberrant and less modifiable in ET patients. The reduced plasticity in response to motor and premotor TBS supports the theory of abnormal gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) modulation in ET.





The proportion of patients with clinically isolated syndrome (CIS) reported to convert to clinically definite multiple sclerosis varied between 30 and 75%. We studied the lifetime probability of remaining in the &quot;CIS only&quot; condition. The study was based on the longitudinally followed Gothenburg 1950-1964 incidence cohort (n = 306). Survival analysis revealed that 17.8% of 236 attack onset patients remained &quot;CIS only&quot;. Patients with afferent (optic and sensory) symptoms had a better prognosis with approximately 30% of these patients remaining &quot;CIS only&quot;. Patients who had experienced no relapse during the first 25 years remained &quot;CIS only&quot; for the subsequent 25 years of follow-up.
Endothelial cells show surprising cell rearrangement behaviour during angiogenic sprouting; however, the underlying mechanisms and functional importance remain unclear. By combining computational modelling with experimentation, we identify that Notch/VEGFR-regulated differential dynamics of VE-cadherin junctions drive functional endothelial cell rearrangements during sprouting. We propose that continual flux in Notch signalling levels in individual cells results in differential VE-cadherin turnover and junctional-cortex protrusions, which powers differential cell movement. In cultured endothelial cells, Notch signalling quantitatively reduced junctional VE-cadherin mobility. In simulations, only differential adhesion dynamics generated long-range position changes, required for tip cell competition and stalk cell intercalation. Simulation and quantitative image analysis on VE-cadherin junctional patterning in vivo identified that differential VE-cadherin mobility is lost under pathological high VEGF conditions, in retinopathy and tumour vessels. Our results provide a mechanistic concept for how cells rearrange during normal sprouting and how rearrangement switches to generate abnormal vessels in pathologies.
Cell signaling is often mediated by the binding of multiple ligands to multisubunit receptors. The probabilistic nature and sometimes slow rate of binding encountered with diffusible ligands can impede attempts to determine how the ligand occupancy controls signaling in such protein complexes. We describe a solution to this problem that uses a photoswitched tethered ligand as a 'ligand clamp' to induce rapid and stable binding and unbinding at defined subsets of subunits. We applied the approach to study gating in ionotropic glutamate receptors (iGluRs), ligand-gated ion channels that mediate excitatory neurotransmission and plasticity at glutamatergic synapses in the brain. We probed gating in two kainate-type iGluRs, GluK2 homotetramers and GluK2-GluK5 heterotetramers. Ultrafast (submillisecond) photoswitching of an azobenzene-based ligand on specific subunits provided a real-time measure of gating and revealed that partially occupied receptors can activate without desensitizing. The findings have implications for signaling by locally released and spillover glutamate.
Current evidence suggests that delta oscillations (0.5-4 Hz) in the brain are generated by intrinsic network mechanisms involving cortical and thalamic circuits. Here we report that delta band oscillation in spike and local field potential (LFP) activity in the whisker barrel cortex of awake mice is phase locked to respiration. Furthermore, LFP oscillations in the gamma frequency band (30-80 Hz) are amplitude modulated in phase with the respiratory rhythm. Removal of the olfactory bulb eliminates respiration-locked delta oscillations and delta-gamma phase-amplitude coupling. Our findings thus suggest respiration-locked olfactory bulb activity as a main driving force behind delta oscillations and gamma power modulation in the whisker barrel cortex in the awake state.
Axonal regenerative failure is a major cause of neurological impairment following central nervous system (CNS) but not peripheral nervous system (PNS) injury. Notably, PNS injury triggers a coordinated regenerative gene expression programme. However, the molecular link between retrograde signalling and the regulation of this gene expression programme that leads to the differential regenerative capacity remains elusive. Here we show through systematic epigenetic studies that the histone acetyltransferase p300/CBP-associated factor (PCAF) promotes acetylation of histone 3 Lys 9 at the promoters of established key regeneration-associated genes following a peripheral but not a central axonal injury. Furthermore, we find that extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)-mediated retrograde signalling is required for PCAF-dependent regenerative gene reprogramming. Finally, PCAF is necessary for conditioning-dependent axonal regeneration and also singularly promotes regeneration after spinal cord injury. Thus, we find a specific epigenetic mechanism that regulates axonal regeneration of CNS axons, suggesting novel targets for clinical application.
The innate immune system responds to infection and tissue damage by activating cytosolic sensory complexes called 'inflammasomes'. Cytosolic DNA is sensed by AIM2-like receptors (ALRs) during bacterial and viral infections and in autoimmune diseases. Subsequently, recruitment of the inflammasome adaptor ASC links ALRs to the activation of caspase-1. A controlled immune response is crucial for maintaining homeostasis, but the regulation of ALR inflammasomes is poorly understood. Here we identified the PYRIN domain (PYD)-only protein POP3, which competes with ASC for recruitment to ALRs, as an inhibitor of DNA virus-induced activation of ALR inflammasomes in vivo. Data obtained with a mouse model with macrophage-specific POP3 expression emphasize the importance of the regulation of ALR inflammasomes in monocytes and macrophages.
Alzheimer's disease causes a progressive dementia that currently affects over 35 million individuals worldwide and is expected to affect 115 million by 2050 (ref. 1). There are no cures or disease-modifying therapies, and this may be due to our inability to detect the disease before it has progressed to produce evident memory loss and functional decline. Biomarkers of preclinical disease will be critical to the development of disease-modifying or even preventative therapies. Unfortunately, current biomarkers for early disease, including cerebrospinal fluid tau and amyloid- levels, structural and functional magnetic resonance imaging and the recent use of brain amyloid imaging or inflammaging, are limited because they are either invasive, time-consuming or expensive. Blood-based biomarkers may be a more attractive option, but none can currently detect preclinical Alzheimer's disease with the required sensitivity and specificity. Herein, we describe our lipidomic approach to detecting preclinical Alzheimer's disease in a group of cognitively normal older adults. We discovered and validated a set of ten lipids from peripheral blood that predicted phenoconversion to either amnestic mild cognitive impairment or Alzheimer's disease within a 2-3 year timeframe with over 90% accuracy. This biomarker panel, reflecting cell membrane integrity, may be sensitive to early neurodegeneration of preclinical Alzheimer's disease.
As neuroscience gains social traction and entices media attention, the notion that education has much to benefit from brain research becomes increasingly popular. However, it has been argued that the fundamental bridge toward education is cognitive psychology, not neuroscience. We discuss four specific cases in which neuroscience synergizes with other disciplines to serve education, ranging from very general physiological aspects of human learning such as nutrition, exercise and sleep, to brain architectures that shape the way we acquire language and reading, and neuroscience tools that increasingly allow the early detection of cognitive deficits, especially in preverbal infants. Neuroscience methods, tools and theoretical frameworks have broadened our understanding of the mind in a way that is highly relevant to educational practice. Although the bridge's cement is still fresh, we argue why it is prime time to march over it.
In neuroscience, experimental designs in which multiple observations are collected from a single research object (for example, multiple neurons from one animal) are common: 53% of 314 reviewed papers from five renowned journals included this type of data. These so-called 'nested designs' yield data that cannot be considered to be independent, and so violate the independency assumption of conventional statistical methods such as the t test. Ignoring this dependency results in a probability of incorrectly concluding that an effect is statistically significant that is far higher (up to 80%) than the nominal  level (usually set at 5%). We discuss the factors affecting the type I error rate and the statistical power in nested data, methods that accommodate dependency between observations and ways to determine the optimal study design when data are nested. Notably, optimization of experimental designs nearly always concerns collection of more truly independent observations, rather than more observations from one research object.


Hippocampal sharp waves (SWs)/ripples represent the reactivation of neurons involved in recently acquired memory and are crucial for memory consolidation. By labeling active cells with fluorescent protein under the control of an immediate-early gene promoter, we found that neurons that had been activated while mice explored a novel environment were preferentially reactivated during spontaneous SWs in hippocampal slices in vitro. During SWs, the reactivated neurons received strong excitatory synaptic inputs as opposed to a globally tuned network balance between excitation and inhibition.
Spontaneous fluctuations of ongoing neural activity substantially affect sensory and cognitive performance. Because bodily signals are constantly relayed up to the neocortex, neural responses to bodily signals are likely to shape ongoing activity. Here, using magnetoencephalography, we show that in humans, neural events locked to heartbeats before stimulus onset predict the detection of a faint visual grating in the posterior right inferior parietal lobule and the ventral anterior cingulate cortex, two regions that have multiple functional correlates and that belong to the same resting-state network. Neither fluctuations in measured bodily parameters nor overall cortical excitability could account for this finding. Neural events locked to heartbeats therefore shape visual conscious experience, potentially by contributing to the neural maps of the organism that might underlie subjectivity. Beyond conscious vision, our results show that neural events locked to a basic physiological input such as heartbeats underlie behaviorally relevant differential activation in multifunctional cortical areas.
It is believed that choice behavior reveals the underlying value of goods. The subjective values of stimuli can be changed through reward-based learning mechanisms as well as by modifying the description of the decision problem, but it has yet to be shown that preferences can be manipulated by perturbing intrinsic values of individual items. Here we show that the value of food items can be modulated by the concurrent presentation of an irrelevant auditory cue to which subjects must make a simple motor response (i.e., cue-approach training). Follow-up tests showed that the effects of this pairing on choice lasted at least 2 months after prolonged training. Eye-tracking during choice confirmed that cue-approach training increased attention to the cued items. Neuroimaging revealed the neural signature of a value change in the form of amplified preference-related activity in ventromedial prefrontal cortex.
The ventral pallidum is centrally positioned within mesocorticolimbic reward circuits, and its dense projection to the ventral tegmental area (VTA) regulates neuronal activity there. However, the ventral pallidum is a heterogeneous structure, and how this complexity affects its role within wider reward circuits is unclear. We found that projections to VTA from the rostral ventral pallidum (RVP), but not the caudal ventral pallidum (CVP), were robustly Fos activated during cue-induced reinstatement of cocaine seeking--a rat model of relapse in addiction. Moreover, designer receptor-mediated transient inactivation of RVP neurons, their terminals in VTA or functional connectivity between RVP and VTA dopamine neurons blocked the ability of drug-associated cues (but not a cocaine prime) to reinstate cocaine seeking. In contrast, CVP neuronal inhibition blocked cocaine-primed, but not cue-induced, reinstatement. This double dissociation in ventral pallidum subregional roles in drug seeking is likely to be important for understanding the mesocorticolimbic circuits underlying reward seeking and addiction.
Cocaine-mediated repression of the histone methyltransferase (HMT) G9a has recently been implicated in transcriptional, morphological and behavioral responses to chronic cocaine administration. Here, using a ribosomal affinity purification approach, we found that G9a repression by cocaine occurred in both Drd1-expressing (striatonigral) and Drd2-expressing (striatopallidal) medium spiny neurons. Conditional knockout and overexpression of G9a within these distinct cell types, however, revealed divergent behavioral phenotypes in response to repeated cocaine treatment. Our studies further indicated that such developmental deletion of G9a selectively in Drd2 neurons resulted in the unsilencing of transcriptional programs normally specific to striatonigral neurons and in the acquisition of Drd1-associated projection and electrophysiological properties. This partial striatopallidal to striatonigral 'switching' phenotype in mice indicates a new role for G9a in contributing to neuronal subtype identity and suggests a critical function for cell type-specific histone methylation patterns in the regulation of behavioral responses to environmental stimuli.
Astrocytes play active roles in brain physiology by dynamic interactions with neurons. Connexin 30, one of the two main astroglial gap-junction subunits, is thought to be involved in behavioral and basic cognitive processes. However, the underlying cellular and molecular mechanisms are unknown. We show here in mice that connexin 30 controls hippocampal excitatory synaptic transmission through modulation of astroglial glutamate transport, which directly alters synaptic glutamate levels. Unexpectedly, we found that connexin 30 regulated cell adhesion and migration and that connexin 30 modulation of glutamate transport, occurring independently of its channel function, was mediated by morphological changes controlling insertion of astroglial processes into synaptic clefts. By setting excitatory synaptic strength, connexin 30 plays an important role in long-term synaptic plasticity and in hippocampus-based contextual memory. Taken together, these results establish connexin 30 as a critical regulator of synaptic strength by controlling the synaptic location of astroglial processes.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder caused by an extended polyglutamine repeat in the N terminus of the Huntingtin protein (HTT). Reactive microglia and elevated cytokine levels are observed in the brains of HD patients, but the extent to which neuroinflammation results from extrinsic or cell-autonomous mechanisms in microglia is unknown. Using genome-wide approaches, we found that expression of mutant Huntingtin (mHTT) in microglia promoted cell-autonomous pro-inflammatory transcriptional activation by increasing the expression and transcriptional activities of the myeloid lineage-determining factors PU.1 and C/EBPs. We observed elevated levels of PU.1 and its target genes in the brains of mouse models and individuals with HD. Moreover, mHTT-expressing microglia exhibited an increased capacity to induce neuronal death ex vivo and in vivo in the presence of sterile inflammation. These findings suggest a cell-autonomous basis for enhanced microglia reactivity that may influence non-cell-autonomous HD pathogenesis.
Object-based theories of attention propose that the selection of an object's feature leads to the rapid selection of all other constituent features, even those that are task irrelevant. We used magnetoencephalographic recordings to examine the timing and sequencing of neural activity patterns in feature-specific cortical areas as human subjects performed an object-based attention task. Subjects attended to one of two superimposed moving dot arrays that were perceived as transparent surfaces on the basis either of color or speed of motion. When surface motion was attended, the magnetoencephalographic waveforms showed enhanced activity in the motion-specific cortical area starting at  150 ms after motion onset, followed after  60 ms by enhanced activity in the color-specific area. When surface color was attended, this temporal sequence was reversed. This rapid sequential activation of the relevant and irrelevant feature modules provides a neural basis for the binding of an object's features into a unitary perceptual experience.
Asynchronous activity in balanced networks of excitatory and inhibitory neurons is believed to constitute the primary medium for the propagation and transformation of information in the neocortex. Here we show that an unstructured, sparsely connected network of model spiking neurons can display two fundamentally different types of asynchronous activity that imply vastly different computational properties. For weak synaptic couplings, the network at rest is in the well-studied asynchronous state, in which individual neurons fire irregularly at constant rates. In this state, an external input leads to a highly redundant response of different neurons that favors information transmission but hinders more complex computations. For strong couplings, we find that the network at rest displays rich internal dynamics, in which the firing rates of individual neurons fluctuate strongly in time and across neurons. In this regime, the internal dynamics interact with incoming stimuli to provide a substrate for complex information processing and learning.
As prescription opioid analgesic abuse rates rise, so does the need to understand the long-term effects of opioid exposure on brain function. The dorsal striatum is an important site for drug-induced neuronal plasticity. We found that exogenously applied and endogenously released opioids induced long-term depression (OP-LTD) of excitatory inputs to the dorsal striatum in mice and rats. Mu and delta OP-LTD, although both being presynaptically expressed, were dissociable in that they summated, differentially occluded endocannabinoid-LTD and inhibited different striatal inputs. Kappa OP-LTD showed a unique subregional expression in striatum. A single in vivo exposure to the opioid analgesic oxycodone disrupted mu OP-LTD and endocannabinoid-LTD, but not delta or kappa OP-LTD. These data reveal previously unknown opioid-mediated forms of long-term striatal plasticity that are differentially affected by opioid analgesic exposure and are likely important mediators of striatum-dependent learning and behavior.
Post-translational protein nitration has attracted interest owing to its involvement in cellular signaling, effects on protein function and potential as biomarker of nitroxidative stress. We describe a procedure for enriching nitropeptides for mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics that is a simple and reliable alternative to immunoaffinity-based methods. The starting material for this procedure is a proteolytic digest. The peptides are reacted with formaldehyde and sodium cyanoborohydride to dimethylate all the N-terminal and side chain amino groups. Sodium dithionite is added subsequently to reduce the nitro groups to amines; in theory, the only amino groups present will have originally been nitro groups. The peptide sample is then applied to a solid-phase active ester reagent (SPAER), and those peptides with amino groups will be selectively and covalently captured. Release of the peptides on hydrolysis with trifluoroacetic acid (TFA) results in peptides that have a 4-formyl-benzamido group where the nitro group used to be. In qualitative setups, the procedure can be used to identify proteins modified by reactive nitrogen species and to determine the specific sites of their nitration. Quantitative measurements can be performed by stable-isotope labeling of the peptides in the reductive dimethylation step. Preparation of the SPAER takes about 1 d. Enrichment of nitropeptides requires about 2 d, and sample preparations need 1-30 h, depending on the experimental design. LC-MS/MS assays take from 4 h to several days and data processing can be done in 1-7 d.
Globus is a topic of interest for many specialties including otorhinolaryngology, gastroenterology and psychiatry/psychosomatic medicine, but, although many hypotheses have been suggested, key questions about its aetiology remain. This Review provides an overview of the extensive literature concerning this topic and discusses the quality of the evidence to date. Globus has been associated with oropharyngeal structural lesions, upper oesophageal sphincter disorders, oesophageal disorders, GERD, psychosocial factors and psychiatric comorbidity. However, findings are often contradictory and the literature remains highly inconclusive. Indeed, with the exception of patients with structural-based globus, the Rome III criteria for functional globus only apply to a subgroup of patients with idiopathic globus. In clinical reality, there exists a group of patients who present with idiopathic (nonstructural) globus, but nevertheless have dysphagia, odynophagia or GERD-exclusion criteria for globus diagnosis according to Rome III. The symptomatology of patients with globus might be broader than previously thought. It is therefore crucial to approach globus not from one single perspective, but from a multifactorial point of view, with focus on the coexistence and/or interactions of different mechanisms in globus pathogenesis. This approach could be translated to clinical practice by adopting a multidisciplinary method to patients presenting with globus.

Reciprocal signalling between immunocompetent cells in the central nervous system (CNS) has emerged as a key phenomenon underpinning pathological and chronic pain mechanisms. Neuronal excitability can be powerfully enhanced both by classical neurotransmitters derived from neurons, and by immune mediators released from CNS-resident microglia and astrocytes, and from infiltrating cells such as T cells. In this Review, we discuss the current understanding of the contribution of central immune mechanisms to pathological pain, and how the heterogeneous immune functions of different cells in the CNS could be harnessed to develop new therapeutics for pain control. Given the prevalence of chronic pain and the incomplete efficacy of current drugs--which focus on suppressing aberrant neuronal activity--new strategies to manipulate neuroimmune pain transmission hold considerable promise.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is the most frequent chronic inflammatory disease of the CNS, and imposes major burdens on young lives. Great progress has been made in understanding and moderating the acute inflammatory components of MS, but the pathophysiological mechanisms of the concomitant neurodegeneration--which causes irreversible disability--are still not understood. Chronic inflammatory processes that continuously disturb neuroaxonal homeostasis drive neurodegeneration, so the clinical outcome probably depends on the balance of stressor load (inflammation) and any remaining capacity for neuronal self-protection. Hence, suitable drugs that promote the latter state are sorely needed. With the aim of identifying potential novel therapeutic targets in MS, we review research on the pathological mechanisms of neuroaxonal dysfunction and injury, such as altered ion channel activity, and the endogenous neuroprotective pathways that counteract oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction. We focus on mechanisms inherent to neurons and their axons, which are separable from those acting on inflammatory responses and might, therefore, represent bona fide neuroprotective drug targets with the capability to halt MS progression.
The unfolded protein response (UPR) is a homeostatic mechanism by which cells regulate levels of misfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Although it is well characterized in non-neuronal cells, a proliferation of papers over the past few years has revealed a key role for the UPR in normal neuronal function and as an important driver of neurodegenerative diseases. A complex scenario is emerging in which distinct UPR signalling modules have specific and even opposite effects on neurodegeneration depending on the disease context. Here, we provide an overview of the most recent findings addressing the biological relevance of ER stress in the nervous system.
Brain function relies on the ability of neurons to communicate with each other. Interneuronal communication primarily takes place at synapses, where information from one neuron is rapidly conveyed to a second neuron. There are two main modalities of synaptic transmission: chemical and electrical. Far from functioning independently and serving unrelated functions, mounting evidence indicates that these two modalities of synaptic transmission closely interact, both during development and in the adult brain. Rather than conceiving synaptic transmission as either chemical or electrical, this article emphasizes the notion that synaptic transmission is both chemical and electrical, and that interactions between these two forms of interneuronal communication might be required for normal brain development and function.
We often assume that the variables of functional and structural brain parameters - such as synaptic weights, the firing rates of individual neurons, the synchronous discharge of neural populations, the number of synaptic contacts between neurons and the size of dendritic boutons - have a bell-shaped distribution. However, at many physiological and anatomical levels in the brain, the distribution of numerous parameters is in fact strongly skewed with a heavy tail, suggesting that skewed (typically lognormal) distributions are fundamental to structural and functional brain organization. This insight not only has implications for how we should collect and analyse data, it may also help us to understand how the different levels of skewed distributions - from synapses to cognition - are related to each other.
Pain is the most common symptom of juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) and is arguably a more important factor in disability than the progression of the disease itself. Studies have highlighted the extent of this pain and its persistence in some young patients despite effective disease control. Understanding and effective management of pain in JIA is limited, and improved diagnosis and treatment would benefit from increased knowledge of the mechanisms underlying pain in childhood. This Review focuses upon the developmental neurobiology of pain, reviewing studies in animal models that increase clinical understanding and inform treatment of the painful manifestations of JIA. Pain processing in the juvenile nervous system differs from that in adults: nociceptive thresholds are lower and endogenous pain control systems are slow to mature. Furthermore, increasing evidence points to tissue injury in childhood having prolonged effects upon the developing pain system. Injury, inflammation and stress in early life can 'prime' peripheral nociceptors and central pain circuits, such that the pain associated with tissue inflammation is exacerbated in later life. A developmental, mechanism-based approach towards developing novel targets for the treatment of pain in JIA might therefore benefit the patient both as a child and as an adult if the disease recurs or persists.
Motivated by data-rich experiments in transcriptional regulation and sensory neuroscience, we consider the following general problem in statistical inference: when exposed to a high-dimensional signal S, a system of interest computes a representation R of that signal, which is then observed through a noisy measurement M. From a large number of signals and measurements, we wish to infer the &quot;filter&quot; that maps S to R. However, the standard method for solving such problems, likelihood-based inference, requires perfect a priori knowledge of the &quot;noise function&quot; mapping R to M. In practice such noise functions are usually known only approximately, if at all, and using an incorrect noise function will typically bias the inferred filter. Here we show that in the large data limit, this need for a precharacterized noise function can be circumvented by searching for filters that instead maximize the mutual information I[M; R] between observed measurements and predicted representations. Moreover, if the correct filter lies within the space of filters being explored, maximizing mutual information becomes equivalent to simultaneously maximizing every dependence measure that satisfies the data processing inequality. It is important to note that maximizing mutual information will typically leave a small number of directions in parameter space unconstrained. We term these directions diffeomorphic modes and present an equation that allows these modes to be derived systematically. The presence of diffeomorphic modes reflects a fundamental and nontrivial substructure within parameter space, one that is obscured by standard likelihood-based inference.
Nondeclarative memory and novelty processing in the brain is an actively studied field of neuroscience, and reducing neural activity with repetition of a stimulus (repetition suppression) is a commonly observed phenomenon. Recent findings of an opposite trend-specifically, rising activity for unfamiliar stimuli-question the generality of repetition suppression and stir debate over the underlying neural mechanisms. This letter introduces a theory and computational model that extend existing theories and suggests that both trends are, in principle, the rising and falling parts of an inverted U-shaped dependence of activity with respect to stimulus novelty that may naturally emerge in a neural network with Hebbian learning and lateral inhibition. We further demonstrate that the proposed model is sufficient for the simulation of dissociable forms of repetition priming using real-world stimuli. The results of our simulation also suggest that the novelty of stimuli used in neuroscientific research must be assessed in a particularly cautious way. The potential importance of the inverted-U in stimulus processing and its relationship to the acquisition of knowledge and competencies in humans is also discussed.


Intermediate-length polyglutamine expansions in ataxin 2 are a risk factor for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). The polyglutamine tract is encoded by a trinucleotide repeat in a coding region of the ataxin 2 gene (ATXN2). Noncoding nucleotide repeat expansions in several genes are also associated with neurodegenerative and neuromuscular diseases. For example, hexanucleotide repeat expansions located in a noncoding region of C9ORF72 are the most common cause of ALS. We sought to assess a potential larger role of noncoding nucleotide repeat expansions in ALS. We analyzed the nucleotide repeat lengths of 6 genes (ATXN8, ATXN10, PPP2R2B, NOP56, DMPK, and JPH3) that have previously been associated with neurologic or neuromuscular disorders, in several hundred sporadic patients with ALS and healthy control subjects. We report no association between ALS and repeat length in any of these genes, suggesting that variation in the noncoding repetitive regions in these genes does not contribute to ALS.
Amylin is a metabolic peptide hormone that is co-secreted with insulin from beta cells in the pancreas and activates many of the downstream targets of insulin. To investigate the relationship between this hormone and Alzheimer's disease (AD), we measured plasma human amylin levels in 206 subjects with AD, 64 subjects with mild cognitive impairment, and 111 subjects with no cognitive impairment and found significantly lower amylin levels among subjects with AD and mild cognitive impairment compared with the cognitively intact subjects. To investigate mechanisms underlying amylin's effects in the brain, we administered chronic infusions of the amylin analog pramlintide in the senescence-accelerated prone mouse, a mouse model of sporadic AD. Pramlintide administration improved performance in the novel object recognition task, a validated test of memory and cognition. The pramlintide-treated mice had increased expression of the synaptic marker synapsin I and the kinase cyclin-dependent kinase-5 in the hippocampus, as well as decreased oxidative stress and inflammatory markers in the hippocampus. A dose-dependent increase in cyclin-dependent kinase-5 and activation of extracellular-signal-regulated-kinases 1/2 by pramlintide treatment in vitro was also present indicating functionality of the amylin receptor in neurons. Together these results suggest that amylin analogs have neuroprotective properties and might be of therapeutic benefit in AD.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex neurodegenerative disorder involving dysregulation of many biological pathways at multiple levels. Classical epigenetic mechanisms, including DNA methylation and histone modifications, and regulation by microRNAs (miRNAs), are among the major regulatory elements that control these pathways at the molecular level, with epigenetic modifications regulating gene expression transcriptionally and miRNAs suppressing gene expression posttranscriptionally. Epigenetic mechanisms and miRNAs have recently been shown to closely interact with each other, thereby creating reciprocal regulatory circuits, which appear to be disrupted in neuronal and glial cells affected by AD. Here, we review those miRNAs implicated in AD that are regulated by promoter DNA methylation and/or chromatin modifications and, which frequently direct the expression of constituents of the epigenetic machinery, concluding with the delineation of a complex epigenetic-miRNA regulatory network and its alterations in AD.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) has a long preclinical phase in which amyloid and tau cerebral pathology accumulate without producing cognitive symptoms. Resting state functional connectivity magnetic resonance imaging has demonstrated that brain networks degrade during symptomatic AD. It is unclear to what extent these degradations exist before symptomatic onset. In this study, we investigated graph theory metrics of functional integration (path length), functional segregation (clustering coefficient), and functional distinctness (modularity) as a function of disease severity. Further, we assessed whether these graph metrics were affected in cognitively normal participants with cerebrospinal fluid evidence of preclinical AD. Clustering coefficient and modularity, but not path length, were reduced in AD. Cognitively normal participants who harbored AD biomarker pathology also showed reduced values in these graph measures, demonstrating brain changes similar to, but smaller than, symptomatic AD. Only modularity was significantly affected by age. We also demonstrate that AD has a particular effect on hub-like regions in the brain. We conclude that AD causes large-scale disconnection that is present before onset of symptoms.
Although the neurodevelopment of empathy from childhood to adolescence has been documented, no study has yet examined it across a life span aging perspective. Sixty-five healthy participants from 3 age groups (young, middle-aged, old) underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging while presented with visual stimuli depicting body parts being injured, either accidentally by oneself or intentionally by another, thus isolating pain and agency as 2 variables of interest. Older adults reported less dispositional emotional empathy as assessed by the interpersonal reactivity index, and their unpleasantness ratings were more sensitive to intentional harm. The response in anterior insula and anterior mid-cingulate cortex to others' pain, indicative of emotional empathy, showed an age-related decline, whereas the response in medial prefrontal cortex and posterior superior temporal sulcus to perceived agency did not change with age. Dynamic causal modeling demonstrated that their effective connectivity remained stable. The pattern of hemodynamic response was not related to regional gray matter volume loss. These findings suggest that the neural response associated with emotional empathy lessened with age, whereas the response to perceived agency is preserved.
Synaptic damage is a critical hallmark of Alzheimer's disease, and the best correlate with cognitive impairment ante mortem. Synapses, the loci of communication between neurons, are characterized by signature protein combinations arrayed at tightly apposed pre- and post-synaptic sites. The most widely studied trans-synaptic junctional complexes, which direct synaptogenesis and foster the maintenance and stability of the mature terminal, are conjunctions of presynaptic neurexins and postsynaptic neuroligins. Fluctuations in the levels of neuroligins and neurexins can sway the balance between excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission in the brain, and could lead to damage of synapses and dendrites. This review summarizes current understanding of the roles of neurexins and neuroligins proteolytic processing in synaptic plasticity in the human brain, and outlines their possible roles in -amyloid metabolism and function, which are central pathogenic events in Alzheimer's disease progression.
The objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of computational algorithm, measurement variability, and cut point on hippocampal volume (HCV)-based patient selection for clinical trials in mild cognitive impairment (MCI). We used normal control and amnestic MCI subjects from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative 1 (ADNI-1) as normative reference and screening cohorts. We evaluated the enrichment performance of 4 widely used hippocampal segmentation algorithms (FreeSurfer, Hippocampus Multi-Atlas Propagation and Segmentation (HMAPS), Learning Embeddings Atlas Propagation (LEAP), and NeuroQuant) in terms of 2-year changes in Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subscale (ADAS-Cog), and Clinical Dementia Rating Sum of Boxes (CDR-SB). We modeled the implications for sample size, screen fail rates, and trial cost and duration. HCV based patient selection yielded reduced sample sizes (by 40%-60%) and lower trial costs (by 30%-40%) across a wide range of cut points. These results provide a guide to the choice of HCV cut point for amnestic MCI clinical trials, allowing an informed tradeoff between statistical and practical considerations.
Resting state functional connectivity of the sensorimotor and extramotor brain networks was studied in 24 patients with primary lateral sclerosis (PLS) relative to 26 healthy controls. The relationships of RS functional connectivity with patient clinical and cognitive status and white matter tract damage (i.e., corticospinal tracts, corpus callosum, and superior longitudinal fasciculus) were investigated. Compared with controls, PLS patients showed an increased functional connectivity within the sensorimotor, frontal, and left frontoparietal networks spanning the pre- and postcentral, medial and dorsal frontal, insular, and superior temporal regions. Patients with more severe physical disability and a more rapid rate of disease progression had increased sensorimotor connectivity values. The increased functional connectivity within the frontal network was associated with executive dysfunction. In addition, higher functional connectivity correlated with greater structural damage to network-specific white matter tracts. This study shows clinically meaningful increased resting state functional connectivity in PLS.
Spinal muscular atrophy results from diminished levels of survival motor neuron (SMN) protein in spinal motor neurons. Low levels of SMN also occur in models of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) caused by mutant superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) and genetic reduction of SMN levels exacerbates the phenotype of transgenic SOD1(G93A) mice. Here, we demonstrate that SMN protein is significantly reduced in the spinal cords of patients with sporadic ALS. To test the potential of SMN as a modifier of ALS, we overexpressed SMN in 2 different strains of SOD1(G93A) mice. Neuronal overexpression of SMN significantly preserved locomotor function, rescued motor neurons, and attenuated astrogliosis in spinal cords of SOD1(G93A) mice. Despite this, survival was not prolonged, most likely resulting from SMN mislocalization and depletion of gems in motor neurons of symptomatic mice. Our results reveal that SMN upregulation slows locomotor deficit onset and motor neuron loss in this mouse model of ALS. However, disruption of SMN nuclear complexes by high levels of mutant SOD1, even in the presence of SMN overexpression, might limit its survival promoting effects in this specific mouse model. Studies in emerging mouse models of ALS are therefore warranted to further explore the potential of SMN as a modifier of ALS.
Synchrotron-based x-ray fluorescence microscopy, immunofluorescence, and Western blotting were used to investigate changes in copper (Cu) and Cu-associated pathways in the vulnerable substantia nigra (SN) and locus coeruleus (LC) and in nondegenerating brain regions in cases of Parkinson's disease (PD) and appropriate healthy and disease controls. In PD and incidental Lewy body disease, levels of Cu and Cu transporter protein 1, were significantly reduced in surviving neurons in the SN and LC. Specific activity of the cuproprotein superoxide dismutase 1 was unchanged in the SN in PD but was enhanced in the parkinsonian anterior cingulate cortex, a region with -synuclein pathology, normal Cu, and limited cell loss. These data suggest that regions affected by -synuclein pathology may display enhanced vulnerability and cell loss if Cu-dependent protective mechanisms are compromised. Additional investigation of copper pathology in PD may identify novel targets for the development of protective therapies for this disorder.
Expansion of a GGGGCC repeat (RE) in the C9orf72 gene has been recently reported as the main genetic cause of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). Given the growing evidence of genetic and clinicopathologic overlap among ALS, FTD, and other neurodegenerative diseases, we investigated the occurrence of RE in a subset of 9 patients with ALS-plus syndromes, including Parkinson's disease (PD), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), corticobasal syndrome (CBS), and multiple system atrophy. We identified RE in 2 ALS-plus individuals (22.2%) displaying PSP and CBS features. On the basis of this finding, we extended our analysis to a cohort composed of 190 PD, 103 CBS, 107 PSP, and 177 Alzheimer's disease cases. We did not identify any RE in these patients, indicating that C9orf72 is in all probability not involved in the pathogenesis of these disorders. However, the high frequency of C9orf72 RE in patients with ALS-plus syndromes suggests that, similar to ALS-FTD patients, individuals with combined motor neuron and extrapyramidal features should be screened for RE, independent of their family history.
Loss-of-function progranulin (PGRN) mutations have been identified as the major cause of frontotemporal lobar degeneration with TDP-43 protein inclusions (FTLD-TDP). Previously, we reported cell cycle-related alterations in lymphoblasts from FTLD-TDP patients, carrying the c.709-1G&gt;A null PGRN mutation, suggesting aberrant cell cycle activation in affected neurons. Here we report that PGRN haploinsufficiency activates the extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases 1 and 2 pathway in a Ca(2+), protein kinase C-dependent, and pertussis toxin-sensitive manner. Addition of exogenous PGRN or conditioned medium from control cells normalized the response of PGRN-deficient lymphoblasts to serum activation. Our data indicated that noncanonical Wnt5a signaling might be overactivated by PGRN deficiency. We detected increased cellular and secreted levels of Wnt5a in PGRN-deficient lymphoblasts associated with enhanced phosphorylated calmodulin kinase II. Moreover, treatment of control cells with exogenous Wingless-type 5a (Wnt5a)-activated Ca(2+)/calmodulin kinase II (CaMKII), increased extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases 1 and 2 activity and cell proliferation up to the levels found in c.709-1G&gt;A carrier cells. PGRN knockdown SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells also show enhanced Wnt5a content and signaling. Taken together, our results revealed an important role of Wnt signaling in FTLD-TDP pathology and suggest a novel target for therapeutic intervention.
A recent genome-wide association study of patients with essential tremor (ET) from Germany has nominated SLC1A2 rs3794087 as a novel risk factor for disease. This association was independently replicated in the Chinese population, albeit with an opposite direction of effect. To further define the role of SLC1A2 in ET, we genotyped rs3794087 in a North American series consisting of 1347 patients with ET and controls. Statistical analysis did not identify significant differences in genotype or allele frequencies between healthy controls and patients with ET (p &gt; 0.36). These findings therefore do not support a role for SLC1A2 rs3794087 in susceptibility to ET in the North American population. Further studies in ethnically distinct populations of patients with ET are necessary to understand whether genetic variability in SLC1A2 affects disease risk for ET.
A causative association was recently demonstrated between homozygous TREM2 mutations and frontotemporal dementia (FTD)-like syndrome and between heterozygous TREM2 exon2 genetic variations and late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD). The objective of this study was to evaluate whether heterozygous TREM2 genetic variations might be associated to the risk of FTD. TREM2 exon 2 was sequenced in a group of 1030 subjects-namely, 352 patients fulfilling clinical criteria for FTD, 484 healthy control subjects (HCs), and 194 patients with AD. The mutation frequency and the associated clinical characteristics were analyzed. We identified 8 missense and nonsense mutations in TREM2 exon 2 in 24 subjects. These mutations were more frequent in patients with FTD than in HCs (4.0% vs. 1.0%, p = 0.005). In particular, TREM2 Q33X, R47H, T66M, and S116C mutations were found in FTD and were absent in HCs. These mutations were associated with either the semantic variant of primary progressive aphasia or the behavioral variant FTD phenotypes. The FTD and AD groups were not significantly different with regard to TREM2 genetic variation frequency (AD: 2.6%, p = 0.39). Heterozygous TREM2 mutations modulate the risk of FTD in addition to increasing susceptibility to AD. Additional studies are warranted to investigate the possible role of these mutations in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders.
Mutations in DNAJC13, DNAJC6 and DNAJC5 have been implicated in Parkinson's disease (PD). To determine if rare coding variants in these genes play a role in PD risk in the Chinese population, we sequenced all coding exons of the three genes in 99 early-onset PD cases and 99 controls, and genotyped 8 missense variants in another 711 PD cases and 539 controls. Besides two common missense variants that did not show association with PD, the remaining missense variants were extremely rare (&lt;0.5%), found in healthy population controls and did not show enrichment in PD cases. Our results suggest that missense mutations in DNAJC13, DNAJC5 and DNAJC6 do not play a major role in PD in the Chinese population.
Impairment of the central serotonin system in Parkinson's disease (PD) has been shown postmortem and in vivo with positron emission tomography (PET). The aim of this PET study was to examine and compare the availability of the 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)(1B)-receptor subtype in patients with PD and age-matched control subjects. Twelve control subjects and 12 PD patients were examined with PET using the 5-HT(1B)-radioligand [(11)C]AZ10419369. In PD patients, 5-HT(1B)-receptor availability in the right orbitofrontal cortex was lower than in control subjects. A statistically significant negative correlation between 5-HT(1B)-receptor availability and age was obtained for the right temporal cortex in control subjects and for the right midbrain and left parahippocampal gyrus in PD patients. The lower regional 5-HT(1B)-receptor availability is in line with previous studies showing a decrease of serotonin imaging markers in PD and corroborates a role of the serotonin system in the pathophysiology of PD. The demonstrated age effect on 5-HT(1B) receptors suggest a physiologic and PD-related decline of serotonin function, indicating the importance of controlling for age in clinical studies.
The glucocerebrosidase gene (GBA) is a known risk factor of Parkinson's disease (PD). We sequenced entire coding exons and exon/intron boundaries of GBA in 147 Japanese familial PD (FPD) patients from 144 families and 100 unrelated control subjects. Twenty-seven of 144 (18.8%) of index patients were heterozygous for known Gaucher disease mutations, suggesting that GBA heterozygous mutations are strongly associated with FPD (odds ratio = 22.9, 95% confidence interval = 3.1-171.2). The frequency was significantly higher in autosomal dominant PD (ADPD) compared with autosomal recessive PD. According to clinical assessments, PD patients with GBA mutations exhibited typical manifestations of PD or dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), such as L-dopa responsive parkinsonism with psychiatric problems and/or cognitive decline. Interestingly, they also presented with reduced myocardial (123)I-metaiodobenzylguanidine uptake. Our findings suggest that heterozygous GBA mutations are strong risk factors in FPD, especially for autosomal dominant PD. Some patients with GBA heterozygous mutations develop clinical features of DLB. We speculate that GBA dysfunction may promote Lewy body formation, resulting in more severe PD or DLB phenotypes that are inherited in families.
Alterations in the expression and signaling of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and the precursor to nerve growth factor (NGF), proNGF, play a role in the neuronal and cognitive dysfunction of Alzheimer's disease. Aggregated amyloid- has been shown to down-regulate specific BDNF transcripts in Alzheimer's disease, but the role of tau pathology in neurotrophin dysregulation has not been investigated. We measured levels of BDNF mRNA and protein using real-time quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and proNGF protein using Western blotting in parietal cortex of subjects with tauopathies, neurodegenerative diseases exhibiting tau pathology without amyloid- accumulation. We observed a significant increase in the level of proNGF protein in Pick's disease and a significant decrease in BDNF mRNA and protein levels in Pick's disease and corticobasal degeneration, but no neurotrophin alterations in progressive supranuclear palsy. The decrease in total BDNF mRNA levels in these tauopathies was predominantly due to down-regulation of transcript IV. These findings implicate tau pathology in neurotrophin dysregulation, which may represent a mechanism through which tau confers toxicity in Alzheimer's disease and related non-Alzheimer's dementias.

Viral infection of the CNS can result in encephalitis and acute seizures, increasing the risk for later-life epilepsy. We have previously characterized a novel animal model of temporal lobe epilepsy that recapitulates key sequela in the development of epilepsy following viral infection. C57BL/6J mice inoculated with the Daniel's strain of Theiler's Murine Encephalomyelitis Virus (TMEV; 310(5) PFU, i.c.) display acute limbic seizures that secondarily generalize. A majority of acutely seized animals develop spontaneous seizures weeks to months later. As part of our investigation, we sought to assess behavioral comorbidity following TMEV inoculation. Anxiety, depression, cognitive impairment, and certain psychoses are diagnosed in persons with epilepsy at rates far more frequent than in the general population. We used a battery of behavioral tests to assess anxiety, depression, cognitive impairment, and general health in acutely seized animals inoculated with TMEV and compared behavioral outcomes against age-matched controls receiving a sham injection. We determined that TMEV-seized animals are less likely to move through the exposed center of an open field and are less likely to enter into the lighted half of a light/dark box; both behaviors may be indicative of anxiety-like behavior. TMEV-seized animals also display early and persistent reductions in novel object exploration during novel object place tasks and do not improve in their ability to find a hidden escape platform in Morris water maze testing, indicative of impairment in episodic and spatial memory, respectively. Cresyl violet staining at 35 and 250 days after injection reveals bilateral reductions in hippocampal area, with extensive sclerosis of CA1 evident bilaterally along the rostral-caudal axis. Early and persistent behavioral changes in the TMEV model provide surrogate markers for assessing disease progression as well as endpoints in screening for the efficacy of novel compounds to manage both seizure burden and comorbid conditions.
Human apolipoprotein E (apoE) exists in three isoforms: apoE2, apoE3 and apoE4. APOE 4 is a major genetic risk factor for cardiovascular disease (CVD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). ApoE mediates cholesterol metabolism by binding various receptors. The low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) has a high affinity for apoE, and is the only member of its receptor family to demonstrate an apoE isoform specific binding affinity (E4&gt;E3&gt;E2). Evidence suggests that a functional interaction between apoE and LDLR influences the risk of CVD and AD. We hypothesize that the differential cognitive effects of the apoE isoforms are a direct result of their varying interactions with LDLR. To test this hypothesis, we have employed transgenic mice that express human apoE2, apoE3, or apoE4, and either human LDLR (hLDLR) or no LDLR (LDLR(-/-)). Our results show that plasma and brain apoE levels, cortical cholesterol, and spatial memory are all regulated by isoform-dependent interactions between apoE and LDLR. Conversely, both anxiety-like behavior and cued associative memory are strongly influenced by APOE genotype, but these processes appear to occur via an LDLR-independent mechanism. Both the lack of LDLR and the interaction between E4 and the LDLR were associated with significant impairments in the retention of long term spatial memory. Finally, levels of hippocampal apoE correlate with long term spatial memory retention in mice with human LDLR. In summary, we demonstrate that the apoE-LDLR interaction affects regional brain apoE levels, brain cholesterol, and cognitive function in an apoE isoform-dependent manner.
Genetic mutations in voltage-gated and ligand-gated ion channel genes have been identified in a small number of Mendelian families with genetic generalised epilepsies (GGEs). They are commonly associated with febrile seizures (FS), childhood absence epilepsy (CAE) and particularly with generalised or genetic epilepsy with febrile seizures plus (GEFS+). In clinical practice, despite efforts to categorise epilepsy and epilepsy families into syndromic diagnoses, many generalised epilepsies remain unclassified with a presumed genetic basis. During the systematic collection of epilepsy families, we assembled a cohort of families with evidence of GEFS+ and screened for variations in the 2 subunit of the -aminobutyric acid (GABA) type A receptor gene (GABRG2). We detected a novel GABRG2(p.R136*) premature translation termination codon in one index-case from a two-generation nuclear family, presenting with an unclassified GGE, a borderline GEFS+ phenotype with learning difficulties and extended behavioural presentation. The GABRG2(p.R136*) mutation segregates with the febrile seizure component of this family's GGE and is absent in 190 healthy control samples. In vitro expression assays demonstrated that 2(p.R136*) subunits were produced, but had reduced cell-surface and total expression. When 2(p.R136*) subunits were co-expressed with 1 and 2 subunits in HEK 293T cells, GABA-evoked currents were reduced. Furthermore, 2(p.R136*) subunits were highly-expressed in intracellular aggregations surrounding the nucleus and endoplasmic reticulum (ER), suggesting compromised receptor trafficking. A novel GABRG2(p.R136*) mutation extends the spectrum of GABRG2 mutations identified in GEFS+ and GGE phenotypes, causes GABAA receptor dysfunction, and represents a putative epilepsy mechanism.
Parkinson's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder, characterized by accumulation and misfolding of -synuclein. Although the level of -synuclein in neurons is fundamentally linked to the onset of neurodegeneration, multiple pathways have been implicated in its degradation, and it remains unclear which are the critical ubiquitination enzymes that protect against -synuclein accumulation in vivo. The ubiquitin ligase Nedd4 targets -synuclein to the endosomal-lysosomal pathway in cultured cells. Here we asked whether Nedd4-mediated degradation protects against -synuclein-induced toxicity in the Drosophila and rodent models of Parkinson's disease. We show that overexpression of Nedd4 can rescue the degenerative phenotype from ectopic expression of -synuclein in the Drosophila eye. Overexpressed Nedd4 in the Drosophila brain prevented the -synuclein-induced locomotor defect whereas reduction in endogenous Nedd4 by RNAi led to worsening motor function and increased loss of dopaminergic neurons. Accordingly, AAV-mediated expression of wild-type but not the catalytically inactive Nedd4 decreased the -synuclein-induced dopaminergic cell loss in the rat substantia nigra and reduced -synuclein accumulation. Collectively, our data in two evolutionarily distant model organisms strongly suggest that Nedd4 is a modifier of -synuclein pathobiology and thus a potential target for neuroprotective therapies.
The most appropriate time for the initiation of dopaminergic symptomatic therapy in Parkinson's disease remains debatable. It has been suggested that early correction of basal ganglia pathophysiological abnormalities may have long-term beneficial effects. To test this hypothesis, we investigated the early and delayed actions of L-dopa and pramipexole, using a delayed-start protocol of treatment. The effects of early and delayed administration of these drugs on motor response, development of dyskinesias, neurogenesis and molecular markers in basal ganglia were studied in rats with a unilateral and partial 6-hydroxydopamine-induced nigrostriatal lesion. Ten days after lesioning, rats received treatment with: a) L-dopa methyl ester (25mg/kg with 6.25mg/kg of benserazide, i.p., twice a day); b) pramipexole (0.5mg/kg, sc, twice a day) or c) saline for 4weeks. Four weeks after treatment initiation, rats from the saline group were distributed in three groups that then received the following treatments: d) L-dopa, e) pramipexole or f) saline, for 4weeks more. Three animals in each treatment arm received 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine injections (200mg/kg) 3days before starting treatment. When compared with delayed-start L-dopa, early-start L-dopa treatment induced a lower rotational response (p&lt;0.01), an improvement in limb akinesia (p&lt;0.05), a lower level of dyskinesia (p&lt;0.01) and a normalization of lesion-induced molecular changes in basal ganglia. When compared with delayed-start pramipexole, early-start pramipexole induced a higher rotational response (p&lt;0.01), but did not improve limb akinesia, induce dyskinesia nor normalize lesion-induced molecular changes. Neither significant modifications of striatal dopamine D1-D3 receptor heteromerization nor subventricular zone neurogenesis was found after any L-dopa or pramipexole treatments. Our data support a possible restoration of basal ganglia physiological mechanisms by early-start L-dopa therapy.
The GABAA2(R43Q) mouse is an established model of absence epilepsy displaying spontaneous spike-and-wave discharges (SWD) and associated behavioral arrest. Absence epilepsy typically results from cortico-thalamic networks. Nevertheless, there is increasing evidence for changes in hippocampal metabolism and electrical behavior, consistent with a link between absence seizures and hippocampus-related co-morbidities. Hyperpolarization-activated-cyclic-nucleotide-gated (HCN) channels are known to be transcriptionally regulated in a number of seizure models. Here we investigate the expression and function of these channels in the hippocampus of the genetic epilepsy model. A reduction in HCN1, but not HCN2 transcript, was observed in GABAA2(R43Q) mice relative to their littermate controls. In contrast, no change in HCN1 transcript was noted at an age prior to seizure expression or in a SWD-free model in which the R43Q mutation has been crossed into a seizure-resistant genetic background. Whole-cell recordings from CA1 pyramidal neurons confirm a reduction in Ih in the GABAA2(R43Q) mouse. Further, a left-shift in half-activation of the Ih conductance-voltage relationship is consistent with a reduction in HCN1 with no change in HCN2 channel expression. Behavioral analysis using the Morris water maze indicates that GABAA2(R43Q) mice are unable to learn as effectively as their wildtype littermates suggesting a deficit in hippocampal-based learning. SWD-free mice harboring the R43Q mutation had no learning deficit. We conclude that SWDs reduce hippocampal HCN1 expression and function, and that the reduction associates with a spatial learning deficit.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a late-onset fatal neurodegenerative disease reflecting degeneration of upper and lower motoneurons (MNs). The cause of ALS and the mechanisms of neuronal death are still largely obscure, thus impairing the establishment of efficacious therapies. Glutamate (Glu)-mediated excitotoxicity plays a major role in MN degeneration in ALS. We recently demonstrated that the activation of Group I metabotropic Glu autoreceptors, belonging to both type 1 and type 5 receptors (mGluR1 and mGluR5), at glutamatergic spinal cord nerve terminals, produces excessive Glu release in mice over-expressing human superoxide-dismutase carrying the G93A point mutation (SOD1(G93A)), a widely used animal model of human ALS. To establish whether these receptors are implicated in ALS, we generated mice expressing half dosage of mGluR1 in the SOD1(G93A) background (SOD1(G93A)Grm1(crv4/+)), by crossing the SOD1(G93A) mutant mouse with the Grm1(crv4/+) mouse, lacking mGluR1 because of a spontaneous recessive mutation. SOD1(G93A)Grm1(crv4/+) mice showed prolonged survival probability, delayed pathology onset, slower disease progression and improved motor performances compared to SOD1(G93A) mice. These effects were associated to reduction of mGluR5 expression, enhanced number of MNs, decreased astrocyte and microglia activation, normalization of metallothionein and catalase mRNA expression, reduced mitochondrial damage, and decrease of abnormal Glu release in spinal cord of SOD1(G93A)Grm1(crv4/+)compared to SOD1(G93A) mice. These results demonstrate that a lower constitutive level of mGluR1 has a significant positive impact on mice with experimental ALS, thus providing the rationale for future pharmacological approaches to ALS by selectively blocking Group I metabotropic Glu receptors.
The hormones progesterone and estradiol modulate neural plasticity in the hippocampus, the amygdala and the prefrontal cortex. These structures are involved in the superior memory for emotionally arousing information (EEM effects). Therefore, fluctuations in hormonal levels across the menstrual cycle are expected to influence activity in these areas as well as behavioral memory performance for emotionally arousing events. To test this hypothesis, naturally cycling women underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging during the encoding of emotional and neutral stimuli in the low-hormone early follicular and the high-hormone luteal phase. Their memory was tested after an interval of 48 h, because emotional arousal primarily enhances the consolidation of new memories. Whereas overall recognition accuracy remained stable across cycle phases, recognition quality varied with menstrual cycle phases. Particularly recollection-based recognition memory for negative items tended to decrease from early follicular to luteal phase. EEM effects for both valences were associated with higher activity in the right anterior hippocampus during early follicular compared to luteal phase. Valence-specific modulations were found in the anterior cingulate, the amygdala and the posterior hippocampus. Current findings connect to anxiolytic actions of estradiol and progesterone as well as to studies on fear conditioning. Moreover, they are in line with differential networks involved in EEM effects for positive and negative items.
Cognitive decline is a major factor in lowering the quality of life in older populations, and contributes substantially to social, economic, and health costs. As humans age, cognitive function decreases differentially, and individual differences in cognitive ageing are likely attributed to a range of causes, including environmental and genetic influences. The current study included 360 participants (240 females and 120 males) aged between 50 and 79years from the Tasmanian Healthy Brain Project. The brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) Val66Met and Catechol-O-Methyltransferase (COMT) Val158Met polymorphisms were examined for their association with visual and auditory episodic memory performance. The polymorphisms were also investigated for their association with reported life-long engagement in complex cognitive activity using a retrospective questionnaire. Relative to the demographic variables, the gene variations were found to have no association with episodic memory performance, with the exception of the COMT polymorphism on a single measure of auditory memory (RAVLT). Several other studies also demonstrated that these polymorphisms have no, small, or inconsistent effects on memory function. The BDNF Val66Met and COMT Val158Met polymorphisms were also found to be of little significance to active engagement in complex cognitive activity throughout most of the lifespan. An association was detected between BDNF Val66Met and engagement in cognitive activity in early life (p=.04, d=.23), however this did not reach significance when adjusted for multiple comparisons. The biological mechanisms that underlie engagement in cognitive activity are elusive, thus the potential relationship between BDNF Val66Met genotype and early life cognitive engagement warrants further investigation.
Recognition and discrimination of objects and individuals are critical cognitive faculties in both humans and non-human animals, and cholinergic transmission has been shown to be essential for both of these functions. In the present study we focused on the role of M1 and M2 muscarinic receptors in perirhinal cortex (PRh)-dependent object recognition and discrimination. The selective M1 antagonists pirenzepine and the snake toxin MT-7, and a selective M2 antagonist, AF-DX 116, were infused directly into PRh. Pre-sample infusions of both pirenzepine and AF-DX 116 significantly impaired object recognition memory in a delay-dependent manner. However, pirenzepine and MT-7, but not AF-DX 116, impaired oddity discrimination performance in a perceptual difficulty-dependent manner. The findings indicate distinct functions for M1 and M2 receptors in object recognition and discrimination.
Encoding and memory consolidation are influenced by factors such as sleep and congruency of newly learned information with prior knowledge (i.e., schema). However, only a few studies have examined the contribution of sleep to enhancement of schema-dependent memory. Based on previous studies showing that total sleep deprivation specifically impairs hippocampal encoding, and that coherent schemas reduce the hippocampal consolidation period after learning, we predict that sleep loss in the pre-training night will mainly affect schema-unrelated information whereas sleep restriction in the post-training night will have similar effects on schema-related and unrelated information. Here, we tested this hypothesis by presenting participants with face-face associations that could be semantically related or unrelated under different sleep conditions: normal sleep before and after training, and acute sleep restriction either before or after training. Memory was tested one day after training, just after introducing an interference task, and two days later, without any interference. Significant results were evident on the second retesting session. In particular, sleep restriction before training enhanced memory for semantically congruent events in detriment of memory for unrelated events, supporting the specific role of sleep in hippocampal memory encoding. Unexpectedly, sleep restriction after training enhanced memory for both related and unrelated events. Although this finding may suggest a poorer encoding during the interference task, this hypothesis should be specifically tested in future experiments. All together, the present results support a framework in which encoding processes seem to be more vulnerable to sleep loss than consolidation processes.
Low birth weight due to intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR) is suggested to be a risk factor for various psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia. It has been reported that developmental cortical dysfunction and neurocognitive deficits are observed in individuals with IUGR, however, the underlying molecular mechanisms have yet to be elucidated. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its receptor TrkB are associated with schizophrenia and play a role in cortical development. We previously demonstrated that BDNF induced glutamate release through activation of the TrkB/phospholipase C- (PLC-) pathway in developing cultured cortical neurons, and that, using a rat model for IUGR caused by maternal administration of thromboxane A2, cortical levels of TrkB were significantly reduced in IUGR rats at birth. These studies prompted us to hypothesize that TrkB reduction in IUGR cortex led to impairment of BDNF-dependent glutamatergic neurotransmission. In the present study, we found that BDNF-induced glutamate release was strongly impaired in cultured IUGR cortical neurons where TrkB reduction was maintained. Impairment of BDNF-induced glutamate release in IUGR neurons was ameliorated by transfection of human TrkB (hTrkB). Although BDNF-stimulated phosphorylation of TrkB and of PLC- was decreased in IUGR neurons, the hTrkB transfection recovered the deficits in their phosphorylation. These results suggest that TrkB reduction causes impairment of BDNF-stimulated glutamatergic function via suppression of TrkB/PLC- activation in IUGR cortical neurons. Our findings provide molecular insights into how IUGR links to downregulation of BDNF function in the cortex, which might be involved in the development of IUGR-related diseases such as schizophrenia.


Hospitalists, specializing in inpatient medicine, are increasingly being utilized in the hospital setting to improve efficiency, decrease costs and length of stay, and potentially improve outcomes. With these goals in mind and with the purpose of addressing the specific needs of patients on the inpatient pediatric neurology service, we established a pediatric neurohospitalist service in 2009. The primary purpose of this article is to describe the structure and the rationale for a pediatric neurohospitalist service with continuous electroencephalography at a pediatric teaching hospital and to discuss the categories of disease seen by the inpatient neurology service.
It has recently been shown that both high-frequency and low-frequency cardiac and respiratory noise sources exist throughout the entire brain and can cause significant signal changes in fMRI data. It is also known that the brainstem, basal forebrain and spinal cord areas are problematic for fMRI because of the magnitude of cardiac-induced pulsations at these locations. In this study, the physiological noise contributions in the lower brain areas (covering the brainstem and adjacent regions) are investigated and a novel method is presented for computing both low-frequency and high-frequency physiological regressors accurately for each subject. In particular, using a novel optimization algorithm that penalizes curvature (i.e. the second derivative) of the physiological hemodynamic response functions, the cardiac- and respiratory-related response functions are computed. The physiological noise variance is determined for each voxel and the frequency-aliasing property of the high-frequency cardiac waveform as a function of the repetition time (TR) is investigated. It is shown that for the brainstem and other brain areas associated with large pulsations of the cardiac rate, the temporal SNR associated with the low-frequency range of the BOLD response has maxima at subject-specific TRs. At these values, the high-frequency aliased cardiac rate can be eliminated by digital filtering without affecting the BOLD-related signal.
Despite the compelling contribution of the study of event related potentials (ERPs) and eye movements to cognitive neuroscience, these two approaches have largely evolved independently. We designed an eye-movement visual search paradigm that allowed us to concurrently record EEG and eye movements while subjects were asked to find a hidden target face in a crowded scene with distractor faces. Fixation event-related potentials (fERPs) to target and distractor stimuli showed the emergence of robust sensory components associated with the perception of stimuli and cognitive components associated with the detection of target faces. We compared those components with the ones obtained in a control task at fixation: qualitative similarities as well as differences in terms of scalp topography and latency emerged between the two. By using single trial analyses, fixations to target and distractors could be decoded from the EEG signals above chance level in 11 out of 12 subjects. Our results show that EEG signatures related to cognitive behavior develop across spatially unconstrained exploration of natural scenes and provide a first step towards understanding the mechanisms of target detection during natural search.
Fundamental to increasing our understanding of the role of white matter microstructure in normal/abnormal function in the living human is the development of MR-based metrics that provide increased specificity to distinct attributes of the white matter (e.g., local fibre architecture, axon morphology, and myelin content). In recent years, different approaches have been developed to enhance this specificity, and the Tractometry framework was introduced to combine the resulting multi-parametric data for a comprehensive assessment of white matter properties. The present work exploits that framework to characterise the statistical properties, specifically the variance and covariance, of these advanced microstructural indices across the major white matter pathways, with the aim of giving clear indications on the preferred metric(s) given the specific research question. A cohort of healthy subjects was scanned with a protocol that combined multi-component relaxometry with conventional and advanced diffusion MRI acquisitions to build the first comprehensive MRI atlas of white matter microstructure. The mean and standard deviation of the different metrics were analysed in order to understand how they vary across different brain regions/individuals and the correlation between them. Characterising the fibre architectural complexity (in terms of number of fibre populations in a voxel) provides clear insights into correlation/lack of correlation between the different metrics and explains why DT-MRI is a good model for white matter only some of the time. The study also identifies the metrics that account for the largest inter-subject variability and reports the minimal sample size required to detect differences in means, showing that, on the other hand, conventional DT-MRI indices might still be the safest choice in many contexts.
Most cognitive theories of reading and spelling posit modality-specific representations of letter shapes, spoken letter names, and motor plans as well as abstract, amodal letter representations that serve to unify the various modality-specific formats. However, fundamental questions remain regarding the very existence of abstract letter representations, the neuro-topography of the different types of letter representations, and the degree of cortical selectivity for orthographic information. We directly test quantitative models of the similarity/dissimilarity structure of distributed neural representations of letters using Multivariate Pattern Analysis-Representational Similarity Analysis (MVPA-RSA) searchlight methods to analyze the BOLD response recorded from single letter viewing. These analyses reveal a left hemisphere ventral temporal region selectively tuned to abstract letter representations as well as substrates tuned to modality-specific (visual, phonological and motoric) representations of letters. The approaches applied in this research address various shortcomings of previous studies that have investigated these questions and, therefore, the findings we report serve to advance our understanding of the nature and format of the representations that occur within the various sub-regions of the large-scale networks used in reading and spelling.
The purpose of this experiment was to test a computational model of reinforcement learning with and without fictive prediction error (FPE) signals to investigate how counterfactual consequences contribute to acquired representations of action-specific expected value, and to determine the functional neuroanatomy and neuromodulator systems that are involved. 80 male participants underwent dietary depletion of either tryptophan or tyrosine/phenylalanine to manipulate serotonin (5HT) and dopamine (DA), respectively. They completed 80 rounds (240 trials) of a strategic sequential investment task that required accepting interim losses in order to access a lucrative state and maximize long-term gains, while being scanned. We extended the standard Q-learning model by incorporating both counterfactual gains and losses into separate error signals. The FPE model explained the participants' data significantly better than a model that did not include counterfactual learning signals. Expected value from the FPE model was significantly correlated with BOLD signal change in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) and posterior orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), whereas expected value from the standard model did not predict changes in neural activity. The depletion procedure revealed significantly different neural responses to expected value in the vmPFC, caudate, and dopaminergic midbrain in the vicinity of the substantia nigra (SN). Differences in neural activity were not evident in the standard Q-learning computational model. These findings demonstrate that FPE signals are an important component of valuation for decision making, and that the neural representation of expected value incorporates cortical and subcortical structures via interactions among serotonergic and dopaminergic modulator systems.
We investigated the role of distinct regions of the default-mode network (DMN) during memory encoding with fMRI. Subjects encoded words using either a strategy that emphasized self-referential (pleasantness) processing, or one that emphasized semantic (man-made/natural) processing. During encoding subjects were intermittently presented with thought probes to evaluate if they were concentrated and on-task or exhibiting task-unrelated thoughts (TUT). After the scanning session subjects performed a source retrieval task to determine which of two judgments they performed for each word at encoding. Source retrieval accuracy was higher for words encoded with the pleasantness vs. the man-made/natural task and there was a trend for higher performance for words preceding on-task vs. TUT reports. fMRI results show that left anterior medial PFC and left angular gyrus activity was greater during successful vs. unsuccessful encoding during both encoding tasks. Greater activity in left anterior cingulate and bilateral lateral temporal cortex was related successful vs. unsuccessful encoding only in the pleasantness task. In contrast, posterior cingulate, right anterior cingulate and right temporoparietal junction were activated to a greater extent in unsuccessful vs. successful encoding across tasks. Finally, activation in posterior cingulate and bilateral dorsolateral prefrontal cortex was related to TUT across tasks; moreover, we observed a conjunction in posterior cingulate between encoding failure and TUT. We conclude that DMN regions play dissociable roles during memory formation, and that their association with subsequent memory may depend on the manner in which information is encoded and retrieved.
Multi-voxel pattern analysis (MVPA) is a fruitful and increasingly popular complement to traditional univariate methods of analyzing neuroimaging data. We propose to replace the standard 'decoding' approach to searchlight-based MVPA, measuring the performance of a classifier by its accuracy, with a method based on the multivariate form of the general linear model. Following the well-established methodology of multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA), we define a measure that directly characterizes the structure of multi-voxel data, the pattern distinctness D. Our measure is related to standard multivariate statistics, but we apply cross-validation to obtain an unbiased estimate of its population value, independent of the amount of data or its partitioning into 'training' and 'test' sets. The estimate D^ can therefore serve not only as a test statistic, but also as an interpretable measure of multivariate effect size. The pattern distinctness generalizes the Mahalanobis distance to an arbitrary number of classes, but also the case where there are no classes of trials because the design is described by parametric regressors. It is defined for arbitrary estimable contrasts, including main effects (pattern differences) and interactions (pattern changes). In this way, our approach makes the full analytical power of complex factorial designs known from univariate fMRI analyses available to MVPA studies. Moreover, we show how the results of a factorial analysis can be used to obtain a measure of pattern stability, the equivalent of 'cross-decoding'.
Subjects with schizophrenia are impaired at reinforcement-driven reversal learning from as early as their first episode. The neurobiological basis of this deficit is unknown. We obtained behavioral and fMRI data in 24 unmedicated, primarily first episode, schizophrenia patients and 24 age-, IQ- and gender-matched healthy controls during a reversal learning task. We supplemented our fMRI analysis, focusing on learning from prediction errors, with detailed computational modeling to probe task solving strategy including an ability to deploy an internal goal directed model of the task. Patients displayed reduced functional activation in the ventral striatum (VS) elicited by prediction errors. However, modeling task performance revealed that a subgroup did not adjust their behavior according to an accurate internal model of the task structure, and these were also the more severely psychotic patients. In patients who could adapt their behavior, as well as in controls, task solving was best described by cognitive strategies according to a Hidden Markov Model. When we compared patients and controls who acted according to this strategy, patients still displayed a significant reduction in VS activation elicited by informative errors that precede salient changes of behavior (reversals). Thus, our study shows that VS dysfunction in schizophrenia patients during reward-related reversal learning remains a core deficit even when controlling for task solving strategies. This result highlights VS dysfunction is tightly linked to a reward-related reversal learning deficit in early, unmedicated schizophrenia patients.
Recent research indicates that human attention appears inadvertently biased by items that match the contents of working memory (WM). WM-biases can lead to attentional costs when the memory content matches goal-irrelevant items and to attentional benefits when it matches the sought target. Here we used functional and structural MRI data to determine the neural basis of human variation in WM biases. We asked whether human variation in WM-benefits and WM-costs merely reflects the process of attentional capture by the contents of WM or whether variation in WM biases may be associated with distinct forms of cognitive control over internal WM signals based on selection goals. Human ability to use WM contents to facilitate selection was positively correlated with gray matter volume in the left superior posterior parietal cortex (PPC), while the ability to overcome interference by WM-matching distracters was associated with the left inferior PPC in the anterior IPS. Functional activity in the left PPC, measured by functional MRI, also predicted the magnitude of WM-costs on selection. Both structure and function of left PPC mediate the expression of WM biases in human visual attention.
Individual participants vary greatly in their ability to estimate and discriminate intervals of time. This heterogeneity of performance may be caused by reliance on different time perception networks as well as individual differences in the activation of brain structures utilized for timing within those networks. To address these possibilities we utilized event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) while human participants (n=25) performed a temporal or color discrimination task. Additionally, based on our previous research, we genotyped participants for DRD2/ANKK1-Taq1a, a single-nucleotide polymorphism associated with a 30-40% reduction in striatal D2 density and associated with poorer timing performance. Similar to previous reports, a wide range of performance was found across our sample; crucially, better performance on the timing versus color task was associated with greater activation in prefrontal and sub-cortical regions previously associated with timing. Furthermore, better timing performance also correlated with increased volume of the right lateral cerebellum, as demonstrated by voxel-based morphometry. Our analysis also revealed that A1 carriers of the Taq1a polymorphism exhibited relatively worse performance on temporal, but not color discrimination, but greater activation in the striatum and right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, as well as reduced volume in the cerebellar cluster. These results point to the neural bases for heterogeneous timing performance in humans, and suggest that differences in performance on a temporal discrimination task are, in part, attributable to the DRD2/ANKK1 genotype.
Neuroimaging group analyses are used to relate inter-subject signal differences observed in brain imaging with behavioral or genetic variables and to assess risks factors of brain diseases. The lack of stability and of sensitivity of current voxel-based analysis schemes may however lead to non-reproducible results. We introduce a new approach to overcome the limitations of standard methods, in which active voxels are detected according to a consensus on several random parcellations of the brain images, while a permutation test controls the false positive risk. Both on synthetic and real data, this approach shows higher sensitivity, better accuracy and higher reproducibility than state-of-the-art methods. In a neuroimaging-genetic application, we find that it succeeds in detecting a significant association between a genetic variant next to the COMT gene and the BOLD signal in the left thalamus for a functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging contrast associated with incorrect responses of the subjects from a Stop Signal Task protocol.
The seven-factor biopsychosocial model of personality distinguished four biologically based temperaments and three psychosocially based characters. Previous studies have suggested that the four temperaments-novelty seeking (NS), reward dependence (RD), harm avoidance (HA), and persistence (P)-have their respective neurobiological correlates, especially in the striatum-connected subcortical and cortical networks. However, few studies have investigated their neurobiological basis in the form of fiber connectivity between brain regions. This study correlated temperaments with fiber connectivity between the striatum and subcortical and cortical hub regions in a sample of 50 Chinese adult males. Generally consistent with our hypotheses, results showed that: (1) NS was positively correlated with fiber connectivity from the medial and lateral orbitofrontal cortex (mOFC, lOFC) and amygdala to the striatum; (2) RD was positively correlated with fiber connectivity from the mOFC, posterior cingulate cortex/retrosplenial cortex (PCC), hippocampus, and amygdala to the striatum; (3) HA was positively linked to fiber connectivity from the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) and PCC to the striatum; and (4) P was positively linked to fiber connectivity from the mOFC to the striatum. These results extended the research on the neurobiological basis of temperaments by identifying their anatomical fiber connectivity correlates within the subcortical-cortical neural networks.

Dendritic spines are small protrusions along the dendrites of many types of neurons in the central nervous system and represent the major target of excitatory synapses. For this reason, numerous anatomical, physiological and computational studies have focused on these structures. In the cerebral cortex the most abundant and characteristic neuronal type are pyramidal cells (about 85 % of all neurons) and their dendritic spines are the main postsynaptic target of excitatory glutamatergic synapses. Thus, our understanding of the synaptic organization of the cerebral cortex largely depends on the knowledge regarding synaptic inputs to dendritic spines of pyramidal cells. Much of the structural data on dendritic spines produced by modern neuroscience involves the quantitative analysis of image stacks from light and electron microscopy, using standard statistical and mathematical tools and software developed to this end. Here, we present a new method with musical feedback for exploring dendritic spine morphology and distribution patterns in pyramidal neurons. We demonstrate that audio analysis of spiny dendrites with apparently similar morphology may &quot;sound&quot; quite different, revealing anatomical substrates that are not apparent from simple visual inspection. These morphological/music translations may serve as a guide for further mathematical analysis of the design of the pyramidal neurons and of spiny dendrites in general.


Angiogenesis is one of the hallmarks of cancer, including brain tumors. Malignant gliomas have the highest degree of vascular proliferation among solid tumors; thus, angiogenic pathways represent an attractive target to interfere with tumor growth. Up to date VEGF pathway targeting with specific drugs has yielded interesting therapeutics results. In particular bevacizumab, a monoclonal antibody against VEGF-A, has shown clinical activity in malignant gliomas, especially glioblastomas, in terms of a high response rate on MRI and a significant increase in progression-free survival.


Chronic acquired hepatocerebral degeneration (CAHD) is a rare neurological disorder of cirrhotic patients, characterized by parkinsonism and cognitive impairment. A T1 hyperintensity on the globus pallidum due to an accumulation of manganese (Mn) is found in these patients. The aim of the study was to investigate CAHD, Mn and the MRI pallidal signal in a series of cirrhotic patients. The association between pallidal T1 hyperintensity, CAHD, and blood levels of Mn, the effect of orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) on the MRI signal and neurological findings, and the role of the pallidal signal as a predictor of CAHD were evaluated. Twenty-six out of 90 patients with cirrhosis had pallidal T1 hyperintensity. Seven patients had CAHD. OLT was followed by the disappearance of CAHD and MRI signal in 2/2 patients. The MRI signal disappeared after OLT in 8/13 patients after a median follow-up time of 24months. In the patients who did not undergo OLT, CAHD did not present after a median follow-up time of 18months. The cause of cirrhosis, episodes of acute hepatic encephalopathy and signal intensity were not correlated with CAHD. The blood levels of Mn did not reflect either the MRI signal or CAHD. In conclusion, the pallidal T1 hyperintensity is a prerequisite for the clinical manifestations of CAHD but is not sufficient. The blood levels of Mn as routinely monitored are not a useful marker of Mn burden. The MRI pallidal signal is not a predictor of CAHD.





MFN2 mutations are a major cause of the axonal form of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT2). MFN2 encodes mitofusin 2, a mitochondrial fusion protein that is critical for mitochondrial DNA integrity and function. Here we describe CMT2 in a Finnish man and his son, with disease onset in young adulthood, slow progression, and prominent sensory as well as autonomic dysfunction. Molecular analysis revealed in both subjects a previously unreported heterozygous MFN2 mutation c.708G&gt;A that is predicted to abolish a donor splice site for exon 7 of the MFN2 gene. An incorrectly spliced transcript without exon 7 was detected in RT-PCR analysis. The lack of exon 7 creates frameshift and, consequently, premature termination within exon 8. We demonstrated the presence of the aberrant mRNA suggesting either dominant-negative or toxic gain-of-function effect of the heterozygous c.708G&gt;A mutation. This novel mutation adds to the few previously reported pathogenic MFN2 splice site mutations causing CMT2.
Mutations in POMT1 lead to a group of neuromuscular conditions ranging in severity from Walker-Warburg syndrome to limb girdle muscular dystrophy. We report two male siblings, ages 19 and 14, and an unrelated 6-year old female with early onset muscular dystrophy and intellectual disability with minimal structural brain anomalies and no ocular abnormalities. Compound heterozygous mutations in POMT1 were identified including a previously reported nonsense mutation (c.2167dupG; p.Asp723Glyfs*8) associated with Walker-Warburg syndrome and a novel missense mutation in a highly conserved region of the protein O-mannosyltransferase 1 protein (c.1958C&gt;T; p.Pro653Leu). This novel variant reduces the phenotypic severity compared to patients with homozygous c.2167dupG mutations or compound heterozygous patients with a c.2167dupG mutation and a wide range of other mutant POMT1 alleles.
The aim of this prospective longitudinal multi centric study was to evaluate the correlation between the Hammersmith Functional Motor Scale and the 20 item version of the Motor Function Measure in non ambulant SMA children and adults at baseline and over a 12 month period. Seventy-four non-ambulant patients performed both measures at baseline and 49 also had an assessment 12 month later. At baseline the scores ranged between 0 and 40 on the Hammersmith Motor function Scale and between 3 and 45 on the Motor Function Measure 20. The correlation between the two scales was 0.733. The 12 month changes ranged between -11 and 4 for the Hammersmith and between -11 and 7 for the Motor Function Measure 20. The correlation between changes was 0.48. Our results suggest that both scales provide useful information although they appeared to work differently at the two extremes of the spectrum of abilities. The Hammersmith Motor Function Scale appeared to be more suitable in strong non ambulant patients, while the Motor Function Measures appeared to be more sensitive to capture activities and possible changes in the very weak patients, including more items capturing axial and upper limb activities. The choice of these measures in clinical trials should therefore depend on inclusion criteria and magnitude of expected changes.
Congenital disorders of glycosylation are often associated with muscle weakness in apparent isolation or as part of a multi-systemic disorder. We report here the clinical and pathological features resulting from a homozygous mutation of ALG2 in an extended family. Phenotypic heterogeneity is observed among the small cohort of patients reported to date and is highlighted by our study. Linkage analysis, homozygozity mapping and whole exome sequencing followed clinical and pathological characterization of patients who presented with a congenital limb girdle pattern of weakness with no ocular or bulbar involvement. Nerve stimulation studies were consistent with a congenital myasthenic syndrome. Severity and progression of disease was variable. Muscle biopsies showed myopathic features, ragged red fibers and a sub-sarcolemmal accumulation of structurally normal mitochondria. Whole exome sequencing revealed an indel mutation c.214_224delGGGGACTGGCTdelinsAGTCCCCG, p.72_75delGDWLinsSPR in exon 1 of ALG2. Mutation of ALG2 manifested as a limb girdle pattern of muscle weakness with defects at both the neuromuscular junction and sarcomere. In addition the accumulation and distribution of mitochondria in the diseased muscle and the presence of ragged red fibers were supportive of a mitochondrial myopathy. ALG2 mutation results in a heterogeneous phenotype and care should be taken in categorization and treatment of these patients.



Environmental exposure to lead (Pb) early in life results in a latent upregulation of genes and products associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD), particularly the plaque forming protein amyloid beta (A). Furthermore, animals exposed to Pb as infants develop cognitive decline and memory impairments in old age. Studies from our lab demonstrated that tolfenamic acid lowers the levels of the amyloid  precursor protein (APP) and its aggregative cleavage product A by inducing the degradation of the transcription factor specificity protein 1 (Sp1). These changes were accompanied by cognitive improvement in transgenic APP knock-in mice. In this study, we examined the effects of tolfenamic acid on beta site APP cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) which is responsible for A production and tested its ability to reverse Pb-induced upregulation in the amyloidogenic pathway. Mice were administered tolfenamic acid for one month and BACE1 gene expression as well as its enzymatic activity were analyzed in the cerebral cortex. Tolfenamic acid was also tested for its ability to reverse changes in Sp1, APP and A that were upregulated by Pb invitro. Differentiated SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells were either left unexposed, or sequentially exposed to Pb followed by tolfenamic acid. Our results show that tolfenamic acid reduced BACE1 gene expression and enzyme activity in mice. In neuroblastoma cells, Pb upregulated Sp1, APP and A, while tolfenamic acid lowered their expression. These results along with previous data from our lab provide evidence that tolfenamic acid, a drug that has been used for decades for migraine, represents a candidate which can reduce the pathology of AD and may mitigate the damage of environmental risk factors associated with this disease.
A subgroup of anticonvulsant and neuroleptic drugs acts through the potentiation of GABA pathways. The regulatory role of GABA in neuronal circuit formation is related to its depolarizing action that supports activity-dependent synaptogenesis. We hypothesized that elevated levels of GABA in the immature brain modify synaptogenesis in excitatory synapses and consequently affect mice behavior. In support of this theory, we showed previously that neonatal exposure to a GABA-transaminase inhibitor (Vigabatrin, GVG) modifies the expression of presynaptic proteins and suppresses excitatory synaptic potentials. To further characterize this phenomenon, we examined the effect of GVG applied during postnatal days 4-14, during the switch in GABA function from a depolarizing to a hyperpolarizing substance, on the development of excitatory synapses and mice sociability. Early exposure to GVG induced differential effects on synaptic proteins in the hippocampus and the cerebral cortex, including the downregulation of GluR1/GluR2 and NR2A/NR2B ratios in the hippocampus cytoplasm, a minute effect on the regulatory proteins CAMKII and PKA in the cerebral cortex, and increases in pGluR1, CAMKII, PKA and Reelin levels. Early GVG exposure was also associated with region specific regulation of monoamines, reduction in hippocampal DA, and enhancement of cortical NE levels. Age-dependent modified sociability and lack of preference for social interactions were observed in mice treated with GVG. Overall, early life exposure to GVG is expected to alter cortico-hippocampal axis connectivity and balance due to the different effects GVG has on key synaptic proteins in the associated brain regions, thus potentially causing behavioral impairment.
Brain glutamate overactivity is well documented in Parkinson's disease (PD) and antiglutamatergic drugs decrease L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (l-DOPA)-induced dyskinesias (LID); the implication of dopamine neurotransmission is not documented in this anti-LID activity. Therefore, we evaluated changes of dopamine receptors, their associated signaling proteins and neuropeptides mRNA, in normal control monkeys, in saline-treated 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned monkeys and in L-DOPA-treated MPTP monkeys, without or with an adjunct treatment to reduce the development of LID: 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)pyridine (MPEP), the prototypal metabotropic glutamate 5 (mGlu5) receptor antagonist. All de novo treatments were administered for 1 month and the animals were sacrificed thereafter. MPTP monkeys treated with l-DOPA+MPEP developed significantly less LID than MPTP monkeys treated with l-DOPA alone. [(3)H]SCH-23390 specific binding to D1 receptors of all MPTP monkeys was decreased as compared to controls in the basal ganglia and no difference was observed between all MPTP groups, while striatal D1 receptor mRNA levels remained unchanged. [(3)H]raclopride specific binding to striatal D2 receptors and mRNA levels of D2 receptors were increased in MPTP monkeys compared to controls; l-DOPA treatment reduced this binding in MPTP monkeys while it remained elevated with the l-DOPA+MPEP treatment. Striatal [(3)H]raclopride specific binding correlated positively with D2 receptor mRNA levels of all MPTP-lesioned monkeys. Striatal preproenkephalin/preprodynorphin mRNA levels and phosphorylated ERK1/2 and Akt/GSK3 levels increased only in L-DOPA-treated MPTP monkeys as compared to controls, saline treated-MPTP and l-DOPA+MPEP treated MPTP monkeys. Hence, reduction of development of LID with MPEP was associated with changes in D2 receptors, their associated signaling proteins and neuropeptides.
Clinical neuropathologic studies suggest that the selective vulnerability of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal projection neurons plays a key role in the onset of cognitive impairment during the early phases of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Disruption of this neuronal population likely affects hippocampal pre- and postsynaptic efficacy underlying episodic memory circuits. Therefore, identifying perturbations in the expression of synaptic gene products within CA1 neurons prior to frank AD is crucial for the development of disease modifying therapies. Here we used custom-designed microarrays to examine progressive alterations in synaptic gene expression within CA1 neurons in cases harvested from the Rush Religious Orders Study who died with a clinical diagnosis of no cognitive impairment (NCI), mild cognitive impairment (MCI, a putative prodromal AD stage), or mild/moderate AD. Quantitative analysis revealed that 21 out of 28 different transcripts encoding regulators of synaptic function were significantly downregulated (1.4-1.8 fold) in CA1 neurons in MCI and AD compared to NCI, whereas synaptic transcript levels were not significantly different between MCI and AD. The downregulated transcripts encoded regulators of presynaptic vesicle trafficking, including synaptophysin and synaptogyrin, regulators of vesicle docking and fusion/release, such as synaptotagmin and syntaxin 1, and regulators of glutamatergic postsynaptic function, including PSD-95 and synaptopodin. Clinical pathologic correlation analysis revealed that downregulation of these synaptic markers was strongly associated with poorer antemortem cognitive status and postmortem AD pathological criteria such as Braak stage, NIA-Reagan, and CERAD diagnosis. In contrast to the widespread loss of synaptic gene expression observed in CA1 neurons in MCI, transcripts encoding -amyloid precursor protein (APP), APP family members, and regulators of APP metabolism were not differentially regulated in CA1 neurons across the clinical diagnostic groups. Taken together, these data suggest that CA1 synaptic gene dysregulation occurs early in the cascade of pathogenic molecular events prior to the onset of AD, which may form the basis for novel pharmacological treatment approaches for this dementing disorder. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Neurodegenerative Disorders'.
Cocaine's main pharmacological actions are the inhibition of the dopamine, serotonin, and norepinephrine transporters. Its main behavioral effects are reward and locomotor stimulation, potentially leading to addiction. Using knock-in mice with a cocaine-insensitive dopamine transporter (DAT-CI mice) we have shown previously that inhibition of the dopamine transporter (DAT) is necessary for both of these behaviors. In this study, we sought to determine brain regions in which DAT inhibition by cocaine stimulates locomotor activity and/or produces reward. We used adeno-associated viral vectors to re-introduce the cocaine-sensitive wild-type DAT in specific brain regions of DAT-CI mice, which otherwise only express a cocaine-insensitive DAT globally. Viral-mediated expression of wild-type DAT in the rostrolateral striatum restored cocaine-induced locomotor stimulation and sensitization in DAT-CI mice. In contrast, the expression of wild-type DAT in the dorsal striatum, or in the medial nucleus accumbens, did not restore cocaine-induced locomotor stimulation. These data help to determine cocaine's molecular actions and anatomical loci that cause hyperlocomotion. Interestingly, cocaine did not produce significant reward - as measured by conditioned place-preference - in any of the three cohorts of DAT-CI mice with the virus injections. Therefore, the locus or loci underlying cocaine-induced reward remain underdetermined. It is possible that multiple dopamine-related brain regions are involved in producing the robust rewarding effect of cocaine.
Allosteric modulation is a general feature of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, yet the structural components and movements important for conversions among functional states are not well understood. In this study, we examine the communication between the binding sites for agonist and the modulator morantel (Mor) of neuronal 32 receptors, measuring evoked currents of receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes with the two-electrode voltage-clamp method. We hypothesized that movement along an interface of  sheets connecting the agonist and modulator sites is necessary for allosteric modulation. To address this, we created pairs of substituted cysteines that span the cleft formed where the outer  sheet meets the  sheet constituting the (-)-face of the 3 subunit; the three pairs were L158C-A179C, L158C-G181C and L158C-K183C. Employing a disulfide trapping approach in which bonds are formed between neighboring cysteines under oxidation conditions, we found that oxidation treatments decreased the amplitude of currents evoked by either the agonist (ACh) or co-applied agonist and modulator (ACh+Mor), by as much as 51%, consistent with the introduced bond decreasing channel efficacy. Reduction treatment increased evoked currents up to 89%. The magnitude of the oxidation effects depended on whether agonists were present during oxidation and on the cysteine pair. Additionally, the cysteine mutations themselves decreased Mor potentiation, implicating these residues in modulation. Our findings suggest that these  sheets in the 3 subunit move with respect to each other during activation and modulation, and the residues studied highlight the contribution of this intramolecular allosteric pathway to receptor function.
The presynaptic control of dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) by glutamate and acetylcholine has a profound impact on reward signaling. Here we provide immunocytochemical and neurochemical evidence supporting the co-localization and functional interaction between nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) and N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptors in dopaminergic terminals of the NAc. Most NAc dopaminergic terminals possessed the nAChR 4 subunit and the pre-exposure of synaptosomes to nicotine (30M) or to the 42-containing nAChR agonist 5IA85380 (10nM) selectively inhibited the NMDA (100M)-evoked, but not the 4-aminopyridine (10M)-evoked, [(3)H] dopamine outflow; this inhibition was blunted by mecamylamine (10M). Nicotine and 5IA85380 pretreatment also inhibited the NMDA (100M)-evoked increase of calcium levels in single nerve terminals, an effect prevented by dihydro--erythroidine (1M). This supports a functional interaction between 42-containing nAChR and NMDA receptors within the same terminal, as supported by the immunocytochemical co-localization of 4 and GluN1 subunits in individual NAc dopaminergic terminals. The NMDA-evoked [(3)H]dopamine outflow was blocked by MK801 (1M) and inhibited by the selective GluN2B-selective antagonists ifenprodil (1M) and RO 25-6981 (1M), but not by the GluN2A-preferring antagonists CPP-19755 (1M) and ZnCl2 (1nM). Notably, nicotine pretreatment significantly decreased the density of biotin-tagged GluN2B proteins in NAc synaptosomes. These results show that nAChRs dynamically and negatively regulate NMDA receptors in NAc dopaminergic terminals through the internalization of GluN2B receptors.
The central ghrelin signaling system engages key pathways of importance for feeding control, recently shown to include those engaged in anxiety-like behavior in rodents. Here we sought to determine whether ghrelin impacts on the central serotonin system, which has an important role in anxiety. We focused on two brain areas, the amygdala (of importance for the mediation of fear and anxiety) and the dorsal raphe (i.e. the site of origin of major afferent serotonin pathways, including those that project to the amygdala). In these brain areas, we measured serotonergic turnover (using HPLC) and the mRNA expression of a number of serotonin-related genes (using real-time PCR). We found that acute central administration of ghrelin to mice increased the serotonergic turnover in the amygdala. It also increased the mRNA expression of a number of serotonin receptors, both in the amygdala and in the dorsal raphe. Studies in ghrelin receptor (GHS-R1A) knock-out mice showed a decreased mRNA expression of serotonergic receptors in both the amygdala and the dorsal raphe, relative to their wild-type littermates. We conclude that the central serotonin system is a target for ghrelin, providing a candidate neurochemical substrate of importance for ghrelin's effects on mood.
As postsynaptic metabotropic subtype 1 (mGlu1) receptors are present in the thalamus, we have investigated the effect of potentiating and antagonising mGlu1 receptors on responses of thalamic neurones to noxious sensory stimulation. Extracellular recordings were made invivo with multi-barrel iontophoretic electrodes from single neurones in the thalamus of urethane-anaesthetised rats. Responses to iontophoretic applications of the Group I mGlu agonist 3,5-dihydroxy-phenylglycine (DHPG) were selectively potentiated by co-application of the mGlu1 positive allosteric modulator Ro67-4853, whereas they were selectively reduced upon co-application of the mGlu1 receptor orthosteric antagonist LY367385. This indicates that thalamic DHPG responses are mediated primarily via mGlu1 receptors, consistent with the high postsynaptic levels of this receptor in the thalamus. Furthermore, potentiation of DHPG responses by Ro67-4853 were greater when the initial DHPG response was of a low magnitude. Ro67-4853 also potentiated responses of thalamic neurones to noxious thermal stimulation, whilst having little effect on the baseline activity of nociceptive neurones. By contrast, nociceptive responses were reduced by LY367385. In a further series of experiments we found that inactivation of somatosensory cortex by cooling resulted in a reduction of thalamic nociceptive responses. These results underline the importance of mGlu1 receptors in the processing of sensory information in the thalamus, particularly with respect to nociceptive responses. Furthermore, the involvement of mGlu1 receptors may reflect the activity of descending cortico-thalamic afferents.
Hippocampal Long-Term Potentiation (LTP) is facilitated by BDNF, through the activation of tropomyosin-related kinase B (TrkB) receptors. However, an influence of BDNF upon Long-Term Depression (LTD) was also shown. The present work aimed to further evaluate the effect of BDNF and TrkB receptors upon CA1 hippocampal LTD and to elucidate whether this effect is under the upstream control of other signalling processes, such as the adenosine A(2A)Receptors (A(2A)Rs). LTD, induced by a Low-Frequency Stimulation (LFS, 900 pulses, 1 Hz) in the CA1 area of rat hippocampal slices, was significantly attenuated when these slices were exposed to BDNF (60-100 ng/mL). A lower BDNF concentration (20 ng/ml) was only effective to inhibit LTD if A(2A)Rs were activated by a selective agonist, CGS 21680 (10 nM), or if the extracellular adenosine level was increased by 5-iodotubercidin (100 nM). BDNF (100 ng/ml) effect upon LTD was prevented by K252a (200 nM), which is known to prevent TrkB transphosphorylation, hence suggesting that this action requires TrkB receptor activation. BDNF (100 ng/ml) lacked effect on an adenosine-depleted background (adenosine deaminase, 2 U/ml) or under selective A(2A)R blockade (SCH 58261, 100 nM), indicating that it relies on tonic A(2A)R activation. Forskolin (10 M), a cell-permeable activator of adenylate cyclase, rescued BDNF (100 ng/ml) effect in slices where A(2A)Rs were blocked with SCH 58261 (100 nM), whereas a PKA inhibitor, H-89 (1 M), prevented LTD attenuation by BDNF (100 ng/ml). We conclude that the influence of BDNF TrkB receptors upon LTD is under the strict control of A(2A)Rs activation, through a mechanism that requires the cAMP/PKA transducing system.
Both type I interferons (IFNs) and neurotrophins regulate neuroadaptive responses, but relatively little is known on the interaction between these two classes of regulatory proteins. Here we investigated the effect of IFN- on the expression and functional activity of the common neurotrophin receptor p75NTR and the nerve growth factor (NGF) receptor TrkA. In differentiated human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells prolonged exposure to IFN- up-regulated p75NTR and TrkA levels, failed to affect the content of sortilin, a p75NTR co-receptor, and, consistent with our previous finding, down-regulated the brain-derived neurotrophic factor receptor TrkB. Quantitative real time RT-PCR indicated that IFN- increased p75NTR and TrkA mRNA levels. In control and IFN- treated cells proNGF failed to induce c-Jun N-terminal kinase and nuclear factor/kB activation, two p75NTR/sortilin signalling pathways mediating neuronal death. On the other hand, IFN- treatment enhanced TrkA autophosphorylation and signalling induced by NGF and proNGF. Knockdown of p75NTR by siRNA reduced TrkA activation by proNGF and a subnanomolar concentration of NGF, whereas co-immunoprecipitation indicated close association of p75NTR and TrkA. Co-treatment with either NGF or proNGF reduced IFN- pro-apoptotic and anti-neurotrophic effects. Similarly, in primary mouse hippocampal neurons IFN- increased p75NTR and TrkA expression, down-regulated TrkB and enhanced NGF-induced phosphorylation of the pro-survival protein kinase Akt. The data demonstrate that in neuronal cells IFN- differentially affects the expression and signalling of neurotrophin receptors and suggest that the up-regulation of the p75NTR/TrkA signalling complex may constitute a novel mechanism by which this cytokine selectively attenuates its pro-apoptotic effect in NGF-responsive cells.
Dopamine replacement with l-DOPA is the most effective therapy in Parkinson's disease. However, with chronic treatment, half of the patients develop an abnormal motor response including dyskinesias. The specific molecular mechanisms underlying dyskinesias are not fully understood. In this study, we used a well-characterized animal model to first establish the molecular differences between rats that did and did not develop dyskinesias. We then investigated the molecular substrates implicated in the anti-dyskinetic effect of buspirone, a 5HT1A partial agonist. Striatal protein expression profile of dyskinetic animals revealed increased levels of the dopamine receptor (DR)D3, FosB and phospho (p)CREB, as well as an over-activation of the DRD1 signalling pathway, reflected by elevated ratios of phosphorylated DARPP32 and ERK2. Buspirone reduced the abnormal involuntary motor response in dyskinetic rats in a dose-dependent fashion. Buspirone (4mg/kg) dramatically reduced the presence and severity of dyskinesias (by 83%) and normalized DARPP32 and ERK2 phosphorylation ratios, while the increases in DRD3, FosB and pCREB observed in dyskinetic rats were not modified. Pharmacological experiments combining buspirone with 5HT1A and DRD3 antagonists confirmed that normalization of both pDARPP32 and pERK2 is required, but not sufficient, for blocking dyskinesias. The correlation between pDARPP32 ratio and dyskinesias was significant but not strong, pointing to the involvement of convergent factors and signalling pathways. Our results suggest that in dyskinetic rats DRD3 striatal over-expression could be instrumental in the activation of DRD1-downstream signalling and demonstrate that the anti-dyskinetic effect of buspirone in this model is correlated with DRD1 pathway normalization.
Ischemia induces blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption by matrix metalloproteases (MMPs) activation, leading to neuronal cell death. Here, we show that fluoxetine inhibits apoptotic cell death of hippocampal neuron and memory impairment by blocking BBB disruption after transient global ischemia. Fluoxetine treatment (10mg/kg) after global ischemia significantly inhibited mRNA expression of MMP-2 and -9 and reduced MMP-9 activity. By Evan blue assay, fluoxetine reduced ischemia-induced BBB permeability. In parallel, fluoxetine significantly attenuated the loss of occludin and laminin in the hippocampal area after ischemia. By immunostaining with occludin antibody, fluoxetine preserved the integrity of vascular networks, especially in hippocampal areas after injury. Fluoxetine also prevented the infiltration of macrophages and inhibited the mRNA expression of inflammatory mediators after injury. In addition, the activation of microglia and astrocyte in hippocampal regions was significantly attenuated by fluoxetine. Finally, fluoxetine reduced apoptotic cell death of hippocampal neurons as well as vascular endothelial cell death and improved learning and memory. Thus, our study suggests that the neuroprotective effect of fluoxetine is likely mediated by blocking MMP activation followed BBB disruption after transient global ischemia, and the drug may represent a potential therapeutic agent for preserving BBB integrity following ischemic brain injury in humans.
Exposure to ethanol (EtOH) during fetal development can lead to long-lasting alterations, including deficits in fine motor skills and motor learning. Studies suggest that these are, in part, a consequence of cerebellar damage. Cerebellar granule neurons (CGNs) are the gateway of information into the cerebellar cortex. Functionally, CGNs are heavily regulated by phasic and tonic GABAergic inhibition from Golgi cell interneurons; however, the effect of EtOH exposure on the development of GABAergic transmission in immature CGNs has not been investigated. To model EtOH exposure during the 3rd trimester-equivalent of human pregnancy, neonatal pups were exposed intermittently to high levels of vaporized EtOH from postnatal day (P) 2 to P12. This exposure gradually increased pup serum EtOH concentrations (SECs) to 60 mM (0.28 g/dl) during the 4 h of exposure. EtOH levels gradually decreased to baseline 8 h after the end of exposure. Surprisingly, basal tonic and phasic GABAergic currents in CGNs were not significantly affected by postnatal alcohol exposure (PAE). However, PAE increased  subunit expression at P28 as detected by immunohistochemical and western blot analyses. Also, electrophysiological studies with an agonist that is highly selective for -containing GABA(A) receptors, 4,5,6,7-tetrahydroisoxazolo[4,5-c]pyridine-3-ol (THIP), showed an increase in THIP-induced tonic current. Behavioral studies of PAE rats did not reveal any deficits in motor coordination, except for a delay in the acquisition of the mid-air righting reflex that was apparent at P15 to P18. These findings demonstrate that repeated intermittent exposure to high levels of EtOH during the equivalent of the last trimester of human pregnancy has significant but relatively subtle effects on motor coordination and GABAergic transmission in CGNs in rats.
The alteration of hippocampal plasticity has been proposed to play a critical role in both the pathophysiology and treatment of depression. In this study, the ability of different classes of antidepressant drugs (escitalopram, fluoxetine, paroxetine, sertraline, imipramine, tranylcypromine, and tianeptine) to mediate the expression of synaptic proteins and dendritic outgrowth in rat hippocampal neurons was investigated under toxic conditions induced by B27 deprivation, which causes hippocampal cell death. Postsynaptic density protein-95 (PSD-95), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and synaptophysin (SYP) levels were evaluated using Western blot analyses. Additionally, dendritic outgrowth was examined to determine whether antidepressant drugs affect the dendritic morphology of hippocampal neurons in B27-deprived cultures. Escitalopram, fluoxetine, paroxetine, sertraline, imipramine, tranylcypromine, and tianeptine significantly prevented B27 deprivation-induced decreases in levels of PSD-95, BDNF, and SYP. Moreover, the independent application of fluoxetine, paroxetine, and sertraline significantly increased levels of BDNF under normal conditions. All antidepressant drugs significantly increased the total outgrowth of hippocampal dendrites under B27 deprivation. Specific inhibitors of calcium/calmodulin kinase II (CaMKII), KN-93, protein kinase A (PKA), H-89, or phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), LY294002, significantly decreased the effects of antidepressant drugs on dendritic outgrowth, whereas this effect was observed only with tianeptine for the PI3K inhibitor. Taken together, these results suggest that certain antidepressant drugs can enhance synaptic protein levels and encourage dendritic outgrowth in hippocampal neurons. Furthermore, effects on dendritic outgrowth likely require CaMKII, PKA, or PI3K signaling pathways. The observed effects may be may be due to chronic treatment with antidepressant drugs.
Olfactory dysfunction, often preceding the cardinal motor symptoms, such as bradykinesia, rigidity, tremor at rest and postural instability, is frequently reported in Parkinson's disease. This symptom appears to be related to an increased number of dopamine neurons in the periglomerular layer of the olfactory bulb. In animal models of Parkinson's disease, adult neural progenitor cells migrating from the subventricular zone of the lateral ventricle to the olfactory bulb are evidently altered in their survival and progeny. The modulation of neural progenitor cells contributing to the number of dopamine neurons in the periglomerular layer, however, is still poorly understood. In this study, we have investigated the survival and neuronal differentiation of newly generated cells in the olfactory bulb, following treatment with the dopamine precursor l-DOPA and the monoamine oxidase-B inhibitor selegiline in a unilateral, intranigral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion model in mice. Our data show that the number of neural progenitor cells in the subventricular zone is decreased after an intranigral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion, while there is no difference from control in lesioned mice with selegiline or l-DOPA treatment. Selegiline is able to normalize the number of dopamine neurons in the periglomerular layer, while l-DOPA treatment sustains the increased number observed in 6-hydroxydopamine lesioned animals. We conclude that there is a distinct modulation of newly generated dopamine neurons of the olfactory bulb after l-DOPA and selegiline treatment. The differential effects of the two drugs might also play a role in olfactory dysfunction in Parkinson's disease patients.
In patients, cancer and treatments provoke cognitive impairments referred to &quot;chemofog&quot;. Here a validated neurobehavioral animal model, the unique way to explore causal direct links between chemotherapy used in clinical practices and brain disorders, allowed investigation of the direct long-term impact of colo-rectal cancer chemotherapy on cognition and cerebral plasticity. Young and aged mice received three injections every 7 days during 2 weeks of 5-fluorouracil either alone (5-FU, 37.5mg/kg) or in combination with oxaliplatin (3mg/kg) or with glucose (5%). The long-term effects (from day 24 to day 60) of chemotherapy were tested on emotional reactivity, learning and memory, behavioral flexibility and hippocampal cell plasticity. 5-FU (in saline)-treated aged and also young mice exhibited specific altered cognitive flexibility and behavioral hyper-reactivity to novelty, whereas the combination 5-FU (in saline)/oxaliplatin (in glucose) did not provoke any cognitive dysfunction. We thus observed that glucose counteracted 5-FU-induced altered executive functions and hippocampal cell proliferation invivo, and protected neural stem cells invitro from toxicity of 5-FU or oxaliplatin. In conclusion, these data suggest that the lasting chemotherapy-induced selective impairment of executive functions, whatever the age, and associated with a reduced number of hippocampal proliferating cells, can be counteracted by co-administration with glucose.
Rising neurodegenerative and depressive disease prevalence combined with the lack of effective pharmaceutical treatments and dangerous side effects, has created an urgent need for the development of effective therapies. Considering that these disorders are multifactorial in origin, treatments designed to interfere at different mechanistic levels may be more effective than the traditional single-targeted pharmacological concepts. To that end, an experimental diet composed of zinc, melatonin, curcumin, piperine, eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA, 20:5, n-3), docosahexaenoic acid (DHA, 22:6, n-3), uridine, and choline was formulated. This diet was tested on the olfactory bulbectomized rat (OBX), an established animal model of depression and cognitive decline. The ingredients of the diet have been individually shown to attenuate glutamate excitoxicity, exert potent anti-oxidant/anti-inflammatory properties, and improve synaptogenesis; processes that all have been implicated in neurodegenerative diseases and in the cognitive deficits following OBX in rodents. Dietary treatment started 2 weeks before OBX surgery, continuing for 6 weeks in total. The diet attenuated OBX-induced cognitive and behavioral deficits, except long-term spatial memory. Ameliorating effects of the diet extended to the control animals. Furthermore, the experimental diet reduced hippocampal atrophy and decreased the peripheral immune activation in the OBX rats. The ameliorating effects of the diet on the OBX-induced changes were comparable to those of the NMDA receptor antagonist, memantine, a drug used for the management of Alzheimer's disease. This proof-of-concept study suggests that a diet, which simultaneously targets multiple disease etiologies, can prevent/impede the development of a neurodegenerative and depressive disorders and the concomitant cognitive deficits.
Psychoactive -keto amphetamines (cathinones) are sold as &quot;bath salts&quot; or &quot;legal highs&quot; and recreationally abused. We characterized the pharmacology of a new series of cathinones, including methedrone, 4-methylethcathinone (4-MEC), 3-fluoromethcathinone (3-FMC), pentylone, ethcathinone, buphedrone, pentedrone, and N,N-dimethylcathinone. We investigated norepinephrine (NE), dopamine (DA), and serotonin (5-HT) uptake inhibition using human embryonic kidney 293 (HEK 293) cells that express the respective human monoamine transporter, the drug-induced efflux of NE, DA, and 5-HT from monoamine-preloaded cells, and binding affinity to monoamine transporters and receptors. All of the cathinones were potent NE uptake inhibitors but differed in their DA vs. 5-HT transporter inhibition profiles and monoamine release effects. Methedrone was a more potent 5-HT than DA transporter inhibitor and released NE and 5-HT similar to para-methoxymethamphetamine (PMMA), para-methoxyamphetamine (PMA), 4-methylthioamphetamine (4-MTA), and 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA). 4-MEC and pentylone equipotently inhibited all of the monoamine transporters and released 5-HT. Ethcathinone and 3-FMC inhibited NE and DA uptake and released NE, and 3-FMC also released DA similar to N-ethylamphetamine and methamphetamine. Pentedrone and N,N-dimethylcathinone were non-releasing NE and DA uptake inhibitors as previously shown for pyrovalerone cathinones. Buphedrone preferentially inhibited NE and DA uptake and also released NE. None of the cathinones bound to rodent trace amine-associated receptor 1, in contrast to the non--keto-amphetamines. None of the cathinones exhibited relevant binding to other monoamine receptors. In summary, we found considerable differences in the monoamine transporter interaction profiles among different cathinones and compared with related amphetamines.
The nuclear factor erythroid 2 related factor 2 (NRF2) is a key regulator of endogenous inducible defense systems in the body. Under physiological conditions NRF2 is mainly located in the cytoplasm. However, in response to oxidative stress, NRF2 translocates to the nucleus and binds to specific DNA sites termed &quot;anti-oxidant response elements&quot; or &quot;electrophile response elements&quot; to initiate transcription of cytoprotective genes. Acute oxidative stress to the brain, such as stroke and traumatic brain injury is increased in animals that are deficient in NRF2. Insufficient NRF2 activation in humans has been linked to chronic diseases such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. New findings have also linked activation of the NRF2 system to anti-inflammatory effects via interactions with NF-B. Here we review literature on cellular mechanisms of NRF2 regulation, how to maintain and restore NRF2 function and the relationship between NRF2 regulation and brain damage. We bring forward the hypothesis that inflammation via prolonged activation of key kinases (p38 and GSK-3) and activation of histone deacetylases gives rise to dysregulation of the NRF2 system in the brain, which contributes to oxidative stress and injury.
The need for immunosuppression after allo/xenogenic mesenchymal stromal cell (MSC) transplantation is debated. This study compared the long-term effects of human (h) bone marrow MSC transplant in immunocompetent or immunosuppressed traumatic brain injured (TBI) mice. C57Bl/6 male mice were subjected to TBI or sham surgery followed 24h later by an intracerebroventricular infusion of phosphate buffer saline (PBS, control) or hMSC (150,000/5l). Immunocompetent and cyclosporin A immunosuppressed (CsA) mice were analyzed for gene expression at 72h, functional deficits and histological analysis at five weeks. Gene expression analysis showed the effectiveness of immunosuppression (INF reduction in CsA treated groups), with no evidence of early rejection (no changes of MHCII and CD86 in all TBI groups) and selective induction of T-reg (increase of Foxp3) only in the TBI hMSC group. Five weeks after TBI, hMSC had comparable efficacy, with functional recovery (on both sensorimotor and cognitive deficits) and structural protection (contusion volume, vessel rescue effect, gliotic scar reduction, induction of neurogenesis) in immunosuppressed and immunocompetent mice. Therefore, long-term hMSC efficacy in TBI is not dependent on immunosuppressive treatment. These findings could have important clinical implication since immunosuppression in acute TBI patients may increase their risk of infection and not be tolerated.
The molecular basis of priming for L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias in Parkinson's disease (PD), which depends on the indirect pathway of motor control, is not known. In rodents, the indirect pathway contains striatopallidal GABAergic neurons that express heterotrimers composed of A(2A) adenosine, CB(1) cannabinoid and D(2) dopamine receptors that regulate dopaminergic neurotransmission. The present study was designed to investigate the expression of these heteromers in the striatum of a primate model of Parkinson's disease and to determine whether their expression and pharmacological properties are altered upon L-DOPA treatment. By using the recently developed in situ proximity ligation assay and by identification of a biochemical fingerprint, we discovered a regional distribution of A(2A)/CB(1) /D(2) receptor heteromers that predicts differential D(2)-mediated neurotransmission in the caudate-putamen of Macaca fascicularis. Whereas heteromers were abundant in the caudate nucleus of both nave and MPTP-treated monkeys, L-DOPA treatment blunted the biochemical fingerprint and led to weak heteromer expression. These findings constitute the first evidence of altered receptor heteromer expression in pathological conditions and suggest that drugs targeting A(2A)-CB(1) -D(2) receptor heteromers may be successful to either normalize basal ganglia output or prevent L-DOPA-induced side effects.
Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) have been popular drug targets for a variety of central nervous system (CNS) disease models, ranging from seizures to schizophrenia. The current study aimed to determine whether mGluRs participate in lateral hypothalamic (LH) stimulation of feeding. To this end, we used satiated adult male Sprague-Dawley rats stereotaxically implanted with indwelling bilateral LH guide cannulas to determine if injection of (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (ACPD), a broad mGluR group I and II agonist, would elicit feeding. Administration of 100nmol ACPD induced feeding with a short latency. Similarly, unilateral LH injection of the selective mGluR group I agonist (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) elicited significant feeding beginning 60min postinjection and continuing until 4h postinjection. Administration of the mGluR5 agonist, (RS)-2-chloro-5-hydroxyphenylglycine (CHPG) produced a smaller delayed feeding response. These delayed but prolonged eating responses suggest that activation of LH mGluR1 and/or mGluR5 might be sufficient to elicit feeding. To determine which subtypes were involved, LH DHPG injections were preceded by LH injection of either the group I antagonist n-phenyl-7-(hydroxyimino)cyclopropa[b]chromen-1a-carboxamide (PHCCC), the mGluR1 antagonist 6-amino-n-cyclohexyl-n,3-dimethylthiazolo[3,2-a]benzimi dazole-2-carboxamide hydrochloride (YM-298198) or the mGluR5 antagonist 3-((2-methyl-4-thiazolyl)ethynyl)pyridine (MTEP), and food intake was measured. PHCCC blocked DHPG-elicited feeding, and each of the other antagonists produced significant feeding suppression. These findings suggest roles for mGluR1 and/or mGluR5 in lateral hypothalamic circuits capable of stimulating feeding behavior.
Glycans attached to the cell surface via proteins or lipids or exposed in the extracellular matrix affect many cellular processes, including neuritogenesis, cell survival and migration, as well as synaptic activity and plasticity. These functions make glycans attractive molecules for stimulating repair of the injured nervous system. Yet, glycans are often difficult to synthesize or isolate and have the disadvantage to be unstable in a complex tissue environment. To circumvent these issues, we have screened a library of small organic compounds to search for structural and functional mimetics of the neurostimulatory glycan polysialic acid (PSA) and identified the 5-HT4 receptor agonist tegaserod as a PSA mimetic. The PSA mimicking activity of tegaserod was shown in cultures of central and peripheral nervous system cells of the mouse and found to be independent of its described function as a serotonin (5-HT4) receptor agonist. In an invivo model for peripheral nerve regeneration, mice receiving tegaserod at the site of injury showed enhanced recovery compared to control mice receiving vehicle control as evidenced by functional measurements and histology. These data indicate that tegaserod could be repurposed for treatment of nervous system injuries and underscores the potential of using small molecules as mimetics of neurostimulatory glycans.
Despite the increasing significance of written communication, there is limited research into spelling therapy for adults with acquired dysgraphia. Existing studies have typically measured spelling accuracy as an outcome, although speed may also be important for functional writing. As spelling is relatively slow, effortful and prone to errors in people with dysgraphia, minimising errors within therapy could be a factor in therapy success. This within-participant case-series study investigated whether errorless and errorful therapies would differ in their effects on spelling speed and accuracy for four participants with acquired dysgraphia. Matched sets of words were treated with errorless or errorful therapy or left untreated. Results were collated one week and five weeks after therapy. Both therapy approaches were successful in improving spelling accuracy. For three participants, equivalent gains were demonstrated following errorless and errorful therapy. One participant made significantly greater improvements in spelling accuracy following errorless therapy. The effects were maintained five weeks later. There was no significant difference in post-therapy spelling speed between the two therapy conditions. The results of this study suggest that both errorful and errorless therapies can be effective methods with which to treat spelling in adults with acquired dysgraphia.
The adaptation account of mirror neurons in humans proposes that mirror systems have been selected for in evolution to facilitate social cognition. By contrast, a recent &quot;association&quot; account of mirror neurons in humans argues that mirror systems are not the result of a specific adaptation, but of sensorimotor learning arising from concurrent visual and motor activity. Here, we used transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and electromyography (EMG) to evaluate whether visuomotor associations affect interpersonal motor resonance, a putative measure of mirror system activity. 18 participants underwent two TMS sessions exploring whether visuomotor associations established throughout ones lifespan, namely common movements and movements generated from ones own perspective, are associated with increased putative mirror system activity. Our results showed no overall difference in interpersonal motor resonance to common versus uncommon actions, or actions presented from an egocentric (self) versus an allocentric (other) perspective. We did, however, observe increased interpersonal motor resonance within the abductor digiti minimi (ADM) muscle in response to allocentric compared to egocentric movements. As the association model predicts stronger mirror system response to actions with stronger visuomotor associations, such as common movements and those presented from an egocentric perspective, our findings provide little evidence to support the association model.
A recent line of inquiry has examined how an observers experience with action changes the neural processing of similar actions when they are subsequently observed. The current study used electroencephalography (EEG) to test the hypothesis that giving participants different types and amounts of experience with specific objects would lead to differential patterns of sensorimotor rhythms during the observation of similar actions on those objects. While EEG was recorded, three groups of participants (n=20 in each group; mean age=22.0 years, SD=2.7) watched video clips of an actor reaching, grasping, and lifting two objects. Participants then received information about differences in weight between the two objects. One group gained this information through extended sensorimotor experience with the objects, a second group received much briefer sensorimotor experience with the objects, and the third group read written information about the objects weights. Participants then viewed the action sequences again. For participants who had sensorimotor experience with the objects, the EEG response to viewing the actions was differentially sensitive to the anticipated weight of the objects. We conclude that this sensitivity was based on the participants prior sensorimotor experience with the objects. The participants who only received semantic information about the objects showed no such effects. The primary conclusion is that even brief experience with actions affects sensorimotor cortex activity during the subsequent observation of similar actions.
While viewing ambiguous figures, such as the Necker cube, the available perceptual interpretations alternate with one another. The role of higher level mechanisms in such reversals remains unclear. We tested whether perceptual reversals of discontinuously presented Necker cube pairs depend on working memory resources by manipulating cognitive load while recording event-related potentials (ERPs). The ERPs showed early enhancements of negativity, which were obtained in response to the first cube approximately 500 ms before perceived reversals. We found that working memory load influenced reversal-related brain responses in response to the second cube over occipital areas at the 150-300 ms post-stimulus and over central areas at P3 time window (300-500 ms), suggesting that it modulates intermediate visual processes. Interestingly, reversal rates remained unchanged by the working memory load. We propose that perceptual reversals in discontinuous presentation of ambiguous stimuli are governed by an early (well preceding pending reversals) mechanism, while the effects of load on the reversal related ERPs may reflect general top-down influences on visual processing, possibly mediated by the prefrontal cortex.
Research on schizophrenia has provided evidence of both impaired attentional control and dysfunctional magnocellular sensory processing. The present study tested the hypothesis that these impairments may be related, such that people with schizophrenia would be differentially distracted by stimuli that strongly activate the magnocellular pathway. To accomplish this, we used a visual attention paradigm from the basic cognitive neuroscience literature designed to assess the capture of attention by salient but irrelevant stimuli. Participants searched for a target shape in an array of non-target shapes. On some trials, a salient distractor was presented that either selectively activated the parvocellular system (parvo-biased distractors) or activated both the magnocellular and parvocellular systems (magno+parvo distractors). For both manual reaction times and eye movement measures, the magno+parvo distractors captured attention more strongly than the parvo-biased distractors in people with schizophrenia, but the opposite pattern was observed in matched healthy control participants. These results indicate that attentional control deficits in schizophrenia may arise, at least in part, by means of an interaction with magnocellular sensory dysfunction.
Visuohaptic inputs offer redundant and complementary information regarding an objects geometrical structure. The integration of these inputs facilitates object recognition in adults. While the ability to recognize objects in the environment both visually and haptically develops early on, the development of the neural mechanisms for integrating visual and haptic object shape information remains unknown. In the present study, we used functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) in three groups of participants, 4 to 5.5 year olds, 7 to 8.5 year olds, and adults. Participants were tested in a block design involving visual exploration of two-dimensional images of common objects and real textures, and haptic exploration of their three-dimensional counterparts. As in previous studies, object preference was defined as a greater BOLD response for objects than textures. The analyses specifically target two sites of known visuohaptic convergence in adults: the lateral occipital tactile-visual region (LOtv) and intraparietal sulcus (IPS). Results indicated that the LOtv is involved in visuohaptic object recognition early on. More importantly, object preference in the LOtv became increasingly visually dominant with development. Despite previous reports that the lateral occipital complex (LOC) is adult-like by 8 years, these findings indicate that at least part of the LOC is not. Whole-brain maps showed overlap between adults and both groups of children in the LOC. However, the overlap did not build incrementally from the younger to the older group, suggesting that visuohaptic object preference does not develop in an additive manner. Taken together, the results show that the development of neural substrates for visuohaptic recognition is protracted compared to substrates that are primarily visual or haptic.
In healthy individuals, adaptation to left-shifting prisms has been shown to simulate the symptoms of hemispatial neglect, including a reduction in global processing that approximates the local bias observed in neglect patients. The current study tested whether leftward prism adaptation can more specifically enhance local processing abilities. In three experiments, the impact of local and global processing was assessed through tasks that measure susceptibility to illusions that are known to be driven by local or global contextual effects. Susceptibility to the rod-and-frame illusion - an illusion disproportionately driven by both local and global effects depending on frame size - was measured before and after adaptation to left- and right-shifting prisms. A significant increase in rod-and-frame susceptibility was found for the left-shifting prism group, suggesting that adaptation caused an increase in local processing effects. The results of a second experiment confirmed that leftward prism adaptation enhances local processing, as assessed with susceptibility to the simultaneous-tilt illusion. A final experiment employed a more specific measure of the global effect typically associated with the rod-and-frame illusion, and found that although the global effect was somewhat diminished after leftward prism adaptation, the trend failed to reach significance (p=.078). Rightward prism adaptation had no significant effects on performance in any of the experiments. Combined, these findings indicate that leftward prism adaptation in healthy individuals can simulate the local processing bias of neglect patients primarily through an increased sensitivity to local visual cues, and confirm that prism adaptation not only modulates lateral shifts of attention, but also prompts shifts from one level of processing to another.
Approaching or looming sounds are salient, potentially threatening stimuli with particular impact on visual processing. The early crossmodal effects by looming sounds (Romei, Murray, Cappe, &amp; Thut, 2009) and their selective impact on visual orientation discrimination (Leo, Romei, Freeman, Ladavas, &amp; Driver, 2011) suggest that these multisensory interactions may take place already within low-level visual cortices. To investigate this hypothesis, we tested a patient (SDV) with bilateral occipital lesion and spared residual portions of V1/V2. Accordingly, SDVs visual perimetry revealed blindness of the central visual field with some residual peripheral vision. In two experiments we tested for the influence of looming vs. receding and stationary sounds on SDVs line orientation discrimination (orientation discrimination experiment) and visual detection abilities (detection experiment) in the preserved or blind portions of the visual field, corresponding to spared and lesioned areas of V1, respectively. In the visual orientation discrimination experiment we found that SDV visual orientation sensitivity significantly improved for visual targets paired with looming sounds but only for lines presented in the partially preserved visual field. In the visual detection experiment, where SDV was required to simply detect the same stimuli presented in the orientation discrimination experiment, a generalised sound-induced visual improvement both in the intact and in blind portion of the visual field was observed. These results provide direct evidence that early visual areas are critically involved in crossmodal modulation of visual orientation sensitivity by looming sounds. Thus, a lesion in V1 prevents the enhancement of visual orientation sensitivity. In contrast, the same lesion does not prevent the visual detection enhancement by a sound, probably due to alternative visual pathways (e.g. retino-colliculo-extrastriate) which are usually spared in these patients and able to mediate the crossmodal enhancement of basic visual abilities such as detection.
The trail making test (TMT) is a widely applied diagnostic tool measuring executive functioning in order to discriminate between healthy and pathological aging processes. However, due to its paper-and-pencil nature it is difficult to adapt for functional brain imaging. Related neural underpinnings even in healthy aging are mostly unknown since no consistent administration for imaging is available. In this study a standardized implementation of the TMT for functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) is proposed to investigate associated frontal cortex activation in healthy young (mean age 25.7  3.02 years) and elderly adults (mean age 70.95  3.55 years). The TMT consisted of a number condition (TMT-A), an alternating number and letter condition (TMT-B) as well as a control task. Behavioral results demonstrated that elderly participants performed slower but committed a similar number of errors compared to younger adults. The fNIRS results showed that particularly the TMT-B provoked bilateral activation in the ventro- and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (vlPFC and dlPFC) as well as in premotor regions. Elderly participants displayed more significantly activated channels and a different activation pattern compared to younger participants especially manifesting in more bilateral dlPFC activation. In line with the hemispheric asymmetry reduction in elderly adults (HAROLD) model, the results were interpreted as an additional need for cognitive control resources in elderly participants. This study succeeded in implementing an appropriate version of the TMT for fNIRS and helps elucidating neural aging effects associated with this task.
It is widely accepted that brain maturation from adolescence to adulthood contributes to substantial behavioural changes. Despite this, however, knowledge of the precise mechanisms is still sparse. We used fMRI to investigate developmental differences between healthy adolescents (age range 14-15) and adults (age range 20-39) in feedback-related decision making using a probabilistic reversal learning task. Conventionally groups are compared based on continuous values of blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) percentage signal change. In contrast, we transformed these values into discrete states and used the pattern of these states to compare groups. We focused our analysis on anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), ventral striatum (VS) and ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) as their functions have been shown to be critical in feedback related decision making. Discretisation of continuous BOLD values revealed differential patterns of activity as compared to conventional statistical methods. Results showed differential representation of feedback and decision in ACC and vmPFC between adolescents and adults but no difference in VS. We argue that the pattern of activity of ACC, vmPFC and VS in adolescents resulted in several drawbacks in decision making such as redundant and imprecise representation of decision and subsequently poorer performance in terms of the number of system changes (change of contingencies). This method can be effectively used to infer group differences from within-group analysis rather than studying the differences by direct between-group comparisons.
Neurophysiological and neuroimaging studies including both patients with disorders of consciousness and healthy subjects with modified states of consciousness suggest a crucial role of the medial posteroparietal cortex in conscious information processing. However no direct neuropsychological evidence supports this hypothesis and studies including patients with restricted lesions of this brain region are almost non-existent. Using direct intraoperative electrostimulations, we showed in a rare patient that disrupting the subcortical connectivity of the left posterior cingulate cortex (PCC) reliably induced a breakdown in conscious experience. This acute phenomenon was mainly characterized by a transient behavioral unresponsiveness with loss of external connectedness. In all cases, when he regained consciousness, the patient described himself as in dream, outside the operating room. This finding suggests that functional integrity of the PPC connectivity is necessary for maintaining consciousness of external environment.
Recent studies have provided solid evidence for pure cases of prosopagnosia following brain damage. The patients reported so far have posterior lesions encompassing either or both the right inferior occipital cortex and fusiform gyrus, and exhibit a critical impairment in generating a sufficiently detailed holistic percept to individualize faces. Here, we extended these observations to include the prosopagnosic patient LR (Bukach, Bub, Gauthier, &amp; Tarr, 2006), whose damage is restricted to the anterior region of the right temporal lobe. First, we report that LR is able to discriminate parametrically defined individual exemplars of nonface object categories as accurately and quickly as typical observers, which suggests that the visual similarity account of prosopagnosia does not explain his impairments. Then, we show that LR does not present with the typical face inversion effect, whole-part advantage, or composite face effect and, therefore, has impaired holistic perception of individual faces. Moreover, the patient is more impaired at matching faces when the facial part he fixates is masked than when it is selectively revealed by means of gaze contingency. Altogether these observations support the view that the nature of the critical face impairment does not differ qualitatively across patients with acquired prosopagnosia, regardless of the localization of brain damage: all these patients appear to be impaired to some extent at what constitutes the heart of our visual expertise with faces, namely holistic perception at a sufficiently fine-grained level of resolution to discriminate exemplars of the face class efficiently. This conclusion raises issues regarding the existing criteria for diagnosis/classification of patients as cases of apperceptive or associative prosopagnosia.
By definition, visual illusions and hallucinations differ in whether the perceived objects exist in reality. A recent study challenged this dichotomy, in which pareidolias, a type of complex visual illusion involving ambiguous forms being perceived as meaningful objects, are very common and phenomenologically similar to visual hallucinations in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). We hypothesise that a common psychological mechanism exists between pareidolias and visual hallucinations in DLB that confers meaning upon meaningless visual information. Furthermore, we believe that these two types of visual misperceptions have a common underlying neural mechanism, namely, cholinergic insufficiency. The current study investigated pareidolic illusions using meaningless visual noise stimuli (the noise pareidolia test) in 34 patients with DLB, 34 patients with Alzheimers disease and 28 healthy controls. Fifteen patients with DLB were administered the noise pareidolia test twice, before and after donepezil treatment. Three major findings were discovered: (1) DLB patients saw meaningful illusory images (pareidolias) in meaningless visual stimuli, (2) the number of pareidolic responses correlated with the severity of visual hallucinations, and (3) cholinergic enhancement reduced both the number of pareidolias and the severity of visual hallucinations in patients with DLB. These findings suggest that a common underlying psychological and neural mechanism exists between pareidolias and visual hallucinations in DLB.
Social comparison pervades our interactions with others, informing us of our standing and motivating improvement, but producing negative emotional and behavioral consequences that can harm relationships and lead to poor health outcomes. Social neuroscience research has begun to illuminate some mechanisms by which status divides lead to interpersonal consequences. This review integrates core findings on the neuroscience of social comparison processes, showing the effects of comparing the self to relevant others on dimensions of competence and warmth. The literature converges to suggest that relative status divides initiate social comparison processes, that upward and downward comparisons initiate pain- and pleasure-related neural responses, and that these responses can predict peoples kindly or aggressive intentions toward one another. Across different types of comparisons, brain regions involved in mentalizing are also sometimes involved. Along with future work, the research reviewed here may inform efforts to mitigate negative outcomes of constant social comparisons.
The ability to localize nociceptive stimuli on the body surface is essential for an organism to respond appropriately to potential physical threats. This ability not only requires a representation of the space of the observers body, but also of the external space with respect to their body. Therefore, localizing nociceptive stimuli requires coordinating multiple senses into an integrated frame of reference. The peripersonal frame of reference allows for the coding of the position of somatosensory stimuli on the body surface and the position of stimuli occurring close to the body (e.g., visual stimuli). Intensively studied for touch, this topic has been largely ignored when it comes to nociception. Here, we investigated, using a temporal order judgment task, whether the spatial perception of nociceptive stimuli is coordinated with that of proximal visual stimuli into an integrated representation of peripersonal space. Participants judged which of two nociceptive stimuli, one presented to either hand, had been presented first. Each pair of nociceptive stimuli was preceded by lateralized visual cues presented either unilaterally or bilaterally, and either close to, or far from, the participants body. The perception of nociceptive stimuli was biased in favor of the stimulus delivered on the hand adjacent to the unilateral visual cue, especially when the cue was presented near the participants hand. These results therefore suggest that a peripersonal frame of reference is used to map the position of nociceptive stimuli in multisensory space. We propose that peripersonal space constitutes a kind of margin of safety around the body to alert an organism to possible threats.
The brains representation of the body can be extended to include objects that are not originally part of the body. Various studies have found both extremely rapid extensions that occur as soon as an object is held, as well as extremely slow extensions that require weeks of training. Due to species and methodological differences, it is unclear whether the studies were probing different representations, or revealing multiple aspects of the same representation. Here, we present evidence that objects (cotton balls) held by a tool (chopsticks) are rapidly integrated into the body representation, as indexed by fading of the cotton balls (or 'second-order extensions') from a positive afterimage. Skillfulness with chopsticks was predictive of more rapid integration of the second-order cotton balls held by this tool. We also found that extensive training over a period of weeks augmented the level of integration. Together, our findings demonstrate integration of second-order objects held by tools, and reveal that the body representation probed by positive afterimages is subject to both rapid and slow processes of adaptive change.
Intentions are commonly conceived of as discrete mental states that are the direct cause of actions. In the last several decades, neuroscientists have taken up the project of finding the neural implementation of intentions, and a number of areas have been posited as implementing these states. We argue, however, that the processes underlying action initiation and control are considerably more dynamic and context sensitive than the concept of intention can allow for. Therefore, adopting the notion of 'intention' in neuroscientific explanations can easily lead to misinterpretation of the data, and can negatively influence investigation into the neural correlates of intentional action. We suggest reinterpreting the mechanisms underlying intentional action, and we will discuss the elements that such a reinterpretation needs to account for.
The Contralateral Delayed Activity (CDA) is slow negative potential found during a variety of tasks, providing an important measure of the representation of information in visual working memory. However, it is studied using stimulus arrays in which the to-be-remembered objects are shown in the periphery of the left or the right visual field. Our goal was to determine whether fixational eye movements in the direction of the memoranda might underlie the CDA. We found that subjects' gaze was shifted toward the visual field of the memoranda during the retention interval, with its magnitude increasing with the set size. However, the CDA was clearly observed even when the subjects' gaze shifts were absent. In addition, the magnitude of the subjects' gaze shifts was unrelated to their visual working memory capacity measured with behavioral data, unlike the CDA. Finally, the onset latency of the set size dependent eye movements followed the onset of the set size dependent CDA. Thus, our findings clearly show that the CDA does not represent a simple inability to maintain fixation during visual working memory maintenance, but that this neural index of representation in working memory appears to induce eye movements toward the locations of the objects being remembered.
The present study examined effects of attractiveness on behavioral and event-related potential (ERP) correlates of face memory. Extending previous reports, we controlled for potential moderating effects of distinctiveness, a variable known to affect memory. Attractive and unattractive faces were selected on the basis of a rating study, and were matched for distinctiveness. In a subsequent recognition memory experiment, we found more accurate memory for unattractive relative to attractive faces. Additionally, an attractiveness effect in the early posterior negativity (EPN) during learning, with larger amplitudes for attractive than unattractive faces, correlated significantly with the magnitude of the memory advantage for unattractive faces at test. These findings establish a contribution of attractiveness to face memory over and above the well-known effect of distinctiveness. Additionally, as the EPN is typically enhanced for affective stimuli, our ERP results imply that the processing of emotionally relevant attractive faces during learning may hamper their encoding into memory.
A recent history of failed clinical trials suggests that waiting until even the early stages of onset of Alzheimer's disease may be too late for effective treatment, pointing to the importance of early intervention in young people. Early intervention will require markers of Alzheimer's risk that track with genotype but are capable of responding to treatment. Here, we sought to identify a functional MRI signature of combined Alzheimer's risk imparted by two genetic risk factors. We used a task of executive attention during fMRI in participants genotyped for two Alzheimer's risk alleles: APOE-4 and CLU-C. Executive attention is a sensitive indicator of the progression of Alzheimer's even in the early stages of mild cognitive impairment, but has not yet been investigated as a marker of Alzheimer's risk in young adults. Functional MRI revealed that APOE-4 and CLU-C had an additive effect on brain activity such that increased combined genetic risk was associated with decreased brain activity during executive attention, including in the medial temporal lobe, a brain area affected early in Alzheimer's pathogenesis.
Some autistic children pass classic Theory of Mind (ToM) tasks that others fail, but the significance of this finding is at present unclear. We identified two such groups of primary school age (labelled ToM+ and ToM-) and a matched comparison group of typically developing children (TD). Five years later we tested these participants again on a ToM test battery appropriate for adolescents and conducted an fMRI study with a story based ToM task. We also assessed autistic core symptoms at these two time points. At both times the ToM- group showed more severe social communication impairments than the ToM+ group, and while showing an improvement in mentalizing performance, they continued to show a significant impairment compared to the NT group. Two independent ROI analyses of the BOLD signal showed activation of the mentalizing network including medial prefrontal cortex, posterior cingulate and lateral temporal cortices. Strikingly, both ToM+ and ToM- groups showed very similar patterns of heightened activation in comparison with the NT group. No differences in other brain regions were apparent. Thus, autistic adolescents who do not have a history of mentalizing problems according to our ToM battery showed the same atypical neurophysiological response during mentalizing as children who did have such a history. This finding indicates that heterogeneity at the behavioural level may nevertheless map onto a similar phenotype at the neuro-cognitive level.

The dopamine (DA) D1 receptor (D1R) is critically involved in reward and drug addiction. Phosphorylation-mediated desensitization or internalization of D1R has been extensively investigated. However, the potential for upregulation of D1R function through phosphorylation remains to be determined. Here we report that acute cocaine exposure induces protein kinase D1 (PKD1) activation in the rat striatum, and knockdown of PKD1 in the rat dorsal striatum attenuates cocaine-induced locomotor hyperactivity. Moreover, PKD1-mediated phosphorylation of serine 421 (S421) of D1R promotes surface localization of D1R and enhances downstream extracellular signal-regulated kinase signaling in D1R-transfected HEK 293 cells. Importantly, injection of the peptide Tat-S421, an engineered Tat fusion-peptide targeting S421 (Tat-S421), into the rat dorsal striatum inhibits cocaine-induced locomotor hyperactivity and injection of Tat-S421 into the rat hippocampus or the shell of the nucleus accumbens (NAc) also inhibits cocaine-induced conditioned place preference (CPP). However, injection of Tat-S421 into the rat NAc shell does not establish CPP by itself and injection of Tat-S421 into the hippocampus does not influence spatial learning and memory. Thus, targeting S421 of D1R represents a promising strategy for the development of pharmacotherapeutic treatments for drug addiction and other disorders that result from DA imbalances.
Depression has been linked to increased cortisol reactivity and differences in limbic brain volumes, yet the mechanisms underlying these alterations are unclear. One main hypothesis is that stress causes these effects. This is supported by animal studies showing that chronic stress or glucocorticoid administration can lead to alterations in hippocampal and amygdala structures. Relatedly, life stress is cited as one of the major risk factors for depression and candidate gene studies have related variation in stress-system genes to increased prevalence and severity of depression. The present study tested the hypothesis that genetic profile scores combining variance across 10 single nucleotide polymorphisms from four stress-system genes (CRHR1, NR3C2, NR3C1, and FKBP5) and early life stress would predict increases in cortisol levels during laboratory stressors in 120 preschool-age children (3-5 years old), as well as hippocampal and amygdala volumes assessed with MRI in these same children at school age (7-12 years old). We found that stress-system genetic profile scores positively predicted cortisol levels while the number of stressful/traumatic life events experienced by 3-5 years old negatively predicted cortisol levels. The interaction of genetic profile scores and early life stress predicted left hippocampal and left amygdala volumes. Cortisol partially mediated the effects of genetic variation and life stress on limbic brain volumes, particularly on left amygdala volume. These results suggest that stress-related genetic and early environmental factors contribute to variation in stress cortisol reactivity and limbic brain volumes in children, phenotypes associated with depression in adulthood.
Recently, deep brain stimulation (DBS) has been evaluated as an experimental therapy for treatment-resistant depression. Although there have been encouraging results in open-label trials, about half of the patients fail to achieve meaningful benefit. Although progress has been made in understanding the neurobiology of MDD, the ability to characterize differences in brain dynamics between those who do and do not benefit from DBS is lacking. In this study, we investigated EEG resting-state data recorded from 12 patients that have undergone DBS surgery. Of those, six patients were classified as responders to DBS, defined as an improvement of 50% or more on the 17-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAMD-17). We compared hemispheric frontal theta and parietal alpha power asymmetry and synchronization asymmetry between responders and non-responders. Hemispheric power asymmetry showed statistically significant differences between responders and non-responders with healthy controls showing an asymmetry similar to responders but opposite to non-responders. This asymmetry was characterized by an increase in frontal theta in the right hemisphere relative to the left combined with an increase in parietal alpha in the left hemisphere relative to the right in non-responders compared with responders. Hemispheric mean synchronization asymmetry showed a statistically significant difference between responders and non-responders in the theta band, with healthy controls showing an asymmetry similar to responders but opposite to non-responders. This asymmetry resulted from an increase in frontal synchronization in the right hemisphere relative to the left combined with an increase in parietal synchronization in the left hemisphere relative to the right in non-responders compared with responders. Connectivity diagrams revealed long-range differences in frontal/central-parietal connectivity between the two groups in the theta band. This pattern was observed irrespective of whether EEG data were collected with active DBS or with the DBS stimulation turned off, suggesting stable functional and possibly structural modifications that may be attributed to plasticity.
Alcohol abuse is a significant medical and social problem. Several neurotransmitter systems are implicated in ethanol's actions, with certain receptors and ion channels emerging as putative targets. The dorsal raphe (DR) nucleus is associated with the behavioral actions of alcohol, but ethanol actions on these neurons are not well understood. Here, using immunohistochemistry and electrophysiology we characterize DR inhibitory transmission and its sensitivity to ethanol. DR neurons exhibit inhibitory 'phasic' post-synaptic currents mediated primarily by synaptic GABAA receptors (GABAAR) and, to a lesser extent, by synaptic glycine receptors (GlyR). In addition to such phasic transmission mediated by the vesicular release of neurotransmitter, the activity of certain neurons may be governed by a 'tonic' conductance resulting from ambient GABA activating extrasynaptic GABAARs. However, for DR neurons extrasynaptic GABAARs exert only a limited influence. By contrast, we report that unusually the GlyR antagonist strychnine reveals a large tonic conductance mediated by extrasynaptic GlyRs, which dominates DR inhibition. In agreement, for DR neurons strychnine increases their input resistance, induces membrane depolarization, and consequently augments their excitability. Importantly, this glycinergic conductance is greatly enhanced in a strychnine-sensitive fashion, by behaviorally relevant ethanol concentrations, by drugs used for the treatment of alcohol withdrawal, and by taurine, an ingredient of certain 'energy drinks' often imbibed with ethanol. These findings identify extrasynaptic GlyRs as critical regulators of DR excitability and a novel molecular target for ethanol.
Substance cue reactivity is theorized as having a significant role in addiction processes, promoting compulsive patterns of drug-seeking and drug-taking behavior. However, research extending this phenomenon to cannabis has been limited. To that end, the goal of the current work was to examine the relationship between cannabis cue reactivity and craving in a sample of 353 participants varying in self-reported cannabis use. Participants completed a visual oddball task whereby neutral, exercise, and cannabis cue images were presented, and a neutral auditory oddball task while event-related brain potentials (ERPs) were recorded. Consistent with past research, greater cannabis use was associated with greater reactivity to cannabis images, as reflected in the P300 component of the ERP, but not to neutral auditory oddball cues. The latter indicates the specificity of cue reactivity differences as a function of substance-related cues and not generalized cue reactivity. Additionally, cannabis cue reactivity was significantly related to self-reported cannabis craving as well as problems associated with cannabis use. Implications for cannabis use and addiction more generally are discussed.
Recent studies have shown that post-retrieval extinction training attenuates fear and reward-related memories in both humans and rodents. This noninvasive, behavioral approach has the potential to be used in clinical settings to treat maladaptive memories that underlie several psychiatric disorders, including drug addiction. However, few studies to date have used a post-retrieval extinction approach to attenuate addiction-related memories. In the current study, we attempted to disrupt cocaine-related memories by using the post-retrieval extinction paradigm in male Sprague Dawley rats. Results revealed that starting extinction training 1h after cocaine contextual memory was retrieved significantly attenuated cocaine-primed reinstatement of conditioned place preference (CPP) and relapse of cocaine CPP (drug-free and cocaine-primed) following 30 days of abstinence. However, animals that did not retrieve the contextual cocaine memory before extinction training, or animals that began extinction training 24h after retrieval (outside of the reconsolidation window), demonstrated normal cocaine CPP. Conversely, animals that received additional CPP conditioning, rather than extinction training, 1h after reactivation of cocaine memory showed enhanced cocaine CPP compared with animals that did not reactivate the cocaine memory before conditioning. These results reveal that a behavioral manipulation that takes advantage of reconsolidation and extinction of drug memories may be useful in decreasing preference for, and abuse of, cocaine.
The single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) rs1344706 in ZNF804A is one of the best-supported risk variants for psychosis. We hypothesized that this SNP contributes to the development of schizophrenia by affecting the ability to understand other people's mental states. This skill, commonly referred to as Theory of Mind (ToM), has consistently been found to be impaired in schizophrenia. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we previously showed that in healthy individuals rs1344706 impacted on activity and connectivity of key areas of the ToM network, including the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex, temporo-parietal junction, and the posterior cingulate cortex, which show aberrant activity in schizophrenia patients, too. We aimed to replicate these results in an independent sample of 188 healthy German volunteers. In order to assess the reliability of brain activity elicited by the ToM task, 25 participants performed the task twice with an interval of 14 days showing excellent accordance in recruitment of key ToM areas. Confirming our previous results, we observed decreasing activity of the left temporo-parietal junction, dorsomedial prefrontal cortex, and the posterior cingulate cortex with increasing number of risk alleles during ToM. Complementing our replication sample with the discovery sample, analyzed in a previous report (total N=297), further revealed negative genotype effects in the left dorsomedial prefrontal cortex as well as in the temporal and parietal regions. In addition, as shown previously, rs1344706 risk allele dose positively predicted increased frontal-temporo-parietal connectivity. These findings confirm the effects of the psychosis risk variant in ZNF804A on the dysfunction of the ToM network.
Chronic social defeat stress in mice produces a susceptible phenotype characterized by several behavioral abnormalities consistent with human depression that are reversed by chronic but not acute exposure to antidepressant medications. Recent work in addiction models demonstrates that the transcription factor FosB and protein kinase calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) are co-regulated in nucleus accumbens (NAc), a brain reward region implicated in both addiction and depression models including social defeat. Previous work has also demonstrated that FosB is induced in NAc after chronic social defeat stress or after chronic antidepressant treatment, wherein it mediates a pro-resilience or antidepressant-like phenotype. Here, using chromatin immunoprecipitation assays, we found that FosB binds the CaMKII gene promoter in NAc and that this binding increases after mice are exposed to chronic social defeat stress. Paradoxically, chronic exposure to the antidepressant fluoxetine reduces binding of FosB to the CaMKII promoter and reduces CaMKII expression in NAc, despite the fact that FosB is induced under these conditions. These data suggest a novel epigenetic mechanism of antidepressant action, whereby fluoxetine induces some chromatin change at the CaMKII promoter, which blocks the FosB binding. Indeed, chronic fluoxetine reduces acetylation and increases lysine-9 dimethylation of histone H3 at the CaMKII promoter in NAc, effects also seen in depressed humans exposed to antidepressants. Overexpression of CaMKII in NAc blocks fluoxetine's antidepressant effects in the chronic social defeat paradigm, whereas inhibition of CaMKII activity in NAc mimics fluoxetine exposure. These findings suggest that epigenetic suppression of CaMKII expression in NAc is behaviorally relevant and offer a novel pathway for possible therapeutic intervention in depression and related syndromes.
Addictive drug use causes long-lasting changes in synaptic strength and dendritic spine morphology in the nucleus accumbens that might underlie the vulnerability to relapse. Although activity in mesocorticolimbic circuitry is required for reinstating cocaine seeking, its role in reinstatement-associated synaptic plasticity is not well characterized. Using rats extinguished from cocaine self-administration, we found potentiated synaptic strength (assessed as the AMPA/NMDA current amplitude ratio) and increased spine head diameter in medium spiny neurons in the accumbens core (NAcore). The basal changes in synaptic strength and morphology in cocaine-extinguished animals were further augmented during cocaine-induced reinstatement. Two NAcore afferents contributing to cocaine reinstatement are glutamatergic inputs from the prelimbic prefrontal cortex (PL) and dopamine from the ventral tegmental area (VTA). Pharmacological inhibition of either PL or VTA prevented cocaine-primed reinstatement. However, inhibiting the PL further potentiated AMPA/NMDA and spine head diameter, while inactivating the VTA or the combined systemic administration of dopamine D1 and D2 antagonists prevented the increase in AMPA/NMDA and spine diameter induced by cocaine priming. These data indicate that neuronal activity in the VTA and associated dopamine receptor stimulation is necessary for the synaptic potentiation in the NAcore during cocaine-induced reinstatement. Although activity in the PL was necessary for reinstatement, it inhibited synaptic potentiation initiated by an acute cocaine injection. Thus, although the PL and VTA differentially regulate the direction of synaptic plasticity induced by a cocaine-priming injection, coordinated synaptic potentiation by both NAcore afferents is necessary for cocaine-induced relapse.
Neuroligins (NLGNs) are cell adhesion molecules that are important for proper synaptic formation and functioning, and are critical regulators of the balance between neural excitation/inhibition (E/I). Mutations in NLGNs have been linked to psychiatric disorders in humans involving social dysfunction and are related to similar abnormalities in animal models. Chronic stress increases the likelihood for affective disorders and has been shown to induce changes in neural structure and function in different brain regions, with the hippocampus being highly vulnerable to stress. Previous studies have shown evidence of chronic stress-induced changes in the neural E/I balance in the hippocampus. Therefore, we hypothesized that chronic restraint stress would lead to reduced hippocampal NLGN-2 levels, in association with alterations in social behavior. We found that rats submitted to chronic restraint stress in adulthood display reduced sociability and increased aggression. This occurs along with a reduction of NLGN-2, but not NLGN-1 expression (as shown with western blot, immunohistochemistry, and electron microscopy analyses), throughout the hippocampus and detectable in different layers of the CA1, CA3, and DG subfields. Furthermore, using synthetic peptides that comprise sequences in either NLGN-1 (neurolide-1) or NLGN-2 (neurolide-2) involved in the interaction with their presynaptic partner neurexin (NRXN)-1, intra-hippocampal administration of neurolide-2 led also to reduced sociability and increased aggression. These results highlight hippocampal NLGN-2 as a key molecular substrate regulating social behaviors and underscore NLGNs as promising targets for the development of novel drugs for the treatment of dysfunctional social behaviors.
The endogenous enkephalins (ENKs) are potential candidates participating in the naturally occurring variations in coping styles and determining the individual capacities for adaptation during chronic stress exposure. Here we demonstrate that there is a large variance in individual behavioral, as well as in physiological outcomes, in a population of Sprague-Dawley rats subjected to 3 weeks of chronic unpredictable stress (CUS). Separation of resilient and vulnerable subpopulations reveals specific long-term neuroadaptation in the ENKergic brain circuits. ENK mRNA expression was greatly reduced in the posterior basolateral nucleus of amygdala (BLAp) in vulnerable individuals. In contrast, ENK mRNA levels were similar in resilient and control (unstressed) individuals. Another group of rats were used for lentiviral-mediated knockdown of ENK to assess whether a decrease of ENK expression in the BLAp reproduces the behavioral disturbances found in vulnerable individuals. ENK knockdown specifically located in the BLAp was sufficient to increase anxiety in the behavioral tests, such as social interaction and elevated plus maze when compared with control individuals. These results show that specific neuroadaptation mediated by the ENKergic neurotransmission in the BLAp is a key regulator of resilience, whereas a decrease of the ENK in the BLAp is a maladaptation mechanism, which mediates the behavioral dichotomy observed between vulnerable and resilient following 3 weeks of CUS.
Polymorphisms in the gene encoding the serotonin synthesis enzyme Tph2 have been identified in mental illnesses, including bipolar disorder, major depression, autism, schizophrenia, and ADHD. Deficits in cognitive flexibility and perseverative behaviors are shared common symptoms in these disorders. However, little is known about the impact of Tph2 gene variants on cognition. Mice expressing a human TPH2 variant (Tph2-KI) were used to investigate cognitive consequences of TPH2 loss of function and pharmacological treatments. We applied a recently developed behavioral assay, the automated H-maze, to study cognitive functions in Tph2-KI mice. This assay involves the consecutive discovery of three different rules: a delayed alternation task, a non-alternation task, and a delayed reversal task. Possible contribution of locomotion, reward, and sensory perception were also investigated. The expression of loss-of-function mutant Tph2 in mice was associated with impairments in reversal learning and cognitive flexibility, accompanied by perseverative behaviors similar to those observed in human clinical studies. Pharmacological restoration of 5-HT synthesis with 5-hydroxytryptophan or treatment with the 5-HT(2C) receptor agonist CP809.101 reduced cognitive deficits in Tph2-KI mice and abolished perseveration. In contrast, treatment with the psychostimulant methylphenidate exacerbated cognitive deficits in mutant mice. Results from this study suggest a contribution of TPH2 in the regulation of cognition. Furthermore, identification of a role for a 5-HT(2) receptor agonist as a cognition-enhancing agent in mutant mice suggests a potential avenue to explore for the personalized treatment of cognitive symptoms in humans with reduced 5-HT synthesis and TPH2 polymorphisms.
High rates of comorbidity between alcohol use disorder (AUD) and major depressive disorder (MDD) are reported. Preclinical models examining effects of primary depression on secondary AUD are currently absent, preventing adequate testing of drug treatment. Here, we combined social defeat-induced persistent stress (SDPS) and operant alcohol self-administration (SA) paradigms to assess causality between these two neuropsychiatric disorders. We then exploited guanfacine, an FDA-approved adrenergic agent reported to reduce drug craving in humans, against SDPS-induced modulation of operant alcohol SA. Wistar rats were socially defeated and isolated for a period of 9 weeks, during which depression-like symptomatology (cognitive and social behavioral symptoms) was assessed. Subsequently, animals were subjected to a 5-month operant alcohol SA paradigm, examining acquisition, motivation, extinction, and cue-induced reinstatement of alcohol seeking. The effects of guanfacine on motivation and relapse were measured at &gt;6 months following defeat. SDPS rats exhibited significant disruption of social and cognitive behavior, including short-term spatial and long-term social memory, several months following defeat. Notably, SDPS increased motivation to obtain alcohol, and cue-induced relapse vulnerability. Guanfacine reversed the SDPS-induced effects on motivation and relapse. Together, our model mimics core symptomatology of a sustained depressive-like state and a subsequent vulnerability to alcohol abuse. We show that SDPS is strongly associated with an enhanced motivation for alcohol intake and relapse. Finally, we show that the clinically employed drug guanfacine has potential as a novel treatment option in comorbid patients, as it effectively reduced the enhanced sensitivity to alcohol and alcohol-associated stimuli.
Intranasal administration of oxytocin (OXT) might be a promising new adjunctive therapy for mental disorders characterized by social behavioral alterations such as autism and schizophrenia. Despite promising initial studies in humans, it is not yet clear the specificity of the behavioral effects induced by chronic intranasal OXT and if chronic intranasal OXT could have different effects compared with single administration. This is critical for the aforementioned chronic mental disorders that might potentially involve life-long treatments. As a first step to address these issues, here we report that chronic intranasal OXT treatment in wild-type C57BL/6J adult mice produced a selective reduction of social behaviors concomitant to a reduction of the OXT receptors throughout the brain. Conversely, acute intranasal OXT treatment produced partial increases in social behaviors towards opposite-sex novel-stimulus female mice, while on the other hand, it decreased social exploration of same-sex novel stimulus male mice, without affecting social behavior towards familiar stimulus male mice. Finally, prolonged exposure to intranasal OXT treatments did not alter, in wild-type animals, parameters of general health such as body weight, locomotor activity, olfactory and auditory functions, nor parameters of memory and sensorimotor gating abilities. These results indicate that a prolonged over-stimulation of a 'healthy' oxytocinergic brain system, with no inherent deficits in social interaction and normal endogenous levels of OXT, results in specific detrimental effects in social behaviors.

Sensory substitution has advanced remarkably over the past 35 years since first introduced to the scientific literature by Paul Bach-y-Rita. In this issue dedicated to his memory, we describe a collection of reviews that assess the current state of neuroscience research on sensory substitution, visual rehabilitation, and multisensory processes.
For human and non-human primates, vision is one of the most privileged sensory channels used to interact with the environment. The importance of vision is strongly embedded in the organization of the primate brain as about one third of its cortical surface is involved in visual functions. It is therefore not surprising that the absence of vision from birth, or the loss of vision later in life, has huge consequences, both anatomically and functionally. Studies in animals and humans, conducted over the past few decades, have demonstrated that the absence of vision causes massive structural changes that take place not only in the visually deprived cortex but also in other brain areas. These studies have further shown that the visually deprived cortex becomes responsive to a wide variety of non-visual sensory inputs. Recent studies even showed a role of the visually deprived cortex in cognitive processes. At the behavioral level, increases in acuity for auditory and tactile processes have been reported. The study of the congenitally blind brain also offers a unique model to gain better insights into the functioning of the normal sighted brain and to understand to what extent visual experience is necessary for the brain to develop its functional architecture. Finally, the study of the blind brain allows us to investigate how consciousness develops in the absence of vision. How does the brain of someone who has never had any visual perception form an image of the external world? In this paper, we discuss recent findings from animal studies as well as from behavioural and functional brain imaging studies in sighted and blind individuals that address these questions.
The &quot;neural Darwinism&quot; theory predicts that when one sensory modality is lacking, as in congenital blindness, the target structures are taken over by the afferent inputs from other senses that will promote and control their functional maturation (Edelman, 1993). This view receives support from both cross-modal plasticity experiments in animal models and functional imaging studies in man, which are presented here.
One of the most exciting recent findings in neuroscience has been the capacity for neural plasticity in adult humans and animals. Studies of perceptual learning have provided key insights into the mechanisms of neural plasticity and the changes in functional neuroanatomy that it affords. Key questions in this field of research concern how practice of a task leads to specific or general improvement. Although much of this work has been carried out with a focus on a single sensory modality, primarily visual, there is increasing interest in multisensory perceptual learning. Here we will examine how advances in perceptual learning research both inform and can be informed by the development and advancement of sensory substitution devices for blind persons. To allow 'sight' to occur in the absence of visual input through the eyes, visual information can be transformed by a sensory substitution device into a representation that can be processed as sound or touch, and thus give one the potential to 'see' through the ears or tongue. Investigations of auditory, visual and multisensory perceptual learning can have key benefits for the advancement of sensory substitution, and the study of sensory deprivation and sensory substitution likewise will further the understanding of perceptual learning in general and the reverse hierarchy theory in particular. It also has significant importance for the developing understanding of the brain in metamodal terms, where functional brain areas might be best defined by the computations they carry out rather than by their sensory-specific processing role.
The accumulation of hyperphosphorylated tau is a common feature of several dementias. Tau is one of the brain microtubule-associated proteins. Here we discuss tau's functions in microtubule assembly and stabilization and with regard to its interactions with other proteins. We describe and analyze important post-translational modifications: hyperphosphorylation, ubiquitination, glycation, glycosylation, nitration, polyamination, proteolysis, acetylation, and methylation. We discuss how these post-translational modifications can alter tau's biological function. We analyze the role of mitochondrial health in neurodegeneration. We propose that microtubules could be a therapeutic target and review different approaches. Finally, we consider whether tau accumulation or its conformational change is related to tau-induced neurodegeneration, and propose a mechanism of neurodegeneration.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common type of dementia, comprising an estimated 60-80% of all dementia cases. It is clinically characterized by impairments of memory and other cognitive functions. Previous studies have demonstrated that these impairments are associated with abnormal structural and functional connections among brain regions, leading to a disconnection concept of AD. With the advent of a combination of non-invasive neuroimaging (structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), diffusion MRI, and functional MRI) and neurophysiological techniques (electroencephalography and magnetoencephalography) with graph theoretical analysis, recent studies have shown that patients with AD and mild cognitive impairment (MCI), the prodromal stage of AD, exhibit disrupted topological organization in large-scale brain networks (i.e., connectomics) and that this disruption is significantly correlated with the decline of cognitive functions. In this review, we summarize the recent progress of brain connectomics in AD and MCI, focusing on the changes in the topological organization of large-scale structural and functional brain networks using graph theoretical approaches. Based on the two different perspectives of information segregation and integration, the literature reviewed here suggests that AD and MCI are associated with disrupted segregation and integration in brain networks. Thus, these connectomics studies open up a new window for understanding the pathophysiological mechanisms of AD and demonstrate the potential to uncover imaging biomarkers for clinical diagnosis and treatment evaluation for this disease.

The degeneration of cholinergic neurons and cholinergic hypofunction are pathologies associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs) mediate acetylcholine-induced neurotransmission and five mAChR subtypes (M1-M5) have been identified. Among them, M1 mAChR is widely expressed in the central nervous system and has been implicated in many physiological and pathological brain functions. In addition, M1 mAChR is postulated to be an important therapeutic target for AD and several other neurodegenerative diseases. In this article, we review recent progress in understanding the functional involvement of M1 mAChR in AD pathology and in developing M1 mAChR agonists for AD treatment.

A 12-year-old Saudi girl, known case of T-cell leukemia with CNS relapse. She was diagnosed 2 years ago. Multiple cycles of chemotherapy had been used (Fludarabine, Cytarabine, Methotrexate, Cyclosporine, and Mercaptopurine). She was admitted electively for cord blood transplantation. Afterward, she developed visual, and behavioral change followed by seizure.

The Arrow FlexTip epidural catheter has reinforced coiled stainless steel wire, which facilitates its insertion and is less likely to puncture the blood vessels. However, as compared with non-reinforced, reinforced epidural catheters are more vulnerable to break. We report a case from Saudi Arabia on a retained fragment of a broken epidural catheter. Measures to prevent this mishap and its management are discussed.
Central nervous system symptoms in patients with primary Sjogren`s syndrome are rare. They can present as extraglandular manifestations and require a differential diagnosis from multiple sclerosis. Due to a variety of presentations, Sjogren`s syndrome with neurologic involvement may be difficult to diagnose. Here, we report a case of a 75-year-old woman who was first diagnosed with multiple sclerosis in 2010, but who was subsequently diagnosed with primary Sjogren`s syndrome 2 years later after showing signs of atypical neurologic manifestations. Therefore, primary Sjogren`s syndrome should be suspected in patients who present with atypical clinical and radiologic neurologic manifestations.
Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) comprises a range of traditional medical practices that originate in China, including herbal medicine as a major therapy. Through its 4 natures; namely, cold, hot, warm, and cool, herbal medicine may regulate sympathetic nerves and basal metabolic rate and affect the CNS and the endocrine system. Heat stroke is a severely life-threatening heat-related illness that is most commonly seen during summer heat waves and high environmental temperatures. The intake of medications or toxins is considered one of the risk factors leading to heat stroke, as they may affect body thermoregulation. We report a case of heat stroke that was associated with herbal therapy with TCM. This case highlights the importance of paying more attention to unidentified folk prescriptions in the use of TCM.
Cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT) as a complication in children with nephrotic syndrome is rarely reported. Although clinical characteristics are increasingly recognized, therapeutic management and clinical outcomes are not well documented. This case report presents a 10-year-old female who presented with dehydration associated with headache and decreased level of consciousness, which required intubation. Brain imaging revealed CVT. Thrombolytic therapy was started, and she showed a good clinical, as well as radiological recovery. The literature was reviewed to highlight the benefit of such therapy in cases with life threatening complications.





Brainstem gliomas occur in 10-20% of brain tumors in pediatrics. Over the past 3 decades, the treatment of brainstem gliomas has significantly progressed as a result of the gradual advancements in microsurgical techniques, sophisticated imaging technology and, most importantly, the availability of MRI. In this article, we review the current literature on brainstem gliomas and cover diagnosis, imaging, classification, and management. Surgical approaches and intraoperative modalities to tackle operable cases of brainstem gliomas will be discussed in a follow up article.
We investigated the idea of possible anti-inflammatory treatment approaches for inflammatory disorders in the CNS. The articles used for this review were searched through PubMed, PsycINFO, and Google scholar and published between January 2000 and July 2013. The CNS has its own type of defensive mechanism. The crosstalk between neurons and the immune system take place via small molecules called cytokines that are secreted from glial cells. Previous study suggested that the imbalance of cytokines facilitates the development of CNS disorders. For instance, the interleukin-6 level is raised in the astrocyte cell during depressive episodes, while axons are damaged by the activated lymphocytes and microglia in multiple sclerosis. Several studies demonstrated that cytokines and inflammatory compounds are closely linked to neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders. Here, we have accumulated and summarized evidence from those papers that support the anti-inflammatory treatment options for inflammatory CNS disorders.

When interacting with objects and other people, the brain needs to locate our limbs and the relevant visual information surrounding them. Studies on monkeys showed that information from different sensory modalities converge at the single cell level within a set of interconnected multisensory frontoparietal areas. It is largely accepted that this network allows for multisensory processing of the space surrounding the body (peripersonal space), whose function has been linked to the sensory guidance of appetitive and defensive movements, and localization of the limbs in space. In the current review, we consider multidisciplinary findings about the processing of the space near the hands in humans and offer a convergent view of its functions and underlying neural mechanisms. We will suggest that evolution has provided the brain with a clever tool for representing visual information around the hand, which takes the hand itself as a reference for the coding of surrounding visual space. We will contend that the hand-centered representation of space, known as perihand space, is a multisensory-motor interface that allows interaction with the objects and other persons around us.
Resting-state functional near-infrared spectroscopy (R-fNIRS) is an active area of interest and is currently attracting considerable attention as a new imaging tool for the study of resting-state brain function. Using variations in hemodynamic concentration signals, R-fNIRS measures the brain's low-frequency spontaneous neural activity, combining the advantages of portability, low-cost, high temporal sampling rate and less physical burden to participants. The temporal synchronization of spontaneous neuronal activity in anatomically separated regions is referred to as resting-state functional connectivity (RSFC). In the past several years, an increasing body of R-fNIRS RSFC studies has led to many important findings about functional integration among local or whole-brain regions by measuring inter-regional temporal synchronization. Here, we summarize recent advances made in the R-fNIRS RSFC methodologies, from the detection of RSFC (e.g., seed-based correlation analysis, independent component analysis, whole-brain correlation analysis, and graph-theoretical topological analysis), to the assessment of RSFC performance (e.g., reliability, repeatability, and validity), to the application of RSFC in studying normal development and brain disorders. The literature reviewed here suggests that RSFC analyses based on R-fNIRS data are valid and reliable for the study of brain function in healthy and diseased populations, thus providing a promising imaging tool for cognitive science and clinics.
The idea of two separate attention networks in the human brain for the voluntary deployment of attention and the reorientation to unexpected events, respectively, has inspired an enormous amount of research over the past years. In this review, we will reconcile these theoretical ideas on the dorsal and ventral attentional system with recent empirical findings from human neuroimaging experiments and studies in stroke patients. We will highlight how novel methods-such as the analysis of effective connectivity or the combination of neurostimulation with functional magnetic resonance imaging-have contributed to our understanding of the functionality and interaction of the two systems. We conclude that neither of the two networks controls attentional processes in isolation and that the flexible interaction between both systems enables the dynamic control of attention in relation to top-down goals and bottom-up sensory stimulation. We discuss which brain regions potentially govern this interaction according to current task demands.
The idea that magnetic fields could be used therapeutically arose 2000 years ago. These therapeutic possibilities were expanded after the discovery of electromagnetic induction by the Englishman Michael Faraday and the American Joseph Henry. In 1896, Arsne d'Arsonval reported his experience with noninvasive brain magnetic stimulation to the scientific French community. In the second half of the 20th century, changing magnetic fields emerged as a noninvasive tool to study the nervous system and to modulate neural function. In 1985, Barker, Jalinous, and Freeston presented transcranial magnetic stimulation, a relatively focal and painless technique. Transcranial magnetic stimulation has been proposed as a clinical neurophysiology tool and as a potential adjuvant treatment for psychiatric and neurologic conditions. This article aims to contextualize the progress of use of magnetic fields in the history of neuroscience and medical sciences, until 1985.

A major goal of contemporary epilepsy research is the identification of therapies to prevent the development of recurrent seizures in individuals at risk, including those with brain injuries, infections, or neoplasms; status epilepticus; cortical dysplasias; or genetic epilepsy susceptibility. In this review we consider the evidence largely from preclinical models for the antiepileptogenic activity of a diverse range of potential therapies, including some marketed antiseizure drugs, as well as agents that act by immune and inflammatory mechanisms; reduction of oxidative stress; activation of the mammalian target of rapamycin or peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors  pathways; effects on factors related to thrombolysis, hematopoesis, and angiogenesis; inhibition of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reducatase; brain-derived neurotrophic factor signaling; and blockade of 2 adrenergic and cannabinoid receptors. Antiepileptogenesis refers to a therapy of which the beneficial action is to reduce seizure frequency or severity outlasting the treatment period. To date, clinical trials have failed to demonstrate that antiseizure drugs have such disease-modifying activity. However, studies in animal models with levetiracetam and ethosuximide are encouraging, and clinical trials with these agents are warranted. Other promising strategies are inhibition of interleukin 1 signaling by drugs such as VX-765; modulation of sphingosine 1-phosphate signaling by drugs such as fingolimod; activation of the mammalian target of rapamycin by drugs such as rapamycin; the hormone erythropoietin; and, paradoxically, drugs such as the 2 adrenergic receptor antagonist atipamezole and the CB1 cannabinoid antagonist SR141716A (rimonabant) with proexcitatory activity. These approaches could lead to a new paradigm in epilepsy drug therapy where treatment for a limited period prevents the occurrence of spontaneous seizures, thus avoiding lifelong commitment to symptomatic treatment.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is an adult onset neurodegenerative disease that causes progressive paralysis and death due to degeneration of motoneurons in spinal cord, brainstem and motor cortex. Nowadays, there is no effective therapy and patients die 2-5 years after diagnosis. Resveratrol (trans-3,4',5-trihydroxystilbene) is a natural polyphenol found in grapes, with promising neuroprotective effects since it induces expression and activation of several neuroprotective pathways involving Sirtuin1 and AMPK. The objective of this work was to assess the effect of resveratrol administration on SOD1(G93A) ALS mice. We determined the onset of symptoms by rotarod test and evaluated upper and lower motoneuron function using electrophysiological tests. We assessed the survival of the animals and determined the number of spinal motoneurons. Finally, we further investigated resveratrol mechanism of action by means of western blot and immunohistochemical analysis. Resveratrol treatment from 8 weeks of age significantly delayed disease onset and preserved lower and upper motoneuron function in female and male animals. Moreover, resveratrol significantly extended SOD1(G93A) mice lifespan and promoted survival of spinal motoneurons. Delayed resveratrol administration from 12 weeks of age also improved spinal motoneuron function preservation and survival. Further experiments revealed that resveratrol protective effects were associated with increased expression and activation of Sirtuin 1 and AMPK in the ventral spinal cord. Both mediators promoted normalization of the autophagic flux and, more importantly, increased mitochondrial biogenesis in the SOD1(G93A) spinal cord. Taken together, our findings suggest that resveratrol may represent a promising therapy for ALS.




Regardless of the advent of high-throughput sequencing, microarrays remain central in current biomedical research. Conventional microarray analysis pipelines apply data reduction before the estimation of differential expression, which is likely to render the estimates susceptible to noise from signal summarization and reduce statistical power. We present a probe-level framework, which capitalizes on the high number of concurrent measurements to provide more robust differential expression estimates. The framework naturally extends to various experimental designs and target categories (e.g. transcripts, genes, genomic regions) as well as small sample sizes. Benchmarking in relation to popular microarray and RNA-sequencing data-analysis pipelines indicated high and stable performance on the Microarray Quality Control dataset and in a cell-culture model of hypoxia. Experimental-data-exhibiting long-range epigenetic silencing of gene expression was used to demonstrate the efficacy of detecting differential expression of genomic regions, a level of analysis not embraced by conventional workflows. Finally, we designed and conducted an experiment to identify hypothermia-responsive genes in terms of monotonic time-response. As a novel insight, hypothermia-dependent up-regulation of multiple genes of two major antioxidant pathways was identified and verified by quantitative real-time PCR.
Light constitutes a primary signal whereby endogenous circadian clocks are synchronized ('entrained') with the day/night cycle. The molecular mechanisms underlying this vital process are known to require gene activation, yet are incompletely understood. Here, the light-induced transcriptome in the zebrafish central clock organ, the pineal gland, was characterized by messenger RNA (mRNA) sequencing (mRNA-seq) and microarray analyses, resulting in the identification of multiple light-induced mRNAs. Interestingly, a considerable portion of the molecular clock (14 genes) is light-induced in the pineal gland. Four of these genes, encoding the transcription factors dec1, reverbb1, e4bp4-5 and e4bp4-6, differentially affected clock- and light-regulated promoter activation, suggesting that light-input is conveyed to the core clock machinery via diverse mechanisms. Moreover, we show that dec1, as well as the core clock gene per2, is essential for light-entrainment of rhythmic locomotor activity in zebrafish larvae. Additionally, we used microRNA (miRNA) sequencing (miR-seq) and identified pineal-enhanced and light-induced miRNAs. One such miRNA, miR-183, is shown to downregulate e4bp4-6 mRNA through a 3'UTR target site, and importantly, to regulate the rhythmic mRNA levels of aanat2, the key enzyme in melatonin synthesis. Together, this genome-wide approach and functional characterization of light-induced factors indicate a multi-level regulation of the circadian clockwork by light.

In this lecture, given at the International Conferences on Neuroscience, in Quito, May 31st-June 1st of 2013, the topic of famine situations during the Spanish Civil War, 1936-1939, was approached. Madrid, the capital of Spain, was under food, water and milk rationing during that period. This situation led to conditions that showed the relationships between the nervous system and nutrition. The Madrilenian population was submitted to a real experiment of hyponutrition, similar to the one that may be reproduced at the laboratory. At the end of the war, the National Direction on Health and the Institute of Medical Investigations, with the collaboration of the Rockefeller Foundation, carried out a series of clinical and food consumption surveys among the Madrilenian population. There were three medical situations that were of particular relevance during the Civil War and after it: the pellagra epidemics, the onset of lathyrism, and the socalled Vallecas syndrome. The occurrence of pellagra cases was paramount because it allowed reconsidering all the unspecific symptoms observed from an already known vitamin deficiency. Pellagra became the most prevalent deficitrelated disease, and most clearly related to nutrition. Lathyrism is a chronic intoxication produced by the accumulation of neurotoxins. It is due to common intake of chickling peas (Lathyrus sativus). Chickling peas are toxic only if they represent more than 30% of the daily calories consumed for a prolonged period greater than two to three months. Lathyrism would reoccur in the Spanish population after the war, in 1941 and 1942, the so called &quot;famine years&quot;, when due to the scarcity of foods chickling pea flour was again consumed in high amounts. Deficiency-related neuropathies observed in Madrid during the Civil War led to new and original clinical descriptions. In children from schools of the Vallecas neighborhood, a deficiency syndrome, likely related to vitamin B complex deficiency, was described, which manifested by muscle cramps and weakness, and was termed the Vallecas syndrome. Poor fat content in the diet and a light decrease in calcium levels, which were already very low, were observed in the group with cramps. Both the administration of tablets containing an adequate amount of calcium and phosphorus and the daily intake of 4-6 milligrams of thiamine, achieved a considerable reduction in the frequency and severity of the cramps, or their complete resolution.


Publication of the DEWS report in 2007 established the state of the science of dry eye disease (DED). Since that time, new evidence suggests that a rethinking of traditional concepts of dry eye disease is in order. Specifically, new evidence on the epidemiology of the disease, as well as strategies for diagnosis, have changed the understanding of DED, which is a heterogeneous disease associated with considerable variability in presentation. These advances, along with implications for clinical care, are summarized herein. The most widely used signs of DED are poorly correlated with each other and with symptoms. While symptoms are thought to be characteristic of DED, recent studies have shown that less than 60% of subjects with other objective evidence of DED are symptomatic. Thus the use of symptoms alone in diagnosis will likely result in missing a significant percentage of DED patients, particularly with early/mild disease. This could have considerable impact in patients undergoing cataract or refractive surgery as patients with DED have less than optimal visual results. The most widely used objective signs for diagnosing DED all show greater variability between eyes and in the same eye over time compared with normal subjects. This variability is thought to be a manifestation of tear film instability which results in rapid breakup of the tearfilm between blinks and is an identifier of patients with DED. This feature emphasizes the bilateral nature of the disease in most subjects not suffering from unilateral lid or other unilateral destabilizing surface disorders. Instability of the composition of the tears also occurs in dry eye disease and shows the same variance between eyes. Finally, elevated tear osmolarity has been reported to be a global marker (present in both subtypes of the disease- aqueous-deficient dry eye and evaporative dry eye). Clinically, osmolarity has been shown to be the best single metric for diagnosis of DED and is directly related to increasing severity of disease. Clinical examination and other assessments differentiate which subtype of disease is present. With effective treatment, the tear osmolarity returns to normal, and its variability between eyes and with time disappears. Other promising markers include objective measures of visual deficits, proinflammatory molecular markers and other molecular markers, specific to each disease subtype, and panels of tear proteins. As yet, however, no single protein or panel of markers has been shown to discriminate between the major forms of DED. With the advent of new tests and technology, improved endpoints for clinical trials may be established, which in turn may allow new therapeutic agents to emerge in the foreseeable future. Accurate recognition of disease is now possible and successful management of DED appears to be within our grasp, for a majority of our patients.
Previous studies showed comorbidity of some ocular, enteral, and affective symptoms comprising irritable eye syndrome. Aims of the present study were to learn more about the pathogenic mechanisms of this syndrome and to evaluate benefits of food supplements on these disorders. In in vitro assay, Lactobacillus acidophilus lysate inhibited interleukin (IL)-1 and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)- generation of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated macrophages in dose- and size-dependent manner. For a prospective, open-label phase I/II controlled clinical trial, 40 subjects affected by ocular dysesthesia and hyperesthesia and comorbid enteral and anxiety-depression symptoms were randomly assigned either into the treated group, which received a composition containing probiotic lysate, vitamins A, B, and D and omega 3 fatty acids, or into the control group, which received vitamins and omega 3 fatty acids. For reference, 20 age- and sex-matched healthy subjects were also selected. White blood count (WBC) and lymphocyte and monocyte counts, as well as IL-6 and TNF- levels, were significantly above the reference levels in both treated and control groups. After 8 weeks, WBC and lymphocyte and monocyte counts, and cytokine levels significantly decreased, and ocular, enteral, and anxiety-depression symptoms significantly improved in the treated group as compared to the control group. This proof-of-concept study suggested that subclinical inflammation may be a common mechanism connecting ocular, enteral, and anxiety/depression symptoms, and supplements affecting dysbiosis may be a new approach to treating this syndrome.



Government agencies have issued warnings about the use of antidepressant medications in children, adolescents, and young adults since 2003. The statements warn that such medications may cause de novo 'suicidality' in some people. This review explores the data on the treatment of depression that led to these warnings and subsequent data that are relevant to the warnings. It also addresses the effectiveness of antidepressant treatment in general and the relationship of suicide rates to antidepressant treatment. It concludes that the decisions for the 'black box' warnings were based on biased data and invalid assumptions. Furthermore, the decisions were unsupported by the observational data regarding suicide in young people that existed in 2003. The following recommendations would seem to follow from these observations. First, drug authorities should re-evaluate the basis for their imposed warnings on antidepressant medicines, and analyze the actual public health consequences the warnings have had. In the absence of substantial evidence supporting the warnings, they should be removed. Second, physicians and other providers with prescription privileges should continue to be educated regarding the importance of aggressively treating depression in young people, using antidepressants when indicated. Third, physicians and other professionals who treat depressed young people must always be aware of the risk of suicide (albeit quite low) and observe them closely for any signs of increased risk of suicide. This is necessary regardless of the type of treatment being provided.
Thalamocortical oscillations are critical for sensory perception. Although pain is known to disrupt synchrony in thalamocortical oscillations, evidence in the literature is controversial. Thalamocortical coherence has been reported to be increased in patients with neurogenic pain but decreased in a rat model of central pain. Moreover, theta (4 to 8 Hz) oscillations in primary somatosensory (S1) cortex are speculated to predict pain in humans. To date, the link between pain and network oscillations in animal models has been understudied. Thus, we tested the hypothesis that pain disrupts thalamocortical coherence and S1 theta power in two rat models of pain. We recorded electrocorticography (ECoG) waveforms over S1 and local field potentials (LFP) within ventral posterolateral thalamus in freely behaving rats under spontaneous (stimulus-independent) pain conditions. Rats received intradermal capsaicin injection (Cap) in the hindpaw, followed hours later by chronic constriction injury (CCI) of the sciatic nerve lasting several days. Our results show that pain decreases coherence between LFP and ECoG waveforms in the 2- to 30-Hz range, and increases ECoG power in the theta range. These changes are short-lasting after Cap and longer-lasting after CCI. These data might be particularly relevant to preclinical correlates of spontaneous pain-like behavior, with potential implications to clinical biomarkers of ongoing pain.

We previously reported that women exhibit greater heat pain adaptation to a prolonged painful stimulus and greater habituation to repeated painful stimuli than men. The neural mechanism underlying this sex difference is unknown. However, Bingel et al. (2007) have shown that pain habituation after 8 days of daily pain testing is associated with an increase in pain-evoked activity of the subgenual anterior cingulate cortex (sgACC), suggesting that pain habituation may be mediated via connectivity between the sgACC and the descending pain antinociceptive system. Therefore, we investigated whether women have stronger functional connectivity (FC) and greater structural connectivity (SC) compared to men between the sgACC and the descending antinociceptive system. Our analyses revealed that (1) women exhibited greater FC between the sgACC and the periaqueductal gray (PAG), raphe nucleus, medial thalamus, and anterior midcingulate cortex (aMCC) than men; (2) men had stronger sgACC FC with the anterior insula and temporoparietal junction than women; (3) women and men exhibited comparable SC of the sgACC with the PAG, thalamus, aMCC, anterior insula, and amygdala; and (4) men have stronger sgACC SC with the hypothalamus than women. These data indicate that brain circuitry in women may provide for greater engagement of the descending modulation system mediating pain habituation. In contrast, in men, the salience network may be more engaged, which could support greater sustained attention to pain, thereby preventing pain habituation. Furthermore, the hypothalamus findings suggest a more powerful stress and endorphin-based system at play in men than women.
Recent findings suggest that certain individuals with musculoskeletal pain conditions have increased sensitivity to physical activity (SPA) and respond to activities of stable intensity with increasingly severe pain. This study aimed to determine the degree to which individuals with knee osteoarthritis (OA) show heightened SPA in response to a standardized walking task and whether SPA cross-sectionally predicts psychological factors, responses to quantitative sensory testing (QST), and different OA-related outcomes. One hundred seven adults with chronic knee OA completed self-report measures of pain, function, and psychological factors, underwent QST, and performed a 6-min walk test. Participants rated their discomfort levels throughout the walking task; an index of SPA was created by subtracting first ratings from peak ratings. Repeated-measure analysis of variance revealed that levels of discomfort significantly increased throughout the walking task. A series of hierarchical regression analyses determined that after controlling for significant covariates, psychological factors, and measures of mechanical pain sensitivity, individual variance in SPA predicted self-report pain and function and performance on the walking task. Analyses also revealed that both pain catastrophizing and the temporal summation of mechanical pain were significant predictors of SPA and that SPA mediated the relationship between catastrophizing and self-reported pain and physical function. The discussion addresses the potential processes contributing to SPA and the role it may play in predicting responses to different interventions for musculoskeletal pain conditions.
The strength of the placebo effect is influenced by social contexts and individual personality. Although facial expressions provide important contextual cues, no study of their influence on the placebo response has been performed hitherto. Here we tested (1) whether the observation of facial expressions with different emotional content (Neutral, Pain, and Happy) affects the magnitude of placebo analgesia, and (2) whether interindividual differences in personality traits interact with any modulation of placebo response induced by facial expression. Twenty-seven healthy participants underwent classical placebo conditioning, and subsequently rated the intensity and unpleasantness of their pain experience associated with nociceptive-specific laser pulses delivered to the right hand dorsum. On each trial, different visual cues signalled the occurrence of a laser stimulus alone or of a laser stimulus accompanied by a sham analgesic treatment. In the conditioning period, cues signalling the sham treatment were followed by laser stimuli whose intensity was surreptitiously lowered. In the test period, either cue was followed by laser stimuli of the same intensity. The observation of facial expressions with different emotional content enhanced significantly the placebo analgesia. In particular, a significantly greater analgesic effect was observed when facial expressions with emotional content were presented concomitantly to the nociceptive stimulation. The enhancement of placebo analgesia during the observation of facial expressions was not correlated with personality traits like empathy and behavioural activation/inhibition. These findings quantify for the first time the effect of facial expressions on the magnitude of placebo analgesia.







The histopathology of premalignant laryngeal lesions does not provide reliable information on the risk of malignant transformation, hence we examined new molecular markers which can easily be implemented in clinical practice. Dual-target fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) for chromosome 1 and 7 centromeres was performed on tissue sections of laryngeal premalignancies in 69 patients. Chromosome instability was indicated by numerical imbalances and/or polysomy for chromosomes 1 and 7. Additionally, immunostainings for p53, Cyclin D1 and (p)FADD expression were evaluated. Malignant progression was recorded. Eighteen patients with carcinoma in situ (CIS) were treated after diagnosis and excluded from follow-up. Chromosome instability was strongly associated with a high risk of malignant transformation, especially in lower grade lesions (hyperplasia, mild and moderate dysplasia; odds ratio=8.4, p=0.004). Patients with lesions containing chromosome instability showed a significantly worse 5-year progression-free survival than those with premalignancies without chromosome instability (p=0.002). Neither histopathology nor the protein markers predicted progression in univariate analysis, although histopathological diagnosis, p53 and FADD contributed positively to chromosome instability in multivariate analysis. Chromosome instability is associated with malignant progression of laryngeal premalignancies, especially in lower grade lesions. These results may contribute to better risk counselling, provided that they can be validated in a larger patient set.





Adrenomedullin (AM) is a member of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) family and a pain-related peptide. We have shown that chronic administration of morphine (20 g) upregulates AM activity contributing to morphine tolerance. The present study investigated if AM is involved in acute morphine-induced analgesia. Single intrathecal (i.t.) injection of morphine at a dose of 5 g increased the tail-flick latency (TFL). This analgesic effect was potentiated by the co-administration of the AM receptor antagonist AM22-52 (5 and 10 nmol). Exposure of sensory ganglion culture to morphine increased AM content in the ganglia in concentration (0.33-10 M)- and time (10-240 min)-dependent manners. However, treatment with morphine (3.3 M) for 30-240 min did not alter AM mRNA levels in the cultured ganglia. Furthermore, exposure of ganglion cultures to morphine (3.3 M) for 30-240, but not 10 min induced an increase in AM content in the culture medium. These results reveal that a single morphine treatment potentiates post-translational change and the release of AM in sensory ganglia masking morphine-induced analgesia. Thus, targeting AM and its receptors should be considered as a novel approach to improve the analgesic potency of opiates during their acute use.
Besides controlling a wide variety of cell functions, T-type channels have been shown to regulate neurotransmitter release in peripheral and central synapses and neuroendocrine cells. Growing evidence over the last 10years suggests a key role of Cav3.2 and Cav3.1 channels in controlling basal neurosecretion near resting conditions and sustained release during mild stimulations. In some cases, the contribution of low-voltage-activated (LVA) channels is not directly evident but requires either the activation of coupled presynaptic receptors, block of ion channels, or chelation of metal ions. Concerning the coupling to the secretory machinery, T-type channels appear loosely coupled to neurotransmitter and hormone release. In neurons, Cav3.2 and Cav3.1 channels mainly control the asynchronous appearance of &quot;minis&quot; [miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs) and miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs)]. The same loose coupling is evident from membrane capacity and amperometric recordings in chromaffin cells and melanotropes where the low-threshold-driven exocytosis possesses the same linear Ca(2+) dependence of the other voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels (Cav1 and Cav2) that is strongly attenuated by slow calcium buffers. The intriguing issue is that, despite not expressing a consensus &quot;synprint&quot; site, Cav3.2 channels do interact with syntaxin 1A and SNAP-25 and, thus, may form nanodomains with secretory vesicles that can be regulated at low voltages. In this review, we discuss all the past and recent issues related to T-type channel-secretion coupling in neurons and neuroendocrine cells.
Pain-sensing sensory neurons (nociceptors) of the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) can become sensitized (hyperexcitable) in response to pathological conditions such as diabetes, which in turn may lead to the development of painful peripheral diabetic neuropathy (PDN). Because of insufficient knowledge about the mechanisms for this hypersensitization, current treatment for painful PDN has been limited to somewhat nonspecific systemic drugs having significant side effects or potential for abuse. Recent studies have established that the CaV3.2 isoform of T-channels makes a previously unrecognized contribution to sensitization of pain responses by enhancing excitability of nociceptors in animal models of type 1 and type 2 PDN. Furthermore, it has been reported that the glycosylation inhibitor neuraminidase can inhibit the native and recombinant CaV3.2 T-currents in vitro and completely reverse mechanical and thermal hyperalgesia in diabetic animals with PDN in vivo. Understanding details of posttranslational regulation of nociceptive channel activity via glycosylation may facilitate development of novel therapies for treatment of painful PDN. Pharmacological targeting the specific pathogenic mechanism rather than the channel per se may cause fewer side effects and reduce the potential for drug abuse in patients with diabetes.
Low-voltage-activated T-type calcium channels play an important role in regulating cellular excitability and are implicated in conditions, such as epilepsy and neuropathic pain. T-type channels, especially Cav3.1 and Cav3.2, are also expressed in the vasculature, although patch clamp studies of isolated vascular smooth muscle cells have in general failed to demonstrate these low-voltage-activated calcium currents. By contrast, the channels which are blocked by T-type channel antagonists are high-voltage activated but distinguishable from their L-type counterparts by their T-type biophysical properties and small negative shifts in activation and inactivation voltages. These changes in T-channel properties may result from vascular-specific expression of splice variants of Cav3 genes, particularly in exon 25/26 of the III-IV linker region. Recent physiological studies suggest that T-type channels make a small contribution to vascular tone at low intraluminal pressures, although the relevance of this contribution is unclear. By contrast, these channels play a larger role in vascular tone of small arterioles, which would be expected to function at lower intra-vascular pressures. Upregulation of T-type channel function following decrease in nitric oxide bioavailability and increase in oxidative stress, which occurs during cardiovascular disease, suggests that a more important role could be played by these channels in pathophysiological situations. The ability of T-type channels to be rapidly recruited to the plasma membrane, coupled with their subtype-specific localisation in signalling microdomains where they could modulate the function of calcium-dependent ion channels and pathways, provides a mechanism for rapid up- and downregulation of vasoconstriction. Future investigation into the molecules which govern these changes may illuminate novel targets for the treatment of conditions such as therapy-resistant hypertension and vasospasm.

This study was designed to identify genes whose expression in peripheral blood may serve as early markers for treatment response to lithium (Li) in patients with bipolar disorder. Although changes in peripheral blood gene-expression may not relate directly to mood symptoms, differences in treatment response at the biochemical level may underlie some of the heterogeneity in clinical response to Li. Subjects were randomized to treatment with (n=28) or without (n=32) Li. Peripheral blood gene-expression was measured before and 1 month after treatment initiation, and treatment response was assessed after 6 months. In subjects treated with Li, 62 genes were differentially regulated in treatment responders and non-responders. Of these, BCL2L1 showed the greatest difference between Li responders and non-responders. These changes were specific to Li responders (n=9), and were not seen in Li non-responders or patients treated without Li, suggesting that they may have specific roles in treatment response to Li.
Numerous studies have reported on pharmacogenetics of antidepressant response in depression. In contrast, little is known of response predictors in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), a disorder with among the lowest proportion of responders to medication (40-60%). Our study is the largest investigation to date (N=184) of treatment response and side effects to antidepressants in OCD based on metabolizer status for CYP2D6 and CYP2C19. We observed significantly more failed medication trials in CYP2D6 non-extensive compared with extensive metabolizers (P=0.007). CYP2D6 metabolizer status was associated with side effects to venlafaxine (P=0.022). There were nonsignificant trends for association of CYP2D6 metabolizer status with response to fluoxetine (P=0.056) and of CYP2C19 metabolizer status with response to sertraline (P=0.064). Our study is the first to indicate that CYP genes may have a role in antidepressant response in OCD. More research is required for a future clinical application of genetic testing, which could lead to improved treatment outcomes.
The hypothalamic neuropeptide oxytocin has drawn the attention of scientists for more than a century. The understanding of the function of oxytocin has expanded dramatically over the years from a simple peptide adept at inducing uterine contractions and milk ejection to a complex neuromodulator with a capacity to shape human social behavior. Decades of research have outlined oxytocin's ability to enhance intricate social activities ranging from pair bonding, sexual activity, affiliative preferences, and parental behaviors. The precise neural mechanisms underlying oxytocin's influence on such behaviors have just begun to be understood. Research suggests that oxytocin interacts closely with the neural pathways responsible for processing motivationally relevant stimuli. In particular, oxytocin appears to impact dopaminergic activity within the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system, which is crucial not only for reward and motivated behavior but also for the expression of affiliative behaviors. Though most of the work performed in this area has been done using animal models, several neuroimaging studies suggest similar relationships may be observed in humans. In order to introduce this topic further, this paper will review the recent evidence that oxytocin may exert some of its social-behavioral effects through its impact on motivational networks.


Raynaud's phenomenon (RP) is a vasospastic disorder of small arteries, pre-capillary arteries, and cutaneous arteriovenous shunts of the extremities, typically induced by cold exposure and emotional stress. RP is either primary (PRP) or secondary to connective tissue diseases such as systemic sclerosis (SSc). Early differential diagnosis is crucial in order to set the proper therapeutic strategy. To this goal, thermal infrared imaging data from 18 healthy controls (HCs) and 48 RP patients (20 PRP, 28 SSc) were processed through a model for a second-order time-invariant system with exponential critically damped dynamic response. Subject classification on the basis of the model parameters provides 100% true-positive discrimination for RP patients (PRP and SSc) and healthy, and 90% of correct classification within the group of patients. The proposed method may provide useful hints for early differential diagnosis in the assessment of RP disease.
Acute low back pain (LBP) from injuries is prevalent in the work place. It has been shown that patients with psychosocial factors often progress with persistent pain and lead to significant workers compensation costs. Therapeutic Neuroscience Education (TNE) has been shown to be beneficial in changing a patient's cognition regarding their pain state, which may result in decrease fear, anxiety and catastrophization. A 19-year-old female who developed LBP from a work injury was the patient for this case report. A physical examination, Numeric Pain Rating Scale (NRPS), Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), Fear-Avoidance Beliefs Questionnaire (FABQ), Keele STarT Back Screening Tool (Keele SBST) and Acute Low Back Pain Screening (ALBPS) Questionnaires were assessed during initial physical therapy visit and discharge. Treatment consisted of use of TNE, manual therapy and exercises. She attended five total visits over a 2-week period prior to full discharge. During the initial visit the patient reported NRPS=3/10, ODI=36%, FABQ-PA=23, FABQ-W=30, Keele SBST=4/9, ALBPS=101. At discharge the patient reported a 0 on all outcome questionnaires with ability to return to full work and no pain complaints.
Rhodopsin mistrafficking can cause photoreceptor (PR) degeneration. Upon light exposure, activated rhodopsin 1 (Rh1) in Drosophila PRs is internalized via endocytosis and degraded in lysosomes. Whether internalized Rh1 can be recycled is unknown. Here, we show that the retromer complex is expressed in PRs where it is required for recycling endocytosed Rh1 upon light stimulation. In the absence of subunits of the retromer, Rh1 is processed in the endolysosomal pathway, leading to a dramatic increase in late endosomes, lysosomes, and light-dependent PR degeneration. Reducing Rh1 endocytosis or Rh1 levels in retromer mutants alleviates PR degeneration. In addition, increasing retromer abundance suppresses degenerative phenotypes of mutations that affect the endolysosomal system. Finally, expressing human Vps26 suppresses PR degeneration in Vps26 mutant PRs. We propose that the retromer plays a conserved role in recycling rhodopsins to maintain PR function and integrity.
Zero-lag synchronization between distant cortical areas has been observed in a diversity of experimental data sets and between many different regions of the brain. Several computational mechanisms have been proposed to account for such isochronous synchronization in the presence of long conduction delays: Of these, the phenomenon of &quot;dynamical relaying&quot;--a mechanism that relies on a specific network motif--has proven to be the most robust with respect to parameter mismatch and system noise. Surprisingly, despite a contrary belief in the community, the common driving motif is an unreliable means of establishing zero-lag synchrony. Although dynamical relaying has been validated in empirical and computational studies, the deeper dynamical mechanisms and comparison to dynamics on other motifs is lacking. By systematically comparing synchronization on a variety of small motifs, we establish that the presence of a single reciprocally connected pair--a &quot;resonance pair&quot;--plays a crucial role in disambiguating those motifs that foster zero-lag synchrony in the presence of conduction delays (such as dynamical relaying) from those that do not (such as the common driving triad). Remarkably, minor structural changes to the common driving motif that incorporate a reciprocal pair recover robust zero-lag synchrony. The findings are observed in computational models of spiking neurons, populations of spiking neurons and neural mass models, and arise whether the oscillatory systems are periodic, chaotic, noise-free or driven by stochastic inputs. The influence of the resonance pair is also robust to parameter mismatch and asymmetrical time delays amongst the elements of the motif. We call this manner of facilitating zero-lag synchrony resonance-induced synchronization, outline the conditions for its occurrence, and propose that it may be a general mechanism to promote zero-lag synchrony in the brain.
In vivo, cortical pyramidal cells are bombarded by asynchronous synaptic input arising from ongoing network activity. However, little is known about how such 'background' synaptic input interacts with nonlinear dendritic mechanisms. We have modified an existing model of a layer 5 (L5) pyramidal cell to explore how dendritic integration in the apical dendritic tuft could be altered by the levels of network activity observed in vivo. Here we show that asynchronous background excitatory input increases neuronal gain and extends both temporal and spatial integration of stimulus-evoked synaptic input onto the dendritic tuft. Addition of fast and slow inhibitory synaptic conductances, with properties similar to those from dendritic targeting interneurons, that provided a 'balanced' background configuration, partially counteracted these effects, suggesting that inhibition can tune spatio-temporal integration in the tuft. Excitatory background input lowered the threshold for NMDA receptor-mediated dendritic spikes, extended their duration and increased the probability of additional regenerative events occurring in neighbouring branches. These effects were also observed in a passive model where all the non-synaptic voltage-gated conductances were removed. Our results show that glutamate-bound NMDA receptors arising from ongoing network activity can provide a powerful spatially distributed nonlinear dendritic conductance. This may enable L5 pyramidal cells to change their integrative properties as a function of local network activity, potentially allowing both clustered and spatially distributed synaptic inputs to be integrated over extended timescales.
The spatial responses of many of the cells recorded in layer II of rodent medial entorhinal cortex (MEC) show a triangular grid pattern, which appears to provide an accurate population code for animal spatial position. In layer III, V and VI of the rat MEC, grid cells are also selective to head-direction and are modulated by the speed of the animal. Several putative mechanisms of grid-like maps were proposed, including attractor network dynamics, interactions with theta oscillations or single-unit mechanisms such as firing rate adaptation. In this paper, we present a new attractor network model that accounts for the conjunctive position-by-velocity selectivity of grid cells. Our network model is able to perform robust path integration even when the recurrent connections are subject to random perturbations.
Neurons encode information in sequences of spikes, which are triggered when their membrane potential crosses a threshold. In vivo, the spiking threshold displays large variability suggesting that threshold dynamics have a profound influence on how the combined input of a neuron is encoded in the spiking. Threshold variability could be explained by adaptation to the membrane potential. However, it could also be the case that most threshold variability reflects noise and processes other than threshold adaptation. Here, we investigated threshold variation in auditory neurons responses recorded in vivo in barn owls. We found that spike threshold is quantitatively predicted by a model in which the threshold adapts, tracking the membrane potential at a short timescale. As a result, in these neurons, slow voltage fluctuations do not contribute to spiking because they are filtered by threshold adaptation. More importantly, these neurons can only respond to input spikes arriving together on a millisecond timescale. These results demonstrate that fast adaptation to the membrane potential captures spike threshold variability in vivo.
In the past two decades some fundamental properties of cortical connectivity have been discovered: small-world structure, pronounced hierarchical and modular organisation, and strong core and rich-club structures. A common assumption when interpreting results of this kind is that the observed structural properties are present to enable the brain's function. However, the brain is also embedded into the limited space of the skull and its wiring has associated developmental and metabolic costs. These basic physical and economic aspects place separate, often conflicting, constraints on the brain's connectivity, which must be characterized in order to understand the true relationship between brain structure and function. To address this challenge, here we ask which, and to what extent, aspects of the structural organisation of the brain are conserved if we preserve specific spatial and topological properties of the brain but otherwise randomise its connectivity. We perform a comparative analysis of a connectivity map of the cortical connectome both on high- and low-resolutions utilising three different types of surrogate networks: spatially unconstrained ('random'), connection length preserving ('spatial'), and connection length optimised ('reduced') surrogates. We find that unconstrained randomisation markedly diminishes all investigated architectural properties of cortical connectivity. By contrast, spatial and reduced surrogates largely preserve most properties and, interestingly, often more so in the reduced surrogates. Specifically, our results suggest that the cortical network is less tightly integrated than its spatial constraints would allow, but more strongly segregated than its spatial constraints would necessitate. We additionally find that hierarchical organisation and rich-club structure of the cortical connectivity are largely preserved in spatial and reduced surrogates and hence may be partially attributable to cortical wiring constraints. In contrast, the high modularity and strong s-core of the high-resolution cortical network are significantly stronger than in the surrogates, underlining their potential functional relevance in the brain.
The establishment of correct neurotransmitter characteristics is an essential step of neuronal fate specification in CNS development. However, very little is known about how a battery of genes involved in the determination of a specific type of chemical-driven neurotransmission is coordinately regulated during vertebrate development. Here, we investigated the gene regulatory networks that specify the cholinergic neuronal fates in the spinal cord and forebrain, specifically, spinal motor neurons (MNs) and forebrain cholinergic neurons (FCNs). Conditional inactivation of Isl1, a LIM homeodomain factor expressed in both differentiating MNs and FCNs, led to a drastic loss of cholinergic neurons in the developing spinal cord and forebrain. We found that Isl1 forms two related, but distinct types of complexes, the Isl1-Lhx3-hexamer in MNs and the Isl1-Lhx8-hexamer in FCNs. Interestingly, our genome-wide ChIP-seq analysis revealed that the Isl1-Lhx3-hexamer binds to a suite of cholinergic pathway genes encoding the core constituents of the cholinergic neurotransmission system, such as acetylcholine synthesizing enzymes and transporters. Consistently, the Isl1-Lhx3-hexamer directly coordinated upregulation of cholinergic pathways genes in embryonic spinal cord. Similarly, in the developing forebrain, the Isl1-Lhx8-hexamer was recruited to the cholinergic gene battery and promoted cholinergic gene expression. Furthermore, the expression of the Isl1-Lhx8-complex enabled the acquisition of cholinergic fate in embryonic stem cell-derived neurons. Together, our studies show a shared molecular mechanism that determines the cholinergic neuronal fate in the spinal cord and forebrain, and uncover an important gene regulatory mechanism that directs a specific neurotransmitter identity in vertebrate CNS development.
Dysregulation of AMPK signaling has been implicated in many human diseases, which emphasizes the importance of characterizing AMPK regulators. The tumor suppressor FLCN, responsible for the Birt-Hogg Dub renal neoplasia syndrome (BHD), is an AMPK-binding partner but the genetic and functional links between FLCN and AMPK have not been established. Strikingly, the majority of naturally occurring FLCN mutations predisposing to BHD are predicted to produce truncated proteins unable to bind AMPK, pointing to the critical role of this interaction in the tumor suppression mechanism. Here, we demonstrate that FLCN is an evolutionarily conserved negative regulator of AMPK. Using Caenorhabditis elegans and mammalian cells, we show that loss of FLCN results in constitutive activation of AMPK which induces autophagy, inhibits apoptosis, improves cellular bioenergetics, and confers resistance to energy-depleting stresses including oxidative stress, heat, anoxia, and serum deprivation. We further show that AMPK activation conferred by FLCN loss is independent of the cellular energy state suggesting that FLCN controls the AMPK energy sensing ability. Together, our data suggest that FLCN is an evolutionarily conserved regulator of AMPK signaling that may act as a tumor suppressor by negatively regulating AMPK function.
Invasive lobular breast cancer (ILC) accounts for 10-15% of all invasive breast carcinomas. It is generally ER positive (ER+) and often associated with lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS). Genome-wide association studies have identified more than 70 common polymorphisms that predispose to breast cancer, but these studies included predominantly ductal (IDC) carcinomas. To identify novel common polymorphisms that predispose to ILC and LCIS, we pooled data from 6,023 cases (5,622 ILC, 401 pure LCIS) and 34,271 controls from 36 studies genotyped using the iCOGS chip. Six novel SNPs most strongly associated with ILC/LCIS in the pooled analysis were genotyped in a further 516 lobular cases (482 ILC, 36 LCIS) and 1,467 controls. These analyses identified a lobular-specific SNP at 7q34 (rs11977670, OR (95%CI) for ILC = 1.13 (1.09-1.18), P = 6.0  10(-10); P-het for ILC vs IDC ER+ tumors = 1.8  10(-4)). Of the 75 known breast cancer polymorphisms that were genotyped, 56 were associated with ILC and 15 with LCIS at P&lt;0.05. Two SNPs showed significantly stronger associations for ILC than LCIS (rs2981579/10q26/FGFR2, P-het = 0.04 and rs889312/5q11/MAP3K1, P-het = 0.03); and two showed stronger associations for LCIS than ILC (rs6678914/1q32/LGR6, P-het = 0.001 and rs1752911/6q14, P-het = 0.04). In addition, seven of the 75 known loci showed significant differences between ER+ tumors with IDC and ILC histology, three of these showing stronger associations for ILC (rs11249433/1p11, rs2981579/10q26/FGFR2 and rs10995190/10q21/ZNF365) and four associated only with IDC (5p12/rs10941679; rs2588809/14q24/RAD51L1, rs6472903/8q21 and rs1550623/2q31/CDCA7). In conclusion, we have identified one novel lobular breast cancer specific predisposition polymorphism at 7q34, and shown for the first time that common breast cancer polymorphisms predispose to LCIS. We have shown that many of the ER+ breast cancer predisposition loci also predispose to ILC, although there is some heterogeneity between ER+ lobular and ER+ IDC tumors. These data provide evidence for overlapping, but distinct etiological pathways within ER+ breast cancer between morphological subtypes.
JC polyomavirus (JCV) carriers with a compromised immune system, such as in HIV, or subjects on immune-modulating therapies, such as anti VLA-4 therapy may develop progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) which is a lytic infection of oligodendrocytes in the brain. Serum antibodies to JCV mark infection occur only in 50-60% of infected individuals, and high JCV-antibody titers seem to increase the risk of developing PML. We here investigated the role of human leukocyte antigen (HLA), instrumental in immune defense in JCV antibody response. Anti-JCV antibody status, as a surrogate for JCV infection, were compared to HLA class I and II alleles in 1621 Scandinavian persons with MS and 1064 population-based Swedish controls and associations were replicated in 718 German persons with MS. HLA-alleles were determined by SNP imputation, sequence specific (SSP) kits and a reverse PCR sequence-specific oligonucleotide (PCR-SSO) method. An initial GWAS screen displayed a strong HLA class II region signal. The HLA-DRB1*15 haplotype was strongly negatively associated to JCV sero-status in Scandinavian MS cases (OR=0.42, p=710(-15)) and controls (OR=0.53, p=210(-5)). In contrast, the DQB1*06:03 haplotype was positively associated with JCV sero-status, in Scandinavian MS cases (OR=1.63, p=0.006), and controls (OR=2.69, p=110(-5)). The German dataset confirmed these findings (OR=0.54, p=110(-4) and OR=1.58, p=0.03 respectively for these haplotypes). HLA class II restricted immune responses, and hence CD4+ T cell immunity is pivotal for JCV infection control. Alleles within the HLA-DR1*15 haplotype are associated with a protective effect on JCV infection. Alleles within the DQB1*06:03 haplotype show an opposite association. These associations between JC virus antibody response and human leucocyte antigens supports the notion that CD4+ T cells are crucial in the immune defence to JCV and lays the ground for risk stratification for PML and development of therapy and prevention.

The process by which excitatory neurons are generated and mature during the development of the cerebral cortex occurs in a stereotyped manner; coordinated neuronal birth, migration, and differentiation during embryonic and early postnatal life are prerequisites for selective synaptic connections that mediate meaningful neurotransmission in maturity. Normal cortical function depends upon the proper elaboration of neurons, including the initial extension of cellular processes that lead to the formation of axons and dendrites and the subsequent maturation of synapses. Here, we examine the role of cell-based signaling via the receptor tyrosine kinase EphA7 in guiding the extension and maturation of cortical dendrites. EphA7, localized to dendritic shafts and spines of pyramidal cells, is uniquely expressed during cortical neuronal development. On patterned substrates, EphA7 signaling restricts dendritic extent, with Src and Tsc1 serving as downstream mediators. Perturbation of EphA7 signaling in vitro and in vivo alters dendritic elaboration: Dendrites are longer and more complex when EphA7 is absent and are shorter and simpler when EphA7 is ectopically expressed. Later in neuronal maturation, EphA7 influences protrusions from dendritic shafts and the assembling of synaptic components. Indeed, synaptic function relies on EphA7; the electrophysiological maturation of pyramidal neurons is delayed in cultures lacking EphA7, indicating that EphA7 enhances synaptic function. These results provide evidence of roles for Eph signaling, first in limiting the elaboration of cortical neuronal dendrites and then in coordinating the maturation and function of synapses.
Biological visual systems cannot measure the properties that define the physical world. Nonetheless, visually guided behaviors of humans and other animals are routinely successful. The purpose of this article is to consider how this feat is accomplished. Most concepts of vision propose, explicitly or implicitly, that visual behavior depends on recovering the sources of stimulus features either directly or by a process of statistical inference. Here we argue that, given the inability of the visual system to access the properties of the world, these conceptual frameworks cannot account for the behavioral success of biological vision. The alternative we present is that the visual system links the frequency of occurrence of biologically determined stimuli to useful perceptual and behavioral responses without recovering real-world properties. The evidence for this interpretation of vision is that the frequency of occurrence of stimulus patterns predicts many basic aspects of what we actually see. This strategy provides a different way of conceiving the relationship between objective reality and subjective experience, and offers a way to understand the operating principles of visual circuitry without invoking feature detection, representation, or probabilistic inference.
Ischemic brain injury results from complicated cellular mechanisms. The present therapy for acute ischemic stroke is limited to thrombolysis with the recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA) and mechanical recanalization. Therefore, a better understanding of ischemic brain injury is needed for the development of more effective therapies. Disruption of ionic homeostasis plays an important role in cell death following cerebral ischemia. Glutamate receptor-mediated ionic imbalance and neurotoxicity have been well established in cerebral ischemia after stroke. However, non-NMDA receptor-dependent mechanisms, involving acid-sensing ion channel 1a (ASIC1a), transient receptor potential melastatin 7 (TRPM7), and Na(+)/H(+) exchanger isoform 1 (NHE1), have recently emerged as important players in the dysregulation of ionic homeostasis in the CNS under ischemic conditions. These H(+)-sensitive channels and/or exchangers are expressed in the majority of cell types of the neurovascular unit. Sustained activation of these proteins causes excessive influx of cations, such as Ca(2+), Na(+), and Zn(2+), and leads to ischemic reperfusion brain injury. In this review, we summarize recent pre-clinical experimental research findings on how these channels/exchangers are regulated in both in vitro and in vivo models of cerebral ischemia. The blockade or transgenic knockdown of these proteins was shown to be neuroprotective in these ischemia models. Taken together, these non-NMDA receptor-dependent mechanisms may serve as novel therapeutic targets for stroke intervention.
Researchers who have uncovered the presence of stem cells in an adult's central nervous system have not only challenged the dogma that new neurons cannot be generated during adulthood, but also shed light on the etiology and disease mechanisms underlying many neurological and psychiatric disorders. Brain trauma, neurodegenerative diseases, and psychiatric disorders pose enormous burdens at both personal and societal levels. Although medications for these disorders are widely used, the treatment mechanisms underlying the illnesses remain largely elusive. In the past decade, an increasing amount of evidence indicate that adult neurogenesis (i.e. generating new CNS neurons during adulthood) may be involved in the pathology of different CNS disorders, and thus neurogenesis may be a potential target area for treatments. Although new neurons were shown to be a major player in mediating treatment efficacy of neurological and psychotropic drugs on cognitive functions, it is still debatable if the altered production of new neurons can cause the disorders. This review hence seeks to discuss pre and current clinical studies that demonstrate the functional impact adult neurogenesis have on neurological and psychiatric illnesses while examining the related underlying disease mechanisms.
The brain vasculature has been increasingly recognized as a key player that directs brain development, regulates homeostasis, and contributes to pathological processes. Following ischemic stroke, the reduction of blood flow elicits a cascade of changes and leads to vascular remodeling. However, the temporal profile of vascular changes after stroke is not well understood. Growing evidence suggests that the early phase of cerebral blood volume (CBV) increase is likely due to the improvement in collateral flow, also known as arteriogenesis, whereas the late phase of CBV increase is attributed to the surge of angiogenesis. Arteriogenesis is triggered by shear fluid stress followed by activation of endothelium and inflammatory processes, while angiogenesis induces a number of pro-angiogenic factors and circulating endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs). The status of collaterals in acute stroke has been shown to have several prognostic implications, while the causal relationship between angiogenesis and improved functional recovery has yet to be established in patients. A number of interventions aimed at enhancing cerebral blood flow including increasing collateral recruitment are under clinical investigation. Transplantation of EPCs to improve angiogenesis is also underway. Knowledge in the underlying physiological mechanisms for improved arteriogenesis and angiogenesis shall lead to more effective therapies for ischemic stroke.
Recently, we investigated the effects of eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), a fatty acid which modulates immune response and stimulates myelin gene expression, in an established model of multiple sclerosis (MS): the experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) induced in Dark Agouti rats. As scientific evidences and our previous studies have suggested that EPA could directly affect oligodendrocytes, we have now evaluated the effects of EPA in the non-immune mediate MS model characterized by selective oligodendrocytes damage induced by cuprizone (CPZ). We found that feeding weanling rats diets containing 0.6% CPZ for 2 weeks induced variation of whole brain and myelin biochemical composition representative of a severe myelin damage. We thus administered daily and by gavage EPA or PBS to 2-day old rats up to 21 days. Afterwards, rats were fed CPZ diet for 9 days. The results show that compared to PBS/CPZ fed rats, the whole brain cerebroside content in EPA pre-treated rats was statistically increased as well as there was an overall trend of increase of all other biochemical components.
The metalloprotease PrtV from Vibrio cholerae serves an important function for the bacteria's ability to invade the mammalian host cell. The protein belongs to the family of M6 proteases, with a characteristic zinc ion in the catalytic active site. PrtV constitutes a 918 amino acids (102 kDa) multidomain pre-pro-protein that so far has only been expressed in V. cholerae. Structural studies require high amounts of soluble protein with high purity. Previous attempts for recombinant expression have been hampered by low expression and solubility of protein fragments. Here, we describe results from parallel cloning experiments in Escherichia coli where fusion tagged constructs of PrtV fragments were designed, and protein products tested for expression and solubility. Of more than 100 designed constructs, three produced protein products that expressed well. These include the N-terminal domain (residues 23-103), the PKD1 domain (residues 755-839), and a 25 kDa fragment (residues 581-839). The soluble fusion proteins were captured with Ni affinity chromatography, and subsequently cleaved with tobacco etch virus protease. Purification protocols yielded 10-15 mg of pure protein from 1L of culture. Proper folding of the shorter domains was confirmed by heteronuclear NMR spectra recorded on N-labeled samples. A modified protocol for the native purification of the secreted 81 kDa pro-protein of PrtV is provided. Proteolytic activity measurements suggest that the 37 kDa catalytic metalloprotease domain alone is sufficient for activity.



Homeostasis, the dominant explanatory framework for physiological regulation, has undergone significant revision in recent years, with contemporary models differing significantly from the original formulation. Allostasis, an alternative view of physiological regulation, goes beyond its homeostatic roots, offering novel insights relevant to our understanding and treatment of several chronic health conditions. Despite growing enthusiasm for allostasis, the concept remains diffuse, due in part to ambiguity as to how the term is understood and used, impeding meaningful translational and clinical research on allostasis. Here, we provide a more focused understanding of homeostasis and allostasis by explaining how both play a role in physiological regulation, and a critical analysis of regulation suggests how homeostasis and allostasis can be distinguished. Rather than focusing on changes in the value of a regulated variable (e.g., body temperature, body adiposity, or reward), research investigating the activity and relationship among the multiple regulatory loops that influence the value of these regulated variables may be the key to distinguishing homeostasis and allostasis. The mechanisms underlying physiological regulation and dysregulation are likely to have important implications for health and disease.
The capacity to attend to multiple objects in the visual field is limited. However, introspectively, people feel that they see the whole visual world at once. Some scholars suggest that this introspective feeling is based on short-lived sensory memory representations, whereas others argue that the feeling of seeing more than can be attended to is illusory. Here, we investigated this phenomenon by combining objective memory performance with subjective confidence ratings during a change-detection task. This allowed us to compute a measure of metacognition--the degree of knowledge that subjects have about the correctness of their decisions--for different stages of memory. We show that subjects store more objects in sensory memory than they can attend to but, at the same time, have similar metacognition for sensory memory and working memory representations. This suggests that these subjective impressions are not an illusion but accurate reflections of the richness of visual perception.
It is often assumed that the promise of a monetary bonus improves cognitive control. We show that in fact appetitive motivation can also impair cognitive control, depending on baseline levels of dopamine-synthesis capacity in the striatum. These data not only demonstrate that appetitive motivation can have paradoxical detrimental effects for cognitive control but also provide a mechanistic account of these effects.
Is it possible to induce a mind-set that will affect relational thinking in a subsequent reasoning task involving unrelated materials? We investigated whether evaluating the validity of verbal analogies (Experiment 1a) or generating solutions for them (Experiment 1b) could induce a relational mind-set that would transfer to an unrelated picture-mapping task. The verbal analogies were based on either near or far semantic relations. We found that generating (but not evaluating) solutions for semantically distant analogies increased the proportion of relational mappings on the transfer task, even after we controlled for fluid intelligence and response time. Solving near analogies did not produce transfer. Generation of solutions to far analogies appears to provide a potent method for triggering a mind-set that can enhance relational thinking in a different task.
Approximate Bayesian computation (ABC) is a powerful technique for estimating the posterior distribution of a model's parameters. It is especially important when the model to be fit has no explicit likelihood function, which happens for computational (or simulation-based) models such as those that are popular in cognitive neuroscience and other areas in psychology. However, ABC is usually applied only to models with few parameters. Extending ABC to hierarchical models has been difficult because high-dimensional hierarchical models add computational complexity that conventional ABC cannot accommodate. In this paper, we summarize some current approaches for performing hierarchical ABC and introduce a new algorithm called Gibbs ABC. This new algorithm incorporates well-known Bayesian techniques to improve the accuracy and efficiency of the ABC approach for estimation of hierarchical models. We then use the Gibbs ABC algorithm to estimate the parameters of two models of signal detection, one with and one without a tractable likelihood function.
How do body representations influence decisions about action? We developed a novel paradigm using the mirror illusion (Holmes, Crozier, &amp; Spence, in Cognitive, Affective, &amp; Behavioral Neuroscience, 4, 193-200, 2004) to examine two ways of evoking body plasticity-extension of body capabilities and visual capture-and its influence on perceived affordances. In two experiments, we manipulated the action capabilities of a seen left hand by lengthening the arm with a rod (Exp. 1) or enlarging the hand with a glove (Exp. 2). The right hand was unaltered physically and was occluded by placement in a mirror box. We induced visual capture through synchronous finger movements of both hands. Right-hand estimates of reaching and of fitting through apertures increased relative to actual capabilities during visual capture, supporting the claim that visual capture can induce the incorporation of an apparent body extension into action decisions. The results suggest that both perceptual and cognitive influences on bodily awareness underlie perceived affordances.
An unresolved issue in the task-switching literature is whether preparatory reconfiguration occurs before a change of task. In this study, we used event-related potentials (ERPs) to determine whether preparatory reconfiguration occurs during two different task-switching procedures: voluntary and cued task switching. We focused on two ERP components that index different cognitive operations. The contingent negative variation (CNV) is a sensitive measure of a participant's preparedness to use a specific stimulus-response mapping. In contrast, the P3 indexes memory updating. We found a pronounced modulation of the CNV before voluntary task switches, but not before cued task switches. Instead, cued task switches were preceded by a larger P3, as compared with task repetitions. Our findings suggest that task set reconfiguration is carried out prior to voluntary task switches, whereas memory processes dominate cued task switches.
Stress has been shown to modulate a number of cognitive processes including action control. These functions are important in daily life and are mediated by various cognitive subprocesses. However, it is unknown if stress affects the whole processing cascade, or exerts specific effects on a restricted subset of processes involved in the chaining of actions. We examine the effects of stress on action selection processes in a stop-change paradigm and apply event-related potentials (ERPs) combined with source localization analysis to examine potentially restricted effects of stress on subprocesses mediating action cascading. The results show that attentional selection processes, as well as processes related to allocation of processing resources were not affected by stress. Stress only seems to affect response selection functions during action cascading and leads to slowing of responses when two actions are executed in succession. These changes are related to the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC). Changes in response selection were predictable on the basis of individual salivary cortisol levels. The results show that stress does not affect the whole processing cascade involved in the cascading of different actions, but seems to exert circumscribed effects on response selection processes which have previously been shown to depend on dopaminergic neural transmission.
Although second-generation antipsychotics induce severe weight gain and obesity, there is a lack of detailed knowledge about the progressive development of antipsychotic-induced obesity. This study examined the hypothalamic histamine H1 receptor and AMP-activated protein kinase (H1R-AMPK) signaling at three distinctive stages of olanzapine-induced weight gain (day 1-12: early acceleration, day 13-28: middle new equilibrium, and day 29-36: late heavy weight maintenance). At the early acceleration stage, the rats were hyperphagic with an underlying mechanism of olanzapine-increased H1R mRNA expression and AMPK phosphorylation (pAMPK), in which pAMPK levels positively correlated with H1R mRNA expression and food intake. At the middle stage, when the rats were no longer hyperphagic, the changes in H1R-AMPK signaling vanished. At the late stage, olanzapine increased H1R mRNA expression but decreased pAMPK which were positively and negatively correlated with weight gain, respectively. These data suggest a time-dependent change of H1R-AMPK signaling, where olanzapine activates AMPK by blocking the H1Rs and causing hyperphagia in the acute phase. The chronic blockade of H1R may contribute to the late stage of olanzapine-induced heavy weight maintenance. However, pAMPK was no longer elevated and actually decreased. This indicates that AMPK acts as an energy sensor and negatively responds to the positive energy balance induced by olanzapine. Furthermore, we showed that an H1R agonist, 2-(3-trifluoromethylphenyl) histamine, can significantly inhibit olanzapine-induced hyperphagia and AMPK activation in the mediobasal hypothalamus in a dose dependent manner. Therefore, lowering H1R-AMPK signaling is an effective treatment for the olanzapine-induced hyperphagia associated with the development of obesity.
Studies have indicated significant pubertal-related differences in hormonal stress reactivity. We report here that prepubertal (30 days) male rats display a more protracted stress-induced corticosterone response than adults (70 days), despite showing relatively similar levels of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). Additionally, we show that adrenal expression of the ACTH receptor, melanocortin 2 receptor (Mc2r), is higher in prepubertal compared to adult animals, and that expression of melanocortin receptor accessory protein (Mrap), a molecule that chaperones MC2R to the cell surface, is greater in prepubertal males following stress. Given that these data suggest a pubertal shift in adrenal sensitivity to ACTH, we directly tested this possibility by injecting prepubertal and adult males with 6.25 or 9.375g/kg of exogenous rat ACTH and measured their hormone levels 30 and 60min post-injection. As these doses resulted in different circulating levels of ACTH at these two ages, we performed regression analyses to assess the relationship between circulating ACTH and corticosterone concentrations. We found no difference between the ages in the correlation between ACTH and corticosterone levels at the 30min time point. However, 60min following the ACTH injection, we found prepubertal rats had significantly higher corticosterone concentrations at lower levels of ACTH compared to adults. These data suggest that prolonged exposure to ACTH leads to greater corticosterone responsiveness prior to puberty, and indicate that changes in adrenal sensitivity to ACTH may, in part, contribute to the protracted hormonal stress response in prepubertal rats.
The melanocortin 4 receptor (MC4R), well-known for its role in the regulation of energy balance, is widely expressed in stress-regulatory brain regions, including the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVH) and the medial amygdala (MeA). In agreement with this, MC4R has been implicated in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical axis (HPA) regulation. The present work investigated the role of chronic Mc4r function to modulate basal HPA axis tone and to facilitate acute HPA responses to psychological stress, using a novel rat model with Mc4r loss-of-function. In this study, adult male rats were placed into 3 groups (n=15/group) according to genotype [wild-type (WT); heterozygous mutant (HET); and homozygous mutant (HOM)]. Basal (pre-stress) plasma adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and corticosterone were measured in the AM and PM, and the HPA axis response to restraint was assessed in the AM. Rats were perfused at 2h after restraint to assess the effect of loss of MC4R on stress-induced c-Fos immunolabeling in stress-regulatory brain regions. We find that basal (non-stress) AM and PM plasma ACTH and corticosterone showed a normal diurnal rhythm that was not altered according to genotype. Consistent with this, adrenal and thymus weights were unaffected by genotype. However, the plasma ACTH and corticosterone responses to restraint were significantly reduced by loss of MC4R function. Likewise, stress-induced c-Fos immunolabeling in both PVH and MeA was significantly reduced by loss of Mc4r function. These results support the hypothesis that endogenous MC4R signaling contributes to the HPA axis response to stress. Because MC4R plays a critical role in the regulation of energy balance, the present work suggests that it may also serve as an important communication link between brain metabolic and stress systems.
Regulation of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis reactivity plays an important role in the development of stress-related psychiatric disorders. FK506 binding protein 5 (FKBP5) modulates HPA axis reactivity via glucocorticoid receptor (GR; NR3C1) sensitivity and signaling. The T allele of the single nucleotide polymorphism, FKBP5 rs1360780 (C/T), is associated with higher FKBP5 induction by glucocorticoids. In the present study, we performed the dexamethasone/corticotropin releasing hormone (DEX/CRH) test and quantitative real-time PCR analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) cDNA samples in 174 and 278 non-clinical individuals, respectively. We found increased suppression of the stress hormone (cortisol) response to the DEX/CRH test (P=0.0016) in aged (&gt;50 years) individuals carrying the T allele compared with aged non-T allele carriers. T carriers showed significant age-related changes in GR and FKBP5 mRNA expression levels in PBMCs (P=0.0013 and P=0.00048, respectively). Our results indicate that FKBP5 rs1360780 regulates HPA axis reactivity and expression levels of GR and FKBP5 in PBMCs in an age-dependent manner. Because these phenotypes of aged T carriers are similar to endophenotypes of people with post-traumatic stress disorder, our findings may be useful for determining the molecular mechanisms, treatment, and preventive strategies for this disease.
A growing body of research has revealed that social evaluative stressors trigger biological and psychological responses that in chronic forms have been linked to aging and disease. Recent research suggests that self-compassion may protect the self from typical defensive responses to evaluation. We investigated whether brief training in self-compassion moderated biopsychological responses to the Trier Social Stress Test (TSST) in women. Compared to attention (placebo) and no-training control conditions, brief self-compassion training diminished sympathetic (salivary alpha-amylase), cardiac parasympathetic, and subjective anxiety responses, though not HPA-axis (salivary cortisol) responses to the TSST. Self-compassion training also led to greater self-compassion under threat relative to the control groups. In that social stress pervades modern life, self-compassion represents a promising approach to diminishing its potentially negative psychological and biological effects.
IL-12 is a prominent Th1 differentiator and leukocyte activator. Ample studies showed suppression of IL-12 production by numerous stress factors, including prostaglandins, catecholamines, glucocorticoids, and opioids, but did so in vitro and in the context of artificial leukocyte activation, not simulating the in vivo setting. In a recent study we reported in vivo suppression of plasma IL-12 levels by behavioral stress and surgery. The current study aims to elucidate neuroendocrine mechanisms underlying this phenomenon in nave F344 rats. To this end, both adrenalectomy and administration of specific antagonists were used, targeting the aforementioned stress factors. The results indicated that corticosterone and prostaglandins are prominent mediators of the IL-12-suppressing effects of stress and surgery, apparently through directly suppressing leukocyte IL-12 production. Following surgery, endogenous prostaglandins exerted their effects mainly through elevating corticosterone levels. Importantly, stress-induced release of epinephrine or opioids had no impact on plasma IL-12 levels, while pharmacological administration of epinephrine reduced plasma IL-12 levels by elevating corticosterone levels. Last, a whole blood in vitro study indicated that prostaglandins and corticosterone, but not epinephrine, suppressed IL-12 production in non-stimulated leukocytes, and only corticosterone did so in the context of CpG-C-induced IL-12 production. Overall, the findings reiterate the notion that results from in vitro or pharmacological in vivo studies cannot indicate the effects of endogenously released stress hormones under stress/surgery conditions. Herein, corticosterone and prostaglandins, but not catecholamines or opioids, were key mediators of the suppressive effect of stress and surgery on in vivo plasma IL-12 levels in otherwise nave animals.








Disrupted sensory processing is a core feature of psychotic disorders. Auditory paired stimuli (PS) evoke a complex neural response, but it is uncertain which aspects reflect shared and/or distinct liability for the most common severe psychoses, schizophrenia (SZ) and psychotic bipolar disorder (BDP). Evoked time-voltage/time-frequency domain responses quantified with EEG during a typical PS paradigm (S1-S2) were compared among proband groups (SZ [n=232], BDP [181]), their relatives (SZrel [259], BDPrel [220]), and healthy participants (H [228]). Early S1-evoked responses were reduced in SZ and BDP, while later/S2 abnormalities showed SZ/SZrel and BDP/BDPrel specificity. Relatives' effects were absent/small despite significant familiality of the entire auditorineural response. This pattern suggests general and divergent biological pathways associated with psychosis, yet may reflect complications with conditioning solely on clinical phenomenology.
Repetitive patterning facilitates inferences about likely properties of sound to follow. Mismatch negativity (MMN) occurs when sound fails to match an inference. Smaller MMN in schizophrenia indexes deficient gain control (difference in utilizing a limited dynamic range). Although it is clear that this group has a lower limit to MMN size, this study addressed whether smaller MMN indicates impaired perceptual inference. MMN was elicited to four deviants in two sequences: one in which occurrence was random and one in which it was paired. Despite smaller MMN, persons with schizophrenia are equally able to reduce MMN size evoked by a deviant when its occurrence is cued. Results also expose alterations in the evoked response to repeated sounds that appear to be exacerbations of age-related amplitude decline. Since these anomalies impact the computed MMN, they highlight the need to identify all contributions to limits in gain control in schizophrenia.

In comparison with conventional diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) technique, diffusion spectrum imaging (DSI) allows for delineating crossing and touching fibers in the brain and has been explored in clinical and preclinical studies. Non-human primates (NHPs) resemble most aspects of human and are widely employed in various neuroscience researches and pharmaceutical development. In the present study, a parallel imaging-based DSI protocol was implemented for in vivo fiber tracking of macaque monkey brains on a 3.0 T clinical scanner. Transcallosal fiber tracts of adult macaque brains were examined with DSI and compared with those from a a conventional DTI protocol. The results demonstrate that DSI can reveal the transcallosal fiber bundles much more extensively than the conventional DTI. The preliminary results suggest that DSI may provide a feasible and robust approach for characterizing the fiber pathways in various disease models of NHPs.
The space radiation environment consists of multiple species of high-energy charge particles (HZE), including (56)Fe and (28)Si nuclei, that may impact neuronal cells, but their damaging effects on the central nervous system (CNS) have been poorly defined. Hippocampus-dependent memory functions have been shown to be highly sensitive to (56)Fe HZE particles, which poses a significant risk to the cognitive performance of astronauts during space missions. While low doses of (56)Fe radiation do not induce cell death of mature neurons, they affect synaptic plasticity in the CA1 region, the principal neuronal output of the hippocampal formation involved in memory formation. The effects of (28)Si on the CNS have not been defined. Compared to behaviorally nave mice, cognitive testing might affect synaptic plasticity and the effects of (28)Si radiation on synaptic plasticity might be modulated by prior cognitive testing. Therefore, in the current study, we quantified the effects of whole-body (28)Si radiation (600 MeV/n, 0.25 and 1 Gy) on hippocampus-dependent contextual freezing and synaptic plasticity in the CA1 region of animals not exposed (behaviorally nave mice) and animals exposed to the contextual freezing test (cognitively tested mice). In behaviorally nave mice exposed to 0.25 and 1 Gy of (28)Si radiation, the magnitude of long-term potentiation (LTP) was enhanced. However, in mice irradiated with 0.25 Gy contextual fear conditioning was enhanced and was associated with a further enhancement of the LTP magnitude. Such increase in synaptic plasticity was not seen in cognitively tested mice irradiated with 1 Gy. Thus, low dose (28)Si radiation has effects on synaptic plasticity in the CA1 region of the hippocampus and these effects are modulated by cognitive testing in a contextual fear-conditioning test.
Gliomas are the most common and malignant primary brain tumors in the adult population. Despite the intensive research on cancer pathology, real mechanisms concerning glioma progression are not completely understood. The prognosis in patients affected by malignant gliomas is still very unfavorable. Recent genomic analyses have revealed patterns of molecular changes within tumor subclasses that harbor distinct underlying biology, clinical prognosis, and pathogenic routes. So, novel treatments will have to be able to interfere at different molecular levels in gliomagenesis minimizing the toxicity. In particular, antisense oligonucleotides are able to inhibit expression of specific genes by interfering with transcription or, more usually, with translation. In this review, we will focus on mechanisms of antisense oligonucleotides reporting clinical and experimental studies. We will also report a large number of patents which adopt the antisense oligonucleotides as potential therapeutic approach in gliomas treatment.
To date, the diagnosis of mental disorders has been based on clinical observation and the 5th revised edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5), published in May 2013, has confirmed this approach placing disorders in discrete statistical categories like the preceding editions. This has disappointed the expectations of those who hypothesized the revolution of a &quot;neuroscience based DSM&quot;, where the psychiatric diagnoses are based on the identification of sensitive biological markers. Another controversial point is that, according to several authors, the DSM-5 does not provide a clear definition of the boundaries between mental disorders and the range of normality. However, in the new edition of the DSM, there are several interesting changes, such as the introduction of the &quot;dimensions&quot; that are aimed to bridge the gap between the historical categorical approach and the new research data and the reclassification and the redefinition of most categories. Purpose of this editorial is to provide a brief overview of these changes and critical aspects.
Men show an age-related decline in the circulating levels of testosterone (T) and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS). Consequently, there is interest in developing androgen supplementation paradigms for old men that replicate the hormone profiles of young adults. In the present study, we used old (21-26 years old) male rhesus monkeys as a model to examine the efficacy of an androgen supplementation paradigm that comprised oral T administration (12 mg/kg body weight, dissolved in sesame oil/chocolate) in the evening, and two oral DHEA administrations, 3 hr apart (0.04 mg/kg body weight, dissolved in sesame oil/chocolate) in the morning. After 5 days of repeated hormone supplementation, serial blood samples were remotely collected from each animal hourly across the 24-hr day, and assayed for cortisol, DHEAS, T, 5-dihydrotestosterone (DHT), estrone (E1), and 17-estradiol (E2). Following androgen supplementation, T levels were significantly elevated and this was associated with a more sustained nocturnal elevation of T's primary bioactive metabolites, DHT and E1 and E2. Plasma DHEAS levels were also significantly elevated after androgen supplementation; DHEAS levels rose in the early morning and gradually declined during the course of the day, closely mimicking the profiles observed in young adults (7-12 years old); in contrast, cortisol levels were unaltered by the supplementation. Together the data demonstrate a non-invasive androgen supplementation paradigm that restores youthful circulating androgen levels in old male primates. Because this paradigm preserves the natural circulating circadian hormone patterns, we predict that it will produce fewer adverse side effects, such as perturbed sleep or cognitive impairment.
We studied the effects of neonatal exposure to diethylstilbestrol (DES) on pubertal timing in female rats. We examined associated neuroendocrine changes and effects of prenatal food restriction. Age at vaginal opening was advanced after exposure to 10 g/kg/d of DES and delayed after 1 g/kg/d (subcutaneous injections). Using this lower dose, pulsatile GnRH secretion was slower at 25 days of age. Both doses reduced KiSS1 mRNA levels at 15 days of age. Using functional Kisspeptin promoter assay, 1 or 10 M DES reduced or increased KISS1 transcription, respectively. Leptin stimulatory effect on GnRH secretion in vitro (15 days of age) was reduced after prenatal food restriction and neonatal DES exposure (higher dose), both effects being cumulative. Thus, alterations in pubertal timing by DES neonatally are not unequivocally toward precocity, the level of exposure being critical. We provide evidence of neuroendocrine disruption and interaction with prenatal food availability.
Persons with mild to borderline intellectual disability (MID) have been identified as a group at risk for substance use disorder (SUD). However, prevalence estimates of co-occurring SUD and MID rely largely on single source studies performed in selected samples. To obtain more reliable population estimates of SUD and MID, this study combines data from an Intellectual Disability Facility (IDF), and an Addiction Treatment Centre (ATC) in a semi-rural area in the Netherlands. Capture-recapture analysis was used to estimate the hidden population (i.e., the population not identified in the original samples). Further analyses were performed for age and gender stratified data. Staff members reported on 88 patients with SUD and MID in the IDF (4.0% of the IDF sample) and 114 in the ATC (5.2% of the ATC sample), with 12 patients in both groups. Only strata for males over 30 years provided reliable population estimates. Based on 97 patients in these strata, the hidden population was estimated at 215. Hence the estimated total population of males over 30 years old with MID and SUD was 312 (95% CI 143-481), approximately 0.16% (0.05-0.25%) of the total population of this age and gender group. This illustrates that while patients with co-occurring SUD and MID often receive professional help from only one service provider, single source data underestimate its prevalence, and thus underestimate treatment and service needs. Therefore, population prevalence estimations of co-occurring SUD and MID should be based on combined multiple source data.
Our study investigated the lexical comprehension and production abilities as well as gestural production taking into account different lexical categories, namely nouns and predicates. Fourteen children with DS (34 months of developmental age) and a comparison group of 14 typically developing children (TD) matched for gender and developmental age were assessed through a test of lexical comprehension and production (PiNG) and the Italian MB-CDI. Children with DS showed a general weakness in lexical comprehension and production that appeared more evident when the lexicon was assessed through a structured test such as the PiNG that requires general cognitive skills that are impaired in children with DS. As for the composition of the lexical repertoire, for both groups of children, nouns are understood and produced in higher percentages compared to predicates. Children with DS produced more representational gestures than TD children in the comprehension tasks and above all with predicates; on the contrary, both groups of children exhibited the same number of gestures on the MB-CDI and during the subtests of PiNG production. Children with DS produced more unimodal gestural answers than the control group. Theoretical implications of these results are discussed.

Abstract available from the publisher.
The question of pregnancy in patients with multiple sclerosis is regularly raised due to the prevalence of the disease in middle age women. The multiple sclerosis think tank (Groupe de Rflexion sur la Sclrose en Plaques [GRESEP]) decided to develop recommendations on this issue, with consideration to both the impact of multiple sclerosis on pregnancy, and that of pregnancy on the disease. As with topics of previous works, the formal expert consensus method was used. The working group was composed of hospital-based and private practice neurologists. The reading group was composed of neurologists, anaesthetists and obstetricians. Each recommendation is presented with the relevant level of consensus.

In this article, we discuss the management of motor symptoms during the early phases of Parkinson's disease, excluding that of any other clinical manifestation. We relied primarily upon recently published data and do not describe older publications relating to anticholinergic drugs or amantadine. The initial pharmacological treatment of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD) is symptomatic and remains based upon dopaminergic drugs. However, the development of new drugs has broadened the range of strategic options and improved overall patient management. Announcing the diagnosis is a critical moment, as pointed out by patients' associations. Patients should be advised to maintain personal, professional, social and physical activities as long as possible. The potential benefit of early pharmacological treatment should be explained, focusing on the possible disease-modifying effect of drugs such as rasagiline. According to current guidelines, L-Dopa is preferred in patients above 65years of age, while those below 65 should be treated with dopamine agonists. Like monoamine oxidase inhibitors B (MAOI-B), synthetic dopamine agonists exhibit several advantages: easy-to-use treatment with a once-daily administration, delayed L-Dopa initiation, significant efficacy on motor symptoms (although lower than that of L-Dopa). MOAI can be prescribed in association with L-Dopa or dopamine agonists. Rasagiline also delays L-Dopa initiation, and consequently motor complications.
Schizophrenia has been associated with central nervous system and peripheral immune system imbalances. However, most studies have not yielded conclusive results due to limitations such as small sample size, dissimilarities in the clinical status of patients and the high variability of cytokine levels within the normal human population. Here, we have attempted to account for these limitations by carrying out standardised multiplex immunoassay analyses of 9 cytokines in serum from 180 antipsychotic-nave first-episode schizophrenia patients and 350 matched controls across 5 clinical cohorts. All subjects were matched for potential confounding factors including age, gender, smoking and body mass index. We found that the levels of interleukin (IL)-1RA, IL-10 and IL-15 were increased significantly in patients across the cohorts. We also found that the levels of IL-1RA and IL-10 were decreased in 32 patients who had been followed up and treated for 6 weeks with atypical antipsychotics. Interestingly, we found that the changes in IL-10 levels were significantly correlated with the improvements in negative, general and total symptom scores. These results indicate that mixed pro- and anti-inflammatory responses may be altered in first onset patients, suggesting a role in the aetiology of schizophrenia. The finding that only the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 responded to treatment in parallel with symptom improvement suggests that this could be used as a potential treatment response biomarker in future studies of schizophrenia.













To date, continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is the most effective intervention in the treatment of obstructive sleep apnoea, but adherence to this treatment is often less than optimal. A variety of factors and interventions that influence and improve CPAP use have been examined. There is increasing recognition of the multifaceted nature of CPAP adherence: the patient's psychological profile and social environment have been recognised, in addition to the more extensively researched patient's treatment and physiological profile. Understanding how these multiple factors impact on CPAP use in an integrative fashion might provide us with a useful holistic model of CPAP adherence. This concept of integration--a biopsychosocial (BPS) approach to health and illness--has previously been described to understand care provision for various chronic health disorders. This paper proposes an adherence framework, whereby variables integrally affect CPAP use. The BPS model has been considered for nearly 35 years; the presence of poor CPAP adherence was acknowledged in the early 1990s--it is timely to incorporate this approach into our care pathway of CPAP users.
Behavioral research has demonstrated an advantage for females compared with males in social information processing. However, little is known about sex-related differences in brain activation during understanding of self and others. In the current functional magnetic resonance imaging study, this was assessed in late adolescents (aged 18-19) and young adults (aged 23-25) when making appraisals of self and other as well as reflected self-appraisals. Across all groups and for all appraisal conditions, activation was observed in the medial prefrontal cortex, medial posterior parietal cortex, left and right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and left posterior parietal cortex. Males activated the medial posterior parietal cortex and bilateral temporoparietal junction more than females. The precuneus showed stronger activation in males compared with females specifically during appraisals of others. No differences between late adolescents and young adults were found. These results indicate that sex differences exist in the neural bases of social understanding.
The tendency to trust and to cooperate increases from adolescence to adulthood. This social development has been associated with improved mentalizing and age-related changes in brain function. Thus far, there is limited imaging data investigating these associations. We used two trust games with a trustworthy and an unfair partner to explore the brain mechanisms underlying trust and cooperation in subjects ranging from adolescence to mid-adulthood. Increasing age was associated with higher trust at the onset of social interactions, increased levels of trust during interactions with a trustworthy partner and a stronger decline in trust during interactions with an unfair partner. Our findings demonstrate a behavioural shift towards higher trust and an age-related increase in the sensitivity to others' negative social signals. Increased brain activation in mentalizing regions, i.e. temporo-parietal junction, posterior cingulate and precuneus, supported the behavioural change. Additionally, age was associated with reduced activation in the reward-related orbitofrontal cortex and caudate nucleus during interactions with a trustworthy partner, possibly reflecting stronger expectations of trustworthiness. During unfair interactions, age-related increases in anterior cingulate activation, an area implicated in conflict monitoring, may mirror the necessity to inhibit pro-social tendencies in the face of the partner's actual levels of cooperation.
Schizophrenia is a psychiatric disorder resulting in prominent impairments in social functioning. Thus, clinical research has focused on underlying deficits of emotion processing and their linkage to specific symptoms and neurobiological dysfunctions. Although there is substantial research investigating impairments in unimodal affect recognition, studies in schizophrenia exploring crossmodal emotion processing are rare. Therefore, event-related potentials were measured in 15 patients with schizophrenia and 15 healthy controls while rating the expression of happy, fearful and neutral faces and concurrently being distracted by emotional or neutral sounds. Compared with controls, patients with schizophrenia revealed significantly decreased P1 and increased P2 amplitudes in response to all faces, independent of emotion or concurrent sound. Analyzing these effects with regard to audiovisual (in)congruence revealed that P1 amplitudes in patients were only reduced in response to emotionally incongruent stimulus pairs, whereas similar amplitudes between groups could be observed for congruent conditions. Correlation analyses revealed a significant negative correlation between general symptom severity (Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale-V4) and P1 amplitudes in response to congruent audiovisual stimulus pairs. These results indicate that early visual processing deficits in schizophrenia are apparent during emotion processing but, depending on symptom severity, these deficits can be restored by presenting concurrent emotionally congruent sounds.

This paper reports on in-depth research, using a grounded theory approach, to examine the ways in which very old people perceive healthy ageing in the context of living alone at home within urban settings in five European countries. This qualitative study was part of a cross-national project entitled ENABLE-AGE which examined the relationship between home and healthy ageing. Interviews explored the notion of healthy ageing, the meaning and importance of home, conceptualisations of independence and autonomy and links between healthy ageing and home. Data analysis identified five ways in which older people constructed healthy ageing: home and keeping active; managing lifestyles, health and illness; balancing social life; and balancing material and financial circumstances. Older people reflected on their everyday lives at home in terms of being engaged in purposeful, meaningful action and evaluated healthy ageing in relation to the symbolic and practical affordances of the home, contextualised within constructions of their national context. The research suggests that older people perceive healthy ageing as an active achievement, created through individual, personal effort and supported through social ties despite the health, financial and social decline associated with growing older. The physicality and spatiality of home provided the context for establishing and evaluating the notion of healthy ageing, whilst the experienced relationship between home, life history and identity created a meaningful space within which healthy ageing was negotiated.
Since several years, adult/perinatal mesenchymal and neural crest stem cells have been widely used to help experimental animal to recover from spinal cord injury. More interestingly, recent clinical trials confirmed the beneficial effect of those stem cells, which improve functional score of patients suffering from such lesions. However, a complete understanding of the mechanisms of stem cell-induced recovery is seriously lacking. Indeed, spinal cord injuries gathered a wide range of biochemical and physiopathological events (such as inflammation, oxidative stress, axonal damage, demyelination, etc.) and the genuine healing process after cell transplantation is not sufficiently defined. This review aims to sum up recent data about cell therapy in spinal cord lesions using mesenchymal or recently identified neural crest stem cells, by describing precisely which physiopathological parameter is affected and the exact processes underlying the observed changes. Overall, although significant advances are acknowledged, it seems that further deep mechanistic investigation is needed for the development of optimized and efficient cell-based therapy protocols.
Neural progenitor cells (NPCs) in the subventricular zone (SVZ) hold promise for future therapy for neurodegenerative disorders, because the stimulation of adult neurogenesis could potentially restore the function of degenerating neurons and glia. To obtain more knowledge on these NPCs, we developed a method to specifically isolate NPCs from postmortem adult human brains based on the expression of the specific human adult neural stem/progenitor cell marker glial fibrillary acidic protein  (GFAP). An extensive immunophenotyping analysis for cell surface markers resulted in the observation that CD271 was limited to the SVZ-derived GFAP-positive cells. CD271(+) cells developed into neurospheres and could be differentiated into astrocytes, neurons, and oligodendrocytes. We are the first to show that a pure population of NPCs can be isolated from the adult human SVZ, which is highly instrumental for developing future therapies based on stimulating endogenous SVZ neurogenesis.
Hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS) is a serious congenital cardiovascular malformation resulting in hypoplasia or atresia of the left ventricle, ascending aorta, and aortic and mitral valves. Diminished flow through the left side of the heart is clearly a key contributor to the condition, but any myocardial susceptibility component is as yet undefined. Using recent advances in the field of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), we have been able to generate an iPSC model of HLHS malformation and characterize the properties of cardiac myocytes (CMs) differentiated from these and control-iPSC lines. Differentiation of HLHS-iPSCs to cardiac lineages revealed changes in the expression of key cardiac markers and a lower ability to give rise to beating clusters when compared with control-iPSCs and human embryonic stem cells (hESCs). HLHS-iPSC-derived CMs show a lower level of myofibrillar organization, persistence of a fetal gene expression pattern, and changes in commitment to ventricular versus atrial lineages, and they display different calcium transient patterns and electrophysiological responses to caffeine and -adrenergic antagonists when compared with hESC- and control-iPSC-derived CMs, suggesting that alternative mechanisms to release calcium from intracellular stores such as the inositol trisphosphate receptor may exist in HLHS in addition to the ryanodine receptor thought to function in control-iPSC-derived CMs. Together our findings demonstrate that CMs derived from an HLHS patient demonstrate a number of marker expression and functional differences to hESC/control iPSC-derived CMs, thus providing some evidence that cardiomyocyte-specific factors may influence the risk of HLHS.
Although isolated reports of hard-tissue reconstruction in the cranio-maxillofacial skeleton exist, multipatient case series are lacking. This study aimed to review the experience with 13 consecutive cases of cranio-maxillofacial hard-tissue defects at four anatomically different sites, namely frontal sinus (3 cases), cranial bone (5 cases), mandible (3 cases), and nasal septum (2 cases). Autologous adipose tissue was harvested from the anterior abdominal wall, and adipose-derived stem cells were cultured, expanded, and then seeded onto resorbable scaffold materials for subsequent reimplantation into hard-tissue defects. The defects were reconstructed with either bioactive glass or -tricalcium phosphate scaffolds seeded with adipose-derived stem cells (ASCs), and in some cases with the addition of recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein-2. Production and use of ASCs were done according to good manufacturing practice guidelines. Follow-up time ranged from 12 to 52 months. Successful integration of the construct to the surrounding skeleton was noted in 10 of the 13 cases. Two cranial defect cases in which nonrigid resorbable containment meshes were used sustained bone resorption to the point that they required the procedure to be redone. One septal perforation case failed outright at 1 year because of the postsurgical resumption of the patient's uncontrolled nasal picking habit.
H1N1 reached pandemic proportions in 2009, yet considerable ambivalence was apparent concerning the threat presented and the inclination to be vaccinated. The present investigation assessed several factors, notably appraisals of the threat, intolerance of uncertainty, and familiarity with the virus, that might contribute to reactions to a potential future viral threat. Canadian adults (N=316) provided with several scenarios regarding viral threats reported moderate feelings of anxiety, irrespective of whether the viral threat was one that was familiar versus one that was entirely unfamiliar to them (H1N1 recurrence, H5N1, a fictitious virus: D3N4). Participants appraised the stressfulness of the threats to be moderate and believed that they would have control in this situation. However, among individuals with high intolerance of uncertainty, the viral threat was accompanied by high levels of anxiety, which was mediated by aspects of appraisals, particularly control and stressfulness. In addition, among those individuals that generally appraised ambiguous life events as being stressful, the viral threat appraisals were accompanied by still greater anxiety. Given the limited response to potential viral threats, these results raise concerns that the public may be hesitant to heed recommendations should another pandemic occur.













Suicide attempters who met criteria for borderline personality disorder (BPD) comorbid with major depressive disorder (MDD) were compared to both suicide attempters suffering from MDD alone and to attempters with comorbid MDD and other personality disorders (PD). Participants were 239 (158 patients with comorbid PD and 81 patients with MDD without comorbidity) inpatients consecutively admitted after a suicide attempt made in the last 24hours. Suicide attempters with comorbid MDD and BPD had more frequent previous suicide attempts and were more likely to have a history of aggressive behaviors and alcohol and drug use disorders compared with patients suffering from MDD without Axis II comorbidity.

Literature regarding the effects of sildenafil citrate on sperm function remains controversial. In the present study, we specifically wanted to determine if mitochondrial dysfunction, namely membrane potential, reactive oxygen species production, and changes in energy content, are involved in in vitro sildenafil-induced alterations of human sperm function. Sperm samples of healthy men were incubated in the presence of 0.03, 0.3, and 3M sildenafil citrate in a phosphate buffered saline (PBS)-based medium for 2, 3, 12, and 24 hours. Sperm motility and viability were evaluated and mitochondrial function, i.e., mitochondrial membrane potential and mitochondrial superoxide production were assessed using flow-cytometry. Additionally, adenosine triphosphate (ATP) levels were determined by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analysis. Results show a decrease in sperm motility correlated with the level of mitochondria-generated superoxide, without a visible effect on mitochondrial membrane potential or viability upon exposure to sildenafil. The effect on both motility and superoxide production was higher for the intermediate concentration of sildenafil (0.3M) indicating that the in vitro effects of sildenafil on human sperm do not vary linearly with drug concentration. Adenosine triphosphate levels also decreased following sildenafil exposure, but this decrease was only detected after a decrease in motility was already evident. These results suggest that along with the level of ATP and mitochondrial function other factors are involved in the early sildenafil-mediated decline in sperm motility. However, the further decrease in ATP levels and increase in mitochondria-generated reactive oxygen species after 24 hours of exposure might further contribute towards declining sperm motility.
Clinical studies have established an inherent comorbidity between depression and the development of cardiovascular disease (CVD). Furthermore, this comorbidity seems to be more amplified in women than in men. To further investigate this comorbidity, a thorough literature review was conducted on studies from 1992 to date. The PubMed database was accessed using the keywords: cardiovascular disease, inflammation, depression, and sex differences. Both human and animal studies were considered. This review takes the standpoint that depression and CVD are both inflammatory disorders, and that their co-occurrence may be related to how the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, serotonergic transmission and circulation, and the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system via angiotensin II are affected by the excess secretion of proinflammatory cytokines. More recently, preliminary research attributes this systemic inflammation to a global deficiency in CD4+CD25+FOXP3 regulatory T cells. 17- estradiol and progesterone mediated modulation of cytokine secretion may partially explain the sex differences observed. These hormones and reproductive events associated with hormonal fluctuations are discussed in depth, including the analysis of perinatal models of depression and CVD, including preeclampsia. However, as evidenced by this review, there is a need for mechanistic research in humans to truly understand the nature and directionality of the relationship between depression and CVD.

We review how leaky competing accumulators (LCAs) can be used to model decision making in two-alternative, forced-choice tasks, and we show how they reduce to drift diffusion (DD) processes in special cases. As continuum limits of the sequential probability ratio test, DD processes are optimal in producing decisions of specified accuracy in the shortest possible time. Furthermore, the DD model can be used to derive a speed-accuracy trade-off that optimizes reward rate for a restricted class of two alternative forced-choice decision tasks. We review findings that compare human performance with this benchmark, and we reveal both approximations to and deviations from optimality. We then discuss three potential sources of deviations from optimality at the psychological level--avoidance of errors, poor time estimation, and minimization of the cost of control--and review recent theoretical and empirical findings that address these possibilities. We also discuss the role of cognitive control in changing environments and in modulating exploitation and exploration. Finally, we consider physiological factors in which nonlinear dynamics may also contribute to deviations from optimality.
Although seemingly irrational choice abounds, the rules governing these mis-steps that might provide hints about the factors limiting normative behavior are unclear. We consider three experimental tasks, which probe different aspects of non-normative choice under uncertainty. We argue for systematic statistical, algorithmic, and implementational sources of irrationality, including incomplete evaluation of long-run future utilities, Pavlovian actions, and habits, together with computational and statistical noise and uncertainty. We suggest structural and functional adaptations that minimize their maladaptive effects.
The majority of environmental and commercial chemicals have not been evaluated for their potential to cause neurotoxicity. We have investigated if neuron specific anti-III-tubulin antibodies are useful in a microplate assay of neurite outgrowth of retinoic acid-induced neurons from mouse P19 embryonal carcinoma cells. By incubating the P19-derived neurons with the primary anti-III-tubulin antibody and a secondary Alexa Fluor 488-conjugated antibody, followed by measuring the fluorescence in a microplate reader, a time-dependent increase in anti-III-tubulin immunofluorescence was observed. The relative fluorescence units increased by 4.3-fold from 2 to 10 days in culture. The results corresponded well with those obtained by semi-automatic tracing of neurites in fluorescence microscopy images of III-tubulin-labeled neurons. The sensitivity of the neurite outgrowth assay using a microplate reader to detect neurotoxicity produced by nocodazole, methyl mercury chloride and okadaic acid was significantly higher than for a cell viability assay measuring intracellular fluorescence of calcein-AM. The microplate-based method to measure toxicity targeting neurites using anti-III-tubulin antibodies is however less sensitive than the extracellular lactate dehydrogenase activity assay to detect general cytotoxicity produced by high concentrations of clomipramine, or glutamate-induced excitotoxicity. In conclusion, the fluorescence microplate assay for the detection of neurite outgrowth by measuring changes in III-tubulin immunoreactivity is a rapid and sensitive method to assess chemical- or toxin-induced neurite toxicity.
Botulinum neurotoxin type A1 (BoNTs/A1) and type B (BoNT/B) have been used for treating hyperactive muscle contractions. In the present study, we compared the effect of botulinum neurotoxin subtype A2 (6.5 mouse LD50 units A2 neurotoxin, A2NTX) and onabotulinumtoxinA (10 mouse LD50 units BoNT/A1 product) by measuring the compound muscle action potentials (CMAPs) before and after administration. In total, 8 healthy subjects were examined in the present study. A2NTX was injected into the extensor digitorum brevis (EDB) muscle, followed by onabotulinumtoxinA injection into the contralateral EDB muscle after 16 weeks. The CMAP amplitudes from the EDB, abductor hallucis (AH), and abductor digiti minimi pedis (ADM) muscles were measured after each BoNT injection on days 1, 3, 7, 14, 28, 56, 84, and 112 to assess the effect of the toxin. On day 14, both A2NTX and onabotulinumtoxinA produced an approximately 70% decline in EDB CMAP amplitude compared to the baseline values; significant reduction of the CMAP continued through day 112. The CMAP amplitudes from neighboring muscles (AH and ADM) remained intact throughout the study period, except for a slight but significant drop at day 28 after onabotulinumtoxinA injection compared to A2NTX. The current findings indicate that small doses (6.5 units and 10 units) of A2NTX and onabotulinumtoxinA have at least comparable onset and duration of action, although similar clinical effects were obtained with lower dose using A2NTX.




Identifying novel, effective therapeutics for Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the major unmet medical needs for the coming decade. Because the current paradigm for developing and testing disease-modifying AD therapies is protracted and likely to be even longer, with the shift toward earlier intervention in preclinical AD, it is an open issue whether we can develop, test, and widely deploy a novel therapy in time to help the current at-risk generation if we continue to follow the standard paradigms of discovery and drug development. There is an imperative need to find safe and effective preventive measures that can be distributed rapidly to stem the coming wave of AD that will potentially engulf the next generation. We can define regenerative medicine broadly as approaches that use stem cell-based therapies or approaches that seek to modulate inherent neurogenesis. Neurogenesis, although most active during prenatal development, has been shown to continue in several small parts of the brain, including the hippocampus and the subventricular zone, suggesting its potential to reverse cognitive deficits. If AD pathology affects neurogenesis, then it follows that conditions that stimulate endogenous neurogenesis (eg, environmental stimuli, physical activity, trophic factors, cytokines, and drugs) may help to promote the regenerative and recovery process. Herein, we review the complex logistics of potentially implementing neurogenesis-based therapeutic strategies for the treatment of AD.
Inflammation is a key component in the pathogenesis of cerebrovascular lesions. Two agents have emerged as promising possibilities for imaging cerebrovascular lesions. These agents are ferumoxytol and myeloperoxidase (MPO)-specific paramagnetic magnetic resonance (MR) contrast agent. Ferumoxytol is an iron oxide nanoparticle coated by a carbohydrate shell that is used in MRI studies as an inflammatory marker as it is cleared by macrophages. Ferumoxytol-enhanced MRI allows noninvasive assessment of the inflammatory status of cerebral aneurysms and arteriovenous malformations and, possibly, may differentiate &quot;unstable&quot; lesions that require early intervention from &quot;stable&quot; lesions that can be safely observed. Several pilot studies have also suggested that MPO-specific paramagnetic MR contrast agent, di-5-hydroxytryptamide of gadopentetate dimeglumine, may allow imaging of inflammation in the wall of saccular aneurysms in animal models. However, studies in human subjects have yet to be performed. In this paper, we review current data regarding ferumoxytol-enhanced MRI and MPO-specific paramagnetic MR contrast agent and discuss current and future applications.
Small RNA-mediated gene silencing plays a pivotal role in genome immunity by recognizing and eliminating viruses and transposons that may otherwise colonize the genome. However, individual genomic parasites are highly diverse and employ multiple immune-evasion techniques, making this silencing challenging. Here I review a new theory proposing that the integrity of the germline is maintained by transgenerationally transmitted RNA 'memories' that record ancestral gene expression patterns and delineate 'self' from 'foreign' sequences. To maintain such recollection, two tactics are employed in parallel: 'black listing' of invading nucleic acids and 'guest listing' of endogenous genes. Studies in several organisms have shown that this memorization is used by the next generation of small RNAs to act as 'inherited vaccines' that attack invading elements or as 'inherited licenses' that permit the transcription of autogenous sequences.
Parsing a cognitive task into a sequence of operations is a central problem in cognitive neuroscience. We argue that a major advance is now possible owing to the application of pattern classifiers to time-resolved recordings of brain activity [electroencephalography (EEG), magnetoencephalography (MEG), or intracranial recordings]. By testing at which moment a specific mental content becomes decodable in brain activity, we can characterize the time course of cognitive codes. Most importantly, the manner in which the trained classifiers generalize across time, and from one experimental condition to another, sheds light on the temporal organization of information-processing stages. A repertoire of canonical dynamical patterns is observed across various experiments and brain regions. This method thus provides a novel way to understand how mental representations are manipulated and transformed.
The selection of actions, and the vigor with which they are executed, are influenced by the affective valence of predicted outcomes. This interaction between action and valence significantly influences appropriate and inappropriate choices and is implicated in the expression of psychiatric and neurological abnormalities, including impulsivity and addiction. We review a series of recent human behavioral, neuroimaging, and pharmacological studies whose key design feature is an orthogonal manipulation of action and valence. These studies find that the interaction between the two is subject to the critical influence of dopamine. They also challenge existing views that neural representations in the striatum focus on valence, showing instead a dominance of the anticipation of action.
Neuroimaging suggests psychopaths have reduced vicarious activations when simply witnessing pain but less so when asked to empathize. This inspired us to distinguish the ability from the propensity to empathize. We argue that (i) this ability-propensity distinction is crucial to characterizing empathy in psychiatric disorders such as psychopathy and autism, (ii) that costly helping might be best predicted by the propensity for empathy, and (iii) suggest how social neuroscientists can start exploring this distinction.
In our TICS Review in 2004, we proposed that a sector of the right inferior frontal cortex (rIFC) in humans is critical for inhibiting response tendencies. Here we survey new evidence, discuss ongoing controversies, and provide an updated theory. We propose that the rIFC (along with one or more fronto-basal-ganglia networks) is best characterized as a brake. This brake can be turned on in different modes (totally, to outright suppress a response; or partially, to pause), and in different contexts (externally, by stop or salient signals; or internally, by goals). We affirm inhibition as a central component of executive control that relies upon the rIFC and associated networks, and explain why rIFC disruption could generally underpin response control disorders.
Understanding how proteins protect themselves from aberrant aggregation is of primary interest for understanding basic biology, protein biochemistry, and human disease. We discuss the paradigmatic example of ataxin-1 (Atx1), the protein responsible for neurodegenerative spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1). This disease is part of the increasing family of pathologies caused by protein aggregation and misfolding. We discuss the importance of protein-protein interactions not only in the nonpathological function of Atx1 but also in protecting the protein from aggregation and misfolding. The lessons learned from Atx1 may lead to a more general understanding of the cell's protective strategies against aggregation. The obtained knowledge may suggest a new perspective for designing specific therapeutic strategies for the cure of misfolding diseases.
Rapid signal exchange between astroglia and neurons has emerged as an essential element of neural circuits of the brain. However, the increasing variety of mechanisms contributing to this signalling appears to be facing a conceptual stalemate. The communication medium of astroglia involves intracellular [Ca(2+)] waves, which until recently have been associated with slow, global [Ca(2+)] rises. How such a uniform trigger could handle fast and diverse molecular messages remains unexplained. Recent studies have, however, revealed a variety of apparently independent Ca(2+) activities within individual astrocytic compartments, also indicating the prevalence of subcellular segregation for some signalling mechanisms. These signs of intracellular compartmentalisation might provide the key to the multitude of adaptive roles played by astroglia.

A lifetime history of alcohol dependence has been associated with elevations in neuroticism in Mexican American young adults. The identification of genetic markers associated with neuroticism and their influence on the development of alcohol use disorders (AUD) may contribute to our understanding of the relationship between personality traits and the increased risk of AUD in Mexican Americans. The purpose of this study was to investigate associations between neuroticism and 13 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the nicotinic acetylcholine (nAChR) 5-subunit (CHRNA5) and 3-subunit (CHRNA3) genes in young adult Mexican American men and women. Participants were 465 young adult Mexican American men and women who are literate in English and are residing legally in San Diego County. Each participant gave a blood sample and completed a structured diagnostic interview. Neuroticism was assessed using the Maudsley Personality Inventory. The minor alleles of four CHRNA5 polymorphisms (rs588765, rs601079, rs680244 and rs555018) and three CHRNA3 polymorphisms (rs578776, rs6495307 and rs3743078) showed associations with neuroticism. Several of these SNPs also displayed nominal associations with DSM-IV alcohol and nicotine dependence, but tests of mediation suggested that these relations could be partially explained by the presence of co-occurring neuroticism. These findings suggest that genetic variations in nicotinic receptor genes may influence the development of neuroticism, which in turn is involved in the development of AUDs and nicotine dependence in Mexican American young adults.
Angiogenesis is regulated, under both physiological and pathological conditions, by numerous &quot;non-classic&quot; pro-angiogenic factors, including fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and placental growth factor (PlGF), and &quot;non-classic&quot; pro-angiogenic factors, including granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF), granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF), and erythropoietin (EPO). In the context of the most important discoveries in this field, this review article summarizes the important role played by the Italian scientists in the course of the last twenty years.
Recognition and management of equine pain have been studied extensively in recent decades and this has led to significant advances. However, there is still room for improvement in the ability to identify and treat pain in horses that have undergone emergency gastrointestinal surgery. This study assessed the validity and clinical application of the composite pain scale (CPS) in horses after emergency gastrointestinal surgery. Composite pain scores were determined every 4h over 3 days following emergency gastrointestinal surgery in 48 horses. Inter-observer reliability was determined and another composite visceral pain score (numerical rating scale, NRS) was determined simultaneously with CPS scores. CPS scores had higher inter-observer reliability (r=0.87, K=0.84, P&lt;0.001), compared to NRS scores (r=0.68, K=0.72, P&lt;0.001). Horses that survived without complications had significantly lower CPS and NRS scores compared to horses that were euthanased or had to undergo re-laparotomy (P&lt;0.001). Breed and the location in the intestinal tract (small or large intestine) did not influence pain scores. In conclusion, the use of the CPS improved objectivity of pain scoring in horses following emergency gastrointestinal surgery. High inter-observer reliability allows for comparisons between different observers. This will be of great benefit in larger veterinary hospitals where several attending clinicians are often involved in the care of each case.
Nonaccidental properties (NAPs) are image properties that are invariant over orientation in depth and allow facile recognition of objects at varied orientations. NAPs are distinguished from metric properties (MPs) that generally vary continuously with changes in orientation in depth. While a number of studies have demonstrated greater sensitivity to NAPs in human adults, pigeons, and macaque IT cells, the few studies that investigated sensitivities in preschool children did not find significantly greater sensitivity to NAPs. However, these studies did not provide a principled measure of the physical image differences for the MP and NAP variations. We assessed sensitivity to NAP vs. MP differences in a nonmatch-to-sample task in which 14 preschool children were instructed to choose which of two shapes was different from a sample shape in a triangular display. Importantly, we scaled the shape differences so that MP and NAP differences were roughly equal (although the MP differences were slightly larger), using the Gabor-Jet model of V1 similarity (Lades &amp; et al., 1993). Mean reaction times (RTs) for every child were shorter when the target shape differed from the sample in a NAP than an MP. The results suggest that preschoolers, like adults, are more sensitive to NAPs, which could explain their ability to rapidly learn new objects, even without observing them from every possible orientation.
This study investigates the eye movements of dyslexic children and their age-matched controls when reading Chinese. Dyslexic children exhibited more and longer fixations than age-matched control children, and an increase of word length resulted in a greater increase in the number of fixations and gaze durations for the dyslexic than for the control readers. The report focuses on the finding that there was a significant difference between the two groups in the fixation landing position as a function of word length in single-fixation cases, while there was no such difference in the initial fixation of multi-fixation cases. We also found that both groups had longer incoming saccade amplitudes while the launch sites were closer to the word in single fixation cases than in multi-fixation cases. Our results suggest that dyslexic children's inefficient lexical processing, in combination with the absence of orthographic word boundaries in Chinese, leads them to select saccade targets at the beginning of words conservatively. These findings provide further evidence for parafoveal word segmentation during reading of Chinese sentences.
Salient stimuli are more readily detected than less salient stimuli, and individual differences in such detection may be relevant to why some people fail to notice an unexpected stimulus that appears in their visual field whereas others do notice it. This failure to notice unexpected stimuli is termed 'Inattentional Blindness' and is more likely to occur when we are engaged in a resource-consuming task. A genetic algorithm is described in which artificial stimuli are created using a saliency model as its fitness function. These generated stimuli, which vary in their saliency level, are used in two studies that implement a pop-out visual search task to evaluate the power of the model to discriminate the performance of people who were and were not Inattentionally Blind (IB). In one study the number of orientational filters in the model was increased to check if discriminatory power and the saliency estimation for low-level images could be improved. Results show that the performance of the model does improve when additional filters are included, leading to the conclusion that low-level images may require a higher number of orientational filters for the model to better predict participants' performance. In both studies we found that given the same target patch image (i.e. same saliency value) IB individuals take longer to identify a target compared to non-IB individuals. This suggests that IB individuals require a higher level of saliency for low-level visual features in order to identify target patches.

Zebrafish (Danio rerio) has been a widely used vertebrate animal model in developmental biology and behavioral neuroscience, but knowledge about some of its basic behaviors, for example, light/dark preference, is still controversial. Appropriate preference for light or dark environments can be crucial for an animal's survival, so we hypothesize that zebrafish may have its light/dark preference varied with the circadian clock. In this present work, we tested the hypothesis by recording the light/dark preference in a two-compartment tank continuously for over 60h. We found that the light avoidance of fish generally increases with time from morning (8:00am) to midnight (2:00am), and then decreases with time from midnight (2:00am) to morning (8:00am), exhibiting a clear circadian-like trend in the light/dark preference. As melatonin can mediate circadian clock output and promote sleep in zebrafish, by adding extra melatonin at around 9:00am on the third day, the mean proportion of time fish spent in the dark area was increased significantly. Our results demonstrate that the circadian clock plays a significant role in regulating the light/dark preference in zebrafish, which provides valuable insights into understanding the metabolism mechanism underlying the neurobehavior, and facilitate further studies related to the neurobiology of normal and pathological behavior.







Animals need to ingest a full set of essential amino acids through their diet. A new study in Drosophila larvae describes how activation of the kinase GCN2 in three dopaminergic neurons mediates the rejection of amino-acid-imbalanced food.
Two recent studies provide important insights into the organization of premotor circuitries, showing that control of highly-specific skilled forelimb movements, such as reaching and grasping, requires activation of specific subpopulations of neurons in the brainstem and spinal cord.
The human motor system is remarkably proficient in the online control of visually guided movements, adjusting to changes in the visual scene within 100 ms [1-3]. This is achieved through a set of highly automatic processes [4] translating visual information into representations suitable for motor control [5, 6]. For this to be accomplished, visual information pertaining to target and hand need to be identified and linked to the appropriate internal representations during the movement. Meanwhile, other visual information must be filtered out, which is especially demanding in visually cluttered natural environments. If selection of relevant sensory information for online control was achieved by visual attention, its limited capacity [7] would substantially constrain the efficiency of visuomotor feedback control. Here we demonstrate that both exogenously and endogenously cued attention facilitate the processing of visual target information [8], but not of visual hand information. Moreover, distracting visual information is more efficiently filtered out during the extraction of hand compared to target information. Our results therefore suggest the existence of a dedicated visuomotor binding mechanism that links the hand representation in visual and motor systems.
Motor neurons regulate neuromuscular junction formation by using agrin to stimulate acetylcholine receptor clustering and using acetylcholine to disperse unnecessary receptor clusters on muscle fibers. Wang et al. (2014) now report in this issue of Developmental Cell a critical role for caspase-3 in intracellular mechanisms of acetylcholine-induced dispersal.
The ability to reprogram differentiated cells into a pluripotent state has revealed that the differentiated state is plastic and reversible. It is evident, therefore, that mechanisms must be in place to maintain cells in a differentiated state. Transcription factors that specify neuronal characteristics have been well studied, but less is known about the mechanisms that prevent neurons from dedifferentiating to a multipotent, stem cell-like state. Here, we identify Lola as a transcription factor that is required to maintain neurons in a differentiated state. We show that Lola represses neural stem cell genes and cell-cycle genes in postmitotic neurons. In lola mutants, neurons dedifferentiate, turn on neural stem cell genes, and begin to divide, forming tumors. Thus, neurons rather than stem cells or intermediate progenitors are the tumor-initiating cells in lola mutants.
During the development of vertebrate neuromuscular junction (NMJ), agrin stabilizes, whereas acetylcholine (ACh) destabilizes AChR clusters, leading to the refinement of synaptic connections. The intracellular mechanism underlying this counteractive interaction remains elusive. Here, we show that caspase-3, the effector protease involved in apoptosis, mediates elimination of AChR clusters. We found that caspase-3 was activated by cholinergic stimulation of cultured muscle cells without inducing cell apoptosis and that this activation was prevented by agrin. Interestingly, inhibition of caspase-3 attenuated ACh agonist-induced dispersion of AChR clusters. Furthermore, we identified Dishevelled1 (Dvl1), a Wnt signaling protein involved in AChR clustering, as the substrate of caspase-3. Blocking Dvl1 cleavage prevented induced dispersion of AChR clusters. Finally, inhibition or genetic ablation of caspase-3 or expression of a caspase-3-resistant form of Dvl1 caused stabilization of aneural AChR clusters. Thus, caspase-3 plays an important role in the elimination of postsynaptic structures during the development of NMJs.







The PI 3-kinase (PI 3-K) signaling pathway is essential for Schwann cell myelination. Here we have characterized PI 3-K effectors activated during myelination by probing myelinating cultures and developing nerves with an antibody that recognizes phosphorylated substrates for this pathway. We identified a discrete number of phospho-proteins including the S6 ribosomal protein (S6rp), which is down-regulated at the onset of myelination, and N-myc downstream-regulated gene-1 (NDRG1), which is up-regulated strikingly with myelination. We show that type III Neuregulin1 on the axon is the primary activator of S6rp, an effector of mTORC1. In contrast, laminin-2 in the extracellular matrix (ECM), signaling through the 64 integrin and Sgk1 (serum and glucocorticoid-induced kinase 1), drives phosphorylation of NDRG1 in the Cajal bands of the abaxonal compartment. Unexpectedly, mice deficient in 64 integrin signaling or Sgk1 exhibit hypermyelination during development. These results identify functionally and spatially distinct PI 3-K pathways: an early, pro-myelinating pathway driven by axonal Neuregulin1 and a later-acting, laminin-integrin-dependent pathway that negatively regulates myelination.
Mitochondria are essential organelles for neuronal growth, survival, and function. Neurons use specialized mechanisms to drive mitochondria transport and to anchor them in axons and at synapses. Stationary mitochondria buffer intracellular Ca(2+) and serve as a local energy source by supplying ATP. The balance between motile and stationary mitochondria responds quickly to changes in axonal and synaptic physiology. Defects in mitochondrial transport are implicated in the pathogenesis of several major neurological disorders. Recent work has provided new insight in the regulation of microtubule-based mitochondrial trafficking and anchoring, and on how mitochondrial motility influences neuron growth, synaptic function, and mitophagy.






Depression is a debilitating psychiatric disorder and a growing global public health issue. However, the relationships between microbial infections and depression remains uncertain. A computerized literature search of Medline, ISI Web of Knowledge, PsycINFO, and the Cochrane Library was conducted up to May 2013, and 6362 studies were initially identified for screening. Case-control studies detected biomarker of microorganism were included. Based on inclusion and exclusion criteria, 28 studies were finally included to compare the detection of 16 infectious agents in unipolar depressed patients and healthy controls with a positive incident being defined as a positive biochemical marker of microbial infection. A customized form was used for data extraction. Pooled analysis revealed that the majority of the 16 infectious agents were not significantly associated with depression. However, there were statistically significant associations between depression and infection with Borna disease virus, herpes simplex virus-1, varicella zoster virus, Epstein-Barr virus, and Chlamydophila trachomatis.
The neural bases of the inter-trial validity/invalidity sequential effects in a visuo-auditory modified version of the Central Cue Posner's Paradigm (CCPP) are analyzed by means of Early Directing Attention Negativity (EDAN), Contingent Negative Variation (CNV) and Lateralized Readiness Potential (LRP). ERPs results indicated an increase in CNV and LRP in trials preceded by valid trials compared to trials preceded by invalid trials. The CNV and LRP pattern would be highly related to the behavioral pattern of lower RTs and higher number of anticipations in trials preceded by valid with respect to trials preceded by invalid trials. This effect was not preceded by a modulation of the EDAN as a result of the previous trial condition. The results suggest that there is a trial-by-trial dynamic modulation of the attentional system as a function of the validity assigned to the cue, in which conditional probabilities between cue and target are continuously updated.



Temporary cellular inactivation is a useful and increasingly popular approach in examining brain function. In general the methods allow for fast-acting manipulations that have the advantage of being reversible. However, there is significant variation in detailed procedures across experiments and most authors show very little evidence about the extent or duration of inactivation. Here we investigate a commonly used method of temporarily inactivating the hippocampus in rats. Using immediate early gene activation after electroconvulsive shock we measure the extent of inactivation using different lengths of infusion needles and one vs. two bilateral infusion sites. Our methods allowed us to uncover some possible confounding factors. We suggest specific variations in the procedures which decrease or eliminate these problems. We also investigate the properties of the sodium channel blocker ropivacaine and recommend this drug based on its functional profile and established low level of toxicity.




Nausea is a prominent symptom and major cause of complaint for patients receiving anticancer chemo- or radiation therapy. The arsenal of anti-nausea drugs is limited, and their efficacy is questionable. Currently, the development of new compounds with anti-nausea activity is hampered by the lack of physiological correlates of nausea. Physiological correlates are needed because common laboratory rodents lack the vomiting reflex. Furthermore, nausea does not always lead to vomiting. Here, we report the results of studies conducted in four research centers to investigate whether nausea is associated with any specific thermoregulatory symptoms. Two species were studied: the laboratory rat, which has no vomiting reflex, and the house musk shrew (Suncus murinus), which does have a vomiting reflex. In rats, motion sickness was induced by rotating them in their individual cages in the horizontal plane (0.75 Hz, 40 min) and confirmed by reduced food consumption at the onset of dark (active) phase. In 100% of rats tested at three centers, post-rotational sickness was associated with marked (~1.5C) hypothermia, which was associated with a short-lasting tail-skin vasodilation (skin temperature increased by ~4C). Pretreatment with ondansetron, a serotonin 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, which is used to treat nausea in patients in chemo- or radiation therapy, attenuated hypothermia by ~30%. In shrews, motion sickness was induced by a cyclical back-and-forth motion (4 cm, 1 Hz, 15 min) and confirmed by the presence of retching and vomiting. In this model, sickness was also accompanied by marked hypothermia (~2C). Like in rats, the hypothermic response was preceded by transient tail-skin vasodilation. In conclusion, motion sickness is accompanied by hypothermia that involves both autonomic and thermoeffector mechanisms: tail-skin vasodilation and possibly reduction of the interscapular brown adipose tissue activity. These thermoregulatory symptoms may serve as physiological correlates of nausea.

We hypothesized that psychomotor disturbances in patients with bipolar disorder are associated with morphometric changes in functionally specific regions of the basal ganglia and thalamus. We used structural magnetic resonance imaging and vertex-based morphometry to investigate whether psychomotor performance is associated with changes in volume and shape in euthymic subjects with bipolar disorder (n=27) compared with matched healthy controls (n=27). We saw no significant differences between age- and sex-matched groups in motor performance. We found a statistically significant group difference in the shape of the right putamen in the absence of psychomotor disturbances. There was an association between shape and motor performance in controls that was lacking in patients. We conclude that euthymic subjects with bipolar disorder without psychomotor disturbances show shape changes in regions of the right putamen that contribute to executive functions and motor function. It may be that other brain regions sustain the psychomotor functions that produce nearly identical motor performance in both groups.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was used to measure changes in cerebral activity in patients with schizophrenia after participation in the Cognitive Remediation Program for Schizophrenia and other related disorders (RECOS). As RECOS therapists make use of problem-solving and verbal mediation techniques, known to be beneficial in the rehabilitation of dysexecutive syndromes, we expected an increased activation of frontal areas after remediation. Executive functioning and cerebral activation during a covert verbal fluency task were measured in eight patients with schizophrenia before (T1) and after (T2) 14 weeks of RECOS therapy. The same measures were recorded in eight patients with schizophrenia who did not participate in RECOS at the same intervals of time (TAU group). Increased activation in Broca's area, as well as improvements in performance of executive/frontal tasks, was observed after cognitive training. Metacognitive techniques of verbalization are hypothesized to be the main factor underlying the brain changes observed in the present study.
An association between low levels of serum cholesterol and violent or suicidal behaviour has frequently been reported. However the role of serum cholesterol in the cycle of violence (Widom, 1989) has not been studied. The aim of this study was to investigate association between exposure to violence during childhood and used adult violence in suicide attempters with low and high serum cholesterol levels. 81 suicide attempters were assessed with the Karolinska Interpersonal Violence Scale (KIVS) measuring exposure to violence and expressed violent behaviour in childhood (between 6 and 14 years of age) and during adult life (15 years or older). We used median split to dichotomise groups below and above median serum cholesterol. In patients with serum cholesterol below median, the correlation between exposure to violence as a child and used adult violence was significant (rho=0.52, p=0.002), while in patients with serum cholesterol above median, the correlation between exposure to violence as a child and expressed violent behaviour as an adult was not significant (rho=0.25, p=0.2). Comorbid substance abuse predicted violent behaviour as an adult only in patients with serum cholesterol above median. Serum cholesterol may modify the effect of the &quot;Cycle of Violence&quot;.
Studies have suggested that psychotic-like experiences (PLEs) are associated with behavioral problems in adolescents. The aim of this study was to investigate relationships between domains of PLEs, suicidal ideation, and depression in a large community sample of adolescents. The sample consisted of 8096 Korean subjects (3184 boys and 4912 girls) aged 14 to 19 years. The level of PLEs, depression, and suicidal ideation were assessed by the Eppendorf schizophrenia inventory (ESI), Beck's depression inventory, and Beck's scale for suicidal ideation, respectively. Both the level of depression and suicidal ideation were significantly associated with PLEs. Among the four domains of the ESI, the deviant perception, ideas of reference, and auditory uncertainty were associated with the suicidal ideation. Additionally, subjects with more PLEs had significantly more suicidal ideation and depressive symptoms. PLEs in adolescents are associated with potential risk of suicide and depressive symptoms significantly mediated the association between suicidal ideation and PLEs. The presence of perceptual disturbances, ideas of reference, and depression may be regarded as warning signs for suicide-related behaviors.
The ability to attend to particular stimuli while ignoring others is crucial in goal-directed activities and has been linked with prefrontal cortical regions, including the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC). Both hyper- and hypo-activation in the DLPFC has been reported in patients with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) during many different cognitive tasks, but the network-level effects of such aberrant activity remain largely unknown. Using magnetoencephalography (MEG), we examined functional connectivity between regions of the DLPFC and the modality-specific auditory cortices during an auditory attention task in medicated and un-medicated adults with ADHD, and those without ADHD. Participants completed an attention task in two separate sessions (medicated/un-medicated), and each session consisted of two blocks (attend and no-attend). All MEG data were coregistered to structural MRI, corrected for head motion, and projected into source space. Subsequently, we computed the phase coherence (i.e., functional connectivity) between DLPFC regions and the auditory cortices. We found that un-medicated adults with ADHD exhibited greater phase coherence in the beta (14-30Hz) and gamma frequency (30-56Hz) range in attend and no-attend conditions compared to controls. Stimulant medication attenuated these differences, but did not fully eliminate them. These results suggest that aberrant bottom-up processing may engulf executive resources in ADHD.
While research has identified gender differences in characteristics and outcomes of smokers in the general population, no studies have examined this among smokers with psychosis. This study aimed to explore gender differences among 298 smokers with psychosis (schizophrenia, schizoaffective and bipolar affective disorder) participating in a smoking intervention study. Results revealed a general lack of gender differences on a range of variables for smokers with psychosis including reasons for smoking/quitting, readiness and motivation to quit, use of nicotine replacement therapy, and smoking outcomes including point prevalence or continuous abstinence, and there were no significant predictors of smoking reduction status according to gender at any of the follow-up time-points. The current study did find that female smokers with psychosis were significantly more likely than males to report that they smoked to prevent weight gain. Furthermore, the females reported significantly more reasons for quitting smoking and were more likely to be driven by extrinsic motivators to quit such as immediate reinforcement and social influence, compared to the male smokers with psychosis. Clinical implications include specifically focussing on weight issues and enhancing intrinsic motivation to quit smoking for female smokers with psychosis; and strengthening reasons for quitting among males with psychosis.
While depression has been associated with relatively greater right than left frontal cortical activity - a neurophysiological marker reflecting greater activation of the withdrawal system - contradictory findings have been reported. It was hypothesised that melancholia would be associated with relative right frontal activation, in comparison to non-melancholia and controls. We collected 2-min of resting-state, eyes closed, electroencephalographic activity from a total of 237 participants including 117 patients with major depressive disorder (57 with melancholia, 60 with non-melancholia) and 120 healthy controls. In contrast to hypotheses, patients with non-melancholia displayed relative left frontal activation in comparison to controls and those with melancholia. These findings were associated with a small to moderate effect size (Cohen's d=0.30-0.34). Critically, patients with melancholic subtype did not differ from controls despite increased severity - relative to those with non-melancholia - on clinical measures. These results may reflect an increase in approach tendencies in patients with non-melancholia including reassurance seeking, anger or irritable aggression. Findings highlight the need for further research on the heterogeneity MDD.
Hoarding disorder is a new mental disorder in DSM-5. It is classified alongside OCD and other presumably related disorders in the Obsessive-Compulsive and Related Disorders chapter. We examined cognitive performance in two distinct groups comprising individuals with both OCD and severe hoarding, and individuals with hoarding disorder without comorbid OCD. Participants completed executive function tasks assessing inhibitory control, cognitive flexibility, spatial planning, probabilistic learning and reversal and decision making. Compared to a matched healthy control group, OCD hoarders showed significantly worse performance on measures of response inhibition, set shifting, spatial planning, probabilistic learning and reversal, with intact decision making. Despite having a strikingly different clinical presentation, individuals with only hoarding disorder did not differ significantly from OCD hoarders on any cognitive measure suggesting the two hoarding groups have a similar pattern of cognitive difficulties. Tests of cognitive flexibility were least similar across the groups, but differences were small and potentially reflected subtle variation in underlying brain pathology together with psychometric limitations. These results highlight both commonalities and potential differences between OCD and hoarding disorder, and together with other lines of evidence, support the inclusion of the new disorder within the new Obsessive-Compulsive and Related Disorders chapter in DSM-5.

Studies revealed that patients with paranoid schizophrenia display overconfidence in errors for memory and social cognition tasks. The present investigation examined whether this pattern holds true for visual perception tasks. Nonclinical participants were recruited via an online panel. Individuals were asked to complete a questionnaire that included the Paranoia Checklist and were then presented with 24 blurry pictures; half contained a hidden object while the other half showed snowy (visual) noise. Participants were asked to state whether the visual items contained an object and how confident they were in their judgment. Data from 1966 individuals were included following a conservative selection process. Participants high on core paranoid symptoms showed a poor calibration of confidence for correct versus incorrect responses. In particular, participants high on paranoia displayed overconfidence in incorrect responses and demonstrated a 20% error rate for responses made with high confidence compared to a 12% error rate in participants with low paranoia scores. Interestingly, paranoia scores declined after performance of the task. For the first time, overconfidence in errors was demonstrated among individuals with high levels of paranoia using a visual perception task, tentatively suggesting it is a ubiquitous phenomenon. In view of the significant decline in paranoia across time, bias modification programs may incorporate items such as the one employed here to teach patients with clinical paranoia the fallibility of human cognition, which may foster subsequent symptom improvement.
Theory of Mind (ToM) is the ability to assign a set of mental states to yourself and others. In bipolar disorders, alteration of social relationship can be explained by the impairment of the functioning of ToM. Deficit in ToM could be a trait marker of bipolar disorder and people in the general population with high hypomanic personality scores would be more likely to develop bipolar disorders. This study examined 298 participants. Measures of hypomanic personality were evaluated using the Hypomanic Personality Scale. ToM was explored using the Yoni task. Participants also completed the BDI-II. Forward multiple regressions were performed to examine the effect of components of the HPS on the total score in the ToM task. In the women's group, no subscales of the HPS were included in the model. Conversely, the analyses performed on men revealed that the mood vitality and excitement subscale was a significant predictor of ToM abilities. Our study is the first to show the impact of certain dimensions of hypomanic personality on performance in ToM in a male sample. This result supports the idea that deficits in ToM can be a trait marker of bipolar disorder in a healthy male population.
Adolescents with a family history of alcoholism (FHP) are at heightened risk for developing alcohol use disorders (AUDs). The nucleus accumbens (NAcc), a key brain region for reward processing, is implicated in the development of AUDs. Thus, functional connectivity of the NAcc may be an important marker of risk in FHP youth. Resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fcMRI) was used to examine the intrinsic connectivity of the NAcc in 47 FHP and 50 family history negative (FHN) youth, ages 10-16 years old. FHP and FHN adolescents showed significant group differences in resting state synchrony between the left NAcc and bilateral inferior frontal gyri and the left postcentral gyrus (PG). Additionally, FHP youth differed from FHN youth in right NAcc functional connectivity with the left orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), left superior temporal gyrus, right cerebellum, left PG, and right occipital cortex. These results indicate that FHP youth have less segregation between the NAcc and executive functioning brain regions, and less integration with reward-related brain areas, such as the OFC. The findings of the current study highlight that premorbid atypical connectivity of appetitive systems, in the absence of heavy alcohol use, may be a risk marker in FHP adolescents.
This study investigated the fatty acid composition of the postmortem superior temporal gyrus (STG), a cortical region implicated in emotional processing, from normal controls (n=15) and patients with bipolar disorder (BD, n=15), major depressive disorder (MDD, n=15), and schizophrenia (SZ, n=15). For comparative purposes, STG fatty acid composition was determined in a separate cohort of multiple sclerosis patients (MS, n=15) and normal controls (n=15). Compared with controls, patients with BD, but not MDD or SZ, exhibited abnormal elevations in the saturated fatty acids (SFA) palmitic acid (16:0), stearic acid (18:0), the polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) linoleic acid (18:2n-6), arachidonic acid (20:4n-6), and docosahexaenoic acid (22:6n-3), and reductions in the monounsaturated fatty acid (MUFA) oleic acid (18:1n-9). The total MUFA/SFA and 18:1/18:0 ratios were lower in the STG of BD patients and were inversely correlated with total PUFA composition. MS patients exhibited a pattern of fatty acid abnormalities similar to that observed in BD patients including elevated PUFA and a lower 18:1/18:0 ratio. Collectively, these data demonstrate that BD patients exhibit a pattern of fatty acid abnormalities in the STG that is not observed in MDD and SZ patients and closely resembles MS patients.
This resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging study found that nine patients with somatoform pain disorder exhibited atypical precentral gyrus activation compared with 20 healthy controls. The role of the precentral gyrus in pain-related processing is discussed.
Primary progressive aphasia (PPA) is characterized by left hemispheric frontotemporal cortical atrophy. Evidence from anatomical studies suggests that the nucleus subputaminalis (NSP), a subnucleus of the cholinergic basal forebrain, may be involved in the pathological process of PPA. Therefore, we studied the pattern of cortical and basal forebrain atrophy in 10 patients with a clinical diagnosis of PPA and 18 healthy age-matched controls using high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). We determined the cholinergic basal forebrain nuclei according to Mesulam's nomenclature and the NSP in MRI reference space based on histological sections and the MRI scan of a post-mortem brain in cranio. Using voxel-based analysis, we found left hemispheric cortical atrophy in PPA patients compared with controls, including prefrontal, lateral temporal and medial temporal lobe areas. We detected cholinergic basal forebrain atrophy in left predominant localizations of Ch4p, Ch4am, Ch4al, Ch3 and NSP. For the first time, we have described the pattern of basal forebrain atrophy in PPA and confirmed the involvement of NSP that had been predicted based on theoretical considerations. Our findings may enhance understanding of the role of cholinergic degeneration for the regional specificity of the cortical destruction leading to the syndrome of PPA.
This study examined whether cognitive measures of response inhibition derived from the AX-CPT are able to differentiate between adult attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), borderline personality disorder (BPD), and healthy controls (HC). Current DSM-IV-TR symptoms of ADHD and BPD were assessed by structured diagnostic interviews, and parent developmental interviews were used to assess childhood ADHD symptoms. Patients (14 ADHD, 12 BPD, 7 ADHD and BPD, and 37 HC) performed the AX-CPT. Seventy percent of AX-CPT trials were target (AX) trials, creating a bias to respond with a target response to X probes in the nontarget (AY, BX, BY) trials. On BX trials, context, i.e. the non-'A' letter, must be used to inhibit this prepotent response tendency. On AY trials context actually causes individuals to false alarm. The effects of ADHD and BPD on AX-CPT outcome were tested using two-way ANOVA. BPD was associated with higher percentage of errors across the task and more errors and slower responses on BX trials, whereas ADHD was associated with slower responses on AY trials. The findings suggest response inhibition problems to be present in both ADHD and BPD, and patients with BPD to be particularly impaired due to poor context processing.
This study sought to determine the moderators in the treatment effect of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) on negative symptoms in schizophrenia. We performed a meta-analysis of prospective studies on the therapeutic application of rTMS in schizophrenia assessing the effects of both low-frequency and high-frequency rTMS on negative symptoms. Results indicate that rTMS is effective in alleviating negative symptoms in schizophrenia. The effect size was moderate (0.63 and 0.53, respectively). The effect size of rTMS on negative symptoms in sham-controlled trials was 0.80 as measured by the SANS and 0.41 as measured by the PANSS. A longer duration of illness was associated with poorer efficacy of rTMS on negative symptoms. A 10 Hz setting, at least 3 consecutive weeks of treatment, treatment site at the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) and a 110% motor threshold (MT) were found to be the best rTMS parameters for the treatment of negative symptoms. The results of our meta-analysis suggest that rTMS is an effective treatment option for negative symptoms in schizophrenia. The moderators of rTMS on negative symptoms included duration of illness, stimulus frequency, duration of illness, position and intensity of treatment as well as the type of outcome measures used.
The study aimed to compare methods of identification of Personality Disorders (PD) in adolescent patients with psychiatric disorders. A sample of 120 Spanish adolescents with clinical disorders was assessed using the International Personality Disorder Examination (IPDE) interview, its Screening Questionnaires (IPDE-SQ) comprising the ICD-10 and DSM-IV modules, and also the Temperament Character Inventory (TCI) to identify risk of PD. The IPDE-SQ identified a risk of PD around 92-97% of the sample; 61.7% when adjusting the stricter cut-off points. The TCI showed a PD risk of 20%, whereas the prevalence of PD identified by the IPDE clinical interview was around 36-38%. The differences between the IPDE, IPDE-SQ and TCI were significant, and a low agreement among instruments was obtained. Large discrepancy between self-report instruments in identifying PD with regard to the clinical interview raises several questions concerning the use of these instruments in clinical settings on adolescents with psychiatric disorders.











Binge eating is a significantly heritable phenotype, but efforts to detect specific risk genes have fallen short. Identification of animal strain differences in risk for binge eating could highlight genetic differences across individuals of the same species that can be exploited in future animal and molecular genetic research. The current study aimed to explore strain differences in risk for binge eating in Sprague-Dawley versus Wistar female rats using the Binge Eating Resistant/Binge Eating Prone model. A sample of male Sprague-Dawley rats, a known low-risk group for binge eating, was included as a comparison group. A total of 83 rats (23 Wistar females, 30 Sprague-Dawley females, 30 Sprague-Dawley males) completed a protocol of intermittently administered, palatable food. Binge eating prone (BEP) and binge eating resistant (BER) rats were identified using a tertile approach. Sprague-Dawley female rats consumed the highest amount of palatable food and were more likely to be classified as BEP compared to Wistar female and Sprague-Dawley male rats. Wistar female rats were not significantly different from Sprague-Dawley male rats in their palatable food intake and tendency to be classified as BER rather than BEP. Sprague-Dawley female rats appear to be a particularly vulnerable genotype for binge eating. Comparisons between this group and others could help identify specific genetic/biological factors that differentiate it from lower risk groups. The reward system, linked to binge eating in humans, is a possible candidate to explore. Strain differences in the reward system could help increase understanding of individual differences in risk for binge eating in humans.
Dopamine modulates a range of behaviors that include motor processes, learning, and incentive motivation. Research supports anatomical conservation of dopaminergic populations in the midbrain across vertebrate species, however, less evidence is available for dopamine receptor distributions. In order to test the behavioral role of dopamine in an anatomically conserved dopaminergic system, the effects of D2-type receptor manipulation on motor behaviors were examined in the anuran amphibian green tree frog, Hyla cinerea. In two different within-subject experiments, frogs were treated with a control treatment, and a high and low dose of either a D2 receptor-specific agonist, quinpirole, or antagonist, haloperidol, then exposed to a testing session to measure changes in swimming and climbing motor behaviors. No treatments resulted in complete immobility or catalepsy, however treatment-specific effects on certain motor behaviors were present. The high quinpirole dose (1mg/kg bw) generally inhibited motor behaviors associated with exiting water and jumping, while both haloperidol treatments (0.12mg/kg bw and 1.2mg/kg bw) generally stimulated motor behaviors associated with exiting water, as predicted based on receptor mechanisms. Performance improvement also appeared in frogs in each experiment, suggesting that the D2 receptor is not involved in the motor learning mechanism in this species. Overall, the results support general conservation of D2 receptors in motor processes in vertebrate species.
Roman high- (RHA) and low-avoidance (RLA) rats, selectively bred for, respectively, rapid vs. extremely poor acquisition of avoidant behaviour in the shuttle-box, display different coping strategies when exposed to aversive environmental conditions: RLA rats are reactive copers and show hyperemotional behaviour characterized by hypomotility and freezing, while RHA rats show a proactive coping behaviour aimed at gaining control over the stressor. RHA rats also display a robust sensation/novelty seeking profile, high baseline levels of impulsivity, and marked preference for, and intake of, natural and drug rewards. This study shows that the Roman lines also differ in sexual behaviour, a main source of natural reward. Thus, male RHA rats engaged in copulatory activity with a receptive female showing more mounts, intromissions and ejaculations in the first copulation test as compared with their RLA counterparts and Sprague Dawley rats used as an external reference strain. Such differences decreased only partially in subsequent copulation tests, with RHA rats always showing higher levels of sexual motivation and performance than RLA rats. Accordingly, analysis of copulatory parameters of five copulation tests performed at 3-day intervals confirmed that the Roman lines display different patterns of copulatory activity that persist after stabilization of copulatory behaviour by sexual experience. Finally, the weight of the testes, epididymides and seminal vesicles increased to a similar extent in both Roman lines after sexual activity. These results are discussed in terms of the relative contribution of differences in brain neurotransmission (mainly dopamine) and neuroendocrine function to the different patterns of copulatory behaviour of the Roman lines.
Food hoarding is an evolutionary adaptation whereby animals store food for later consumption when food is limited or when predation risk while foraging is high. It also occurs as part of normal appetitive behavior by humans and non-human animals when they are hungry. Contrary to popular belief, humans do not overeat after food restriction/fasting, rather they increase food hoarding, as do hamster species, but not in laboratory rats or mice. Thus, this aspect of human appetitive behavior is better modeled by hamsters than laboratory rats and mice. Here we tested whether male Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus) modify their daily food hoard size under ad libitum-feeding and after food deprivation when we artificially increased or removed their food hoard. When the food hoard was completely removed, hamsters hoarded more food the next day than did animals where the hoard was surreptitiously increased. Hamsters that had alternating daily hoard increases/decreases rapidly adjusted their food hoarding inversely proportional to food hoard size. Similarly, after 48h of food deprivation, a stimulus that initiates high levels of food hoarding upon refeeding in this species, hamsters with artificially increased food hoard size hoarded significantly less than did hamsters where we left the hoard unaltered additionally suggesting that food hoard size directly affects food hoarding. Collectively, as we previously found when the caloric value of the food offered was increased or decreased, food hoard size is in some sense 'regulated' and not simply a reflexive response triggered by inter-meal hunger or food deprivation.



Sexual dysfunctions have commonly been reported as the resulting side effects of many drugs. To understand the impact of a single drug, the mechanism of action of the most commonly prescribed drugs and the physiological mechanisms of sexual function have to be taken into dual consideration. Psychotropic drugs (Antidepressants, Antipsychotics and Antiepileptic) in particular result in both short and long-term effects on sexual function. Antihypertensive drugs have also produced evidence certifying their role in determining sexual dysfunction. Patients affected with sexual dysfunction are often aged and assume several drugs and, while Iatrogenic sexual dysfunction is prevalent in men, urological drugs are not the only drugs to be held accountable. Many different drugs acting on different sites and with several mechanisms of action can induce sexual dysfunction. The drug classes involved are widely diffused and frequently assumed in combination therapies.

The large conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) (BK) channels are widely distributed in the brain, and act as intracellular calcium sensors in neurons. They play an important feedback role in controlling Ca(2+) flux and Ca(2+)-dependent processes, including neurotransmitter release and cellular excitability. In this study, the effects of the neuropeptide galanin on BK channels were examined by determining the whole-cell currents and single-channel activities in human embryonic kidney (HEK293) cells co-expressing GalR2 and the BK alpha subunit. Galanin enhanced the currents of BK channels, in a concentration-dependent and PTX-independent manner, with an ED50 value of 71.816.9 nM. This activation was mediated by GalR2, since its agonist AR-M1896 mimicked the effect of galanin, and since galanin did not facilitate BK currents in cells co-expressing cDNAs of BK and GalR1 or GalR3. The galanin-induced BK current persisted after replacement with Ca(2+)-free solution, suggesting that extracellular Ca(2+) is not essential. Chelating intracellular Ca(2+) by either the slow Ca(2+) buffer EGTA or the fast Ca(2+) buffer BAPTA abolished galanin-mediated activation of BK channels, indicating the important role of intracellular Ca(2+). The role of Ca(2+) efflux from the sarcoplasmic reticulum/endoplasmic reticulum (SR/ER) was confirmed by application of thapsigargin, an irreversible inhibitor that depletes Ca(2+) from SR/ER. Moreover, the inositol-1,4,5-triphosphate receptor (IP3R) was identified as the mediator responsible for increased intracellular Ca(2+) activating BK channels. Taken together, activation of GalR2 leads to elevation of intracellular Ca(2+) is due to Ca(2+) efflux from ER through IP3R sequentially opening BK channels.

















